[{"Title":"This Movie Is Much Better than the Marketing of it would have you Believe.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I just caught this movie on cable, this was the first time I saw it. I remember seeing the adverts for it and thinking it looked mildly interesting, but that it was a piece of romantic comedy fluff that I could wait and rent or something and watch at home without inflicting $20 in movie tickets and an evening of Chick Flick on my Husband. BOY! I wish I'd slipped a tape in, cause he would've loved it!!! It was definitely a movie worth full admission in a theatre. The Marketing Department, apparently didn't watch the movie, they sold it all wrong.I have noticed an increasing trend in that direction, I've skipped some because the marketing made them look AWFUL only to find out they were real gems.If you are in the mood for skillful mix of mystery, romantic comedy, and dark humour then I strongly recommend you rent this movie, or catch it on Cable.  "},{"Title":"Black comedy with a little sugar thrown in","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This was a black comedy that unfolded over the first 30 minutes of the film, revealing one surprise relationship after another, until you realize that all the major characters are related in surprising ways.  My daughter and I watched this together and laughed out loud quite a bit.  Luke Wilson did a great job as the moony eyed helicopter pilot who falls for Drew's character.    Drew did a good job as a confused but sweet pregnant girl who works at a burger joint in somewhere in small town America.  Jake Busey looks a whole lot like his dad, and chewed a lot of furniture for this role, which was rather one dimensional. Catherine O'Hara is at her best playing this quirky mom.  (during one funny scene, the older boy asks her if it's true that she liked the other son better...I love you both, she says, but the difference is only this (puts her fingers an inch apart) much!LOL!!!) If you don't enjoy dark humor, this will not amuse you.  It also had an ending that made us go awww...it was almost as if they weren't sure how to end this one, though.  Overall, it wasn't a bad film. "},{"Title":"What does it want to be--black comedy or romantic comedy?","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This looks like a case of a classic schizophrenic Hollywood movie--too dark-humored for fans of romantic comedy, not nearly outrageous enough for those looking for that quality. (You may get a little nervous, though, when a shotgun-wielding character walks into a fast-food restaurant full of kids.) Consequently it will end up alienating a lot of viewers looking for the one type of film or the other. Most of the characters aren't very enjoyable to watch, with the noted exception of Drew Barrymore in the lead. I was disappointed that Catherine O'Hara's part wasn't any better--she could have really livened the movie up if her character had been a little more forceful.Despite all the problems, there was still something left to like here, and I would give it a positive recommendation, but just barely. On second thought, recommending this movie to someone would be a risky proposition, but I thought that overall it was marginally successful. "},{"Title":"An interesting, unique movie with entertaining ideas.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I had gone to see this movie because I really enjoy Drew Barrymore's acting. I ended up liking more than just Drew's part though.  I thought it was a unique movie with just the right amount of humour - keeping it far from slapstick, but generated a light atmosphere that kept everyone level with the innocence of it all.  I'd definitely recommend this movie to anyone with an open mind and a sense of humour. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Romantic/Comedy/Action movie!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie with Luke Wilson (brother of Owen Wilson) & Drew Barrymore is very enjoyable.  While it was promoted as a Romantic Comedy, it should be noted that this has a darker comedic theme with some action sequences. If you were looking for a Meg Ryan/Tom Hanks movie, reset your expectations and rent this one anyways.  It is a very enjoyable, fun movie. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly hilarious.","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I would have given this film a '10', except that I believe that the manner in which it was marketed is a flaw. Similar to the way that films like Love Serenade, or Muriel's Wedding were not presented as outrageous and offbeat comedies this film's preview and sleeve present it as if it is another main stream romantic comedy (like You've Got Mail). It is in fact a wonderfully deranged and outrageous film that could easily be mistaken for a Cohen (sp?) brothers movie. "},{"Title":"A Cute Black Romantic Comedy?","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  How does that work? Well. . .it does, and it doesn't. It's kind of strange, because this movie wasn't terribly complicated, but I'm still not sure what to make of it. So here's my tentative review it's weird in a weird way. I mean, there are funny weird movies, and fun weird movies, and disgusting weird movies, and experimental weird movies, and mindless weird movies- and Home Fries is somehow none of those, either by an inch or by a mile. It's worth watching, don't get me wrong, but my feelings on this movie are uncharacteristically ambiguous. Drew is great, of course- she almost always is. I grew up in a tiny, Southern town, so I can vouch that the atmosphere seemed authentic. Luke Wilson is a charmingly unusual hero. Catherine O'Hara is funny as his psycho mother, and the Busey kid chews the scenery with both gusto and some amazing choppers, each obviously inherited from his dad. Some of the dialogue was really good, and there was a lot about this flick that was nicely understated. But overall...well, I occasionally get the urge to watch it again (because I like strange movies, and Home Fries is possessed of a strangeness I've never quite seen before,) but it certainly won't wear out before most of my other tapes. That, I guess, is the simplest and most honest review I can give it.  "},{"Title":"An Extremely Funny and Original Movie.  A must see.","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Telling you the plot would kinda take away some of the suprising charm of this movie.  Basically, the Drew Barrymore character is supposed to be killed by the son of the dead man she was sleeping with.  But the guy starts to like her.  There are several other twists thrown into the story.  The screenplay by Vince Gilligan of the X-Files is unpredictable and the dialogue isn't stale like in so many other Hollywood films.  Great performances by all. "},{"Title":"nothing like the trailer.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  **contains spoilers**well first off, id like to start with the fact that it was an entertaining and sweet movie.. the trailer portrays it as an entirely different movie... i watched the trailer after watching the movie and was like WOAH.. the trailer sets it up as a romantic comedy in which luke wilson sees drew barymore at a drive thru and wants to get a job there in order to meet her.. the movie is quite the contrary.. it is more like a physchotic mother who made her kids kill her cheating husband (with drew) and then luke wilson takes the job there because they know she heard something on the headphones.. yes he does fall in love with her.. and the lamaz scene is adorable, and the ending is sweet.. but theres murder and a twisted family that they left from the trailer... but i can say that that it was worth the $5.88 i payed for it.. its a simple, cheesy teen-flick.. with a bit of a twist.. i enjoyed it.. "},{"Title":"My wife and I both loved this film","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This a wonderful movie. Full of laughs and also sometimes very tender. Drew is marvelous and very believable and the other actors as well. Jake is also very good in this and is reminicent of his father (I assume Gary is) We both were very impressed with Luke Wilson. The scenes at the burger place was great "}{"Title":"Not for vanilla filmgoers","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  The reason this film is rated so poorly is that it had the most misleading preview ever.  It was marketed as a feel-good low-IQ no-surprise white-bread movie that Ronald Reagan would have applauded.  Instead it was a dark and original exercise that is well worth seeing.  It has an audience, but they didn't go.  (I only saw it because one of my filmy friends bugged me until I agreed to give it a chance.)  The people that did go based on the preview were ironically exactly the wrong audience. "},{"Title":"Drew Needs To Be More Discerning With Her Scripts","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Drew Barrymore is cute and she has her loyal fans but, man, this woman makes so many lame movies. To her credit, some of her movies, like Ever After, are nice films - no language problems and a film the family could safely watch which certainly is opposite of her wild, earlier days when she was exposing herself on the David Letterman show, and other incidents. Barrymore has since played a few more of those nice characters, so I am not knocking her. It's just that so many of her films are Lifetime cable TV Grade B chick flicks. This one, however - be warned - is a much darker film than advertised. It's not exactly the sweet romance story you might think.What hurt this movie, in my opinion, wasn't Barrymore so much as it was Luke Wilson. Is there a dumber looking face in Hollywood than his? I'm sorry but with that dumb expression I cannot buy him as an intelligent person as he is supposed to be in this story. Of course, the filmmakers deliberately had him making these goofy faces, which is confusing if he is supposed to come across as someone with brains. He doesn't look it, nor does the script make this an intelligent film, either. It's supposed to be a comedy but you tell me how many laughs you got watching the first 45 minutes in here? I didn't get many, if any, and by then had lost interest. Hopefully, Drew will have better luck finding more intelligent scripts in the future, or at least stories with a plot to them! "},{"Title":"Flavorless 'Fries'...","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" There's a cute visual introduction to Drew Barrymore's pregnant character in Home Fries shot from above, while walking to work, Barrymore's enlarged tummy leads the way. Unfortunately, Fries is an obtuse black comedy, which mistakes ridiculous behavior for the sublime. Drew's an unmarried fast-food waitress who is clumsily romanced by the stepson of the married man who got her in trouble. Subplot about the married schnook having been scared to death by his stepson and brother due to an elaborate prank contains practically no interest whatsoever, while Barrymore's character is kept unceremoniously behind the counter. It's a disastrous picture, full of inept writing and unsure directing, wasting the talents of its leading lady and some smart supporting players. As the love-interest, Luke Wilson registers zero; he's a constipated Prince Charming. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"This movie was marketed so wrong...","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Home Fries is a fantastic movie, but the marketing scheme behind it all had little bearing in regard to the actual movie. If you saw the trailers or commercials, you'd have thought the movie was a romantic comedy. The relationship between Luke Wilson and Drew Barrymore's characters plays only a small part in plot, and even then it's not the type of interaction you'd see in a romantic comedy.This flick is pure dark humor. The near-incestuous relationship existing between Dorian's brother and mother is both odd and extremely amusing. It's definitely not the type of movie you'd expect to see from the way it's been presented. Kudos to the casting director. Each part was cast extremely well.  "},{"Title":"Give This Movie A 2nd Chance!!!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  When I first went to the theater and seen this movie, last Thanksgiving, I about died.  I expected a normal Drew Barrymore movie with her everlasting magic.  What I got was a weird, black brain-teaser comedy.  I about had a fit!  I could not stand the movie, it was horrible.  But come to find out, I just didn't understand it.  So this weekend I rented it.  And guess what! I liked it!  It is just one of those movies that is a whole lot better the second time around.  You have to sit through it once, and then watch it again.  So all of you who hated this movie the first time like I did, watch it again!  You won't regret it! "},{"Title":"home fries","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be the most horrible movie Drew has ever done, the plot was so bad I had to turn it off after 45 mins. I can't figure out why people love this movie. Who ever made this movie please don't make anymore like this.... PLEASE. "},{"Title":"Quirky fun!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to tout this movie as a side-splitting comedy, but it sure is a lot of fun.  Luke Wilson plays a lovably confused character in the middle of a family crisis including a dead, cheating step-father; a manipulating mother; a jealous, psychotic brother; and the sweet, well-meaning (pregnant) mistress of the step-father.  Jake Busey is hilarious and Catherine O'Hara is at her best.  This one is great for a light-hearted evening of fun.  "},{"Title":"truly funny and original","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not like The Wedding Singer (which I loved) but personally I'm happy to see a romantic comedy with a dark, murderous and twisted plot. Drew Barrymore is great in her role and does an incredibly funny southern accent that makes her seem so innocent.  I absolutely recommend this movie!! "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible, terrible...and worse","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I have no hesitation when I say that this is absolutely the worst movie that I have ever seen in my entire life.  I spent more of the movie looking at my watch than the screen.  It was unbelievably dull and completely ridiculous. Luke Wilson was evidently trying to impersonate a bump on a log and Drew Barrymore was nearly unintelligible with her syrupy accent.  I saw the movie at the dollar theatre and it wasn't even worth my dollar.  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointing","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw previews for this movie, I thought it would be a nice romantic comedy. So I went to see it, but it is totally not! It's about some psycho family who kills people for the heck of it! Save yourself the trouble, and do not see it.  "}{"Title":"This movie sucks.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Home Fries sucks. Its plot is preposterous, the romance implausible, and the dialogues are only marginally funny. The lead character's brother, Angus, is a murderous psychopath, who goes around trying to kill people because he wants to please his mother. Oddly enough, it seems that nobody in the movie really seems to care or disapprove of this. Moreover, Angus and Dorian (the male lead) get away with attempted murder and probably manslaughter, which is IMHO a little too strong for a movie that is supposed to be a romantic comedy. A propos romance after barely having seen her more than a couple of times, let alone having kissed her, Dorian announces to Sally in front of her family that her loves her... this strikes me as a little unlikely, to say the least. All in all, one of the worst movies I have seen in years.   "},{"Title":"completely original","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely fabulous. Nothing at all like the trailer suggests (which is EXTREMELY rare nowadays) Go see it, Drew Barrymore and Luke Wilson are great. "},{"Title":"Great performances in this quirky comedy.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  What a nice surprise this movie was, unfortunately it will probably get lost among all the HOLIDAY movies this Christmas. Drew Barrymore gives a winning performance - she co-stars here with her real-life boyfriend Luke Wilson , who has great charm and I predict will eventually become a big time leading man. (If he chooses to go that way - from the IMDB registry though it looks like he is choosing to stick with indies) Although these are two very good performances the movie is STOLEN by Catherine O'Hara as the mother of Luke's character. She is absolutely hilarious in a supporting role. Oscar take note! It would be unfair to give away any of the plot of this movie as that is its greatest charm- just go see it! "},{"Title":"Slightly better than watching moss grow.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I'm usually not such a harsh critic however if it weren't for the fact that my date wanted to see this movie I'd a walked out after the first 15 minutes.  The film should've gone through several rewrites because the premise was definitely intriguing and original but the film was just not happening.  If you're a Drew Barrymore fan she is the only redeeming part of this film with her charming smile and back-o-the-woods accent.  "},{"Title":"A new breed of romantic comedy.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Home Fries was a unique kind of romantic comedy.  Along with its boy-meets-girl-and-falls-in-love storyline, it also contains infidelity, murder, and a psychologically controlling mother.  Jake Busey gives a terrific performance as Angus, the brother who wants to kill Drew Berrymore. However, the show was stolen by Luke Wilson (Bottle Rocket), who inadvertently falls in love with the girl who his stepfather had an affair with.Home Fries blends romance and dark comedy in a way that results in a very entertaining film.  With a good story and an excellent cast, this is one movie that everyone can enjoy.   "},{"Title":"charming movie, interesting plot!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Drew Barrymore's performance in Home Fries will not win her an Oscar, but it will win her smiles from her viewers.  It is a charming movie featuring funny situations and plot twists around every corner.  Along with her adorable curly hair-do and sexy co-star, Barrymore shines in the role of a good hearted 20-something who works at a burger joint and wants to be a good mother to her expected child.  Although, once again in Hollywood, the mother is wearing lipstick after child birth, something I will never get.  A good movie to pair with a rainy evening, cozy pj's and some popcorn. "},{"Title":"Funny and quirky - Like Fargo in tone, maybe better!!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Very well done movie, script and supporting actors are the best parts, in fact just wonderful.  Very off-beat plot and humor. I have to recommend it highly.  Even tho' I don't care for Drew Barrymore, I think this is a winner! "},{"Title":"romantic and shy soul who loves to see Drew Barrymore play!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful film!! I have just seen it on the Dutch-speaking TV-channel KanaalTwee from Belgium! (Saturday 14 August 2004) With Dutch subtitles (although I can understand English very well!!).Drew Barrymore is a very nice actress; I've seen her in E.T., Never been kissed and The Wedding Singer; all with Dutch subtitles in cinema in Brussels or at home in front of the TV. She looks great in all these movies!!Luke Wilson (didn't know he was brother of Owen!) is handsome and has much potential for an actor!! He plays very nice!!The story about pregnant Sally who falls in love with the stepson is not ridiculous to me! I am romantic myself; and can be very touched when seeing love romances on TV or in cinemas! In Never been kissed Drew played a role which is somewhat similar to my real life; I am not handsome (beautiful)and I have been ridiculed a lot in my school period; I also fell in love with a teacher; I have been teased a lot... In most teenage movies there is also a guy who is a nerd; I feel like a nerd often but my high IQ (124) is not my handicap!!Smart but ugly doesn't mean one should lock oneself up all the time! I have friends who take me as I am; who can laugh with my sense of humour and my language knowledge has lead me through difficult holiday travels (this year I go to Warsaw in Poland; I can easily understand English and speak German at a good level; Polish not!!)!!Home Fries is a splendid movie to me!!!  "},{"Title":"Mis-marketed, yet enjoyable movie","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I am lucky that I saw this movie.  The way they marketed it in the previews and commercials when it was in theatrical release made it seem like another typical romantic comedy.  That is an understatement, to say the least. This movie, while not groundbreaking, was definitely fun.  I loved that it was different, unusual, and quirky.  The humor was definitely dark (kind of like Heathers) and this will turn a lot of people off, especially since it was purported to be light.Although I was reluctant to rent this movie (the first 10 minutes made me think it was going to be really dumb, like it was trying to do more than it should for this type of movie), I was soon swayed by the quirks, the smart dialogue and the interwoven plot.  This movie is not an award winner and I wouldn't recommend it to a lot of people, but not because it is bad but because it is a matter style.  Some will laugh, some will cry.  "},{"Title":"Pregnant white trash girl meets boy. Dark hilarity ensues.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" An excellent movie for those who understand and appreciate intelligent comedy. Do not be fooled by the erroneous romantic comedy label. It does contain comedy and romance but is not part of that silly sub-genre. Home Fries is one of those rare comedies in which actors aren't hindered by special effects, music swells, wild car chases, or cheesy dialog/ situations. The script is offbeat, energetic, and smart giving the actors something substantial to use.Luke Wilson finally crawled out from under the shadow of his brother, Owen, in this one. Wilson even executes a great fall (presumably on purpose) in one scene which throws some slapstick into an otherwise cerebral affair. Also, Drew Barrymore rises above her own reputation here. She's finally proved that she's capable of more than what we expect of her and that she doesn't need to ride the coattails of washed-up Saturday Night Live actors.Hollywood ran amok with the whole romantic comedy starring Drew Barrymore angle when this movie was promoted. This was a huge mistake that probably alienated many viewers who may really like this while disappointing the teeming masses who just wanted a sweet, predictable piece of light comedy for their date nights. This is pure dark comedy. I cannot give it the highest possible score because it does suffer a bit in spots. Namely, Gary Busey's kid is just not up to his role. Yeah, he's got funny teeth but that does not mean that he can play any comic role. His acting chops are just not up to the task of playing Wilson's brother. Of course probably no one but Luke's actual brother, Owen, is really up to that. But at least, as I mentioned, Luke gets his much-deserved chance to shine.Fans of Wes Anderson and Jim Jarmisch should take note of this movie. "}{"Title":"Hungry Anyone?","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Home Fries (1998) Dir Dean Parisot / Cast Drew Barrymore, Luke Wilson, Jake Busey, Catherine O'Hara, Shelley Duvall Intriguing satire that exaggerates in its conclusion. Title regards Drew Barrymore's job at a fast food restaurant while symbolizing her pregnancy or the two sons corrupted to kill her. The baby's father is married so his wife's two sons scare him into a heart attack. They suspect that Barrymore may be a witness so one of them goes undercover and of course, fall in love. The restaurant provides an interesting location plus there are numerous plot twists throughout. Directed by Dean Parisot as a dark comedy that works more on its innovation than humour. Sympathetic performance by Barrymore who is caught as a potential single mother unknowing that she is a target. Luke Wilson and Jake Busey play the sons of a menacing woman played by Catherine O'Hara. Wilson is drawn to Barrymore and resorts to protecting her while Busey becomes psychotic and desperate. The result of this is violent and stays from any sort of humour. O'Hara steals her moments as their crazed mother out to oversee the fine touches of a murder. Shelley Duvall is also featured in a small supporting role to remind us of her early glory days of greatness. Very different comedy that satires the dysfunctional family within a screenplay that serves up more than fast food. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"awkward and not quite working","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Henry Lever tells pregnant burger drive-thru girl Sally Jackson (Drew Barrymore) that he told his wife but it doesn't impress her. On the drive home, he encounters a military helicopter. Pilot Angus Montier (Jake Busey) scares him to death despite his brother Dorian (Luke Wilson)'s protest. The brothers and Sally's radio get crossed up at the same frequency. The brothers are actually Henry's wife Beatrice Lever (Catherine O'Hara)'s boys. They start to worry and Dorian gets a job at the burger place to investigate if anybody understands what they heard.It tries to be quirky. Drew Barrymore is adorable. Luke Wilson has the boyish looks. However something is off. It's a black comedy without laughs. It's awkward and not cute. It starts with using an attack helicopter to scare a guy to death. It's threatening and unreal. It tries to be funny but it's not working for me. "},{"Title":"Odd and quirky romcom with Drew Barrymore","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Home Fries (1998) is an offbeat romcom about a pregnant girl (Drew Barrymore) who has two National Guardsmen after her &#x96; one wants to romance her (Luke Wilson ) and the other wants to murder her (Jake Busey). The two guys are also brothers. The girl works at a hamburger joint and the brothers are concerned that she might know that they accidentally killed a man by scaring him to death via a military copter, prompted by their manipulative mother (Catherine O'Hara). The dead man just so happens to be the brothers' stepdad and also the guy who got the girl pregnant! As you can see, the plot's bizarre and so the movie should appeal to those with a taste for black humor and the outlandish. Drew's a cutie as always, but not as attractive as usual since she's pregnant the entire film. The story's isn't that compelling, but it's generally amusing, albeit rarely laugh-out-loud funny.The film runs 91 minutes and was shot in the Austin, TX, area (with some parts in El Paso).GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Shows how Racist Hollywood is","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I bought this movie as part of a 4 pack collection for about 12 dollars. I was expecting a light hearted, romantic comedy.What I got was a movie where... 1. All men are idiots. 2. Women insulting men whenever possible. You're trying to put a dent on my child's forehead!. My daddy is an idiot, when he drinks. 3. Southern people as dirty, stupid, and carrying guns everywhere, why not make a movie about jews being demons or black people throwing spears? O cause you don't like those stereotypes? 4. Did not laugh once...pregnant woman romance pretty dismal on the sweet/comedy scale.Did you trash at Hollywood really spend 15 million on a hate movie against the South and against men? "},{"Title":"Fried the TV.","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This alleged comedy-drama-romance movie has Drew Barrymore playing a pregnant Sally Jackson, who falls for Dorian Montier (Luke Wilson), the stepson of the unborn baby's deceased father. Realizing the infidelity, the deceased man's wife, Beatrice Lever (Catherine O'Hara), sends her sons Angus (Jake Bussey) and Dorian to scare him up a bit, indirectly leading to him succumbing to a heart attack. Things get a little out of hand when Sally is mixed in with the chaotic mess.The story is as ridiculous as it sounds and the tasteless plot is only exacerbated by the awful and moronic acting. There is really nothing interesting about this film, except that Barrymore attempts to have a good portrayal of her character. It's OK to pass on this one. Grade D-- "},{"Title":"Family Drama","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" (spoilers) Not so much a purely comedic as a family drama movie. IMO at the heart of the story is a conflict of loyalty for the two brothers (Luke Wilson, Jake Busey), in terms of how much they owe to their mother (Catherine O'Hara). Things become complicated when one of the brothers (Luke Wilson) falls for a girl (Drew Barrymore) that his mother does not approve of. The result is a story in which there is a tangled inter-familial conflict, in which it is not always clear whose side one is on, or even who everyone is. The story unfolds in a Southern environment. Drew Barrymore was sorta the poster girl, although having seen the movie, I'm not sure that she was really the lead, although she was certainly one of the four central characters and is probably the female lead. She and Luke Wilson and the others put in good performances; I thought that the acting was well done. It's a pretty solid little film that probably deserved more success than it received. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie...It was so hilarious but border lined on the absolutely absurd...but it REALLY kept me laughing after the initial beginning of the movie, which I found to be a bit upsetting...Luke Perry & Drew Barrymore are absolutely superb together...Daryl Mitchell was superb & authentic in his part as the over- achieving, forever grilling, instructor of burger making...hamburger person...the funeral scene was bordering on the totally ridiculous...overall this movie just kept me in complete 'stitches'...Catherine O'Hara really comes through as the comedic super-giant that she truly is...the background music was well placed & well selected...overall, an extremely entertaining movie...that's what movie making should be all about after all... "},{"Title":"Charmed and Thrilled","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I only noted spoilers to protect myself in case someone sees a spoiler that I don't intend. Anyhoo, I loved this movie. Quirky and off the wall, a bit of a comedic thriller. But enchanting in an odd ball way. I forget movies easily, even if I liked them. But this one stuck with me over the years. I've watched it more than once and would do so again. Just the wonderful scene where Drew looks at Luke with total sweetness and trust and all smiles is worth seeing for it's charm--but you, the viewer, know the back story and secrets. Whatever will she say or do when she finds out? Or will she find out. This movie is so under rated. Not for small children, who would be bored, but I think any age can enjoy it. On a certain level, it is clean and moral but the trip along the way isn't. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant waste of time","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I generally like Drew Barrymore. In this film, she plays a sweet but frumpy unwed fast food worker. Her performance is as good as usual.Luke Wilson is handsome and likable enough but it is not at all believable that his character would suddenly fall in love with the poor pregnant girl who works at the local Burger-Matic - especially given all the circumstances of the plot. It just isn't plausible.The basic problem with this movie is the story. It's a story not worth telling because we learn nothing from it. The whole premise is very unlikely. The film is pointless with at least three dark, twisted and very unsympathetic characters.Home Fries is no better than a student film project with a much bigger budget and access to a military helicopter.When it's over, you're likely to ask yourself as I did - Why did I waste 1 1/2 hours watching this lousy movie? "},{"Title":"Comedy?I would try with tragedy.","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Only one word can describe how I feel after watching this movie.That word is awful.Home Fries isn't comedy because in real comedy people smile.It was nothing funny in this one,it only gives you reasons to cry.I'm sad to see Drew Barrymore in this role.She is so annoying like her partner(Luke Wilson).Only positive thing is acting of Catherine O'Hara but that is even not enough to give this movie grade 2.Plot of this movie doesn't make any sense.Why would two sons listen to their crazy mother and chase their stepfather in a helicopter?After that chase poor man dies of heart and that is not enough because then they must kill a girl who is carrying that poor man's child,in order to please their mother.But wait,one of those brothers starts to like pregnant girl.How realistic is that?Judge it yourself.WARNINGDon't watch this movie unless someone is pointing gun in your head. "}{"Title":"Godawful Mess","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a horrible mess.  It's marketed as a teen flick but honestly, it's so scattershot it's hard to see who would really want to watch this. Why did they make this?   Hard to say, but it has the earmarks of a production that didn't have a firm hand to guide it.  It's not a movie, it's Daikatana.It wouldn't be a bad guess to say that this film was a David Lynch film that somehow got rewritten by some awful MTV Video Director then watered-down by the studio something barely marketable.  And it fails.  Nobody involved with this film should even bother to put it on their resumes or even cash the check in good conscience.  It's one thing to take chances with plot and themes and filmmaking in general, but it's quite another to just throw a bunch of crap into a script and label it the same.  It's not coherent. It's just an ugly waste of time.What can you say about a film that somehow manages to make Drew Barrymore's pathetic attempt at acting and trying not to go down the Madonna Road of Not Knowing When To Quit?  That alone should make you change the channel or buy something else out of the dollar pile. "},{"Title":"misleading trailer","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I just rented this movie on DVD and I wanted to warn everyone that the trailer is very misleading.  The trailer was even on the DVD and we watched it again because we were shocked how different it was from the actual movie. We were expecting a nice, cute Drew Barrymore romantic comedy and instead there was this whole crazy story about a nutso homicidal family that wants to kill Drew's character.  There's gun fire, helicopter chases, fights, crazy stuff.  And not just one little part, it's throughout the whole movie. NONE of that was in the trailer.  Not even hinted at.  In fact, dialogue and scenes were rearranged in the trailer to make it seem like a completely different story.  I would have been very mad if I paid $9 in the theaters to see it.  "},{"Title":"HOME FRIES is an anemic romantic comedy/murder mystery that a pretty good cast can't salvage.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  It aspires to be black, but is barely a pale shade of gray. The sweet and swoony Lamaze class scenes seem to indicate that the filmmakers want it both ways, nasty and nice. Home Fries desperately needs a side order of Coen Brothers. Sally (Drew Barrymore) works at the drive-through window of the Burger-Matic. Her much older (and married) boyfriend, Henry Lever, is a heart attack fatality, which leaves Sally holding more than the burger and shake. She is 8 1/2 months pregnant. Henry's stepsons Dorian and Angus are responsible for his scared-to-death-by-helicopter demise, having been egged on by their vengeful Mom (Catherine O'Hara). Mrs. Lever is equally intent on launching a vendetta against Henry's paramour, if she can just learn the slut's identity. Dorian (Luke Wilson) takes a job at the Burger-Matic to do some spying and learns the truth about Sally's little bundle of joy. Dorian and Sally are becoming an item, but how long can he keep the truth from Mom and loony Angus (Jake Busey), who is just itching to rev up that big black Cobra again? Barrymore has true grit, but is stuck with an ugly, curly red wig a la ANNIE, a pillow stuffed down her dress, and a skimpily developed role. Wilson is nice, but on the bland side, as the possible stepfather of his own stepbrother. Not a lot of chemistry going on here, and the script could have used a few more rewrites. Home Fries does provide a rare chance to see the wonderful Shelley Duvall, who plays Sally's slatternly, shack-dwelling mother. Guess they were fresh out of mobile homes, but Shelley makes do. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I remember channel surfing one night, blowing past mindless comedy and latenight talk shows alike, I finally came across Home Fries.  Upon watching it, I was quite suprised, but it was certaintly not of a pleasant nature. Although this movie was marketed as a cute looking romantic comedy, it came off as being a mindless, reality-inept stuper of a film, that led me to the conclusion that it was probably written in about a week's time.  This movie would probably be enjoyed by people who just like mindless entertainment (probably because they are mindless themselves) and those who do not care at all about substance or reality.  Still, others say give it a second chance, and when it was on the next day, I watched it again, trying to find some redeeming qualities to this accidental farse.  But my efforts were futile. This movie is unsalvagable, even to those who possess no brain activity. It's sad to say that as a society, we are willing to waist millions of dollars on such a travesty, and spending any money on seeing it is even more so. "},{"Title":"don't watch this","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  I bought it because it was very cheap and had Drew Barrymore.  Wow.  this is probably the only movie I have that I am actually embarrassed to own.  It was so bad that I couldn't sit through the whole thing in one sitting.  I only finished watching it because one of my roommates was watching it.  It was pathetic.  An all-time low for Drew "},{"Title":"The worst Drew Barrymore film.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Firstly, I have to say that I am a Drew Barrymore fan and I've liked her ever since I read her autobiography describing her painful childhood.  However, I also like her acting but this film is so bad. I wouldn't even give it the credit and call it a black comedy - it's nothing.  The plot is ridiculous and Drew's character was annoying.  Usually she gets the chance to show off how she can be charming, sweet, seductive, innocent and strong but this just wasn't the right role.  Her character was undeveloped and got the worst lines.  I don't understand how she even took this role.  Catherine O'Hara's role wasn't that great either and neither was Luke Wilson's.  They all have great talent but are better of in other films.It's a waste of time and don't be fooled into thinking it's great just because of the all-star cast. "},{"Title":"The worst Drew Barrymore film.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Firstly, I have to say that I am a Drew Barrymore fan and I've liked her ever since I read her autobiography describing her painful childhood.  However, I also like her acting but this film is so bad. I wouldn't even give it the credit and call it a black comedy - it's nothing.  The plot is ridiculous and Drew's character was annoying.  Usually she gets the chance to show off how she can be charming, sweet, seductive, innocent and strong but this just wasn't the right role.  Her character was undeveloped and got the worst lines.  I don't understand how she even took this role.  Catherine O'Hara's role wasn't that great either and neither was Luke Wilson's.  They all have great talent but are better of in other films.It's a waste of time and don't be fooled into thinking it's great just because of the all-star cast. "},{"Title":"Horrible! ~! ~!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is my all time favorite actress! ~! but this movie is so unwatchable! ~!~ bad acting except 4 wilson and barrymore and bad writing@! ~!~ It made no sense at all i saw this on video and returned it the second i finished watching it!! ~! I'd give it a 4/10. enough said! ~! ~! ~! "},{"Title":"Greasy and unsatisfying","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I love films with the likeable Drew Barrymore.  This film is not one of her better efforts.  She certainly looks great but the plot just let her down.  Spoiler alert! There was a story to be presented here but not with whacko helicopter pilots and murder in the plot. "},{"Title":"Story is ridiculous but Barrymore does well","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is an off-beat comedy with a slightly ridiculous plot that is saved by the fine acting of several actors such as Drew Barrymore as the FastFood countergirl who unwittingly lets herself get taken advantage of, and Catherine O'Hara as the betrayed and psychotic wife out to gain revenge on her cheating husband. Barrymore is in her element here, playing the sweet and winsome girl-next-door who wins the heart of the son of her unfaithful lover. The characters here are so neurotic they are never realistic. But this is a love story with a charming ending. Suspend your disbelief, and wither down your expectations to enjoy this movie. "}{"Title":"Odd Movie to Classify (Spoiler)","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Drew Barrymore plays a very pregnant drive-through cashier at a burger joint in small-town Texas. Drew's lover is a lying, middle-aged married lecher. Unbeknownst to him, his shrew of a wife and her two psychotic sons know he is cheating, but not with who. In the first scene of the movie, the sons use a borrowed Air National Guard Cobra gunship to scare their philandering stepfather. They succeed a little too well and he dies of a heart attack. Unperturbed, Mom sets her sons to discover the identity of the 'other woman'.  And this is a romantic comedy!Strangely it works, although the movie lurches between very black comedy, and cutesy romance.  My recommendation is to try it out and see for yourselves. "},{"Title":"The Entertainment is in the Details","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's true that(1) The trailer is carefully crafted to attract viewers who will not like the film and to discourage viewers who might enjoy it.(2) The movie jerks back and forth between romance and black comedy. (The sound track consists of two riffs an edgy guitar line to identify the black comedy scenes and a cloying instrumental phrase repeated over and over--and over--during the romantic scenes.)(3) The plot is an affront to logic in general and the Air National Guard in particular.(4) None of the main characters in the story are likable, well-developed or even plausible (especially including Drew Barrymore's character).But all that doesn't stop Home Fries from being delightful at the detail level. It has(1) Catherine O'Hara playing the psychopath to perfection (cf. After Hours).(2) Shelley Duvall playing the white trash mom to perfection.(3) Even the thankless role of the unfaithful stepfather was played with some nice touches; I loved the way he takes a sip from his milkshake as he pulls away from the drive through after being castigated by Sally.(4) There were countless other small touches the son being invited to take a few packs of cigarettes on the house when he visits his dead step-father's office at the cigarette factory, the lecherous helicopter mechanic receiving his just reward with the machine-gun turret.In short, the plot made no sense and most of the major characters weren't worth watching, but there were several great minor characters and some interesting dialog that make this movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  OK, along with Addams Family and Dead Presidents, this is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The acting was terrible, the writing was terrible, the screenplay was terrible. If you don't see one movie for the rest of your life, make it Home Fries. I would rather spend two hours locked in a bathroom stall with Pee Wee Herman and George Michael than be forced to ever see this movie again. "},{"Title":"Mind Numbing","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  There isn't a moment in this movie that isn't hollow or egregiously idiotic. If the characters all put their heads together with the screenwriter they still wouldn't be able to get a high school diploma.I won't waste anymore time reviewing it.  Don't waste yours watching it. "},{"Title":"Degrading To Our Flyers","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  We love Drew Barrymore, the premise of the movie is kinda cute. The characters of Dorian and Angus are very degrading to our men in uniform. No American helicopter pilot could be so stupid as Angus (let's hope not anyway) LOL. It's just too bad that Drew made such a bad choice to be in this movie. But, you'll have to see the movie yourselves and make your own judgements. "},{"Title":"Strange mix of reality and the unbelievable","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Knowing that Vince Gilligan was the author was what kept me watching. He brought some X-files touches to this tale of misplaced  and misdirected love. -the helicopter appearing with bright lights and pursuing a terrified person in a car -  the strange death&#133; Mrs. Lever's cunning which makes one wonder if she is crazy or pure evil. Drew Barrymore is great as the innocent who is betrayed. The mystery is that Henry Lever could have ever attracted her love. I couldn't figure out when the story is placed - so much of it was sixties - references to Viet Nam, the question They let you keep working when you're pregnant? - but the cars were not right. Oh well, small budget, I guess. In a lot of ways, though, the movie missed the mark. Not scary enough, not suspenseful enough when it should have been.  "},{"Title":"Strange mix of reality and the unbelievable","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Knowing that Vince Gilligan was the author was what kept me watching. He brought some X-files touches to this tale of misplaced  and misdirected love. -the helicopter appearing with bright lights and pursuing a terrified person in a car -  the strange death&#133; Mrs. Lever's cunning which makes one wonder if she is crazy or pure evil. Drew Barrymore is great as the innocent who is betrayed. The mystery is that Henry Lever could have ever attracted her love. I couldn't figure out when the story is placed - so much of it was sixties - references to Viet Nam, the question They let you keep working when you're pregnant? - but the cars were not right. Oh well, small budget, I guess. In a lot of ways, though, the movie missed the mark. Not scary enough, not suspenseful enough when it should have been. v  "},{"Title":"Love Drew","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Drew's acting is as usual Outstanding!  Luke does well also.  The movie tried to intertwine comedy and drama which in this film did not work out at all.  I don't understand what was up with the mother.  She was just a psycho, so what?  Film could  have been made much better.  "},{"Title":"the strangest plot of 1998","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Well, I wouldn't say that this movie sucked, but I wouldn't really recommend it either.  Drew Barrymore plays the same character she has played for the past few years.  The plot is so confusing and just tries too hard. I guess that's the major problem.  Home Fries tries too hard to be romantic, funny, dark, and intelligent. The acting overall was good, but the actors did the best with what they had.  I thought Luke Wilson was good and he is definitely eye candy, but the script itself did made him look really stupid.  Some things were so unnescessary.  What was the point of Sally's family?  Why wasn't her backround explored? (This could have been a really sweet rich guy/poor girl film.)  How come Catherine O'Hara seemed clueless towards the end?  I felt bad because out of all of Barrymore's recent films this one was the one that COULD HAVE  been so much better. "},{"Title":"Sloppy.","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was terribly sloppy. It had a great plot idea but seemed like a small independent picture with a big Hollywood finale. I expected more and got less. Drew Barrymore was fine in the film, the rest of the cast couldn't even compare. Avoid.  "}{"Title":"Not good","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Ludicrous plot, dodgy production, questionable acting. Slightly more entertaining than a trip to the dentist, but only just. "},{"Title":"Dark plot makes Home Fries mediocre at best.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not at all what I expected. It was marketed and promoted as a romantic comedy, but turned out to be a very dark movie. That's not a bad thing for some movies, Cable Guy pulled it off quite well in 1996. It's just that this movie wanted to sit on both sides of the fence, the dark and the romantic, yet it never made its mind up and ended up falling flat. It just doesn't work. I think, had it stuck with the romantic side, it could've been really fun to watch. But it wasn't. If you're looking for a date movie, definitely pass this one up. If you're looking for a truly good dark comedy, rent Cable Guy or In The Company Of Men. I give Home Fries 2 out of 4 stars..... "},{"Title":"Below middle class in every way.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I dont usually comment, but I really have to say that this movie was really disappointing to me. I watched it with little expectation, but when in the first 5 minutes you see a guy being confronted with his soon-to-be-born illegitimate child, then being chased down by an attack chopper, getting a heartattack, dying, the pilots radios are being overheard by employees of some burger joint and afterwards the police finds the dead guy still sitting up straight (rigor mortis squared or something), I was really starting to think the writers are desperately trying to create a strange situation that in itself warrants laughter without anything actually humourous in there.Anyway - don't think I've given a lot away with the above, this only covers the first 5 minutes. The rest of the movie I found myself waiting desperately for *something* remotely interesting or funny to happen while the plot - uh - developed?  "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have have ever seen. Please Don't see it. Save yourself the trouble. "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst films I've ever seen.I believe this was probably one of the only movies I've gone to where I actually got up and left.  Don't get me wrong, that was a bold move considering I was sitting middle right and the theater was packed full of people. Not only that, I had everyone I was with get up and leave with me also.It was a movie I couldn't even sleep through.The characters were all dumb, acting was poor, plot was weak, and the speed of the movie was way too slow.  "},{"Title":"Avoid this nasty movie","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I suppose what I'm about to say is a catch-22.  I don't like the preview trailers of movies that give away every single twist and turn of a movie. However, after seeing this movie, I have to say that I'm not exactly fond of a preview trailer that has you expecting a movie completely different from the one you wind up seeing.The previews for this movie have you expecting a sweet, charming romantic comedy; instead you get a dark so-called comedy with a focus on murder.It's a shame the movie is so dark, really, because the stars are appealing. Drew Barrymore is wonderful, as usual.  She seems committed to re-inventing herself into a charming innocent, with this role following her angel of purity roles in Ever After and The Wedding Singer.  One more sweet role like this and she may just make me forget all about Poison Ivy and The Amy Fisher Story.Luke Wilson, as her love interest, is a very engaging, low-key performer. My only previous experience with him was on a episode of the X-Files where he played a goofy small-town sheriff.  I look forward to seeing Luke in other, better, roles.Jake Busey, the spittin' image of his father Gary, does a fine job with a one-note character.Having noted all the above performers, let me say that their performances were the only thing I enjoyed about this movie.  The mean-spiritedness of the plot may have been an easier pill to swallow if it had been acknowledged in any of the previews.I consider myself a fan of Drew Barrymore, but even as a fan of hers I cannot recommend this movie.My rating  a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dysfunction fits this production well.....","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  It's like someone dropped a script (wrapped in roll of twenties) off in the middle of a cow pasture, and dared the townfolk to create a feature film.Drew, you're a cutie, but the director had no intention of making you look the least flattering as a trailer trash pregnant burger flipper.Luke, you got to stop getting acting lessons from David Arquette, it's starting to wear on ya.This freakshow was scarier than psycho.... "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Home Fries has to be the worst movie that I have ever seen.  Only one other time in my life have I had the urge to simply leave the theater.  The movie, presented as a light hearted romantic comedy in the previews, turned out to be some poorly presented black comedy about 2 brothers trying to kill their father and his ex-lover.  The plot was hideous, which was most evident in its use of the magic apology at the end, where the main character simply says a couple of nice words, and is magically forgiven for his attempt to murder 3 people.The movie had potential.  Unfortunately, every last bit of that potential was ignored. "},{"Title":"boring film....","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  that i almost walked out on!..and i don't walk out on many films... story went nowhere, and i felt very little for characters. . . if you're expecting a wedding singer type film, you're going to be disappointed . . . big time!. . . also, film had very poor production values. "},{"Title":"FRIES all empty calories","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Any Drew Barrymore fans looking forward to her new film, HOME FRIES, be advised these fries are being served with a turkey sandwich.I caught the world premiere at the Toronto Film Fest.  The director, the writer, and the entire primary cast (Drew, Luke Wilson, Jake Busey, and Catherine O'Hara) were all present, introduced on stage prior to the film after about a twenty-minute delay. There was much fanfare, with the Drew fans clearly out in force.Then the movie started.  I knew that it was in trouble about five minutes in, during a scene in which police are investigating a dead man found in a park.  Why?  Because the actor wasn't even *trying* to play dead.  (Ever seen a corpse that can sit upright without back support?)It became obvious as things progressed that this was a low-budget, slapped-together film that was probably originally intended for cable or straight-to-video release. (In fact, I found out later that it's been in the can since prior to the release of THE WEDDING SINGER.)  There's *nothing* in this film that even *hints* at originality ... believe me, you've seen it all before.Drew doesn't embarrass herself, but the same can't be said for the rest of the cast.  Some of the members appear genuinely confused as to what kind of production they're in -- especially Luke Wilson, who seems locked into a state of soap opera angst for the entire film.  And Jake Busey is as hammy in the film as he was on stage for the Q&A session that followed the screening.There were sporadic chuckles, but only one real laugh during this alleged comedy. The applause at the end was strictly of the polite, country club sort. (I heard considerably more sustained laughter and genuine applause at the screening of a comedy from the Philippines during the festival, to give you some idea as to how well this film went over with a most receptive audience.)I had a considerably better time chatting about movies and computers with two people sitting beside me while waiting for Drew to make her late entrance than I did actually watching the movie.  Mark my words, this film is destined to become Comedy Central filler in short order. "}{"Title":"A Raising Arizona Wannabe","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I won't say Home Fries is a complete waste. I was somehow taken in enough to watch the entire movie. One shining light is Jake Busey, who steals most of the scenes he has, and the crazy thing is that he's stealing them from actors like Luke Wilson and Catherine O'Hara.The writing, dialogue and costumes were another highlight of the movie. The portrayal of the Jackson family was right on the money.It was the overall movie premise and plot lines that were average at best. After the first 30 minutes of the movie you could see the direction the film would take.Overall, this movie didn't know which way it wanted to go. A comedy? A drama? A romantic comedy? One might think they were trying to make a movie along the lines of Raising Arizona. If that was the case, they missed. "},{"Title":"likable Barrymore elevates this somewhat odd movie","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS I do have a fondness for Barrymore movies and liked her tremendously in this one. Homefries is a very strange movie overall. It starts out one way and then goes another. It's story is somewhat disjointed and although it is very interesting in the beginning, it sort of loses steam early on. What you think it is going to be about is not what it actually is.I enjoyed Drew Barrymore in this role tremendously though even if I really didn't like the overall movie to much. The movie started one way and went off in a total different direction. The plot was all over the place and it is at times dull, others a bit obnoxious. Barrymore however keeps you watching, she is very good in this as Sally. Even if though overall movie was a bit to disjointed for me, Barrymore lends it a bit of a sparkle.I liked the southern atmosphere as well. The direction was good and the movie nicely photographed at any rate. Basically Homefries is neither really good nor really bad, it's main asset is Barrymore. My vote is 5 of 10 . "},{"Title":"A huge letdown...big disappointment.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  There`s two words to describe this movie weird and boring. Drew Barrymore is one of my favourite actresses, and I love Luke Wilson, but they both REALLY let me down in this movie. The families are completely messed up, the story line is strange (and dull) from the very beginning. I regret buying the movie (it was on sale, what can I say? Mindya, now I know WHY it was on sale). The movie is about killing family members, infidelity,psychoticness (if that`s even a word!)...it`s just very strange. Plus I lost my interest A LOT during this movie. The critics said this was a funny movie, I thought it was completely ridiculous. Wow, I can`t believe two of my favourite actors could make such a flop of a movie! "},{"Title":"Switches to much back and forth between romantic and black comedy","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what exactly went wrong with this film; I guess they wanted to make a comedy, and they couldn't figure out whether to make it a romantic comedy or a black comedy. It could perhaps have been both, but that would require for it to start out as both. It starts out only as a black comedy, and the romance just surfaces from out of nowhere about half an hour into the film. Romance can add to a film, but with some black comedies(including this one) the plot is too far-fetched for you to really care about the characters, and romance in a movie is empty if you have no one to care for. What's left is just some unoriginal black comedy gags that seem worn out; people who should care about the dead guy but don't, the guy talking sense being mistaken as the crazy one, the ceremony that should be silent and holy, but is constantly interrupted... I could go on. We've seen it all before, often done better than here. The plot, while being extremely far-fetched, is fairly original(as far as I know) and it does allow for at least a few funny scenes. Too many of them just seem recycled. The acting is not bad, in fact it's better than what the script is worth. The script is fairly badly written, especially with the randomly thrown-in romance. Many of the characters seem like stereotypical cliches too. All in all, the film could have been far better, had the plot been more believable, the romance better worked in, the script better written, the material more original and the film overall less predictable. It has its moments, but it fails to entertain throughout the runtime, which it should be able to, as it's only 90 minutes. It does have a few pretty good laughs though. It's just barely entertaining enough to sit through, and it's not the worst way to spend an hour and a half, if you've got absolutely nothing better to do. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Overrated. It's actually wooden and clichd, and artificially dark.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Home Fries isn't a bad movie, but it did seem to be overrated by the critics. It seems that adding a bit of a dark vibe into any kind of interpersonal situation makes a critic sometimes reflexively jump and shout-- Realism! Art! Well, avoiding a spoiler here, I hope, let me say that clever writing and directing can sometimes result in clichd movies. I think it does here. The film smacks of string pulling, and attempted button pushing. That is, I felt as if the movie's makers were employing devices and schemata designed to evoke a response in me, rather than somehow letting the characters, the story, the movie itself unfold and tell its own story. Thus, the whole of Home Fries came across as a little wooden and fake; it was unsatisfying for me. I wasn't enrolled in most of it, and to the extent I did involve myself here and there, it was rather unpleasant. And I swear-- I really like the cast in other things. They're great actors, but simply came a cropper here. I gave it a 5. "},{"Title":"Charming Characters can't save a dark script. ** out of ****","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Home Fries has an intriguing cast, with such talents as the always charming Drew Barrymore and her real-life love interest Luke Wilson, Catherine O'Hara from Home Alone, Jake Busey and Shelley Duvall. However, the positive things going for the movie end there, for there isn't an adequate script to pull the characters though it is almost if this movie is nothing more than a smart character study.The plot is very complicated. And to top things off and make it harder for the filmmakers to succeed in the movie, it is all done as a comedy. The trick is to movies like this is to go way over the top in the black humor, like Clay Pigeons and Fargo did. But the filmmakers just don't do that here, and I felt like they were virtually holding something back from us, resulting in a starkly, unfunny film.For example, in a particular sequence when the drunken father of Sally takes the Burger joint hostage, there isn't enough comic material to make that relevant to the rest of the movie. You see, the whole concept of the ex-husband coming back for revenge isn't really funny, and doesn't have much propose to the rest of the film. The filmmakers think it is funny enough that the man is very drunk, and that he has at gunpoint Dorian dressed in a robot suite as the mascot for Burger Matic for a children's birthday party. Believe it or not, it isn't funny.There is some humor that does work well. For instance, there are scenes where Mrs. Lever fakes tears when talking about her dead husband, whom she ordered to be done with. She screams loudly and annoyingly, all in a very black manner. Now, that is kind of funny. But most of the movies comic elements are original, but too dark to laugh at.I really liked the characters in Home Fries, that were colorful and entertaining. If only the story had enough potential in it to support them. I also like the energetic and fast paced ending, but lets face it, we've traveled down this road before, with much more success. "},{"Title":"It's Spring....watch the grass grow instead","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I, like most people, saw the trailer for this movie and thought romantic comedy, looks good...well, I was wrong.  What in God's name is this movie trying to be???   Drew Barrymore was the only bright spot in this whole mess, and even she was terrible.  Jake Busey...I really feel for this guy.....first he has a small but decent role as Ace Levy in Starship Troopers, then follows it up with this and the even worse Wing Commander The entire idea of intercepting military frequencies with fast food headphones is the least ludicrous thing in this movie.  The entire plot is half-baked, very poorly acted, and basically looked as if they were trying to be too clever with it.  Daylight Savings Time is here, its Spring.....save your rental fee money for the new releases or watch the grass grow. "},{"Title":"Cute, funny and twisted.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie because the story knocked me off guard.  I liked Drew Barrymore here, better than her performance in The Wedding Singer. Luke Wilson, of Bottle Rocket and Scream 2, was very strange throughout the movie.  I would like to see him in a movie side-by-side with David Arquette, not counting Scream 2.  Catherine O'Hara seemed to have fun with her role in another great part.  The plot is a little strange but interesting and I really got drawn into it, more than I thought I would.  I recommend this film. "},{"Title":"An atrociously stupid film!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I usually go to matinees.  When you work in a big city, you have that luxury ( I work in T.O. ).  Therefore I have ended up seeing some films that I never would have had the chance to see otherwise.  I remember A Simple Plan did not get a nation wide release, Playing by heart did not come to some of the smaller towns and even American Beauty took three weeks to come to my hometown of London Ontario.  But for every good film that you get to see in a big city, you are suckerpunched by a piece of garbage like this.  This film has bad everything.  The acting is laughable, the plot is uninteresting, the directing is transparent, the scenes that are played for laughs are enbarassing and the scenes that are supposed to be dark and edgy are really stupid and completely unrealistic.  If this film was written honestly there is no way that half of the scenes would have happened.  I know that movies are supposed to ask you to suspend disbelief, but when you are sitting in the theater and you end up groaning more than ten or twenty times at the absurdity of the film and what it asks you to believe, then suspension of disbelief is a foreign phrase, I have no idea what it means because I do not care about the movie or it's characters. To start with, Drew Barrymore is awful in this film.  She can be charming and sexy and seductive and captivating when she has the right role, but when she is playing against what she is good at ( Never Been Kissed along with this one ) she bombs.  I didn't care for her character, I didn't like her character and I certainly didn't care if she lived or died.  I thought it would have been better if she was shot dead, that would have added a little edge to the film.  Some people say that this is dark and sinsiter, PUH-LEASE!!!  What was dark about this?  Did you really think there was a chance that she would die?  That would have been funny if she did though, but otherwise, this film is one of the worst films I have seen in quite sometime.  And the only reason I saw it is because I had a couple of hours to kill before work started and Toronto has some great Silver City theaters.  I saw this one at the Silver City in Square One.  It was comfortable, air conditioned and they served M&M's at the time.  There are worse things to do on a hot summer day.  So even though the film was a disaster, the experience wasn't all bad.  And thank you know who that I only paid 6 bucks to see it.   "},{"Title":"Do you want fries with that?","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This romantic comedy gets almost too manic to watch. A very good cast in a goofball story. Drew Barrymore plays Sally Jackson, a pregnant fast-food drive thru window person, who learns the father of her baby is not only married...but dead to boot. Unknowingly one the man's step-sons(Luke Wilson) falls in love with her, while his brother(Jake Busey) is ordered by their mother(Catherine O'Hara) to murder her. Revenge is chaotic. My least favorite scene is the burial sequence and my favorite takes place at the Lamaze class. This quirky dark comedy would fall apart without Barrymore doing her very best to hold the whole thing together. Also featured in the cast Daryl Mitchell, Shelley Duvall and Jill Parker-Jones. "}{"Title":"scratch this one off of your list!","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie is amongst my all time worst movies along with December and Traxx. It is pointless and unentertaining. I gave it a two only becuse Drew Barrymore is in it along with Jake Busey who i think are marvelous actors. I really cant see anything else good about this movie. I cant believe distributors would be so stupid to franchise movies as pointless as this one. I think thats a big problem with alot of distributors today. Someday i plan on working for the film industry in the hopes of one day making my own films. If movies like these could make it into theaters then i know that i have a chance with no doubt in my mind. I have to say that alot of stories that i have written down for future references are by far better then half the movies that are made especially nowadays. "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Barrymore lays yet another egg. Why doesn't she just quit already?It's a good movie if you're bored watching grass grow.Mean, I know. But the movie just comes off trashy and boring. Highlighting a life let's hope is found only in the most remote of places anymore.More like brain fried, just check the rating, which is high at 4.9 or whatever it is now.Enough hatefulness, you've been warned. Use your money to rent that C- movie you've been intrigued with.  "},{"Title":"Borrrring","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  what a boring movie, this was probably, actually yes it was the worst drew barrymore movie i have ever seen, it was so poorly acted and predictable and just boring in every which way possible, i hated this movie and i hope none of you have to go through the pain i did of watching this movie "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"      Home Fries is a really fun movie. The cast is great, and the movie is all out, originally funny. Drew Barrymore, Catherine O'Hara, Luke Wilson, and Shelley Duvall were all great. This is a fun and likeable movie. i give Home Fries a 7 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"Such A Shame.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Home Fries stars one of my favourite actress' Drew Barrymore, but not even she can save this boring movie. The story had potential and that could of been made in to a good movie but it just wasn't. Still, as usual Drew Barrymore does a good job, so she made the movie at least a little bit enjoyable. Luke Wilson is okay here too. I'll give Home Fries 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Painfully unwatchable","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  There is not a sympathetic character in this movie.  The story is worse than terrible.  I couldn't finish it. I believe I made it through 3/4 of the movie, forcing myself to see it through, but I just couldn't. Drew Barrymore is sickening and I normally find something to enjoy in her performances and the movies she is in.  Total waste of time. "},{"Title":"pleasantly surprised - thought it'd be terrible","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie would be terribly silly (from the trailer), and it kind of was, but it was entertaining. There were twists in the plot, and I think that is one thing that kept me interested. 2 of the 4 main characters were pretty interesting, but the other 2 were unrealistic. I'm a Drew Barrymore fan, and that's why I even watched it in the first place.  I don't know if it's the type of movie that you would want to see more than once or twice, but it's good entertainment at least that one time.  "},{"Title":"Now that's bad! (jaw hanging open...)","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Let us now meditate on this thing known as the crappy movie. We'll just skip the medium-crappy-movie, which Hollywood provides every week, in deference to its big brother the seriously, atrociously crappy movie; the kind of movie that leaves you in a state of wonderment, which then becomes the bewildered lobby conversation that follows the question, What the hell were they thinking? as you walk numb to your car.To find some way to pay this heinous movie a compliment, it IS amazing that something can issue from Hollywood that hasn't been written by a machine and measured against a checklist for absolute genre conformity, however...House Fries is an awesomely terrible movie. Let's start with the basics. The movie was fished to audiences as a standard vehicle to sell you the charms of two young actors. In this case, Drew Barrymore and Luke Wilson. Although the preview suggested a romantic comedy, you'll be damned if you can actually name what this baroque, convoluted excresence is.Catherine O'Hara has her two military helicopter-pilot sons buzz her cheating husband to scare him, for cheating on her with Drew Barrymore. The husband is successfully scared (to death) and Drew Barrymore (coincidence #1) is an earwitness through her headset at a burger joint. Lady Macbeth (O'Hara) puts Luke Wilson into action to see what Drew knows. Along the way Drews Burger joint hosts a crazy gunman incident that might turn out like the McDonalds at San Yisidro, but all ends well when he turns out to be Drews own trashy dad (coincidence #2). That's comedy gold! I don't think I'm even twenty minutes into the movie. It continues in this vein. This movie jumps it's tracks and skids along lawns and sidewalks crushing cotton candy vendors and baby carts. This movie may actually dethrone Nothing But Trouble in the bad movie category as the worst thing ever committed to film.Catherine O'Hara or Jake Busey get my vote as the most awful of many heinous elements in the movie. She's a comedy-troupe veteran trying to play a paranoid dramatic role, or maybe it's just a massively failed comedy role.Although the absurd developments and coincidences that occur here suggest a governmental (or at least military-level scandal), the movie plays them all out in TV movie of the week, would-be dramatic, living-room vignettes. Suffice it to say, Home Fries is not a comedy, and it does not operate at the level, genre or volume which it's folksy, corn-pone title suggests.You are likely to get as much enjoyment from following a sick dog down a street until the dog provides you with an opportunity to step in something nasty. "}]