[{"Title":"Gentle amusing comedy","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a gentle and amusing comedy.  It is the story of a (very) rich couple on the point of divorce forced to flee from the IRS.  They end up in Amish country and &#145;pretend' to be from another Amish community. The main comedy is from how they try to adapt to the new life, whilst keeping up the pretence of being Amish, and is quite remarkable in portraying the Amish way of life sympathetically.  Even the Amish accent is a little more accurate than is normal in a comedy (having lived there myself). It is understandable why it was not a great hit in the Cinema, as it has no big blockbuster special effects, but for the TV it is just what is required when a good laugh is required &#150; and the language is suitable for all (except for possibly an Amish viewer).  "},{"Title":"When Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley meet....","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They are absolutely hilarious! I thought this movie was funny. The story wasn't bad either. It's a regular Good comedy movie. The CIAs were hilarious too. Well, the fashion show stuff was pretty dumb, but it seemed neccessary for the movie. If you like comedy movies, watch this flick. I don't think you'll hate it. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, especially  to a Pennsylvanian","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie originally in NYC (Times Square) after I couldn't get seats to the Broadway show I wanted to see. After watching this movie, I was glad I missed the play. I laughed so hard, I was afraid I was going to be asked to leave the theater. I am a resident of Pennsylvania and have spent lots of time in Amish country. Their life style makes me hunger for the simple life, the peace and tranquility of sensible living. I have watched this movie about 25 times and I still look forward to seeing it again. Some thought should be given to a sequel perhaps. In these times of turmoil and discontent, maybe this blue-print for the simpler life should be considered. Incidentally, I know that Maryland locations were used as Pennsylvania stand-ins, but that okay. The scenery was almost as beautiful as ours. "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie may not be Academy Award material, but I found it very entertaining.  The performances by Kirstie Alley and Tim Allen are hilarious.  There's also a moral to the story.  I've seen For Richer or Poorer several times and highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Amish reminder of all we needed to know we learned as a child","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" granted this is not high brow sophisticated comedy, but it was actually a really fun movie! Kirstie Alley was not her usual annoying self, and it was enjoyable to watch her character change due to the Amish influence. Tim Allen was more relaxed and less of a ham, so his character was fun to watch. the Newman mailman guy from the Seinfeld show always cracks me up. the Amish child was cute too.the Amish were not disrespected, and this movie made me want to learn more about the Amish. just a quick and simple Google search for Amish brought up several good sites. perhaps this is the real success of this movie - that viewers hear the message of simplicity and virtue in living one's life, then take the next step to learn more about the Amish culture and beliefs, and finally take to heart these life lessons we learned as a child. "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why, but I have loved this movie from the moment I first watched it.  It isn't even that funny, there's just something really cute about it.  It's very fun. "},{"Title":"My 2nd favorite movie about Amish life!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a fine film about a pair of city folks trying to blend in with the Amish.  Although my favorite movie about Amish life is Witness(1985) this movie does a good job showing you what life is like in Amish country.  The plot was fine, the acting was great and funny, and the outline of the movie was creative.  All in all I give it a 10 out of 10, only because I love comedy movies.  "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie strikes me as the reverse of Tim Allen's Home Improvement. There, Tim's the over the top ham and his sidekick Al is the tempering force trying to contain him. Here, the Amish do the job and they are the greater force that really tone him down while still giving him plenty of opportunities to be funny. The theme of materialism getting into the way of relationships is needed in 2006 even more than in 1997 when this movie was released. It would be well for everyone to re-watch it now to realize that materialism has gotten totally out of control in today's world. Another thing that makes this movie enjoyable is that it isn't frantic like most comedies are. Too many try to emulate the Marx Brothers. In the frantic lives we do lead today to sustain our materialism, it is nice to have something slower paced yet still not bore you to death. "},{"Title":"An entertaining, feel-good movie","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am not a lover of comedies, however this is one of those exceptions.What can I say? The title says it all. Tim Allen is brilliant (as usual), and Kirstie Alley is great as his support. The movie does not knock the Amish people too much, and the movie ends with everyone living happily ever after - even 'Big John'.I thought the deleted scenes/bloopers i the closing credits was a great idea too. "},{"Title":"Lighten up Folks its HUMOR not ROFL","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a nice fun movie that I really enjoyed. OK, its not great art, but it serves very well as entertainment. I thought it was not insulting to Amish or their way of life, it was very amusing to see how caught up we sometimes allow ourselves to get in things that in the long run don't really matter. I like how the characters interacted with one another. This is light humor with a little depth, its not slapstick. If you enjoy being amused, without having to LAUGH OUT LOUD, you will probably enjoy this film. "}{"Title":"enjoyable , good-vibe  movie","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First of all , i have to agree with flash-108 from Texas , because he said pretty much of what I was gonna say about this movie.I would give this movie 9 out of 10 stars because it's a very enjoyable comedy , a feel-good movie with a very good message. Maybe the people who have seen it were so desperate for laughing that they ignored what the movie wanted to say in the first place. I liked this movie because it's a good comedy that actually says something ; a great movie that I would't bother watching once a year , just to remember that the greatest things in life are the simplest ones , not the artificiality that we consider good & modern life. After seeing this movie one song and one phrase keeps coming in my head...Return to innocence... "},{"Title":"Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley.  Hardly A Match Made in Heaven","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley made one of the most mismatched couples I have ever seen, but that was the beauty of this movie, and the key to why it was so funny. They played off of each other very well. I also liked the fact that it didn't bash religion the way a lot of movies do nowadays, and that it won out at the end of the day.My only complaint about this movie was the scene where they spent the night sleeping in a cow pasture. Kirstie Alley was either very distracted or had to have her nose cut off not to notice until early the next morning that she was sleeping in cow manure. Whoever wrote that script obviously didn't spend much time in the country. To him (or her), I say if you're standing or sleeping in the middle of cow manure, you would notice it right away. Kirstie Alley is a Kansas girl. I'm surprised she didn't take the writers to task over this.Otherwise, this was a pretty upbeat, pretty funny movie. (I guess Big John was saying in horsease I don't think so, Tim.). Seven out of ten for this one. "},{"Title":"Cute story, easy target.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, another gentle poke at the 'wacky' Amish while doing the city folk move to country - Green Acres thing. Kirstie Alley gets to expose all of her acting ability - bitchy/whiney/pouty but can't quite stretch to 'likeable'. Tim Allen once again does well in his 'good hearted simple rogue' character. In all, a cute story and watchable enough. Not too taxing on the old grey matter and rather pleasant. Of course, it's always easy to mock the Amish and talk in atrocious German/Penn. accents because you know they'll never get to watch the movie! "},{"Title":"this movie is hilarious!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i love tim allen. he is so funny. he's got the gift of comedy. brad (allen) and caroline (alley) are the example of a marriage in shambles. the two of them are very materialistic and into their money. this changes when brad gets in trouble with the IRS and they flee the city. funny how things change for the good in a bad situation. they live with the amish for a while and learn some important lessons. watch this movie and you'll laugh from beginning to end. i recommend this to ardent tim allen fans. 8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent film, pleasant surprise","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I simply happened upon this flick one afternoon when I had a couple of hours free which I hadn't expected.I never was a fan of either of the leads' television respective series. Tim Allen's appeal was lost on me, and I frankly found Kirstie Alley downright annoying.So this movie was a total surprise for me. When I tuned-in, I expected I'd probably switch channel within two minutes, but got interested and enjoyed it throughout.Neither lead displayed the least bit of ham, nor gnawed any scenery, as I would have expected.Their performances were both excellent, their chemistry on-screen complete, and the supporting cast were plausible where appropriate and provided some comic hi-jinks, likewise.One of those thoroughly warm and pleasant films, which flies under the proverbial radar, and appears with little notoriety.. It's a fine presentation which I'd also view again when opportunity presents. "},{"Title":"great movie and lived this movie.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My 3 kids love it, 10,13 and 15. My wife and I like it. It's nice to just watch a plain fun movie. its a breath of fresh air. Some movie and shows setup the funny parts so much their not funny. I am telling on my self now but it is a movie about our families life. Sold everything in New York moved and bought a farm in Virginia. People are much nicer down here. It's a slower pace and people even open the doors for you. I even have started saying Yawl. I know nothing about farming but the people in the community helped us with out charging a dime. But all good things must come to an end. So many people have moved down here from up North. Had a man come up to me last summer, said I had to cut my grass it was ruining his property value. He was head of home owners assoc. and he was going to write a citation. He lived at the closet house to house about a mile and half away. The grass he wanted me to cut was the front 100 acres, It was a hay field. I told him he was trespassing and to kindly leave property. Funny thing he had just moved down here not 6 months ago, from not even 2 miles from wear we lived in the city. point is, he needs to watch this movie "},{"Title":"Lots of Fun & Beautiful Scenery","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is great and I can't understand why it didn't do better at the box office. It's a fun film with lots of laughs - also heartwarming how this totally foreign and initially irritating environment at the Yoder farm leads the Sexton's from chaos in their lives to stability in their marriage. Yes, some of it is far-fetched and highly unrealistic, but folks, it's a FILM! Why must everything be reality these days?! Reality can really suck sometimes and an escape with a movie like this is just the ticket to two hours worth of wishing life could really be like this. I thought the actors portraying the Yoder family performed extremely well and were immediately likable. I am a Pennsylvanian and have been to the Amish Country countless times. I know this film was shot on location in Maryland, but it really does closely resemble the Amish Farmlands in Lancaster County, PA. Who cares what the critics thought in 1997. This film is a favorite! "},{"Title":"Great movie just great","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is the best movies of the 90's. Great humor from Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley. Who knew? Also, the comedy great Tim Allen used his line from Toy Story I come in peace. Has anyone noticed that yet? This is the best Tim Allen performance I've seen so far. Thanks and also I'd like to say that they should do a sequel of this movie somehow. I first watched this movie about 2 years ago and fell in love with it immediately. Kirstie Alley always does her best to keep herself looking so good in movies I think. I definitely would recommend this movie to my friends and to anyone who hasn't seen it yet. Keep up the good work Tim Allen. "},{"Title":"For Better or Worse","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For Richer or Poorer was something I dreaded, even more than girls dread Shannon Hamilton. How could Tim Allen and that waste-of-flesh Kirstie Alley make a good film? Well, I was shocked and awed. Should you run out and buy this movie? No. But don't go running away from it either. You'll find a film that is generally heart-warming, sincerely funny, and underneath its comedy exterior a good moral tale. Allen and Alley assume the roles of two Amish folk to escape the IRS. As their lawyer fights to get them acquitted, they find a whole new world they had been missing while enjoying caviar and martinis. You might not be able to get the modern world into the Amish, but maybe you'll find a little bit of Amish in us modern folk. While not something you must see, recommended if you're stuck home and you see it listed on Comedy Central. You could do worse. "},{"Title":"For Allen or Alley.","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For Richer or Poorer (1997) Dir Bryan Spicer / Cast Tim Allen, Kirstie Alley, Jay O'Sanders, Larry Miller, Wayne Knight Rich in terms of message yet poor in everything else. Title suggests our little regard for what little we have particularly within relationships. Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley play a bickering couple on the run after their accountant commits fraud. Their marriage is on the rocks but they must put their difference aside and hideout. They find refuge in an Amish community where Allen is put to work training Big John the horse and Alley tries to convince them to wear color. Plot has appeal but the screenplay wears thin with formula structure and predictable happy ending. An improvement for Bryan Spicer who previously directed the wretched McHale's Navy, also the same year. Allen and Alley are a superb comic pairing who rise above the clichés and formula storytelling although no one should be surprised at the outcome. Flat supporting roles with Jay O'Sanders as an Amish citizen whom they deceive but eventually must confess to. Larry Miller plays a brainless cop with good comic potential despite cardboard role. Wayne Knight plays the scoundrel accountant in a cardboard appearance. Strong marriage theme, which is a plus considering the industry's lust for the forbidden, however it is within a screenplay that is more poor than rich. Score 6 / 10 "}{"Title":"An amusing riches to rags to happiness tale","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another reviewer commented that Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley are very mismatched in this film. And that that works perfectly for the plot, and how they play off one another. I agree. For Richer or Poorer, by its title, gives a hint that this is about someone finding happiness as a result of losing their wealth. The beginning is a very clever montage of high spending, fancy meals, huge purchases, credit cards and bills. It set the stage, at least for me, with a bad taste in my mouth for the consumerism and almost glutinous lifestyle. It's no wonder the couple isn't happy or content. On their 10th anniversary, Brad and Caroline agree to a divorce. And, with the IRS on their tale, they no longer have credit anywhere. So, they go on the run to escape a gun-happy IRS agent. While their lawyer tries to straighten things out, the couple land in Pennsylvania Amish country and assume the ID of a cousin couple going to visit their Amish relatives. One can guess the antics that take place as these two learn to do chores and menial work for a change. And, in time, how it changes them. I think the film is a kind look at the Amish, possibly with a couple of light jabs. At one point early in the film, Brad unveils a proposed theme-park development that appears to mock most religions. It goes over like a lead balloon with his audience &#x96; and I suspect, most of us in the film audience as well. Other than that, this light comedy is a pretty good story of redemption. Brad and Caroline learn about real life, and the happiness and love it brings. It's a story about recovering one's life away from the fast lane of consumerism and hedonism. It's about finding freedom from enslavement to things and money. And that all works nicely in this comedy format. "},{"Title":"Alley--Allen, Great Team!","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very enjoyable film indeed! Just imagine the shock of finding yourself, accustomed from birth as a limousine liberal, iPhone user, city dweller (Manhattan), huge luxury Penthouse, Armani wardrobe, all of a sudden thrown amid an Amish community, android users for sure (if not older generation devices as to make them Luddites from a bygone era) and put to pound over rural handwork from past times --as Amish do-- with such intensity as to make you forget your previous and recent big economic and legal problems.The situations are hilarious and Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley go through them with flying colors, both superb comedians.Their situation within that community lasts only a few weeks, and during that time they changed a lot from their previously artificial, secluded by money (plenty of it) Manhattan Walled Life of the Ultra Rich to become appreciative of humane qualities that they've forgotten living the glamorous type of life of the Limitless Credit Card world.Inconsequential movie, maybe, but very funny? YES INDEED!! "},{"Title":"Make me want to go home","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I grew up in Chilliwack (google it!) in the sixties. Lot's of Mennonites there, good people, though they didn't wear the black clothes. This movie reminds me of my hometown, striking me as quite accurate in its portrayal of Mennonites and small town life. Richer or Poorer, in which a pair of high flying New Yorkers flee to Amish country and hide from the IRS, is funny and serious at the same time, with a terrific message (it's kind of like Field of Dreams in that way). If you're Canadian, move to a Chilliwack; if you're American, move to a Lynden WA. And slow down, make some friends, and live. PS the one point demerit is for one instance of the F word. Otherwise this movie is pretty family-friendly. "},{"Title":"A well-to-do couple need to hide out from the IRS and do so in Amish Country","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, so most of this movie is not plausible, such as a lot of what happens once Brad and Caroline manage to convince an Amish family that they are relatives, but we'll let that one go for now. This is Tim Allen, as Brad, and Kirstie Alley as Caroline, and they are not two of our better actors out there now. But what they do, for the most part, is entertaining, if not predictable. And that is what this movie is entertaining and predictable. The plot centers around a couple, who we learn early on cannot stand each other, and the fact that their financial manager has been cheating them on their taxes. We'll let it also go that a smart business person would not check his or her own taxes before signing. Then we have an armed IRS agent, obviously a nut-case, who goes after Brad and Caroline with a passion, and the couple somehow manages to end up in the same cab in their escape from New York (sorry, could not resist). They end up in PA and convince an Amish family that they are relatives, and thus are allowed to stay. We find out later why this man allowed them to stay, which also is not plausible, but a gap had to be filled in, and I guess that this was the best the writers could come up with at the time. This is your typical fish-out-of-water story, and some of the jokes are funny as are Allen's facial expressions. He does do that well. His little speech to Big John is actually very funny, as are most of the scenes with this horse. Sanders as Samuel Yoder was okay, but he did not behave the way we all know the Amish do, and that did not sit too well with me. So, if you can set aside the fact that what happens really would never happen, and this includes running away from the IRS, then just sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"I don't know about the guy who wrote the comment below mine, but I liked it.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest movies that I have seen in a while. There haven't really been many good movies that contain loads of crude humor lately. I know this movies is several years old now, but it is still good for a laugh.FOR RICHER OR POORER stars Tim Allen, Kirstie Alley, Jay O. Sanders, Wayne Knight, Larry Miller, Michael Lerner and many more. The cast is pretty good, and the acting is decent. The Amish people act like how true Amish people do and the costume designs were very good. I watch this movie once every so often, maybe after I have forgotten some of it and watch it again, and there you go it's new again! So, if you are like me and enjoy some good, old-fashioned Tim Allen crude humor, then slide FOR RICHER OR POORER off the shelf.FOR RICHER OR POORER 5/5. "},{"Title":"A cute mushy comedy with Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley!!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is about a rich couple who flees the I.R.S because of a mistake made in their takes. They end up in Amish country!!Eventually , they fall in love again!The FBI and the IRS eventually find the hiding couple!This movie also spoofs movies such as Witness with Harrison Ford!!It is  a must for die hard Tim Allen fans!!!If not then at least see it for the cool amish fashion show!!! "},{"Title":"A Comedy Version Of Witness","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley star in this as Brad and Caroline Sexton, an unhappy but high-rolling couple who suddenly find themselves in trouble with the IRS and flee to an Amish community to hide out in by posing as their distant relatives and being accepted into the fold. If that sounds vaguely familiar, it's because it is. This is basically a comedy remake of 1985's Witness, in which Harrison Ford hid out in an Amish community to escape the corrupt cops pursuing him.The comedy was mixed. There was what I would consider to be some pretty typical farm humour (things like Brad being dragged on the ground behind a plow horse) but there was nothing outrageously funny. The film did a good job of portraying the change that the Amish community begins to make in the Sextons' life as they begin to rediscover their love for each other and as they start to buy into the Amish version of morality - simplicity, hard work and honesty. The Amish community really didn't come across to me as especially authentic. Mind you, it also wasn't a parody. There was no disrespect for the Amish; it just seemed to lack a degree of authenticity, at least to me.Allen and Alley did a good job of portraying the Sextons' change of heart, but they had no real spark with each other in my opinion. The movie is nothing to write home about, and in a handful of places - especially some of the early scenes between Brad and Caroline - it's a bit crude. It's passable - but nothing more to be honest. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Okay movie with cruel, unusual punishment","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie's main plot is nothing new.  One or more jerk or losers flee from their problem and find refuge somewhere they never been to pretending to be something they're not.  Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley do good performance here.  They hide from the IRS by pretending to be long lost Amish cousins. The terrible, cruel and unusual punishment is having Tim Allen eat a casserole of lung, liver and kidney (Do Amish really cook that?). Something I can't forget now.  Darn.  Blech!The verdict 3 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Horrible couple invites you to a movie","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brad (Tim Allen) and Caroline Sexton (Kirstie Alley) are showy real estate developer who's always on the hustle. They are an annoying pair who are only outwardly rich. They get framed by their accountant Bob Lachman (Wayne Knight). The bickering twosome is too hard to watch. Why would anybody want to stay with this married couple if these two angry people don't.Of course Brad steals a cab on the run from gun shooting IRS agents, and Caroline just happens to hop on for no reason. The two unlikeable people escape and crash in Amish country. There they learn to be wonderful caring sweet people. Call somebody who cares.These people are ugly. And Tim Allen had this moment when he's trying to get money from the ATM. They had his ugly mug stuffed right onto the screen yelling at the audience. It's a horrible moment in cinema. The greatest sin is that nothing here is unfunny. Absolutely nothing. "},{"Title":"cure for insomnia","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the dullest movies I've ever seen.  The plot is old and the acting mediocre.  I like both Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley, but their talents were wasted in this stupid film.  There were one or two funny scenes, so I'll grade this movie D instead of D-. "}{"Title":"Pretty lame movie, doubtful that it is even worth watching, 5 of 10 at best!!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never would have rented For Richer or Poorer but was able to view the DVD my neighbor bought. If you are a die-hard Tim Allen and Kirstie Alley fan, you'll probably enjoy this. But I found it so dull most of the time that I would just watch about 15 seconds of a chapter then skip to the next.The premise of course is ridiculous. Tim Allen lives the high life but his chief accountant has been secretely and illegally managing his finances for personal gain. Allen and Alley run from the big city, end up pretending to be cousins visiting an Amish family in Pa.  There are a few amusing moments, but not many. The epitome of fluff entertainment, the very best rating I could give it is 5 of 10, being very generous. "},{"Title":"Completely unfunny","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be unfunny, obvious as anything, and if I were Amish I would probably be insulted.  The plot (such as it is) is so thin you can see through it.  The main stars should stick to their day job.  It's harmless enough, but a waste of time. "},{"Title":"OK for if your bored and in a really good mood.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For Richer or Poorer is very predictable. There's no denying it. It's not a particularly well thought out movie and it's not very believable. But I was able to stand it, because there was nothing else on television and when Tim Allen isn't making that stupid Ogh Ogh noise from Tool Time he is actually mildly amusing. It was light it was fluffy and there were massive sausages.I'm ashamed to say I actually laughed at this movie. Kirstie Alley falling on her butt, Tim and Kirstie arguing, I don't know, the big horse. If you are going to watch it, don't have any expectations. And I wouldn't bother paying to see it., but hey if it comes on TV on a Sunday night and it's a choice between CSI reruns and this, I'd watch this. "},{"Title":"don't expect to laugh much","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A poorly written, directed, and acted fluff with a couple of laughs. Kirstie Alley supplies the film's only electricity.  It follows a rich New York couple evading the IRS, as they hide out in the home of an Amish family (a la Witness).The humor sprouts from your basic clash of cultures fare.  The forced sentimentality is dredged up as the New Yorkers realize they may have something to learn from the Amish.  Actually, a fairer treatment of the Amish than most films.  However, why one of them has a French accent is beyond me.  "},{"Title":"Someone thought this might be funny?","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a good example of why script rewrites are done up until the last minute.  When not done right, the jokes just fall flat.  I don't think I laughed a single time while watching this movie.  The ending was obvious a few minutes in, and the way it all came about was so predictable.  But, the thing that amazed me the most was the fact that whoever made this movie thought for a second that it sounded like a good idea.  There are some actors that just shouldn't pick their own roles, and some movies that shouldn't have been made.  This movie is definitely a good example of what happens when you let those things take place.Avoid at all costs. "}]