[{"Title":"Quite Lame, But Still Very Fun To Watch!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't mind watching Leslie Neilsen as he is quite funny at times. This movie is really aimed at very young children who will find the slapstick gags extremely funny and not so lame as the rest of us think! The gags are pretty lame and repetetive, but, oddly enough, I liked the movie. It had a charm and a nice warmness that made me enjoy it! "},{"Title":"You people are soooo mean!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr Magoo was a hilarious movie. I don't know why everyone gives it so much grief. First of all, Leslie Nielsen is one of the funniest actors alive, and I personally like movies in which the characters just happen to walk right into a worst case scenario. And after three Naked Gun movies, who's better qualified for that job than Leslie Nielsen. In this movie, Nielsen's character, Mr. Magoo, has to solve the case of a stolen ruby from his mueseum. Coming along with him are his dog, Angus and his nephew, Waldo. To those of you who saw the film and hated it, remember, the film is directed toward kids and Disney fans. It wasn't meant to be an A class movie.PS Would you like it more if you knew that Jennifer Garner is in it? "},{"Title":"Mr. Blindgoo","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ha! Ha! Ha! I laughed all the movie. Leslie Nielsen knows how to make stupid movies. It's not the comedy of the year but it's great for family and friends who want to take a break from BIG BANG movies.My Vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"Worth a Look","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The movie Mr. Magoo is an adaptation of the popular cartoon.  For what it's worth, it does a good job of presenting itself as a live-action cartoon.  Leslie Nielsen has made a career of acting in screwball comedy. He seems to fit his role well as the famously weak-eyed character.  In this day and age of political correctness, making a movie such as this was bound to raise a few hackles.  The little disclaimer run by Disney about the blind should give you an idea what the PC movement has done to movies today. The point of the cartoon was not to put down the blind at all.  So forget what others say, and look this Magoo over! "},{"Title":"vastly entertaining and downright funny at times","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" i honestly don't understand the low rating this movie has on this site.I'll admit it's no masterpiece,but it is vastly entertaining.to me,Leslie Nielson is perfectly cast as Mr.Magoo.if you don't know the character of Mr.Magoo,he was originally a cartoon character who is absurdly near sighted,leading him into all kinds of trouble,yet he is generally oblivious to most of what's going on.oh yeah,he is also very wealthy.the live action movie portrays the character pretty much exactly the same.he always seems to come out of any potential trouble with virtually no signs of any problem.in the movie,Magoo,helps solve a crime and help put the baddies in jail,with a lot of help,from both his nephew and his dog.yes,i said dog.this dog is is very intelligent and saves Magoo from many mishaps,both minor and major.Kelly Lynch portrays one of the criminals and she does a very fine job in her role.not to mention she is hot,hot,hot.anyway,like i said earlier,the movie is certainly very amusing,and contains an absolutely hysterical sequence with Magoo in the kitchen.there's also some great action and some great martial arts moves,courtesy of Lynch's character.for the most part,this is a great family movie,with maybe a bit of mild language.for me,the live action version of Mr.Magoo is an 8.5/10,based simply on how entertaining it is. "},{"Title":"Good when I was 8 ... bad when I'm 18.","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember when I went to this movie with my mom in Germany. I laugh so much watching it ... and like for 10 years I kept it in so good memories. Then came the day when Mr.Magoo was being showed on our TV station in Latvia, I wanted to see it so much ... I even taped it. But when I watched it I was so disappointed. I didn't even smile while watching it.Well what I wanted to say with this, you can't rate this kind of movies like a grownup. It's not a comedy made for us but for the kids, and watching this they won't be disappointed. And the parents won't be disappointed too because they will see their kids smiling and smile with them.Because of the grate memories 10/10. "},{"Title":"acceptable family fare","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr. Magoo, a favorite cartoon character, is brought to life by the comical Leslie Nielsen.  As a millionaire and art lover, Magoo opens the exhibit of a large, beautiful ruby at the local museum.  Soon after, jewel thieves break into the museum and steal the gem.  However, through a series of mishaps, it ends up in the tackle box of Mr. Magoo. The thieves are then, of course, after Mr. Magoo and go through many twists and turns to recover the ruby.  Along the way, there are car chases, boat chases, and helicopter chases.  There are even baboon chases.  Will be stunning jewel end up with the good guys of the film (such as Mr. Magoo) or will it ultimately be taken by the thieves?This film is by no means a gem of a movie.  Yet, it is watchable (especially the second half) and mildly humorous.  Kelly Lynch seems to relish her role as a female thief.  Mr. Magoo also keeps a little English bulldog whose appearances are always welcome.  This viewer purchased the video for $1.00 at the secondhand store and feels she got her money's worth and more.  Recommended as acceptable family entertainment for a break from the regular television schedule. "},{"Title":"Perfect for under-tens but few others","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr Magoo is as wealthy as he is short-sighted and it is this combination that sees him trapped in the museum he is patron of late one night, when a robbery occurs. The CCTV footage makes him look like he was in on it and the FBI/CIA investigation focuses on him as they try to locate a stolen diamond while keeping the robbery on the low-down. Meanwhile, as he fishes, Magoo manages to have the stolen jewel dropped into his fishing box (best not to ask how) and thus is unwittingly pursued by thieves and cops.OK. This is based on a old cartoon character so I tried to ignore the modern PC outrage over this film by disabled groups protesting the depiction of partial blindness. According to IMDb it was this that saw the film sliding into video obscurity however I beg to differ. I was outraged by this film &#150; but not for the reasons of objecting to the fact that it gets laughs out of a disability, but rather the fact that it totally fails to get laughs out of a disability. I'd love to pretend to be politically correct and sensitive but there we go! No, the main problem I had with the film is that it is simply not funny. Obviously the gags are all pretty obvious and can be seen coming from miles off but it still surprised me by how lazy it all was.The plot makes no sense but this was perhaps to be expected, however the total delivery is poor. A constantly wacky score is forced upon us in a desperate attempt to make us believe that it is hilarious when it is not. Nielsen was a great choice for the lead but even he can do nothing with this rot and in failing to improve it he just becomes part of the problem. The support cast features turns from Garner, Hudson, Tobolowsky, Lynch, Ferrer and McDowell all of whom are either wasted, look embarrassed or both. As director Tong seems to worry that the jokes will surprise his audience and, I assume, fearing injury from split sides, makes sure that we all get a chance to see each and every gag coming from quite a distance.Overall then, a film that will appeal to few audience demographics outside of children and those currently drunk. The jokes are obvious and lazy and all that is left is a terrible plot that (perhaps correctly) assumes the audience has the IQ of a basket and just hopes that a man stumbling around is enough to make it &#150; for me personally, it wasn't. "},{"Title":"An Awful Eye Sore of An Update.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr. Magoo (1997) Dir Stanley Tong / Cast Leslie Nielsen, Kelly Lynch, Malcolm McDowell, Ernie Hudson, Stephen Tobolowski One joke comedy about sight impaired Mr. Magoo who is accidentally present during a jewel theft, and the ruby that ends up in his tackle box. Villains attempt to nab the ruby but with no success and the police bug Magoo's house believing him to be a suspect. Boring plot with no signs of potential with many predictable developments structured around Magoo's various misunderstandings and mishaps. Directed by Stanley Tong who previously made one of Jackie Chan's worst films, First Strike. Here he not only proves to know little if anything about the cartoon, but he also makes one of Leslie Nielsen's worst films. There are actors who do shitty films without the name stamping director to imply it. Magoo's nephew Waldo looks nothing like the guy in this film. He doesn't even act like the guy in this film. The river raft parachute scene also doesn't work. Leslie Nielsen would seem ideal choice to play Magoo but he is recycling variations of other roles in films much better and funnier than this. Even his bald headed makeup isn't convincing. Kelly Lynch, Malcolm McDowell and Ernie Hudson are wasted in pathetic cardboard supporting roles. Pointless portrayal of a cartoon that proves that more than Magoo had bad eye sight. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"A nostalgic guilty pleasure","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There's a part of me that knows what a godawful, scattershot mess Mr. Magoo is. That part of me begs reason, implores myself to recognize the boldfaced stupidity and flagrant dips into shameless, moronic lowbrow humour barely worthy of a troupe of chimps. There's also another part of me that absolutely loves the movie for all of the reasons just outlined. OK, so I watched it a lot as a kid, and have that nostalgia for it that one can only have with a fond childhood memory of something. But even so, all ridiculousness taken into account, it's a silly bit of fun that doesn't quite capture the tone of the famous cartoon, but fires away on its own whacko cylinders for ninety minutes of eyebrow raising, idiotic bliss. Leslie Nielsen, who has made a career of playing disastrous buffoons, portrays Mr. Magoo, a near sighted elderly gent whose visual impairment leads him on all sorts of adventures and odd situations, which the movie doesn't hesitate to illustrate in bold, silly fashion that gives the animated source material a run for its money. When a valuable foreign jewel which his charitable foundation is tasked with presenting is stolen, he and his asinine nephew Waldo (terminally awkward Matt Keesler) are led on a goose chase to find the two thieves, laughably sultry Kelly Lynch and dimbulb Nick Chinlund. That's about as far as plot goes, and it's all the blueprint you need for the cascade of slapstick muck that bombards your good taste for the better part of an hour and a half. One has to give credit to the stunt crew, who create scene after scene of madness for Nielsen and crew to parade through, from a snow chase on an ironing board, to a South American waterfall derby and all kinds of messiness in between. Some truly talented people got dragged into this, including Jennifer Garner as an Eastern European (HA!), Stephen Tobolowsky as an overzealous, bumbling fed who borders on certifiable, beloved Ernie Hudson as another law enforcement stooge, Miguel Ferrer as a Peruvian drug lord, and the one and only Malcolm McDowell as a sinister crime boss (who else?). The Vancouver locations are cool, especially an over the top Grouse Mountain set showdown. Like I said, it's a whole lot of dumb dumb, and don't say I didn't warn you. But it's also so much Fricken fun, man. "}{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen Knows How To Deliver Laughs.","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The myopic millionaire defeats jewel smugglers in his usual bumbling manner.Considering the fact that I really enjoy the Mr. Magoo cartoon, I decided to give this movie a go. What is my thoughts on it? This is what my opinion is. Is this movie one of the greatest comedies ever made? No. But is it still funny all the same. Yes it is, yes it is, oh yes it is. Mr. Magoo is a funny movie features a hilarious performance from Leslie Nielsen. Leslie Nielsen was a master of comedy (just check out Airplane! and the Naked Gun movies), and in my opinion, he was brilliant as Mr. Magoo, he brings his Airplane! and Naked Gun wit into this film, and it works well. The main complaint that this movie seems to get is that it's offensive to people who are blind or visually impaired. Granted, I'm probably not in any position to talk about that matter, as I'm not blind or visually impaired, but I will say this, this movie is not supposed to accurately reflect blind or nearsighted people, it's a comedy, that's supposed to make people laugh. You're free to disagree with me if you want, but I'm just stating my opinion on the matter.Like I mentioned, Nielsen brings his trademark wit into the role of the bumbling millionaire. There's a really scene where he's watching a cooking channel while preparing a turkey, but then his dog steps on the remote control and changes it to an exercise channel, and Magoo proceeds to with the turkey what the channel says. There's also a funny bit where he's in front of a monkey and says Ugliest child I've ever seen. Then there is a really funny moment where he hooks one of the bad guys in the pants and says I got a strike! Basically, this movie contains many laughs. While it's not as great as some of Nielsen's other comedies, the movie still has got lots of things going for it, and it's always fun to see Leslie Nielsen make everyone laugh, which was something that he was a master at doing.In short, maybe it's just me, but I don't understand all of the hate that this movie is getting, because it's really funny, and it's not supposed to be taken seriously. But at the same time, I'm probably not in the position to talk, since don't have vision problems. However, this movie is worth watching if you are a fan of Leslie Nielsen, if you enjoyed some of his earlier comedic works, then you'll probably like this. When you do watch this movie, you should clear your mind of all of the negative things that you may have heard about it, and go into it with a clean slate, because you might end up liking the movie more that way. Anyway, Mr. Magoo is not a masterpiece of comedy, but it's definitely not the negative that it gets.8/10 "},{"Title":"I didn't think it was that bad!","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is far from Leslie Nielson's best movie, that's Airplane or Naked Gun, but Mr Magoo in my opinion is far better than the crap-fest that is 2001A Space Travesty. As for Mr Magoo, I don't think it was that bad. It was far from perfect, being a little too short and have a story that was on the predictable side.But I do think it is underrated, I thought it was entertaining and fun which is more than I can say for some of the movies I hate, some of which are only a couple of notches higher than this one (ie. Freddy Got Fingered). As for the rating, I do think 3.4 is too low, around the 5.9-6.0 region is more like it.So what did I like about Mr Magoo? Well the fact I was entertained by it helped. The script is amusing, and there are some fun gags, including a hilarious scene in the kitchen. The film does look reasonably good too with good locations and the photography and editing doesn't look as cheap as one might think. The soundtrack is suitably upbeat, the film moves quickly and the direction is pretty decent. And the acting was at least okay too, Nielson was a genius when it came to comedy and while he has been better he does seem to be enjoying himself and Mr Magoo himself is a fun and likable character. Out of the supporting cast, Ernie Hudson, Miguel Ferrer and especially Malcolm McDowell were fun, and Jennifer Garner was okay.All in all, the film is far from perfect but it wasn't bad either. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A very, very silly movie","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr. Magoo is at times silly, and at others, very silly. But always funny.I highly recommend this to anyone looking for a late-night movie. But if your looking for a substantial movie with anything serious about it, forget it! This is a movie for when you're staying up way too late and need some good laughs, or any time you need some good laughs for that matter!Larry Nielson is in high form, with marvelous comedy from the supporting cast, a winner in my opinion don't hesitate to take this one home with you! "},{"Title":"Genuinely funny","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The people who complained about this movie probably enjoyed The Cosby Show and Four Weddings and a Funeral because they found them heartwarming. Those sorts of people are always a bit confused about when to laugh in the absence of a laugh track, and therefore fall back to judging comedies on the basis of plotting, characterisation, critic reviews, star charisma and a what have we learned today homily at the end. On the other hand, those of us with a sense of humour who see comedies because we want a good laugh would probably get quite a bit of enjoyment out of this one. While it's not up to the standard of (for instance) the ZAZ movies, and the plot is pretty silly and goes through some moan-inducing contortions in order to deliver its set pieces, many of the set pieces are laugh out loud funny. Like Jane Austen's Mafia and Guest House Paradiso, this is another of those very funny but underappreciated slapstick-driven comedies which sacrifice narrative tightness and tedious romantic subplots for actual laughs. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Leslie Nielsen!","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Leslie Nielsen is the best thing about 'Mr. Magoo'. Like always, the late legend delivers a spirited & lovable performance, that, truly, translates into this film's biggest merit. 'Mr. Magoo' Synopis The myopic millionaire defeats jewel smugglers in his usual bumbling manner.As a film, 'Mr. Magoo' is fairly entertaining. Some jokes work, while some aren't really appealing or funny. The Screenplay isn't great, but fair nonetheless. Stanley Tong's Direction, is decent. Cinematography & Editing, are strictly okay.Performance-Wise Apart from Nielsen, there is no performance in particular that stands out. All the actors abroad apart from Nielsen, lend ordinary to good support.On the whole, 'Mr. Magoo' is a fair entertainer. "},{"Title":"Nielson is hilarious","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Only Leslie Nielson could pull this movie off, not Jim Carrey, or Robin Williams.  Nielson can play silly comedy straight, and make all awkward situations appear normal. It was original ideas in this comedy that seemed to work.  Silly and incredibly close to the cartoon; this film entertained, and the humor is geared for everyone. "},{"Title":"Ugliest child I've ever seen.....","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mr.Magoo is a nearsighted millionaire, who refuses to wear glasses and therefore always gets into trouble. During a museum robbery he accidentally gets a priceless gem, and begins to pave the way for the criminals whose idea was to steal the gem. But two federal agents Stupak and Anders lead the manhunt for Mr.Magoo himself.....What else would you expect from a film with Leslie Nielsen based on a cartoon?Every film he made after 1988 he played the same character, and here it's just Frank Drebin for kids.It's fun stuff though, Nielsen getting into scrapes that would usually cause any other human being to perish, and then the bad guys following his every footsteps, and ending up in water, cake on their face, being chased by a primate.Continue this for ninety minutes, add Malcom Macdowell as the villain, and you have a comedy that was rife in the late nineties.Dreck, but utterly watchable for all the wrong reasons... "},{"Title":"Time-waster....","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not great, but as a time-waster on a dreary day, it beats re-runs of Fresh Prince.   "},{"Title":"If an eye for an eye makes the whole world blind, this movie obviously got hit first.","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Leslie Nielsen is usually someone whose movies I really like (even critically panned flicks like Dracula Dead and Loving It and Wrongfully Accused). So the fact that I'm slamming Mr. Magoo should show that it's a piece of junk. It casts Nielsen as the myopic title character, something gets planted on him, and he makes a mess of everything. It seems like the combo of Nielsen and director Stanley Tong (behind two of Jackie Chan's movies) would make this one hilarious movie, but it doesn't; it seems like they just have people to do anything, and there's no real humor here.So, the original cartoon with Jim Backus providing the voice was worth seeing, so avoid this movie. Leslie Nielsen has also done much better, so there's no reason to waste your time on this. Also starring Kelly Lynch, Stephen Tobolowsky, Ernie Hudson, Malcolm McDowell and Miguel Ferrer; they probably don't wish to emphasize this hunk of junk in their careers. "},{"Title":"Nielson couldn't save this film.","Date":"6 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Funny man Leslie Nielson plays the very near-sighted millionaire Mr. Magoo, who tries to avert jewel smugglers Austin Cloquet (Malcolm McDowell) and Ortega The Piranha Peru (Miguel Ferrer) in his classic bumbling manner after indirectly taking the priceless gem Star of Kurdistan during a museum heist by the smugglers.Nielson has played many comedic, yet bumbling but calm and determined characters, but this is movie is one of his less-captivating ones. It seriously lacks the excitement, fun and suspense to make it enjoyable. It's just a film full of childish action with a boring storyline and a plot that goes no where. Much of the characters lack substance and charm, and even the so-called jokes and gags weren't funny. However, this movie should be really geared towards very young children, who might find the slapstick gags actually funny. For a family film for all audience to enjoy, I would rather have people get together to watch something else, though.Grade D--- "}{"Title":"Some Minor Issues But Overall Funny","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Back in the day, Mr. Magoo was very well popular during his time. The running gag in the cartoon was that Mr. Magoo couldn't see well and always ended up colliding into all kinds of mayhem. As for this film, which is live-action, director Stanley Tong did a good job keeping the realism of the cartoon the same. Mr. Magoo still goes up, down, left and right in this film like he was on an invisible roller coaster. What surprised me the most about this film was that Disney sponsored it.Starring as the infamous Mr. Magoo is Leslie Nielsen. What's neat, is that in beginning you actually get to see the transition from cartoon life into real life. Of course not many people will notice at first, but cartoon Magoo doesn't have hair but when Leslie Nielsen is on screen, he does have hair. Even I didn't notice until much later, so my question remains, who forgot to make this cartoon look as accurate as possible? Its not really a big deal because Disney made the same mistake two years later when Inspector Gadget (1999) was made and they had Dr. Claw right out in the open; oh well. The other thing that's sort of ridiculous about the film are the physics behind certain scenes. Again, this is a cartoon adaptation so things are kept unrealistic but still some scenes come off as being almost impossible.This whole movie is made to look like everyone is idiotic. I must say that it was done well because everyone in this movie are idiots, but they are funny idiots. Nielsen is good at making it look like he knows whom he's talking to even though he doesn't. The two spies played by Ernie Hudson and Stephen Tobolowsky are funny to watch too. They either end up knocking each other over just to see who can get to the finish line first or they end up knocking each other out altogether. Nick Chinlund who plays another doofus named Bob Morgan tries to get his hands on Mr. Magoo. What a wreck that guy was.Miguel Ferrer, from RoboCop (1987), plays the main villain in this film. His character is called Ortega Peru and although he's a mean villain, he doesn't impose himself as a bad guy. I guess that's what you get for being bad guy in a silly Disney comedy. The music is good too; it has a giddy jumpiness to it, which goes well with what Mr. Magoo does in this film. Not every scene will have big laughs but it's a cute, goofy, and fun filled movie for the family. Kids will definitely love it.Disney took a chance and although they failed to impress critics and the majority of Magoo fans, it still has a little charm to it. The movie is silly fun that makes Magoo look like he can handle anything that's placed or thrown in his way, even though he can't which makes it all the more unrealistic for a live-action cartoon. "},{"Title":"not bad for a family film","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  if you're expecting a comedy in the caliber of Naked Gun then you'll definately be disapponted. if your looking for something light and silly then this may be the film for you. Has the feel of some of the 60's disney films...simple plot, cartoonish villains, etc.Nielsen's portrayal of Magoo is more than adequate, and he was given ample room for comic buffoonary. everything else is just filler.I loved the tattoo he drew on himself for the hot tub scene.5/10 (as a family film) "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it, but where's the comedy?","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr. Magoo (1997) Leslie Nielsen, Kelly Lynch, Matt Keeslar, Nick Chinlund, Stephen Tobolowsky, Ernie Hudson, Jennifer Garner, Malcolm McDowell, D Stanley Tong. Disney's hopelessly unfunny live-action feature based on the &#145;60s cartoon. For what he's given, Leslie Nielsen (of THE NAKED GUN movies, who always tries) is ideally cast as the lovably nearsighted, clueless tycoon caught in a needlessly complicated and dragged-out plot concerning Magoo's accidental robbery of a precious ruby and the ruthless jewel thieves that are after it. With a lot of slapstick pratfalls and lame vision-impaired situations thrown in, the movie's biggest problem is that there's nothing funny-and hammers every joke flat. The animated opening and closing moments are the best because they feature the voice of the former Mr. Magoo, Jim Backus. Running Time 85 minutes and rated PG for mild cartoon violence. * ½   "},{"Title":"Like the Title Character, This Film Is Completely Blind","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr. Magoo is an awful film that never shows life.  Leslie Nielsen stars as the title character and performs his usual duties.  He might as well be alone in this film as he gets absolutely no support from the rest of the cast.  The screenplay is moronic and the direction is all over the map.  I did not expect a masterpiece, but I did not expect this either.  Turkey (0 out of 5 stars).   "},{"Title":"Not the greatest movie.","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. But it is not the best movie of all time in Disney history, Funny scenes include Mr Magoo making a turkey, the dog keeps on changing channels. Then he does excercise with the turkey. I rate this movie 8/10. Leslie Nielson is a pretty good actor, I didn't really like Rent a Kid, though.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Leslie Nielsen hits rock bottom with this absolutely horrible comedy that is the worst mainstream film that I have ever seen.  There is nothing to like about this film, as it is essentially a one-joke film, and the joke isn't all that funny.  How many times are we supposed to laugh at an almost blind man making a fool out of himself?  That's not funny, that's just pitiful. Nielsen seriously needs to start refusing some of these pathetic scripts, and Stanley Tong needs to stick to making Jackie Chan films, because it doesn't get much worse than this. "},{"Title":"Very, very disappointing","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For a comedy this movie was not very funny.  There are more laughs in the original Mister Magoo cartoons.  I had high expectations for this film. After all, I usually enjoy Leslie Nielson's work, and the Mister Magoo cartoons are classic fun.  However, the script was bad, the pacing was off, the film was a torture to get through.  In all honesty, if you feel like Mister Magoo, stick to the cartoons.  If you feel like some Leslie Nielson, try a Naked Gun or something.  "},{"Title":"Stinkeroo","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sorry Mr.Nielsen fans but this baby really sucks. It is impossible to turn a blind eye to such an offering which exists only to offend.Short on insight and humour the most appealing quality this lame rubbish possesses is how in the name of god did they find a sucker to stump up the green. In the role call of  mega turkeys Mr.Magoo clucks its way to the highest perch. "},{"Title":"This movie stinks!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think this is one of the worst films of the millennium!  Leslie Neilsen is terrible as the Magoo.  I think all prints of this film should be destroyed. Whoever laughed even once during this movie must be 2 years old.  Warning Will Robinson, no plot.  Warning, warning, warning.  The cartoon is so much better. "},{"Title":"Uh... I have one question.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  WHAT'S the BIG joke?  Sure, Nileson has a great voice for Magoo.  Point being?  Agreed, if this had been a cartoon it was good.  Even the cartoon was more REALISTIC!  If Nielson knew that it would be movies like Wrongfully Accused that would make him famous, he never would have kissed the script? Please pass. "}{"Title":"Mr. Magoo is a big bomb waiting to explode!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr. Magoo sucks! Period. I hated this movie all together! Leslie Nielson is funny in Naked Gun and Wrongfully Accused, but in Magoo he is just a big disappointment. A stupid movie.  > There is no funny moment in this movie at all. Nielson's portrayal of Magoo is so obviously that you know that he can see. Disney made a big mistake of trying to make a good movie. But it wasn't! How can Magoo ride on a ironboard in the snow he is blind? That is dumb! Good thing I watched this only on cable and not paying for the rental price for it. "},{"Title":"yuck!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie seems to be made of mistakes. Leslie bumping everywhere, a ridiculous plot, and, the gran finale, Rio de Janeiro looking like a jungle... STUPID!Side-note the 2nd biggest city in the world is located on Brazil. It's São Paulo. "},{"Title":"Mr Magoo's bad eyesight makes worse movie","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is by me considered one of the worst ways for movie enthusiasts to spend money. Sorry, Leslie, but I hardly think that bumping into things or other strange things caused by bad eye-sight are fun the first time. Building a whole comedy on this causes people like me to be very bored and calculate how many cappucinos are wasted. The plot is one you see after the first five minutes, but assuming otherwise in this genre isn't too common.Nevertheless, a primary school-class were at the same show as I, and they laughed a lot. Mr Magoo is originally a cartoon-character and is probably better suited to stay so. The film just doesn't seem funny to me. "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have to say I never watched Mr. Magoo cartoons, but if it's like this, I would probably hate it. The whole thing was just...goofy!!! I mean, they were taking the story of this blind old man and then making it into a spy movie, where the blind old man is battling against spies (??). It was just so out of place. And then there was woman that was just beating everyone up. And this is based on a cartoon about a blind guy. I mean, WHERE THE HECK did this come from??!!! A 2/10. More good Mystery Science Theater 3000 material. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it's supposed to be, but still not very funny.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"    Only one word can describe MR MAGOO - slapstick. Unfortunately this isn't no AIRPLANE. Looks can decieve, and that's exactly what MR MAGOO does. Based on the old cartoon, Leslie Nielson plays Magoo, a bumbling near blind man whop stumbles upon a pair of jewel thieves. Now he must hunt them down using...blindness basically. And that's all this film plays off. The blindness of MR MAGOO. Now maybe if they had some funny jokes involving this, but pretty much it's just one of those  droopy dumb grin on your face because you're too ashamed to admit you payed to see this films.  But MR MAGOO isn't as bad as it's hacked up to be. It's at least got some funny jokes, and it's good wholesome fun for the whole family (Nielson tried to make a NAKED GUN for families in MAGOO, but it's no where near as good as that). So see it once, you might hate it, you might love it, whatever. I personally didn't hate it, but I sure didn't like it, or even rate it okay. 2/5 stars for MR MAGOO-JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Horrifying","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After seeing this film I felt sick to my stomach and if I had seen one more minute I would have had to rush to the bathroom and vomit til dawn.  A sick film that was NOT funny and was NOT worth the money, any money at all.  If anybody ever wants to see this movie don't!  Your kids will never forgive you and will claim sickness for a week.  So if you value your child's education and want to stimulate your child's mind please don't see this movie. I beg of you, DON'T! "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This has got to be the worst movie I haver ever seen Nielson in. This movie just does not have what he needs to be funny. I think the reasons that the Naked Gun and the like movies is that they did not require Nielson to be funny. He just played the roles as straight as he could while all of the comedy that went on was mostly visual. But when you put him in a movie where he has to be funny, he isn't. The movie had only one good part, and this may be considered a spoiler by some, and that the beginning credits were animated. If the whole movie had been animated, it might have been good. I had no intention of seeing this movie when I saw the ads for it, and the only reason I did see it was because the tickets were given to me by someone who won them in a radio contest. This is the first and probably only movie I have ever walked out on. On a scale of 1-10 I give this movie a score of -100. "},{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen's worst","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was TERRIBLE. It was not funny, Leslie Nielsen didn't make me laugh in the whole movie. Don't get me wrong. I am a very big fan of Leslie Nielsen. I loved Naked Gun, Spyhard and Wrongfully Accused but Mr. Magoo couldn't be any worse.I went to watch Mr. Magoo just because Leslie Nielsen appeared but it was a big disappointment. Maybe it is good for SIX-YEAR OLD KIDS but get real. If you're older than that how can you possibly like this garbage?The acting was terrible, the movie was terrible, the women were terrible. In one sentence EVERYTHING WAS TERRIBLE! It is the first movie that I had great expectations that turned to be a piece of s***.Trust me, if you haven't watched Mr. Magoo save one hour and a half of your life and don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Just awful...","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed the Mr. Magoo cartoons I saw while growing up.  And I enjoy Leslie Nielson's comic skills.  So, I thought, this marriage must produce a funny child.I couldn't have been more wrong.This movie was just awful.  I don't recall a single funny moment.  This is one of the two or three times (in hundreds of films over the years) I've wanted my money back.  You will leave this film dejected because you won't ever have that time back to use in a better way.  In a comedy, the plot must draw in the viewer and serve as a framework for gags.  This plot does neither.  It just kinda lies there, gasping like a beached fish. "},{"Title":"This movie was terrible","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Do not see Mr. Magoo. It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Leslie Nielson was not funny in it. He has not been funny since the Naked Gun movies. Well it won't take long to figure out that this is not a Naked Gun movie! The movie's plot is ridiculously foolish. Nothing in the entire movie was funny. The first few minutes of the film were animated to look like the old Magoo cartoons. I wish the movie would have stayed that way. "}{"Title":"Waste of time and money.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Leslie Nielson is a very talented actor, who made a huge mistake by doing this film. It doesn't even come close to being funny. The best word to describe it is STUPID! "},{"Title":"Definitely the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie had terrible acting, terrible plot, and terrible choice of actors. (Leslie Nielsen...COME ON!!!) The one part I considered slightly funny was the battling FBI/CIA agents, but because the audience was mainly kids they didn't understand that theme. "},{"Title":"Is There a way to vote for 0?","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Horrible Horrible movie, i still can't believe my friend talked me into seeing this! No plot, bad acting, unfunny scenes, and very very stupid dialogue. All i have to say is that this movie is the worst movie i have seen and it's worse than Halloween III which i gave 0 stars too. So i give it 0 stars and a 0 out of 10, well on here a 1, but you get the point. "},{"Title":"Horribly Horrible Movie","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I left the theater, and I was only 10 years old. That's how bad it sucked. The plot was horrid and the acting was worse. Leslie Nielson should be ashamed of himself and so should the person who made this movie. I was only 10 years old when I went to see this catastrophe with a friend and even at that young, innocent age I did not laugh once at the movie. We (me and my friend) still laugh about how bad the movie was. We ended up going into the 'R' movie my parents were in. Bottom line -- this flick was fricking bad. Mr. Magoo -- more like Mr. Ma-who? This movie could have scarred me for life had I watched the popular cartoon on television as a child but luckily I had never seen it, so i was spared the agony but I will never get back those precious minutes of my life that I wasted.  "},{"Title":"Couldn't even endure 20 minutes.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I know it's rather unfair to comment on a movie without seeing the complete piece - but I am going to anyway! I waited for a laugh, I tried to give it time. I think 20 minutes is long enough to wait in a comedy for a laugh. My laugh never came, so I gave up.It's stupid humour, not so stupid that you have to laugh, though. It isn't anywhere near that high grade. Let me correct that, it's just *stupid* - not stupid humour. They may have intended for certain scenes to be funny, but they weren't. I suppose, if you were really bored you could somehow blend the movie with a hallucination and end up with a mildly entertaining experience.A very pathetic effort.  "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Now, I don't think this is a good movie.  There are more bad parts in this movie than good, most definitely.  I just don't understand why everybody is giving this movie a 1.  I laughed once in a while.  (Nothing big, mind you, just short giggles.)  I did not expect anything good out of this movie at all, so I didn't walk out of the theater that disappointed.  I guess if I can love Escanaba in da Moonlight, I can tolerate Mr. Magoo.  The two movies have similar types of humor, it's just that, well, Leslie Nielsen was not born to be in movies.  It seems that goes for most of the other people in this movie's cast (except Malcolm McDowell and, perhaps, Jennifer Garner.    5/10 "},{"Title":"I forgot that this movie existed","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This morning, I found myself unexpectedly remembering that this movie existed. I found myself thinking, Oh yeah, there was a Mr. Magoo movie, wasn't there? This is more surprising because I remember following the controversy surrounding this movie (advocacy group for the visually impaired said that this movie was demeaning). I even went to see this movie on the day it opened, because I am a fan of both Mr. Magoo, and Mr. Nielson, and thought he would be an excellent choice to play Mr. Magoo. I even remember the opening animated credits, because I thought that they were pretty amusing.After that, though, its all a complete blank. I think its a pretty sad statement about any movie that it is so lame, so bland, and so utterly without merit that you can't remember ANYTHING from it. I understand that Leslie Nielson isn't always known for appearing in first class comedies, but I saw him in Spy Hard, in Scary Movie 4, and Police Squad 3 and none of these were great movies, but I came away at least remembering *something*. Mr. Magoo, though, is a complete blank.I find myself wondering now if all the controversy surrounding the film wasn't actually generated by the studio that produced it, in the hopes of generating at least some small amount of interest in an otherwise totally worthless movie. "}]