[{"Title":"Lame?  Waste of Talent?  Bollocks!  This is terrific.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"46 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sorry to whomever thought this was a lame waste of a fine actress (the wonderful Janeane Garofalo) but for the record, Irishmen (and women, one presumes) actually *do* say bollocks with the frequency with which Americans say the S word, and there's merely ONE pee joke in the entire film.Sheesh.That said, this is an utterly charming film, involving a US Senator (Jay O. Sanders) from Boston with Kennedian aspirations ~ although he's trailing badly in the polls for re-election.  So he and acerbic campaign manager Denis Leary send their jaded top aide (JG) to Ireland to find the Senator's geneology ~ his roots as it were ~ for campaign purposes.Unfortunately for her, the tiny town in which she's to do her research is just beginning its annual Matchmaking Festival, wherein this really takes hold of Erin-firma.City~gal JG, who's used to and yearns for faxes, cell-phones and email is suddenly the top candidate for the gentry.  And her quest for the Senator's geneology proves slowly to fall below her expectations.But Milo O'Shea, as the town's premiere matchmaker, wagers with a matchmaking rival that he can get JG together with one of the town's seeming ne'er-do-wells (David O'Hara) and the latter is just as eager to ... ummm.. fax her as well.To say more would spoil the fun.  And it *is* fun.  And poignant.  And sweet.  And occasionally acid-witted.  Only one solid rewind and watch it again belly laugh, but a lot of great plotting and a fun love story.Sure it's candy, but it's infinitely edible.You want lame?  See a Jim Carrey movie.  Any of them.  Want to see talent wasted?  Cameron Diaz screams to mind.Janeane Garofalo in *anything* is better than just about anyone in most films today.4 Stars, say I. "},{"Title":"A real peach","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If this movie isn't the best thing Janeane Garofalo has ever done it must be close. The acerbic wit she was known for on The Larry Sanders Show is there, but so is everything else. She's a three-dimensional character.It's refreshing to see a love story without a sex scene, or even a gratuitous nude or near nude scene. Most filmmakers nowadays would throw something like that in just to tease audiences with it in the trailer. But Matchmaker is an honest movie, and Garofalo's Marcy is tough yet vulnerable and loveable.Some would say that Matchmaker exploits the Irish by way of stereotyping them. I had the opposite impression. It seemed that the people who made this movie loved the Irish.Usually I find myself agreeing with the aggregate score of each movie in the IMDb. But in this case I'm out of the mainstream. The aggregate score is 6.2, which normally indicates a barely watchable movie. But I gave Matchmaker a 10. "},{"Title":"Delightful.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first watched this movie from the middle and I couldn't switch the channels after that.  It was very different from the usual love stories. The interaction between the characters was great and Janeane Garofalo was brilliant. I watched it after a few weeks on video.  Since then I've rented it quite a few times and I never get bored.  Well worth your time.  Funny and very sweet. "},{"Title":"Matchmaker, matchmaker, make me a match....","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This sunny comedy, directed with great verve by Mark Joffe, kept reminding me of the whimsical comedy Local Hero by Bill Forsyth. The film cashes in the folklore of Ireland as no other film, in recent memory does. The Matchmaker will charm, as well as disarm all those viewers looking for a nice time at the movies by immersing in its wonderful spell and taking the trip of discovery to Ireland.The story relies on all the color of the Emerald Island and its people. Where could there be a matchmaking festival, but if not in Ireland? The local characters live in a magical world. In a way, those people having lived in the area where the film takes place, are richer in traditions than we city folk are. It's a sobering experience for Marcy, the otherwise cynical girl that goes searching for her boss' roots in the old country and ends up being enchanted by what she finds there. It's an experience she will not forget easily.Jeanane Garofalo is wonderful as Marcy. This actress always projects an intelligent aura into everything she plays in films. Milo O'Shea is always amazing in anything he plays; he is no exception on this film. Mr. O'Shea is simply marvelous. David O'Hara, Paul Hickey, Maria Boyle Kennedy, Saffron Burrows and Denis Leary, among others, do excellent work under Mr. Joffe's direction. "},{"Title":"Sweet and lovely Irish romantic comedy","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never even heard of this film when it came out, but am glad I caught it on cable.The Matchmaker is a romantic comedy, but one with a very original and charming premise, setting and characters.I love the fact that the two leads, Janeane Garafalo and David O'Hara, have enormous chemistry and appeal, while not looking like standard Hollywood movie stars.  I'd love to see O'Hara in another lead role - he has a very offbeat sex appeal.There are some very amusing scenes, and the bit of the American senator meeting his supposed long lost Irish relatives is hilarious.  O'Hara's We've got to talk scene is great - for that one alone, I'll go buy the video!If you enjoy Ireland and romantic comedies that are slightly different, then by all means rent this, it's a charming little film. "},{"Title":"OK I just had to say something GOOD about this movie","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this movie, I am Irish, and take no offense at either the characters or the language (bollocks!!). All of which came across as very real. Good old fashioned Irish rogues, out to have a bit of craic(meaning fun, pronounced crack). This is one of my favorite Irish movies. Janeane Garofalo is beautiful and talented, Denis Leary is hilarious in his sleaziest, Milo O'Shea and Rosaline Linehan are hilarious also as the two rival matchmakers, although Rosaline wasn't given near enough to do. Lots of colorful Irish characters, Eamon Kelly, David Kelly too. If you like a bit of old fashioned stage Irishness, then you'll enjoy this movie, lots of laughs and little off color humor (when Eamon Kelly finds his missing teeth - yuk!)but definitely laugh out loud hilarious entertainment. Did I mention the lovely West of Ireland and Aran Islands scenery? Watch out for reviews with spoilers, as they'll ruin the whole movie for you. "},{"Title":"A very charming movie","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time!! Janeane Garofaolo is amazing in this...she is funny and sardonic, while still being a very likable character. The actor that played Shaun did an excellent job as well..he was quite charming! I have watched this movie at least 15 times, and still get a great laugh whenever I watch it!!! Not to mention the last time I watched it I heard things I had not heard before. This is a very refreshing, light hearted romantic comedy that thankfully didn't choose to include a wild nude sex scene - it would have been awkward in this movie and would have taken away from it's charm. I highly recommend this movie!!! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie quickly became a family favourite, so much so that my sons and daughters each have a copy of their own. The movie is watched four or five times a year and none of us ever tire of it.Having watched it so often my children (now adults) know most of the dialogue and from time to time one or the other will launch into a reenactment of one of the scenes, accents and all. While, Garofalo and O'Hara are excellent, it is the remainder of the cast who provide most of the humour - some of the cast are well known here in Ireland, while others are less so. Regardless, their one line deliveries and interactions with one another will crack you up. You just have to see the 'cottage scene with the senator' it is priceless! I still end up laughing uncontrollably every time I see it. They say laughter is good for the 'soul' - watch the Matchmaker and you'll never have to worry about the state of its health! "},{"Title":"Pleasurable, intelligent and beautifully written/performed","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. It has a credible (in terms of dialogue) story, with wonderful acting all around, and is well put together. I am saddened by the fact that it blew through the theaters, but glad to have caught it on video. "},{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable love stories.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is so fun. Janeane Garofalo is perfect for the part and David O'Hara is charming. It would be great to see him more. I feel that the casting was well done. The Irish setting is especially lovely. I wish there were more films like this. It is a feel good Americanish romantic comedy with a delightful Irish feel which reminds you that there is a world outside of the US. It brings to mind another movie that makes me feel the same American Women. Again, this movie takes place in Ireland, it transports you as well to a peaceful quaint village with charming characters and lovely scenery. Part of the charm of both these movies is the music. "}{"Title":"The magic that happens when 2 human beings delight in each other.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A romantic comedy set in Ireland that weaves a spell with the unlikely themes of a cynical search into a Boston Senator's ancestral roots to boost poor ratings back home, and a rural matchmaking festival with its simple recipe for success. This delightful movie pokes gentle ironic fun at just about every cliche in the book, Irish, big-city American and political, and is refreshingly amusing on the way..... It never takes itself too seriously, Milo O'Shea is wonderful, David O'Hara has a fine touch, and Janeane Garofola apart from being a  fine actress, has the most wonderful eyes and smile. A pity we don't see more actresses with this quality rather than the strange elongated creatures that inhabit Hollywood. I loved this movie. I loved the characters, the playfulness and humour, the people were real even though the setting was a fantasy..... and I still think the ending is one of the best..... often screen romances manage to interest, stimulate, inspire etc.... but this is the only one I've seen where both actors have captured the wonder and magic that happens when two human beings delight in each other... "},{"Title":"Recommended to women with men who hate romantic comedies","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ladies, if your guy pauses the DVD during the Braveheart scene where blood spatters on the camera lens, and he loves the jaded sarcasm of a Denis Leary rant on Rescue Me, this might be one of the few romantic comedies he'll tolerate for your sake. Mention that The Matchmaker spotlights Braveheart's David O'Hara and that Leary is probably the main reason for an R-rating due to language. If that actually works, and he's anything like my guy, you can needle him about getting misty-eyed during the last 15 minutes of the flick. This is a good movie for established couples with disparate His and Hers DVD collections. It meets somewhere in the middle. And it's devoid of all the warm, fuzzy, mushy stuff. Janeane Garofalo's Marcy is not particularly graceful or perfectly-coiffed; nor is she a size 2. (Say thank you, ladies). And David O'Hara's Sean is equally down-to-earth, never missing an opportunity to take what most date movies would turn into a spectacle of male bravado - and completely bungling it. This one is endearing, and it gives those of us living a flawed existence hope that there is someone equally as flawed out there - just waiting for us to trip over them. "},{"Title":"Garofalo scores another winner","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really don't understand why Janeanne Garofalo doesn't get more roles. She is a truly wonderful actress who owns the screen when she's on it. There is never anything forced about her performances. They always seem natural. Here, she plays Marcy Tizard, a spin doctor for a U.S. senator trying to get re-elected. Her job has become to track down his relatives from the small town in Ireland where his family emigrated from. This will help the senator secure the Irish vote in Chicago and win him the election. So off to Ireland she goes in an attempt to find his missing relatives. Of course, nothing is ever easy and Marcy finds herself smack dab in the middle of a match making festival. While fending off possible suitors, she becomes entwined in the lives of several colourful locals. Among them is of course, the local matchmaker (Milo O'Shea) who has taken to setting her up with Sean (David O'Hara), the local bartender and former journalist. The humour is warm and the characters are all well drawn out. Denis Leary has a small role as a colleague and resident ***hole. The film truly belongs to Garofalo as she is perfectly cast in the role of weary and cynical Marcy. Give it a shot. It's a near perfect match. "},{"Title":"Loved the Movie and its Location in Ireland!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK...so some may say The Matchmaker is a bit cheesy, but I completely disagree! If we take this movie for what it's meant to be -- a whimsical look at not only two different people getting to know each other, but two people from two entirely different cultures becoming entangled -- then you will fall as in love with this movie as I have! Not only was this story very sweet (I swear I've seen this movie at least 100 times), but, whist living in Ireland, I was blessed to have been able to visit the quiet village of Roundstone, where most of the movie was filmed. I tell you, the depiction of the Irish in this movie was highly accurate, and if you've never known an Irish person, or visited the country (the Republic of Ireland, not Northern Ireland), you might think the dialog much exaggerated. Trust me...it isn't.So, if you'd like to take a bit of a glimpse into the true nature of the lovely Irish people -- from their use of colorful language to their friendly demeanor -- or just want a bit of the 'craic,' I highly recommend this film. The only this I wished for was a soundtrack to the film, as there were some great songs! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!  Marvelous!  And also great!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Matchmaker is a consistently funny, touching, romantic movie with lovely scenery (shot on location!) and great Irish music.  All I knew at the outset of seeing it was that it involved two of my favorite things...Ireland and Janeane Garofalo.  I saw it, and added a third...David O'Hara!It's been awhile since I saw a couple as realistically portrayed as Marcy and Sean, although in the midst of it was a lot of magic.  They fight, they bonk heads, they kiss, they fall head over heels...then they nearly miss the boat!  You'll find yourself cheering them on at every turn.The rest of the cast is a scream, from Denis Leary as a snide jerk of a campaign manager to Jay Sanders as the slightly dim Senator McGlory to the matchmaker himself, Milo O'Shea.  They all play off each other to create a wonderfully woven story.Sure'n I've almost worn my copy through, and will watch it again tomorrow! GO RENT IT!  "},{"Title":"I really loved this movie and all the songs from it!!!","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. It's a very quaint Irish romantic comedy. I think the characters play off each other very well and the sarcasm is well matched.The overall sarcastic themes are interspersed within the movie, you have everything from politics to love with a few rivalries thrown in between.I also really loved the chemistry between Marcy Tizzard(Jeanne Garafalo) and Sean Kelly (David O'Hara). T he movie starts with Marcy after another hangover - at work trying to just hide for the day when the politician she's working for Senator John McGlory (Jay O'Sanders)from Boston is getting his butt kicked in the polls. His head campaign manager Nick (Dennis Leary) comes up with this plan to help him find his Irish roots and they force Marcy to go to Ireland to find any McGlory that exists. Reluctantly, Marcy agrees and is on her way to a small Irish town, Ballinagra (pronounced exactly as is). Hilarity ensues when she realizes she is thrown right in the middle of a matchmaking festival. Her adventures take her to different locales - in search of any McGlorys who might have immigrated to Boston. In the meantime, Dermit O'Brian (Milo O'Shea) the local matchmaker decides he wants to record how to match-make because he is thinking of big business. So during the movie, we see him at relevant parts tell the camera the art of matchmaking. Dermit is a very integral part of the whole movie and is such a quintessential Irish figure that his charm just glides you through the whole movie. In the movie we see many relationships along the way. Sean with his brother Declan and his wife Sarah who own a local hotel. Dermit with a rival matchmaker Millie O'Dowd, Sean with Marcy and other characters who are looking for love in all the wrong places. There are many sight gags thrown in and behind the scene conversations that are hilarious. The only bad thing I can say about this movie is that there is a lot of profanity thrown in, but it is for funny purposes. I am not usually fond of cursing, but a lot of it is placed to make the scene funny. I don't think it was intended to just insult the characters. Again, that is why it is rated R also for language only.All in all, it is one of my favorites and I must have watched it 20 times. I really liked the whole village feel of the movie and thought the characters were quite endearing. If you are looking for a romantic comedy through the eyes of a different culture, this is the movie to see, just be prepared for some profanity.A+ "},{"Title":"The funeral pyre of Janeane Garofalo's chance at stardom","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, this was it. This was THE movie in the career of Janeane Garafolo. After the surprising success of The Truth About Cats and Dogs in 1996, this was her shot at being a real movie star. How many actresses would kill for a star vehicle like this? How many actresses have been able to build entire careers on a breakthrough romantic comedy? This was Janeane Garfolo's shot, her ship had come in, her time had arrived&#x85;and I sincerely hope that after she finished shooting The Matchmaker, she tracked down each and every single person responsible for making this film and beat them all like rented stepchildren.Marcy (Garofalo) is a campaign aide to embattled Massachusetts Senator John McGlory (Jay O. Sanders). Facing near certain defeat in a re-election campaign, the dim-witted Senator and his unbelievable jackass of a campaign manager (Dennis Leary) dispatch Marcy to Ireland to find some Irish relatives to appear in a campaign spot for the Senator and save the election for him. Apparently, hanging out with distant relations in a foreign land is far more important to Massachusetts voters than little things like taxes or health care. Upon arriving in the little town where the Senator's Irish roots are buried, Marcy finds herself with two problems.1. She can't find any evidence of any McGlory's ever living in the town.2. She's found herself smack dab in the middle of a matchmaking festival where colorful Irish stereotypes have flooded the small town in search of love.I think you can see where this is going. Marcy is thrown together with Sean (David O'Hara), an Irish journalist who's fled from the big city of Dublin back to his tiny home town, and a series of wildly contrived circumstances first unites and then divides them as Marcy sours on the Senator's efforts to exploit the people of this small Irish village to further his political career.Watching a bad movie can stir up many different feelings inside you. Anger. Disgust. Confusion. Astonishment. But the feeling you get watching The Matchmaker is plain and simple sorrow for Janeane Garofalo as you watch her chance at stardom go rocketing down this cinematic toilet.This is one of the most incompetently written films I've ever seen, made all the worse for how it is so awesomely formulaic. It's not just that there isn't a single moment in movie that you haven't seen in every other romantic comedy ever made, it's also that many of those moments don't make a lick of sense. It's almost as though someone took an existing screenplay about a matchmaking festival in an Irish village and then just sprinkled about 40 pages of story about Garofalo's character throughout the script, without making any effort at all to make sure things fit together. T he Matchmaker is like the romantic comedy version of The Last Samurai, but instead of sticking oh-so-Caucasian Tom Cruise into a Japanese story, this one sticks oh-so-acerbic Garafalo into an Irish one where she can stand around and observe the natives' eccentricities.It's actually difficult to fully convey to you how poorly this film is written. Marcy is supposed to be the main character, but in the first half hour of the movie there is literally just a single line a dialog that tells us anything about her as a person. There is literally not a single reason given for why Marcy and Sean start hanging out together or why they'd like each other, let alone love each other. There is literally not a single instant in this story where anything happens for any substantive reason except the script says it's supposed to happen.You can see in The Matchmaker the same thing you could see in The Truth About Cats and Dogs, that there was tremendous potential in Garafalo as a star. She's this pretty little thing with a beautiful smile and a real tough edge to her. But other than ruthlessly exploiting that smile every chance they get, The Matchmaker hasn't the slightest idea what to do with her.Watching this film made me really want to believe in the theory that every decision we make produces an alternate reality where the opposite decision is made. I wish I could see what Janeane Garofalo's career looks like in that parallel universe where she lit the script for The Matchmaker on fire and told her agent to get her something better. "},{"Title":"Ah, romantic heaven","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Oh, 'The Matchmaker'. Is there a more perfect film around?? If you're looking for high-brow entertainment,certainly, but if you want something fluffy to watch on a lonely afternoon then this is what you are seeking.Set for the most part in Ireland, 'The Matchmaker' follows an American city girl who is thrust into a rural setting when her boss, an American senator, sends her to Balinagragh (have no idea how to spell it!) in order to seek out his Irish roots. She accepts the mission, is thrust into the heart of an Irish matchmaking festival, meets a charming Irish rogue and falls in love with the inhabitants of the town. So far, so predictable. However this film is charming and comic; especially in its portrayal or rural/small town Irish life - the depictions are scarily realistic.Garofalo is in her prime in this role; both age-wise and in terms of her performance, as she is portraying a character who is still slightly cynical, but less bitchy and more likable than many of her previous characters. The supporting cast is great and provides the majority of the film's charm; Milo O'Shea particularly standing out as the local matchmaker.These factors, plus the fact that I'm a sucker for an Irish accent,make this film one of the most enjoyable of those i have on my shelves and is watched again and again. "},{"Title":"A very funny film about Irish matchmaking","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sorry Mickey Knox and a few others but this is a charming and very funny film. I live with a lady from Dublin and a great many of my friends, here in Israel, are Irish as well.There is no point repeating the plot, others have done so better than I could. It is very funny, it is beautiful to look at and I itch to visit Ireland again so that I can visit the locations. Even in winter Galway looked green and magnificent.The acting is superb throughout. Anything with the Milo O'Shea and David Kelly just has to be. But I am unfair to single out any actors, they are all great, as was the script and direction. True, the story could have told in an hour or so, but who cares, we went to bed happy. I only recorded it from TV one night we were out because it was Irish, no way I will ever wipe it.Let me single out one scene. That in which the Senator is introduced to his family. Absolutely priceless and should be in anyone's top 100 funny film bits. When the boy enters from the left and says ......... but, no, that would be a spoiler. Just see it for yourself.As for the swearing. I was not offended, it just added authenticity. And the matchmaking really does happen in a small village in Ireland. "},{"Title":"Great comedy, fans of Miss Garofalo will not want to miss this one!","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Marcy (Janeane Garofalo) is working on a Massachusetts senatorial campaign for a gentleman named McGlory. It is a tooth-and-nail fight between the candidates and McGlory is desperate for some oomph. Having always been told that his family came from a certain village in Ireland, he sends Marcy across the ocean to locate his long lost roots. The would-be senator feels this would connect him with the many Irish-American voters in the east coast state. Marcy goes, reluctantly. In the village, she has a hard time finding temporary digs, as there is a big matchmaking festival going on. She is reduced to staying at a little inn, in a tiny room, and having a handsome man named Sean using her bathtub, if the mood strikes him. The main local matchmaker (Milo O'Shea) says Marcy and Sean are a good match but Marcy resists this notion. However, on her search for McGlory's past, she meets up with Sean on many an occasion. Could something be brewing in the love department? First, this is a great movie to see Garofalo in action. Long heralded as a mighty comedian, she deftly carries this film with her large talent for humor and she looks beautiful, too. The Irish setting is also so lovely that one almost wishes every movie could be shot in this beautiful country. O'Shea is simply marvelous in his role as the man who, unmarried himself, gets other unlikely couples together. Then, too, the script is quite nice, with lines such as when have you ever been backwards at being forward?! There is a big surprise at the end, which makes for a giant sendoff in the laugh department. Do you love romantic comedies with sparkle, wit, and lovely surroundings? This movie is a great match for your late night film enjoyment wishes. "}{"Title":"A great couples movie","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the wife and my favorite movies. Definitely a feel good flick. Has many elements that could appeal to anyone that has an interesting family. The interactions between characters should bring memories of anyones family gatherings. You could recognize characters and enjoy the scenery as well as the twists and turns of the plot. Characters are real. Scenery of the Green Isle is lovely. From the locals in their attempt to make the best of their yearly chance to make a buck (pound) from the tourist visitors attending their festival. To the insensitive late comers who attempt to manipulate the events to their own advantage. The leads, Janeane Garofalo and David O'Hara are endearing as they overcome their glaring differences to fall in love. Each time we watch this we come away from it with smiles and look forward to seeing it again.  "},{"Title":"Charming and funny","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It didn't expect much from this but was totally won over but the warmth, charm and spirit of this movie. And it is truly funny! I won't go into a lenghty speech about it's many virtues, but just say that i laughed hysterically when the arranged family gathering scene came around! So I urge you all SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Smart and winning","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Janeane Garofolo and the Irish countryside are magnificent, and the rest is whimsical enough so as not to spoil a good time.  Jay O. Sanders turns in another strong supporting performance, as he did in Music of the Heart and. V. I. Warshawski.  Lots of lyrical moments and good humor throughout.  Not a classic, but a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Cute! Witty!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorites. It is fun and not as gooshy and predictable as most Romantic/Comedies. The acting is good and the scenery beautiful.  I have watched it many times and have caught many things i did not see the first time. I had to accustom myself to the accents, though. It is somewhat stereo-typical. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy with a twist.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not just a typical romantic comedy, this quirky little love letter to Ireland has a few twists you don't expect. Jeanine Garofalo is wonderful, and Milo O'Shea is roguish. Denis Leary is darned unlikable. Some say it's a bit stereotypical, but I disagree; the characters seemed real in a lot of ways. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy for short people","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not a short person myself but I am sure that short people are tired of tall leading ladies and tall leading men being in every single romantic comdey or tv. show.  So here we have Janeane and whose his face from Braveheart.  Both short but both talented.  The movie for me was a lot of fun because I love Janeane.  When the movie is at its best it is charming.  I am a bit sentimental so these type of movies tend to do well with me.  I prefer to see Janeane and Miles then Richard and Julia because most of us are more like the latter than the former.  Now hold on because I am not one of these people who thinks that all films should be reality driven.  No sir I love Terry Gilliam and I want films to take me somewhere but when a film is not doing that please try and add some human beings instead of always using these cyborgs.  If you have no idea what I am talking about then you probably should not read any movie reviews.  I liked this movie it made me laugh and warmed my heart go and rent it. "},{"Title":"Janeane Garofalo can carry a movie like no one","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like a previous reviewer, I had seen this movie sitting on the shelf of my video store for about two months until one day all the new releases were gone.  I have never fallen in love with a movie as quick as I did this one. After I was disappointed with Janeane in Truth About Cats and Dogs, but loved her brief appearance in Bye Bye Love, I couldn't wait to see what she would do with this.  Masterful job.  I recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys any type of romantic comedy and sarcasm fan everywhere.  If it helps any my favorite movie is When Harry Met Sally.... "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies ever!","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved it. Bollox, I adored it. This was one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. I've been trying to buy this movie for the past months its so good. Janene Garafolo proves again to be one of the funniest actresses out there. You could just eat up the greatness of David O'Hara. It's an absolute must see. "},{"Title":"Charming!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is almost impossible to film a film in a remote little village in Ireland and not have to say it was charming.This is a sweet movie, beautifully acted, and makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside after.It has several comedic parts in it, and is sure to make you laugh.Rent it once and then buy it after, you will never tire of any of it. "},{"Title":"","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is almost impossible to film a film in a remote little village in Ireland and not have to say it was charming.This is a sweet movie, beautifully acted, and makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside after.It has several comedic parts in it, and is sure to make you laugh.Rent it once and then buy it after, you will never tire of any of it. "}{"Title":"Good concept, lame execution","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Had it been a bit more adeptly handled, this film could have been a real charmer; but the characters and political comedy were too broad to believe. Must every Senator in a comedy be a bumbling fool with no judgment? "},{"Title":"positive","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I laughed!  I cried!  I bought the movie!! Wonderful 'community' of characters - the likes of seen in The Englishman Who Went Up A Hill... & Four Weddings & a Funeral.Wouldn't be surprised if Americans (as in U.S.A.) don't appreciate as much - since Americans are not depicted in the most favorable light.  Perhaps better suited to sense of humor shared by Great Britain, Australia & Canada. "},{"Title":"The Matchmaker","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite romantic comedies from the 90's. It's a gem, that's well worth taking the time to watch. Watch with someone you love, or anyone who just loves movies will enjoy this film. The beautiful cinematography captures the mood and the heart of Ireland.The casting of this movie is impeccable. Janeane Garofalo and Dennis Leary play well off each others characters and capture your attention. I wanted to watch it again, immediately after I had first viewed it. In a time when political cynicism appears rampant, it's even more of an appropriate story these days. I would include this movie in my DVD collection.It's a film that makes you feel good about love and about life. "},{"Title":"the smallest f*&%$#@ review in the world!","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" My wife LOVES this film! She has seen it dozens of times. While it's surprising the amount of swearing there is for a romantic comedy (for the unromantic), it's stil a good time. What do you expect with Janeanne Garofalo and Denis Leary in a film? The romance itself is a tad forced, but that's secondary to the rest of the film. What makes the film for me is all the small moments. The director did a nice job of creating moments or giving the actors room that give insight into the characters. From the Senator's comment under his breath about the press - I hate you all. When I'm President, I'll have you all killed, followed by a big smile as he steps out of his limo, to Dermot's asides after another failed attempt to videotape his ad on camera, to Michael's failed attempts to attract Marcy's attention, it's the little things that carry this film. If you go into the film looking for a nice little film with a great soundtrack and lush images of the Irish landscape, you won't be disappointed.What I am disappointed about is the soundtrack seems to not exist. Anyone know where to find one? "},{"Title":"Very clever and funny.  Sort of an Irish Local Hero.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another of my 10s.  Okay, I admit it, I think foreign films, for the most part, are far superior to American-made movies.  So shoot me.  I'd rather sit through one Matchmaker or Local Hero than a zillion Jim Carey or Robin Williams movies.  This is a smart, funny, beautifully photographed movie.  The cast and the scenery are outstanding and there are some laugh-out-loud moments, which I won't give away.  The cast is really outstanding, the production first-rate, and Matchmaker's heart is in the right place.  I won't reveal the plot, but Irish-American politics (think JFK) play a major role.  The heartwarming and irascible Irish cast add greatly to the enjoyment.  Garofalo will have to go a long way to top this one. "},{"Title":"Garofalo is a delight to watch!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm an avid watcher of old re-runs on cable on the HBO and Cinemax movies in Singapore. We rarely get our just desserts, the fare that we're dished with is usually standard -- middle of the road TV movies, the standard who dunnit murder mysteries, low budget horror flicks and the occasional not-so-funny comedies. Sometimes you get a gem. So it's with great delight that I happened to chance onto The Matchmaker on a lazy Labor Day holiday afternoon. I've not watched Janeane Garofalo before, apart from the small roles she's played here and there. Well she stole the show here in a very offbeat and refreshing comedy, against the backdrop and charm of a rustic small town in Ireland. The scenery is breathtaking and brings back all the memories of my last visit to the UK 10 years ago. Garofalo is -- in her own understated way -- refreshingly funny throughout. She plays the aide for US Senator John McGlory who is sent to Ireland to trace his roots and help promote the senator as a family man for his re-election campaign, and that is where the hilarity begins. Garofalo is dumped into rustic Ireland and finds herself meeting eccentric people and getting caught in situations that don't help her cause. The first 30 minutes of the movie is roaringly funny.Garofalo's cynical and nonchalant demeanor acts as a stable force, balanced against the quirky Irish characters around her, most of whom are trying to get her hitched. Perhaps the only blight to this movie is the wooden performance of Garofalo's love interest, Sean (David O'Hare), who is so boring you could be more entertained staring at wallpaper.This is a romantic tale you get cuddle up with your love one to watch with. Heartwarming, delightful and tastefully funny in its own understated and subtle way.  "},{"Title":"It was a little trite, but aren't they all?","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was a little trite, but aren't they all?  That is the only complaint I have about this film, and that really isn't a complaint because that is just how all romantic comedies are especially the good ones.  And this is a good one.  Janeane Garofalo goes ahead and proves that you don't need Julia Roberts as the romantic lead to have a good romantic comedy that people will enjoy and want to see again and again (I've watched it at least three times).  This is overlooking the fact that Garofalo herself is gorgeous, and the fact that she doesn't have any clue as to how attractive she is makes her all the more charming.  David O'Hara, Garofalo's love interest, is handsome and heart-warming as well.  You can't help falling in love with these two, and rooting for them throughout the movie.  The story is typical, boy meets girl, they hate each other, they love each other, they fight, they make up, they live happily ever after.  But that's just as it should be.  It is the banter between Garofalo and O'Hara that make this film along with the amazing supporting cast in this little Irish town.  And Dennis Leary is hilarious as usual.  Rent this instead of Pretty Woman one night, you won't be sorry.   "},{"Title":"Delightful, amusing story.  Milo O'Shea is excellent in the title role.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was shown for the second time recently on Sky Satellite.  It's a delightful & amusing story set in a small, fictitious, Irish town of Ballinagra during the annual Matchmaking Festival.  Milo O'Shea is excellent in the title role.  Judging by recent press critics, it has been well received here & in the UK.  I look forward to seeing it again! "},{"Title":"Mythologies","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Projects like this amaze me. It is not a matter so much of whether they succeed or not (this one does only partially), but where it chooses to place itself in our mind.The `message' is that much in life --- specifically politics -- is a fabricated mythology -- a performance designed to trigger templates for selfish ends. We get manipulated but willingly because we are entertained and comforted. The politician here works to exploit his Irish family heritage precisely because of the hot buttons associated with those two ingredients Ireland and family.So then, what do we get? A film that is designed to trigger hot buttons of Ireland (lovely landscapes), love (an overly conventional boy-meets-girl story in the context of a mass of such stories) and family (two brothers spat and make up).We know this project did not begin where it ends up. It ends up taking the manipulation seriously. Its just an ordinary date movie now. But it was not so at the beginning. We can see this because-- Janeane Garofalo is the reigning mistress of just this kind of irony. She often plays both sides of the fence playing the lovely young love target and simultaneously looking straight at the viewer and saying `isn't this a bucket of stuff?' Her presence by itself is proof that before the thing ended in front of our eyes, something more intelligent was intended.-- In conventional ironic form, the play contains a play within. Actually a film within a film. The politician comes to Ireland with a film crew (to do just what this film does) and is surprised to find things are different. The relationship of that `film' to this one was clearly intended to mirror the relationship of this film to `real' life.-- More the framing is by a self-aware video of the town's chief matchmaker. This common device was obviously designed to alert us to the parallel layer on top of the film is the mechanics of film design where slots in our minds are being fitted with pretty things in Ireland `Janeane you send us lots of American viewers and we'll match them up (with pretty Irish things).'-- No one is more tuned into just this type of irony than Van Morrison. See how his song is woven into the story? I'll bet the script idea started with that. "},{"Title":"match point","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The MatchMaker is part romantic comedy, part political satire. A senator (Jay O. Sanders) trying to pander to voters sends his assistant (Janeane Garofalo) to Ireland to find his relatives. While on the Emerald Isle, she catches the attention of rival matchmakers -- that's for people who match each other, not the objects used to light fires -- and a bartender.The movie puts a spin on what has become the stereotype of the Ireland-themed movie we have all the things that we associate with Eire, but Garofalo's sarcastic character gives the flick exactly what it needs. It goes to show that a movie can still be funny without being an exercise in scatological humor. I certainly enjoyed it.Also starring Milo O'Shea (Friar Laurence in Franco Zefferelli's Romeo & Juliet), Rosaleen Linehan, Denis Leary and David O'Hara (Albert Runcorn in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - Part 1).So yes, matchmaker, do make me a match. "}{"Title":"I'm glad we've established a rapport","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an enjoyable romantic comedy which even I, being a man, could watch without my toenails crinkling or my gonads shriveling up. The movie works perfectly as long as brassy big-city-girl Janeane Garofalo is confronted with an every-cliché-in-the-book village in the Irish boondocks. This concept stops working as soon as Janeane becomes all gooey gooey about that Irish heartthrob, which happens at about two thirds of the movie. At this point the script tries to tie up too many loose ends and performs a 180° turn towards a happy ending in which big city girl and Oirish oik find true love, the senatorial candiadate wins his election, and the hard-nosed spin doctor commits societal suicide. A bit too much cheese for my palate. Before that the movie was fresh and entertaining -- although it did pander to every cliché about the emerald isle in the book (the women all have luscious arse-length curly red hair, etc.).Stuff I didn't like*Marcy (Janeane Garofalo) harping on about how she's addicted to fax machines and the New York Times at inappropriate moments. It just makes her seem self-important and boorish.*The fact that autochtonic love interest Sean isn't just a simple Oirish country yokel but actually a cutting-edge investigative journalist who left the business because he was disgusted by the lack of ethics in the industry.*When Marcy arrives at the hotel, she is told that there aren't any rooms available. No more rooms, huh, she asks back. Nope, none whatsoever, she is told. Then they ask around every hotel in the county. Finally the landlady concedes that they do, after all, have a room with en-suite bathroom and fecking bathtub available. Funny that she didn't think of that in the first place.*That this -- for some dark reason -- was director Mark Joffe's last movie to date.Stuff I did like*How Marcy, when she is being chatted up by Sean, lowers her voice and asks him intimately Is being an idiot like being high all the time?*The acting, especially of the secondary characters, is amazing. Check out matchmaker Milo O'Shea or the local it's a filthy, FILTHY business genealogist. Jay O'Sanders and Dennis Leary also make an amazing couple as the nit-witted senator and his ruthless adviser. "},{"Title":"nice little film","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" nice little film overlooked at box office when it came out,no major stars a little love story taken place in ireland and with janeane garofalo as its star. a nice entertaining little movie.and some nice songs too boot.if u have not seen it check it out.might surprise u.a politician sends a female assistance to find his irish background because of his district he is running in.janeane runs into some strange characters including a matchmaker who decides to hook her up.she ends up falling for this fellow who repels her at first.but like always in films like this she falls for him and gives up her job and lives happily ever after. "},{"Title":"A nice light Irish romantic comedy...","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A nice Irish romantic comedy starring Janeane Garofalo as an American sent to Ireland to research the ancestory of an American senator who's running for president. She finds herself in the middle of the traditional MatchMaking festival in a small Irish town. Nothing really surprising, as you can probably guess much how this story will go. But if you want a nice light comedy, it's worth watching.*** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"had its moment but felt flat on the climax and ending","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I personally quite enjoy the MatchMaker; I find it cute, interesting jokes and funny characters would emerge and make me laugh, and the movie well had my attention for 2/3 of the movie. Then it got a bit confusing to me;eg. I couldn't quite understand why and what's going on in the party that the senator attended the first night he's in Ireland. Then, I felt like the movie should wrap itself up quickly after the death of the match makers but instead it kept going for quite away. I also didn't find the fighting scenes between the brothers in the bar funny at all. But I do like the Kennedy marriage joke. It totally caught me by surprise. Having said that, I think over all it is not a bad movie to see, at least it's bearable to watch as video and this movie for sure will serve as an good entertainment on a night when you have noting better to do. Before I wrap up I just want to say that I think Janeane Garofalo has loads of Charms in this movie, so as most of the cast in this movies-they do have this  real people appeal. "},{"Title":"had its moment but felt flat on the climax and ending","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I personally quite enjoy the MatchMaker; I find it cute, interesting jokes and funny characters would emerge and make me laugh, and the movie well had my attention for 2/3 of the movie. Then it got a bit confusing to me** WARNING I AM GOING TO INCLUDED BITS OF THE PLOT HERE SO IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW STOP HERE**;One scene that confuse me is on the part about a party that the senator attended the first night he's in Ireland. Then, I felt like the movie should wrap itself up quickly after a funeral but instead it kept going for quite awhile. I also didn't find the fighting scenes between the brothers in the bar funny at all. But I do like the Kennedy marriage joke. It totally caught me by surprise. Having said that, I think over all it is not a bad movie to see, at least it's bearable to watch as video and this movie for sure will serve as an good entertainment on a night when you have noting better to do. Before I wrap up I just want to say that I think Janeane Garofalo has loads of Charms in this movie, so as most of the cast in this movies-they do have this  real people appeal. "},{"Title":"A nice, little, warm-n-fuzzy keeper.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched it twice and intend to go out and buy it tomorrow.  It's a sweet little romantic comedy--with great scenery and a charming cast.  If you like shoot-outs or slap-stick, obviously this isn't the movie for you. But for those of us who like our romances mixed with laughter and charm, this one is a keeper. "},{"Title":"Love this Flick","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really enjoy this movie. It's just a great chick flick - my favorite genre! OK so maybe it's playing up to all the Irish stereotypes, but so what, it still leaves you with a wee smile on yer face.I've even visited the town it was made in, on the Connemara coast - Roundstone. Gorgeous place. I highly recommend it if you are ever travelling around in that part of the world.I've been a fan of David O'Hara's ever since. Saw him again tonight on The Commander - he's aged a bit! But then I see from the info here the poor man has just had his 40th birthday, only 6 months ahead of my own.Happy Birthday David! "},{"Title":"I sure enjoyed it","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a nice movie. Good humor and mystery.Unlike most movies, it does not try too hard to be dramatic or such. The Senator is not too much of a good or bad guy. The people seem real and don't get too mad or yell too much.Of course, like a good mystery, there are surprises at the end.The sex and violence are both very tame.Janeane Garofalo is wonderful; a nice, humorous person. A minor flaw is that she is just too nice; she does not seem to be the tough, driven political type she is supposed to be, but any lack of believability is more than made up for by how enjoyable the movie is. "},{"Title":"For the foreigners who lived in Ireland","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Definitely SPOILERS ahead!Two years I lived in Cork, Ireland and traveled a bit around in the country. Although I was happy to leave the country again, this film brought back the good memories of that period. The beautiful landscape, which has a pleasant sadness in itself, the pubs where people spend their days and evenings together instead of isolating themselves at home and the cheerful people. For the ones who lived in Ireland too, this film is definitely worth watching, although the story isn't that exciting. The director really has hit the feeling of what it is to live there. Most notable is the scene where the girls start wrecking the car and where four teenagers are joining in. Only people who know Ireland can see why this scene is so typical and written by someone who knows the culture. Cars are eagerly being wrecked on daily base in Ireland by teenagers.Milo O'Shea ('Dermot') was the star of the film. Charming, funny and warm. And not to forget the native from the Aran Isle and David Kelly ('O'Connor') from the store. Come to think of it, the elder men where the stars of the film! Like in Waking Ned, there should be more films with them as leading cast!  "},{"Title":"A Janeane Garofalo joint","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The power of accurate observation is called cynicism by those who don't have it. - George Bernard ShawI like cynics, because when they're happy about something, you know it's something you should check out, as opposed to Wal-Mart door greeters who can work themselves into a lather about a 30 cent discount on toilet scrubbers.So Janeane Garofalo gives us a solid film about a Boston political campaign worker flown to Ireland to drum up proof of a candidate's Oirish background, for the Paddy ethnic vote back in Boston. A few remarks-The singing contest on the Outer Islands was painful. I listened to my brother play Peter and the Wolf on the upstairs piano during that whole scene.-Occasional flavourings of atheism in a town awash with Christological symbolism. That introduced a strange tension. One barfly announces God be with you in Irish to Janeane, who replies no thanks. My other example is a spoiler, I'll keep it to myself. -Excellent humour. Janeane's presence makes it moreso language based, instead of the more reliable choice of physical humour, but they both work throughout.-Wide angle shots of Irish seaside orogeny are going to completely distract the attention of a Geology student from the romantic foibles of the leads.Time spent in this warm Irish village is well spent. 7/10 "}{"Title":"watch it again and again","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely watchable.  Janeane Garafalo is funny and charming,the characters are lovable.   Irish music is beautiful.  Scenery isstunning.  Makes you wish you were there.  Most complaints I read are that the Irish are stereotyped.  Whocares?  This film doesn't want to change the world, just toentertain, and so it does.Better than Notting Hill, I watch this film every time I'm feelingdown.  Great humor.Go rent it.Mag 13 "},{"Title":"Quite cute, especially for the Irish!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being of Irish decent, we thought this would be fun to rent for St. Patrick's Day. We were right. It is a small, sweet comedy chocked full of Irish humor.  (You'll notice one of the writers is indeed Irish!) It's not an over-the-top Julia Roberts romantic comedy. It's not big budget. But, for this film, being small works because it's about life in a small town, with simple people. I loved all the actors in this, and was taken by the scenery. Our family is from a small place in Ireland on the coast, so watching this felt comfortable, like being home.I'd also like to add, I don't feel political comments warrent a space when reviewing a film that is less about politics and more about being true to one's self.Take care- T "},{"Title":"Gotta disagree...","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm not going to give a plot summary because there are already a few for this movie... you might want to read them before you read this. Ok, that said...I had to comment on this movie, mostly because I love it and I think it deserves a positive revue. A romantic comedy may seem like a natural format for Julia Roberts, but Janeane Garofalo? Janeane, who is best known for her cynicism and sarcasm, may not seem like the romantic comedy type, but I have to disagree.I know, this movie has lots of clichéd Irish humor, but those jokes are only made better by the retorts to all the blarney by Janeane, who sticks out in this town like a sore thumb.Director Mark Joffe effectively uses the locations on Ireland's west coast and Aran Islands to help tell the story, showcasing the beauty of Ireland without resorting to the usual postcard imagery. For example, Ireland welcomes Marcy with a cold, story day and torrential rain.We learn in a pie chart presentation that the four ingredients of a good marriage are love, sex, eating, and having a good laugh, with the latter having the largest slice. And Dermot (Milo O'Shea - one of the Matchmaker's) has many tricks to guarantee his success. His turbo tan for the men is claimed to make them instantly irresistible. Nothing like a third-degree burn to turn on the ladies. One unlucky lad even attempts suicide with a sun lamp, which is an extremely painful but normally unsuccessful way to kill oneself.Marcy, of course, manages to catch the eye of part-time bartender and ex-journalist Sean (David O'Hara) and their on-again/off-again interest in each other forms the heart of the story. It's so beautiful here, Marcy tells Sean, If it just had the New York Times, it would be perfect. And then she goes on to confess, I long to fax someone.Sometimes even the slightest of comedies can come alive with the right talent. For some of us who find the standard romantic scenarios a bit too wispy and remote, Garofalo may be just the kind of bluster-busting' leading lady we've been seeking.  "},{"Title":"Not your ordinary Romantic Comedy","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Romantic Comedy as a genre, and I'm always looking for movies that somehow didn't get the press they deserved when they first came out. 'The Matchmaker' (1997) definitely makes my list of 'little known, but definitely worth renting.'I hate plot summaries, so I'll skip to the good stuff. This is a great movie (despite Denis Leary's inability to talk without swearing profusely) because it refuses to be stupid and predictable. It is smart and sarcastic, but still romantic and funny. This is not an easy combination, and few movies are able to pull it off as well as 'The Matchmaker.' Janeane Garofalo's (Marcie Tizard) comedic timing is amazing, as always -- her banter with David O'Hara (Sean Kelly) is wonderfully entertaining. The chemistry is pretty good, which is always a must if we are to believe people who initially despised one another are now falling for each other.All around, a good romantic comedy. The language was a bit rough at times, and unnecessarily so -- if you take out all the 'f---'s, you'd have a PG film.I give it 8 out of 10, and hope to see Janeane Garofalo take another crack at the genre sometime soon. (I also recommend 'Truth About Cats and Dogs', but I think 'Matchmaker' is a better use of your $3.99.) "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie, I thought it was funny, it was quirky. I love the chemistry between david o'hara and janeane garofolo, the characters in this story I thought were very real and fun. "},{"Title":"So Where is the Soundtrack?","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every time I re-watch this quirky love story, what stands out the most is the music.  If any movie deserves a tie-in soundtrack this one does.  The music undergirding this delightful film runs the gamut from the obligatory Van Morrison (this is a romantic comedy after all), to Irish ballads and pop standards.So, where is it? "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Instresting movie. it has lotsa laughs, a little romance, and a great cast. a lot of unknowns, plus Janene Garafalo & Denis Leary (Who Previously worked together on the Lock 'N Load CD) great movie. if you like romance movies, you'll like it. if you like comedies, you'll like it. if you like Denis Leary, You'll like it. if you like Janene Garafalo, You'll Like It. If you like Lock 'N Load...  ah... F*** it. go and rent it. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this movie so many times that after wearing out 2 vhs copies I finally got the dvd. I rented it at first because of Janeane Garofalo & Denis Leary. After that I watch for David O'hara!!!I love all the characters and the scenery is wonderful. Now I want to visit Ireland!!! "},{"Title":"And Then Out of No-Where Came This Movie","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful romantic comedy. After watching several ordinary movies during the week, out of no-where comes this little gem.The story is about a Senator standing for election who sends a member of his staff to Ireland to seek out his ancestry. This is supposed to help him win the Irish vote. But once she arrives in Ireland the story moves to more of a finding love theme that worrying about the Senator.Janeane Garofalo was so right for the main role. She is wonderful at the witty humour as shown in The Truth About Cats and Dogs. I think she is a wonderful actress and I hope to see her in a lot more films.If you want a romantic film with laughs then this is the film for you. Add to this the charm of the Ireland landscape and you have a movie that shouldn't be missed.(Do they really say the F word like that in Ireland ?) "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you know or like anything about Ireland, this movie is hysterical. Janeane is hilarious, showing her comedic talent, and the setting is beautiful. Milo O'Shea performs really well as the local Matchmaker, stirring things up all about the town. The plot isn't too mushy, which is a pleasant surprise. I love this movie.  "}{"Title":"Absolutely adorable and FUNNY","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I adored this movie. From the beginning right up to the end this romantic comedy is enjoyable and watchable.AND IT'S FUNNY!Usually romantic comedies fail on the second part of their genre title. This is a rarity, one of the few romantic comedies that will make you laugh your butt off.Trust me, rent this movie and you'll get a very sweet and funny movie. "},{"Title":"Ah Ireland, land of mist, land of stone, land of...fish.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Caveat the only people I know who have truly loved this movie have been Irish-born or Americans surrounded on all sides by Irish.  I saw this in the theatre when it came out, and the only people who laughed through the entire show were myself and two big Irish lads three rows in front of me.The MatchMaker, while telling a Hollywood-esque love story, easily and gleefully skewers both the green-beer-and-leprechauns Irish-American idiom and the painfully self-aware bejaysus and begorrah Irish tourism industry.Set against the exquisite backdrop of the Connemara coast, the moment our bitter and cynical heroine Marcy Tizard (Janeane Garofalo) lands in Ireland the package-tour blarney is heaped atop her with a trowel.  Just at the moment you think this is going to be yet another example of Irish-American paddywhackery, however, your fears are relieved when the previously-Danny Boy-singing tour leader mutters to his friend that the scowling Garofalo is Grandma expletive Clampett.)She arrives (grumpily) with the directive to dig up the Irish roots of one Senator McGlory (played to dim perfection by Jay O. Sanders) in order to pull the wool over the eyes of the Boston Irish voters, who pay more attention to old-boy Irish cronyism than good politics or policy.  She finds, instead, an Ireland populated by real people with real lives successful and disappointing, hopeful and jaded, upright and corrupt.  She also finds her match -- an equally bitter and cynical ex-journalist Sean Kelly (David O'Hara) who has returned to Connemara after realizing his newspaper career has been a sham.The ensuing dance of non-courtship could be corny if not for the collection of characters that dot the landscape Dermot O'Brien, the ethically-challenged town matchmaker; Millie O'Dowd, the town's *other* matchmaker (and possibly the perfect match for Dermot, if only the two weren't so busy sorting everyone else out), Sarah and Declan Kelly, the proprietors of the pub and B&B where Marcy is staying, who by turns help and hinder the eventual connection of Marcy and Sean; Mr. O'Hara the stone-throwing Inis Mor oldster in the whitewashed cottage (complete with cappucino-maker); the singers in a con the tourist singing competition; then entire cast of the con the Americans morality play; as well as the rest of the town who are (unlike previous posters' descriptions) not eccentric, merely human.The soundtrack of the movie is excellent, but unfortunately has not been released on CD (to my knowledge).  Songs from the Popes, Shane McGowan and Sinead O'Connor (one of my favorite tunes of all time!), the Waterboys, Van Morrison, along with some great trad tunes, elevate The MatchMaker out of diddly-aye-ay land and into the modern world.Finally, I must take issue with previous posters' statements that this movie is hackneyed and full of stereotypes; I think they have completely missed the point.  Every stereotypical moment (such as sining Danny Boy on the bus from the airport) is 100% intentional and self-aware.  Rather than trying to paint that as an accurate picture of the real Ireland, it is there to point out just how self-aware and put-on that kind of behavior is.  The MatchMaker is certainly a lot closer to the real Ireland that I know than most American movies about Ireland and the Irish.  "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this film and I loved it! What a lot of fun it was. I laughed myself silly. Beautiful scenery, cute story. It was a nice way to spend an afternoon! Ms. Garofalo was wonderful, as always. A truly enjoyable movie! "},{"Title":"Really GREAT romantic comedy","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I admit that I am a bit of a sucker for romantic comedies, but this one is truly great.  Not only is it cute in the romantic sense, with some cute people to look at, it is truly funny.  I've seen other romantic comedies that were just okay, but honestly, this one is worth watching.  If I had time to watch it more than I already do (about once every day or two), I would. "},{"Title":"Kiss that Blarny stone.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. No they did not show the parts of Ireland that have the nasty power plant or the areas that are bombed out. What they show is breathtakingly beautiful. And the accents are not that hard to follow. But if you need more practice...I suggest Waking Ned Devine, The Very Thought of You,Brassed Off. Three very fine movies  "},{"Title":"One of my new favorites.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this film over and over.  I love the story. What girl has never dreamed of going on a trip and meeting the man of her dreams???  But I loved that Marci(Gorofolo) did not fall head over heels right away.  It seemed more realistic to the tone of the story.  Pessimist meets cynic.  They are thrown together not of their own will.  Pessimist realizes that there is much more to the cynic, vice versa.  Pessimist and cynic fall in love.  But it's really more complicated than that.  Lots of good details left out so as not to spoil the story completely.  I loved the chemistry between Garofolo and O'Hara.  I think that the movie could not have been cast more perfectly. I would definitely recommend this movie for those of you who don't go for the chick flick but do enjoy a nice romantic comedy.  It's nice to dream realistically. "},{"Title":"sweet and touching, keeps you laughing","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my all-time favorites, and I recommend it to anyone and everyone. The characters keep you laughing and crying and you get so wrapped up in their stories. Jeanine Garafolo and David O'Hara were so funny and dynamic, and every character that entered the storyline was a scene-stealer. I don't think I've laughed this hard at a movie since Monty Python. Some may label this a chick flick, but the movie's comedy and culture would appeal to many. I highly recommend this sweet romantic comedy for cynics and romantics alike. "},{"Title":"That Sarah! You could park a car in her mouth if she held it still long enough! <Sean, about his sister.>","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - I really enjoyed this film, a light romantic comedy set in Ireland. I always like Janeane Garofalo, and here she plays Marcy who is sent by her Senator boss (Jay O Sanders, the 'bad' soccer coach in 'The Big Green') to Ireland to find some of his McGlory relatives, for photo-ops, to help him win the close upcoming election. She gets to the supposed ancestral home, right in the middle of the Matchmaking Festival, which of course adds to the comedic opportunities. In one scene she has to judge the singing contest at the pub (must be a single young lady, she is told.) She never does find the relatives, because the senator's father at the end reveals that we are from Hungary, it became 'McGlory' at Ellis Island. Still, the senator wins the election, and along the way he picks up his future wife, Sean's 'ex', Moira Kelly, well that's my married name, I'm Moira Kennedy.  (Kennedy, Irish, win election...) Sean (David O'Hara) is of course smitten by Marcy, and at the end, missing her at the airport in Ireland, follows her to Massachusetts. In a 'laugh-out-loud' scene, trying to get Sean to the airport, he and his brother both in leg casts, get into the tiny car, and one of them has his cast sticking out the window. They run off the road and don't get there.In a touching scene, the old matchmaker is at home, outside, feeding his chicks, when he drops the food dish, and is obviously in trouble. As he gingerly makes his way towards the door of his home, says to himself, Hold it together, just a little longer.  He makes it inside, sits in his favorite chair, looks at the wall of pictures of family and friends, and they later find him dead in his chair. Probably with a smile on his face.By the very small IMDb vote total, not many people saw this movie.  A shame, because it is a very good one, very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie.  A bit slow at times but solid performances by everyone, especially Milo O'Shea.  I just can't get over how much Janeane Garofalo and Patricia Heaton (Everybody Loves Raymond) resemble each other.  Take 7 years off Heaton and she IS Janeane.  Denis Leary makes a good cad in this movie.  I love the closing scene where he gets his come-uppance.  Got a good solid 6 from me. "},{"Title":"Wonderful except language","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everything about this film is wonderful except the language! Why did they have to add all that foul language? I could watch this over and over and not get tired of the story, characters or funny scenes. I just can't take the language. "}{"Title":"Pleasant and whimsical but unconvincing","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Janeane Garofalo is a very appealing actress and is the best thing about this pleasant entertainment, which could have been better, but does have enough of the whimsical to be reminiscent of other films about Innocents (i.e. Americans) in Ireland, such as Local Hero. Films like this, even when less than great, are a welcome change from the usual garbage that is coming out of Hollywood these day. However, Garofalo's performance lacks a certain essential conviction that would have made it more believable, and some of the film's developments have her doing fairly implausible things merely to advance the plot. David O'Hara, as the moody, disillusioned Irish journalist she eventually falls for, fails to project the strength that Marcy (Garofalo) sees in him. Milo O'Shea, as usual, makes everything look effortless. The rest of the film is populated by the usual sort of colorful characters that seem to inhabit most Irish and Scottish films of this genre (compare Waking Ned Devine). The scenery is striking but you have to be a great fan of bleakness to call it beautiful. (Residents of parts of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland will feel right at home watching this film.) There are a few plot holes. One is that Senator McGlory would have been kept so completely in the dark by his parents about his true heritage, which was not Irish but Hungarian. Another is that, the Irish extraction being a fiction, his family would have come up with a little place like Ballinagra as their family seat. Yet another involves electronics.  Marcy correctly states that her cell phone doesn't work in Ireland. She also says that her computer doesn't work. If that is so, why did she bring it? And hasn't this independent, competent woman ever heard of adapters? And yet the film has her taking a videotape from Ireland back home to Boston and watching it in her VCR. This is clearly a goof, because if Marcy is your average American, she owns a VCR that plays videotapes only in the NTSC format, whereas the Irish use the British PAL format. "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny and romantic","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Anonymous from Santa Cruz is way, way, off the mark. People in small towns in Ireland ARE this quaint and odd, and really DO use the word, bollocks lots! They are drawn as caricatures in The Matchmaker, but hardly in such broad, crass shapes as almost any American film (anything with Jim Carrey except for The Truman Show, for example). Was this as great a film as Local Hero? - certainly not, but it stands on its own feet as a nice, sweet, romantic film with a rare happy ending. The only negative I perceived was Janeane Garofalo's tendency to play too cynical and sarcastic a character, but even that was a great comic contrast to the simple Irish locals.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite an intriguing premise, The Matchmaker just doesn't deliver.   The senator and his aide are nothing more than flat, tired stereotypes, and though the main characters are appealing, the relationships are never clearly delineated enough to make you care.  The plot meanders endlessly through beautiful Irish scenery and lacks the the wit, humor and punch necessary to make this kind of thing work.  "},{"Title":"As average as it gets","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A wonderful example of the perfectly average romantic comedy. This one gets bonus points for being set largely in Ireland (gorgeous scenery, even more gorgeous accents, and haunting music). It gets detractor points for its hackneyed plot, flat characters, and painfully missed opportunities.All actors do a wonderful job with a terribly flaccid script. The standard charming Irish characters are all present -- they mention leprechauns in the picture; perhaps these cardboard cutouts of eccentric Irishmen and Irishwomen are the real leprechauns. The love story itself is remarkably devoid of love or even romance. What saves the film is how much the actors bring to their roles, and how much we as viewers are able to fill in the huge gaps of context, character, dialogue, and significance. We want the picture to succeed, so we cheer along. But as others have noted, once watched, this film is easily forgotten. "},{"Title":"typical light hearted romance","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Typical boy meets girl.  You've seen all of this before in any of a number of movies.  Nothing to unique here at all.  You know the whole story after watching 15 minutes of the movie.  Some people love light hearted romances where everything is plain, simple, uncomplicated and laid out for you...if that's you, this is your movie.  For me, its barely worth the rental fee of $1.50.  I liked the actors and actresses, but it's the script that is thin "},{"Title":"Wonderfully filmed, but Garofalo is grating","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie perhaps six times or more over the past few years, have lived in Massachusetts for awhile, and have traveled around Ireland -- so I feel fully qualified to comment on the content of this film.First, it has a totally believable premise an idiot Senator from Massachusetts (no surprise here), based on advice from a slimeball consultant (deftly played by Dennis Leary) sends a lackey (Janeane Garofalo) on a mission to Ireland to document his family roots, so that he can use this information to pander to his Irish constituents during a close re-election campaign.The lackey (named Marcy) arrives in a small village during the middle of a match-making festival, tries in vain to research the Senator's family history, ends up questioning her own morality and hypocrisy, and eventually falls for a local bar-keeping Irishman (Sean, played by David O'Hara).  Love triumphs in the end back at Quincy Market in Boston.  How sweet.The MatchMaker was beautifully filmed, has an excellent soundtrack, and the Irish characters, who are the true stars of the film, play their parts well.  Many of the actors in the delightful movie Waking Ned Devine appear here as well.  Overall it's a pleasant comedy.  Especially fun to watch is matchmaker Milo O'Shea, and the banter he shares with a competitor (Rosaleen Linehan).  The scene where the local townsfolk rebel against the Senator in a staged family reunion is also a laugh-aloud hoot.However, the film is not without its problems. It's chock full of Irish stereotypes (numerous references to JFK, and lots of drinking, singing, and dancing in the pubs).  The characters all seem to be overtly friendly to Marcy.  Yes, the Irish are indeed friendly folk, but this movie goes way over the top at times.  Marcy's in town for but a few days, yet the townspeople speak and interact with her as if they've known her for years, even after they discover her true motive for being there.  Pleeeease.The biggest problem I have with the movie is Garofalo herself.  She's just not cut out to play a romantic part.  She's a drinking buddy, not a lover.  Her scenes with David O'Hara are awkward at best.  Sure, she's mildly attractive (at least she was in 1997), but she's also gruff and gritty.  These are Garofalo's supposed comedic traits, but, like her political opinions, they wear on you after awhile, and it becomes clearly and quickly apparent that she was miscast here.One final dig against Janeane.  I try to separate one's politics from the performance, but, like her character in this movie, Garofalo is a hypocrite.  She's often labeled those in the current administration as stupid, even though she's just a hip college dropout who has little qualification (other than being famous), to question their intelligence.  The accuracy of Garofalo's views is best illustrated in the following exchange in the film between her and O'Hara...Marcy Is being stupid like being high all the time?Sean  No, it's like being right all the time.Well said Sean, well said. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film never really got going...like one of those slow starters. It was weak all the way through and only really good enough to keep me watching it. I thought it would at least be somewhat funny with Denis Leary in it but I only smirked briefly 3 or 4 times.  "},{"Title":"When Irish Eyes are rolling back into skulls...","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie last year with my roommate because we liked Janeane Garafolo and Denis Leary. Unfortunately, like Denis Leary recently said on Comics Come Home, it was a piece of...we all know. I could not get into all the Irish whimsy because it was just too overpowering. I fell asleep three times, then turned it off half-way through. But I still love those two.  "},{"Title":"Average Comedy Short on Laughs","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  WARNING  May Contain SpoilersThe premise of Matchmaker probably set the bar a little high for success.  A Massachusetts' Senator finds himself in a tight race while scandals aiding his opponent, rage in the press.  Sounds familiar, doesn't it?Well, Sen. McGlory sends his trusted staffmember, Marcy Tizard, effectively played by Janeane Garofalo, to a small Irish town to dig up ancient roots to help the Senator score points at home.  She encounters difficulties in finding any of the Senator's relatives and embarks on romantic adventures of her own.Tizard finds herself in the midst of a matchmaking festival, in which everyone is searching for love.  Tizard, not looking for love herself, of course finds it in the distant land of Ireland.You can guess as to how things turn out.  In fact, the audience can see it coming from the beginning of the film.Overall, this film is nice and cute, but no more.  Laughs are rare and some scenes seem disjointed from the main action (the vandalism of the car comes to mind).  It isn't all bad though.  I give it a mediocre 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"completely forgettable and ordinary","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I came into this movie with high expectations. First, I really liked Janeane Garofalo in The Truth About Cats And Dogs. Second, I loved Waking Ned Devine and looked forward to another charming little film about Ireland. However, I was very surprised just how uninvolved I felt about this movie and shortly after it was over, I had nearly forgotten what it was all about anyways. If it had been better, I would have remembered much more about it and if it were bad the same could be said. It was sort of like eating tuna casserole--not bad but far from something I would choose to consume! To me, it also looked as if the actors and writers felt pretty much the same way. It's just an inoffensive and bland film. "}{"Title":"A well-done romantic comedy despite Irish stereotypes","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this romantic comedy on the shelves at my neighborhood Blockbuster store for a year. There was only one copy and it was often rented, so we finally tried it.Janeane Garofalo plays Marcy Tizard, an overworked campaign staffer for U.S. Sen. John McGlory who is in a tough reelection battle. Hoping for good PR, McGlory sends Marcy to Ireland to find his family roots. She arrives in his ancestral village during its annual matchmaking festival.You can guess the rest. Marcy's cynical, big-city attitudes are met at every turn by the laid-back charm of rural Ireland. The locals tolerate her genealogical search while trying to match her with various bachelors. She comes in constant contact and conflict with a villager named Sean Kelly (David O'Hair) and they eventually fall in love.Finally Marcy has to make a choice between staying in Ireland for a budding love affair, or going back to Boston to continue her career in politics.I thought this movie was charming, low-key entertainment. I give it a thumbs up. Garofalo starts out looking like a hard and harried urbanite, but becomes softer and prettier through the film. Great smile.On the downside, the movie idealizes rural Ireland and plays up a lot of Irish stereotypes. The music track was undistinguished and sometimes drowned out the dialog. Those of us in the U.S. Midwest have trouble with accents anyway. "},{"Title":"B O R I N G","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can sum up this movie for you in one word boring. It was not quaint and delightful, it was not soulful and romantic. It WAS condescending toward virtually everyone involved (men, women, Americans, Irish, politicians, bus drivers, you name it), but unfortunately even that didn't serve to make the movie the least bit interesting. Neither, of course, did all the cliches and trite story elements (did they HAVE TO sing O Danny Boy just as soon as she arrived in Ireland?). There was almost nothing interesting about this movie, with the possible exception of David O'Hara. But he was probably only good relative to the horribleness of this movie.I didn't like it much. "},{"Title":"pretty bad","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  (spoilers) This movie is pretty bad. It's about a girl, Janeane Garofalo, who is sent to Ireland to find the roots of a politician just before the elections. Only to find that it was all in vain, for the politician is not irish, but hungarian. So she gets to Ireland, right in the middle of the matchmaking festival, and of course she becomes some sort of high prize, being wanted by every mentally sane man in the small town. And of course a love story is born between her and David O'Hara, and until the end everything comes out expectedly the politician wins the election, his right hand, a total creep throughout the whole movie gets what he deserves, and Janeane and David stay together.The movie is very predictable, full of cliches and pathetic scenes. Not even the characters are well built. Take Marcy (Garofalo) for example. She starts being really nasty and decided in what she does. Then after she gets to Ireland she becomes more sensitive and romantic. Then, after the meeting between David and the politician, she becomes an unstoppable bad girl, jumping like a maniac on her boss's car. All in all, don't watch it unless you really love love stories. Vote 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"pretend you never heard of it","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is possibly the worst movie I've ever seen.  I see it as my duty to urge anyone who has any affection for this movie's draws - Janeane Garofalo, Dennis Leary, Ireland - to pretend it was never made.  I saw this movie nearly two years ago, and am still so haunted by how bad it was that i haven't been able to watch anything with Janeane Garofalo in it since. There was nothing clever about any of the jokes, nothing original about the plot, and no stereotype left unexploited.  The longest, emptiest hour and a half of my life.   "},{"Title":"Horrible script, lame jokes, an embarrassing waste of a fine comic actress","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This may be one of the worst scripts ever written.   What terrible thing did the lovely and talented Janeane Garofalo do, that she would be required to star in this abomination?    I like a stupid comedy as much as the next person, but this one was labored, lame, and, at times, almost physically painful to watch.Someone needs to tell the filmmakers that the use of the word bollocks is not, in and of itself, enough to make a film wildly funny.  Neither are pee jokes.Janeane, I am so, so sorry.   You deserve so much better. "}]