[{"Title":"Beware that Thing which Lives Forever","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"43 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Inappropriately titled, like the book itself by Koontz, Phantoms is a surprisingly effective monster movie, especially in the first half. The best monsters are the ones which are very difficult to kill; in addition, these types of monsters can destroy fragile human beings with ease. This is what is confronted here, with humans little more than insects to be crushed and absorbed. Of course, certain insects can cause a lot of damage when they put their minds to it. The atmosphere in the first half hour is very eerie and there's a lot of mystery. You have pretty much an empty town, a couple of young women just arrived, and a couple of bodies - no answers. That gloom & foreboding of doom may not be too difficult to create, but we hardly see it anymore, even in horror films. Even if one has seen this film, however, they may be compelled to watch that first half hour again just to get that sense of doom all over. When some cops show up, things get even worse. Then an entire army shows up and, of course, we think things are under control now, but it makes no difference. At least the pic is consistent with its menace.This picture was virtually ignored on release and I don't think video has helped it much. When the monster is revealed, it obviously takes away all the suspense built up earlier, but it's still creepy going (without revealing too much, the monster is a more advanced version of a famous one from the fifties; think also along the lines of The Thing remake by Carpenter in '82). Writer Koontz was involved in the adaptation, which always seems to help. Actor O'Toole appears around the midway point as the only so-called expert on the creature, all based on conjecture, of course. He lends a bit of gravity to it all, tho I suppose he's slumming here in a 'typical' fright flic. The rest of the younger cast do fine, with Affleck a bit irritating as usual. I'm not sure what Schreiber was aiming at, but he was almost as creepy as the creature. There's a bit of a twist ending, which wasn't really necessary. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, atmospheric and highly under-appreciated.","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"48 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the peaceful town of Snowfield, Colorado something evil has wiped out the community. And now, it's up to a group of people to stop it, or at least get out of Snowfield alive. The first time I saw Phantoms, I liked it, but didn't think too much of it. Recently deciding to rent it again for the hell of it, this film is so much better than the previous viewing, I mean REALLY good, one of the best Hollywood-produced horror films I've seen in a while, not to mention THE best Dean Koontz adaptation. Joe Chappelle, who's films in the past unfortunately haven't been very good, does an excellent job directing here, delivering a dark & genuinely haunting atmosphere, not to mention great cinematography and a strong visual style. This film proves he's capable of directing a good movie if he's given a strong script. Oh, that brings me to the script, which Koontz penned himself, having been (Quite understandably) disappointed in the previous adaptations, has done an excellent job with the screenplay. Not only is it intelligent and thought-provoking but is also tightly written. When was the last time we got a SMART horror film? OK, there are plenty out there, but not many that Hollywood have made recently, mind you! Performance-wise, everyone does a great job here, especially the creepy Liev Schreiber (scream 2). Special effects are carefully used, few and far between but generally quite good. Once we finally see the creature it's kind of disappointing (I wish they had used the giant winged serpent described in the book) and quite vague. There's some nice gore too.Phantoms is a smart, creepy, underrated horror gem that deserves better than it's gotten and really makes you think.9/10. "},{"Title":"A film of 2 halves.  Starts really well but the final 30 minutes are disappointing","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Two sisters travel to a small Colorado town to find that the inhabitants are either dead or missing.  Situations including power failures, strange voices on the telephone and mysterious writing inside a windowless room locked from the inside referring to `Timothy Flyte - the ancient warrior'.  When they are joined by a group of local sheriffs the same mysterious force begins to target them.  Meanwhile the military prepare to enter the town with historian Timothy Flyte whose links to the happenings may be stronger that he wants.In `Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' Ben Affleck makes fun of the string of films he is obliged by Miramax to carry out, most of them being rubbish!  Unfortunately he includes this in that joke.  I say unfortunately because for most of the film he's wrong - but ultimately he's got a point.  This starts well - within 3 minutes it goes straight into the action, with very little build up.  Once it starts it doesn't really slack off for almost 45 minutes.  It is genuinely scary because we (like the characters) don't have a clue what's going on or what's going to happen next.  Also we don't see anything except the remains if victims of the `thing' or `person' - leaving us our imagination.  At the half way mark Peter O'Toole and the military are brought in to explain a little about what's going on - however this just gives more victims for the `thing', allowing us to see what happened first hand.  At this point it's still scary because we don't know everything and the special effects are good enough to show the horror in such a way that it is still unknown and scary.However once the truth is fully known it comes down to `lets kill it!' and then it loses it's scare ability.  There are still some tense moments - Affleck being stared at by a Labrador is really tense for one - but it starts to head down the traditional path of `big beast gets killed' film.  The way they plan to kill it is a bit silly and is a real downer when compared to the opening 45 minutes.  The idea by Dean Koontz is very original and well handled however it does have it's flaws (how does `it' know about Affleck's accidental shooting, how does `it' relate from the boy's point of view - did it dig him up! Etc) and these are exposed as the film goes on.  However if you ignore this then it's all fine up until O'Toole starts yapping on about petrol and microbes.As with most horrors of this type, once `it' is revealed then it's major let down - the effects aren't up to the job - a thing with tentacles instead of legs is just daft and the total manistifation is silly and vague.  However while it's hidden the tension is really good.  The final scene of the film is one of those horrible `sequel' type endings (don't worry I have spoilt the actual end of the film!).  NOTE TO FILM MAKERS - please don't do this, it marks your film out as cheap and nasty.  If your film is really very successful then you'll work it out to get a sequel, you don't have to set it up and cheapen the end of your original movie.  Remember Alien3?  Ridley died yes?  But they still worked it out to get her back for another one (at a stretch but they still did it!).  Here the ending makes sense, but it's still cheap.The cast are mixed.  Rose McGowan and Joanna Going are both good but have poor dialogue that takes away from their characters.  Affleck is poor throughout and Peter O'Tool is not as good as you expect him to be.  The worst role is Liev Schreiber, and unfortunately he has to carry many big scenes as the manifestation of the phantom.  He is terrible, his character is terrible (nothing about him is explained!) and he ruins every scene he is in.  WHY!Overall this is a film of two halves - the vast majority is really good, tense and scary, however the second half sees it revert to a bog standard creature feature with some clever touches.  It's all really enjoyable but the actors are mostly poor and the second half needed a lot more originality to build on a great start.  Overall - I really enjoyed it - the less you know about it the better. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly effective and scary horror/thriller.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *** out of ****Dean Koontz isn't exactly the world's most prolific author.  As a writer, he has the tendency to basically re-state his themes and plots over and over. His movie adaptations are usually messy, as clearly seen by such films as Hideaway and Sole Survivor.  Thus, it comes as a surprise that Phantoms is an often terrifying thriller; it's not particularly original, but it delivers the thrills and suspense that it promises .Dr. Jenny Pailey (Joanna Going) is bringing her younger sister, Lisa (Rose Mcgowan), home from L.A. to the small quiet town of Snowfield, Colorado. It's a peaceful environment to live in, with a population of 400, and the town has some nice ski resorts that make it a popular site during the summer.  Upon returning, however, they discover everyone either missing or dead, with bodies that have a strange gooey look to it.  They try to leave, but find their car and every other vehicle in town dead.Exploring further, they enter a bakery, where they encounter Sheriff Bryce Hammond (Ben Affleck) and his two deputies, Shanning (Nicky Katt) and Stu Wargle (Liev Schrieber).  As they look further into town, they discuss what could have possibly caused this massive disappearance and all these deaths. The mysterious cause behind this hasn't ended, however, and as the night progresses, Shanning is taken by an unseen presence.  Hammond and the others must now try to survive the night and hope they can get off a message to the outside world of their plight.Phantoms is a surprise on almost every level.  It's a well-made thriller from Joe Chappelle, whose only previous major credit was Halloween 6, usually regarded as the worst of the Halloween sequels.  He may have seemed like a dubious choice to direct this film, but he does a fine job, creating heavy doses of suspense through some clever uses in the small-town setting and the suggestion of an unseen force lurking around every corner.The film is overall scary, working best when you have no idea what's causing this terror.  The unknown is far more frightening, and Chappelle wisely plays this fun material for all it's worth, creating many eerie sequences, such as a slow exploration inside a hotel, the creepy use of Patsy Cline's I Fall to Pieces, and an encounter with a giant moth that is positively heart-pounding.  For approximately an hour, Chappelle keeps mounting the tension level in, throwing in a good amount of horror and suspense into the proceedings in a relentless manner.The last half-hour isn't as successful because of it's need to slow down and explain everything.  While all movies like this need to do that, for nearly 20 minutes the movie loses most of its suspense when the characters discuss to each other all the things they know about this mysterious presence. These moments are a bit messy due to the lack of some coherence in putting all the ideas in place.  Thankfully, Chappelle brings back the horror and suspense that was so effective in the first hour back into the last ten minutes, and the film ends on a tense note.  The finale's reliance on special effects slightly dims some of the highly suspenseful suggestive forces at work that was so effective in the first hour, but Chappelle still keeps the action moving.Dean Koontz's script is somwhat successful.  He builds in some intriguing ideas that are never fully explored, but to his credit, he had budgetary limitations and had to work with a 96-minute running time.  As a result, the pacing is often so fast, you'll probably wish the film was at least another 15 minutes long.The script is sometimes heavily reliant on many horror cliches, including people walking into dangerous places alone, which is something a character in this sort of film should learn not to do.  But Chappelle still handles these scenes remarkably well, creating suspense in certain spots when it often hasn't worked in other movies.  There are also some lapses in logic, but they can be ignored rather easily.The film has many strong elements.  The visual effects are quite good, such as the giant moth and the other strange creature designs.  The setting is among the film's best assets.  Smalll towns are usually great places to hide an unseen menace and this film pulls it off quite well.  Many of the empty buildings, mainly the hotel and the police station, are great set-ups for some well-done setpieces.The cast is good, and is one of the main reasons this thriller is as effective as it is.  After having seen so many badly acted thrillers (i.e. Urban Legend, I Know What You Did Last Summer), it's great to see a talented cast at work.  Ben Affleck is fine and charismatic in the lead role; he's a strong presence and creates a likable character, as he usually does in his films.  The lovely Joanna Going is likewise equally good as the film's strong female character.  She brings dignity and class to her performance. Liev Schrieber and Peter O'Toole are perhaps the scene stealers, with their mostly successful attempts at humor.  Schrieber is mostly over-the-top, and often creepy, while O'Toole is wry and sarcastic.  It's a bit odd to see such a legendary actor in a film like this, but he plays the role in the right manner.  The only weak link in the acting is Rose Mcgowan, who seems more suited for jokey, hip horror films rather than a serious one, and she's sorely out of place here.David Williams' score is creepy and good in creating some tension.  It sounds somewhat derivative of the works of Ennio Morricone, but it still blends well into the film.  The score is mostly a series of repeating notes, but it actually never becomes a slight annoyance, like John Carpenter's repetitious score in Prince of Darkness.The final scenes is among the movie's flaws.  It's slightly darkly humorous, as it is intended to be, but this ending has been done so often, it's become rather tiresome by now.  It's obvious Koontz has become influenced by far too many modern-day horror films.Phantoms isn't a classic film, since it has its own flaws and doesn't delve deeply into some interesting ideas, but it blends action and horror into a suspenseful and often scary mixture, with non-stop thrills and tension that keep the material fun to watch, even if the story's not always logical. Phantoms is a film good for many chills on a dark evening.  "},{"Title":"Solid horror storyline compensates routine production.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Reasonable supernatural horror, the action taking place in a small town where all the inhabitants have vanished or are dead.The first half hour builds up tension quite well as two sisters return to the town only to find a few dead bodies and some dismembered body parts. Ben Affleck comes on the scene as a very young looking Sheriff, and the plot sort of meanders along until the introduction of Peter O'Toole as an expert in strange phenomenon. The horror turns out to be an evil entity from the depths of the earth, having similar Devil characteristics to those seen in 'Quatermass and the Pit'.The film is forgetable but is still better than most horror/monster movies that are churned out these days. 'Phantoms' rarely resorts to cheap humour or trite one-liners and, despite the presence of Affleck, doesn't fall back on any romance to pad out the plot. The horror theme stays strong throughout, and while there are obvious ideas lifted from other films - 'The Andromeda Strain' and particularly the metamorphosising dog from 'The Thing'- at least the film remains true to its roots.The second half of the film begins to wilt but fortunately things are wrapped up quite quickly, and while the performances, effects and script are all routine, the story element itself is allowed to dominate and this is strong enough to carry the film past the average mark. "},{"Title":"Not bad...but should be credited as a remake","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This may have been based on a Dean Koontz novel, but Phantoms should acknowledge itself as being an unofficial remake of an old Hammer Studios film, X The Unknown, with which it shares it's main antagonist. The only real difference is that Phantoms lends a more mystical slant to the idea (though primarily just at the beginning of the movie).As a horror film, this movie is fun...very reminiscent of a good old 50's or 60's horror movie that immediately immerses you in the situation.  The one problem with the film is that each character is interesting by themselves, but they don't really gel together that well as a whole.  Peter O'Toole is at his quirky best, and Ben Affleck is always enjoyable, so it's really hard to complain about that.  The SFX are okay to middling, but work well with the atmospheric cinematography.  Definitely worth a rent! "},{"Title":"a very entertaining horror/sci-fi","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms is a cracking film...I'm slightly reluctant to admit this given it's standing (and the fact it stars Ben Affleck) but I went into it with low expectations and enjoyed it thoroughly. Its a fast paced piece of sci-fi/horror hokum with some great shock moments that'll have you jumping out of your seat or cowering behing the sofa..If you're looking for a scary film for Halloween that doesnt revolt, try this. "},{"Title":"Not the awful movie everybody says","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First of all a consideration you are in a town besieged by an unknown entity, you are not a cop, but a girl. You hear a noise in a room that should be absolutely empty. Do you turn around slowly and slowly go to look what made that noise? HELL NO! You run away screaming like hell, find a fire weapon and annihilate anything you see. Said this, let's talk about movie.The concept is really cute and the casting is good, but the characters are thrown in the story with no background and this can be a fault... The scaring parts are really predictable music slowly increasing, than stops like hm everything's alright then BAAAW! someone or something pops out. I could turn the volume down every time there was a scary noise part in time -)The ending is also a bit poor and with the classic I'll be back! style.However, not less than 6/10 "},{"Title":"Dean Koontz novel gets better-than-average execution on screen","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms (1998) Ben Affleck, Peter O' Toole, Rose McGowan, Joanna Going, Liev Schreiber, Nicky Katt, Clifton Powell, D Joe Chappelle. When two sisters drive into a small Colorado town, they find the whole place depopulated, but corpses keep turning up. What caused it disease or something else? Enter sheriff Affleck and his snickering deputy (Schreiber), who are just as clueless about these unexplained happenings as they are. Then an army of scientists and a professor-turned-tabloid journalist (O' Toole) come into the scene, discovering what wiped out the 500 residents came from deep underground. Better-than-average from a Dean Koontz novel, written by its author and well-acted for a thriller this ridiculous, that really pushes your buttons with suspenseful scenes and doesn't need to rely fully on special effects. O' Toole's character makes little sense, and we don't believe Affleck's chief graduated from Harvard. Running Time 91 minutes and rated R for sci-fi violence, gore, and language. ** ½     "},{"Title":"High expectations give a good movie a bad wrap","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has read Dean Koontz's novel can appreciate what I have to say here.  The book was absolutely amazing.  I started it and absolutely could not put it down.  The suspense was killing me.  I read it over and over and...you get the idea.  I had no idea that a movie was made of it until I was REALLY bored with looking through the New-Releases at Blockbuster, trying to find a good horror flick.  Mind you, that is almost an impossible task these days.  Anyways, I started browsing the horror section when the word Phantoms jumped out at me.  This peaked my curiosity, so I picked it up and, sure enough, it was based on my favorite horror novel.  So, I rented it and was expecting something mind-blowing.  Well, that wasn't exactly what I got.  I got an EXTREMELY chopped up version of a great book where my favorite parts were cut.  I was so disappointed and decided that I hated the movie.  Later, a friend came over and had rented some movies.  Phantoms was in the mix.  He had never seen it, so I didn't want to ruin it for him by saying no.  So, I watched it again, and his reaction was pure excitement throughout the entire flick.  He loved it and wanted to watch it again. At this point, I was up for it just to see what HIS fuss was all about.  If I were in his shoes and had never read the novel (forgive me for saying that), I would have loved it too.  It really was good.  Word of advice  DO NOT READ THE BOOK FIRST!  You will miss out on what could be a great horror movie experience for you. "}{"Title":"PRETTY SCARY","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this quite a scary science fiction/horror film. I would compare it favorably to Wishmaster, for example.The special effects were up to par. Peter O'Toole did seem a bit uncomfortable in his role, but the other actors did OK given the limited character development of their parts.The typical There Will be a Another ending was supplied. You just can't get rid of those darned worms it seems "},{"Title":"Why are these people in this movie?","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I admit that I've never read a Dean Koontz book, but I have nothing against the horror genre.  I watched this movie mainly because Peter O'Toole is in it, and I also like Rose McGowan for her edgy roles.I was impressed, but not in a good way, by three things.  First, the cinematography was awful.  Badly shot, it had special effects that looked like special effects instead of being part of the movie.  The whole thing looked amateurish, as if it was shot to be a CBS after-school movie (was it?)Secondly, the dialogue and it's delivery was very weak.  The lines were delivered as if they were the best words ever to be said on screen and not part of the dialogue, which would have been a better choice.  In short, it came across over-acted.  Very strange considering there is some real talent in this one.The last thing is the story.  Not to slam Koontz - maybe it's not his error- but there doesn't seem to be any consistency or reasoning in  the characters.  Why is Shreiber's character such a happy goof in the face of such danger?  No reason.  Why are McGowan's and Going's characters able to pick up shotguns and shoot them like they've been using them all their lives?  No reason.  For that matter, how is a dentist able to calmly give an autopsy on a gory, faceless corpse that has just been brutally murdered by a supernatural force?  no reason.  Why not, I guess...This movie left me wondering why it was made so poorly, and more importantly why, in 1998, when most of these actors had decent careers, did they choose to be in this garbage? "},{"Title":"Demons With an Oily Presence Take over a Small Town","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms is one of my favorite horror/sci-fi films of all time (which is saying a lot).  I've seen it several times and I find it still is entertaining.  I actually purchased the book after I viewed the film and now it is one of my favorite books as well. Ben Affleck is good as the hero in the film.  This was made before he made it as a big time star.  Even Peter O' Toole does a very credible job as a National Enquirer type reporter.   The tension is well placed throughout the movie.  What I really enjoyed about the story was as the audience you didn't really see what the creature(s) looked like during the movie.  You were given bits and pieces (pardon the pun) of this monster throughout the movie.  Even as the movie ended it left it wide open for a sequel, which probably won't happen because it did not do well at the box office.  However, if another movie company did decide to make a sequel, direct to video, I would be the first to rent it.  I really did not want the movie to end. That is how much I enjoyed it.  I'm sure you will to.  "},{"Title":"Great start, slowly degenerating until a horrible ending","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The story starts promising and freaky. Two sisters driving a car to see they're parents, living in a small village. When they get there (about two minutes in the movie) the entire village is abandoned, and weird things start happen.The first 40-50 minutes of the movie is really good, filled with a creepy atmosphere, and the feeling of that an unknown force, with the ability to be everywhere, anytime. But then the story progresses and we realize what is causing this to happen.The writer of this movie did too good of a job to explain a seemingly supernatural occurrence, to make it logical and thereby ruining the scariness of it, making the last thirty last minutes really unscary and more of a action oriented movie.The story and beginning are great, but fatal flaws in the progress of story ruins the atmosphere, bringing this movie down to its knees. "},{"Title":"Stupid Movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Maitlin's Movie review gave this one **1/2 out of ****. I guess he is allowed a few mistakes. It should have been about * maybe as a stretch *1/2.Its problem? The first half of this film had good tension, scares and a real sense of foreboding and mystery. Then along came the monster or whatever it was. Then it was just computer generated gibberish, bad dialogue, inane acting twists that lacked any sense of credibility. When will the people that do horror films realize that it is not what you see that is scary it is what you don't see. If you want a movie that leaves the heart pounding and the pulse racing rent Mimic yet we rarely see the monster(s). This one just made my brain go mushy and wish it were soon over.I had a terrible time accepting Ben Affleck as the Sheriff. That was a miscast but I guess they needed a pretty face. Better was Leif Schreiber as Deputy Sheriff Stu Wargle. Except when he was dead they should have just left him that way. Morphing back into the monster he was forced to mutter idiotic lines that left me rolling in the aisles rather than eliciting any fright. Finally it is sad to see how low Peter O'Toole has sunk reduced to doing stereotype parts.All in all a waste of celluloid and a wasted evening on a flick that should have been better.  "},{"Title":"A decent, fairly enjoyable film but an odd adaptation","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Phantoms is a decent film, based on the novel by Dean Koontz, about an ancient life form that takes over a small town. The story is interesting enough to keep you watching, and the effects are pretty good, even for what was obviously a low budget film.But as an adaptation of the book though this was mediocre, which is odd because Koontz, who is disappointed with many of his previous adaptations, wrote the script. There are many problems, first, the film is too short, I would not have minded if he had left some more material from the novel in the film, many characters were cut out, and the background of many of the characters is not explained properly, neither is the background on the creature itself. Peter O'Toole and Liev Schreiber were good choices for their roles but Ben Affleck, Joanna Going, and Rose McGowan did not fit their characters properly, Affleck and Going are far too young, and McGowan is far too old to play the characters that they are supposed to be playing.But I have to say I like the movie better, because the movie was more darker and mre scarier, the biggest improvement was the scene where that moth attacked the group, I liked the way it was portrayed in the movie better, also I am glad Timothy Flyte got a much bigger and better role in the movie, in the book I though t he was pretty underused, I also like that part where Flyte talks to the Ancient Enemy to make it come out and I also liked the way the Enemy reveals itself in all its glory, and I also liked the concept that the creature may not have been completely destroyed, hence the ending.Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"You wanna see something?","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~Phantoms is Dean Koontz's best big screen adaptation that I've seen since Funhouse (Watchers sucked!). Joe Chappelle once again turns to that strong atmosphere that he created in Halloween 6. It really builds up during the first half of the movie too. Our heroes are led to an eerie hotel within the abandoned town of Snowfield and all hell is about to break loose. That's where the tension is heaviest. People are disappearing, body parts are found, that damn Fall to Pieces song keeps playing, and you have no idea what could happen next. That doesn't mean that the second half is not good. It just doesn't quite live up because it looks like they borrowed a lot from The Blob '88. It's still has its moments (Liev Schreiber turning into a Lovecraftian monster and the church scene). The cast is good too (Besides Rose McGowan, it looks like they were trying to stay away from the usual teen stuff). We've got a couple of fine actors here, including Peter O'Toole, Schreiber (who's extra creepy), and Nicky Katt (who should've had a bigger part). I'd hate to call Ben Affleck a fine actor but he was da'bomb in Phantoms, yo! Sorry, had to do it. Regardless of nay-sayers, Phantoms is a fine horror film. Phantoms like a mo'fu**er! "},{"Title":"well...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not the best, not the worst. I liked the ending better than the one Dean Koontz gave in the book, because in the movie, you kinda keep on guessing. Then again, I liked the fact that Rose McGowan wasn't even a character in the book. She kind of retardified the little-sister part. My opinion might be a little useless, because I've honestly never seen a movie that truly scared me, you see...But there are always little things that're freaky. In this, I'll tell you...Deputy Stu (Liev Schreiber, who happens to be one of the coolest actors ever)had the most terrifying laugh I've ever heard in my entire life. I swear, if I heard that sneaky, creepy (yet kinda hilarious) laugh in a dark alleyway, I'd cry, and then I'd probably wet myself. But hey, I'm weird. If you get the chance to see this movie, go for it. Don't expect The Exorcist. Just expect to cry and wet your pants everytime that guy snickers... "},{"Title":"Fun rip off of somepast sci-fi greats","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film was a fascinating melding of various classics and not-so-classics of the creature feature genre done with style. It did exactly what a good B-movie Sci-fi should do Rip off better films and do it knowingly with tongue firmly in cheek. The cast was interesting and had decent star power for the grade of motion picture (film legend Peter O'Toole, Scream 2 Star Liev Schreiber, Ben Affleck and Boston Publics Nicky Katt), except for Rose McGowan, who, as talented as she is, was way too old to play a 14-year-old. It was also good to see Ben Affleck not trying to win awards in some silly Michael Bay movie. Whoever did the makeup effects must have seen 1989's Leviathan and the script had elements of the movies Leviathan, The Thing, Virus and even the remake of The Blob (the final scene had shots that were exactly the same, minus the snow machine, of course) In short, if you are kicking back and want to see something with some cool effects but not much thought, rent this and have some fun.  "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **Possible minor spoilers** I rented this primarily based on Jason Mewes' classic Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back line, Affleck, you da bomb in Phantoms! so I really had no expectations going into this film.Turns out it's a nicely suspenseful film with some problems here and there. The steady pacing really stumbles around the last third of the film while the characters are basically just sitting around figuring out what to do, and the filmmakers took what I felt was a little too long to finally reveal the creature, in any of its forms.I didn't find the concept fiercely original either, and I was constantly reminded of H.P. Lovecraft (nasty betentacled creature from the depths of the earth, older than man, etc.)The acting was decent all around, and though some other people may criticize Liev Schreiber, I thought his delivery of You wanna see somethin'? was just great.Not a fantastic film but good entertainment for a boring afternoon. 6/10. "}{"Title":"Great and Suspenseful!","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie! I don't want to say too much 'cause I don't want you to know what's gonna happen or anything. What I will say is that this movie won't leave you disappointed. One reason I liked this so much is because you don't have to wait too long before the movie gets going. So, don't go walking out of the room for some reason because if you do, then chances are that you'll miss the beginning of everything, and trust me you'll want to see everything.Go get it,.... before it gets you! 10/10 A+++ "},{"Title":"Great book, frightening movie","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the age of teenage horror flicks spawning everywhere, truly scary movies made in this decade are few and far between.  And for that matter, being the movie hound that I am, I can say that I am never scared at movies. However, this movie frightened me some, and that is saying a lot. Although the character depth is no where near that of the book, the movie lives up to Dean Koontz's creativity.  It uses incredibly frightening visual effects and it also digs to the heart of fear.  Although the novel is far better, the movie is not one to pass up.   "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, Scary and Good","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie makes you wonder what it really was that is taking over the town and you wont stop watching till you find out.  I liked this movie because it did teach you things that you would've never known.  I also think Dean Koontz is one of the best writers ever. "},{"Title":"Not Completely Terrible","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The reviews for this flick were uniformly bad so I waited until it popped up on cable to give it a look-see.  I was pleasantly surprised to discover that Dean Koontz has offered us an amusing  variant on the haunted house genre story that makes few demands on the mind and manages to provide a good 90 minutes of guiltless diversion.  I wouldn't say this is the best chiller I've ever seen, but it is far from the worst.  The actors aren't great, but who cares? It's nice to see Peter O'Toole still collecting a salary with mannerisms that he's been using since before Ben Affleck was a zygote.  "},{"Title":"The Ancient Enemy","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Kicked of of the faculty of the prestigious Oxford University because of his off-the-wall theories Prof. Timothy Flyte, Peter O'Toole, now writes for the supermarket tabloid Wide World News. You could imagine the surprise he had when one evening he was visited by these two FBI agents Hawtthorne & Wilson, Bo Hopkins & Robert Knepper. It seems that Flyte was on to something in his writings of mysterious disappearances all throughout history since the beginning of life on earth. The disappearance of entire civilizations like the Mayans in 610 AD the English colony of Roanoke in the new world in 1590 and even more recently the 3,000 Chinese soldiers who vanished without a trace outside the city on Nanking in December 1939. This thing that was responsible, according to Flyte, for these strange phenomena has struck again and this time in the small town of Snowfield Colorado.Sisters Jennifer & Lisa Pailey, Janna Going & Rose McGowan, traveling to Snowfield, where Jennifer runs a medical clinic, from L.A. they find the town eerily deserted. When the two sisters check into Jennifers home they find her maid Helda dead. Looking from house to house and store to store in Snowfield they find that everyone in town had either died of some mysterious disease or were hacked to death. It wasn't until the local sheriff Bryce Hammond, Ben Afflect, and his two deputies Stu Wargel & Steve Shanning, Live Schriber & Nicky Katt, came on the scene that they all realized that something out of, or under, this world happened to the people of Snowfield. The only clue that they had was a message scrawled in lipstick on a locked bathroom mirror stating The Ancient Enemy, Thimothy Flyte. Even though the story is a bit hard to follow the film Phantoms does have it shocks and thrills with the human race battling this ancient enemy that has resurfaced again to claim it's share of victims like it did over and over on earth since time immemorial. Living off life on earth these phantoms are not only able to wipe out whole towns cities or even civilizations they can even mimic their victims and absorb their minds and memories as well as their flesh and blood. Which makes them almost invincible even in the face of modern scientific and military technology. The ending of the movie Phantoms was even more far fetched with Prof. Flyte coming up with this chemical component that has to do with cleaning up oil spills that does in the Ancient Enemy of all Mankind once and for all, or does it? The movie has a very young and teenage-looking Ben Afflect playing not only the town's sheriff Bryce Hammond but also being a Harvard graduate as well as a former FBI agent who quit because he killed a little boy by accident and never wanted to touch a gun again. You wonder why Bryce would later get a job as a sheriff where he's obligated to not only carry but very possibly use handguns if he's so spooked by them? "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie!  Spoiler Alert!","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was actually a decent movie, based on the book of the same name by Dean Koontz.Ben Affleck was ideally cast as the sheriff who answers a distress call from a female doctor trapped with her younger sister in their mountain town as they have returned home to find the town deserted and all the inhabitants vanished or dead. As always, he makes a very capable hero.The movie did reasonably well in maintaining the eerie tone of the book, especially in the sequences where a) the 'dead' scientists show up at the army camp, b) Ben Affleck has to walk past the monster in 'dog' form while it just sits there watching him and c) where he ends up trapped underground with it when it has taken the form of a little boy.I was disappointed that they cast Liev Schrieber as Stu Wargle though; I thought he did a good job but was miscast as the sleazy perv. It was good to see Peter O'Toole as Flyte bringing his usual class to the performance.All in all a good movie. "},{"Title":"Want a spooky Saturday night?  Get this one.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  At the outset, I must confess horror film is not my cup of tea.  Havingsaid that, I have seen this together with Hellraiser II on TV lastnight, and thought I might contribute my thoughts on this one.I notice most of the negative reviews posted here have to do with thegap between the film and the original novel.  I have little to sayabout it since I haven't read the original, but if the film indicatesor implies any connection to the original (as is the case with thisone, because at least the American full title bares the author'sname!), I think it is only fair to live up to its claim.  With other reviewers, I might suggest, Don't read the original until you've seenthe film.The film, in its own right, has lived up to the quality expected in ahorror/sci-fi genre.  It starts off as a spooky tale just like anotherX files episode (without Fox Moulder, but with a Scully alternative!),then develops into a typical effect-packed horror film with all theloud SFX and intimidating camera angle, and further develops into asci-fi film with full of special effects (and yes, yet again, a madprofessor with an English accent!!!), then ends with some room for asequel.As for casting, I have very little to complain, but as others havesuggested, if even just one of the main characters would have been abig gun, this film just might have made it to a huge hit.  GillianAnderson as Jennifer?  Courteney Cox as Lisa?  Anthony Hopkins as Flyte(or will Fox Moulder fit in here)?  As for Stu, oh Liev would donicely.I don't think this was such a bad film, and if you want to have aspooky Saturday night with your girl friend, this just might be theanswer. "},{"Title":"Good movie -- better book","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't a bad movie (of course, my standards for defining a 'bad' movie are pretty low), but if you've read the book, it's bound to be disappointing.  The richness of the characters (of ALL Mr. Koontz's characters, in ANY book, in fact) is lost when brought to the silver screen, and in order (I assume) to shorten the film, several of the relationships (especially that between Lisa and Jenny) are changed, often for the worst.On the other hand, if you've read the book, you've at least got an unofficial explanation for why some of the cops act the way they do, which is better than you'll get if you've not read it...  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie was well crafted, and despite the rumors, did a good job at getting across the story. Even though the movie differed greatly from the book, it was still an enjoyable experience. The very idea that a creature can become your fears is a insightful creation. The monster is so powerful it also seems as if the people are just little players in his game. The idea that the monster thinks he is lucifer also is ingenious and the story holds to reality as close as it can with it's sci-fi image(military involvement). The different twists in the story give the watcher a constant baiting keeping him/her in the suspense of the moment. The weird scenes also give a horror element i have seen only rarely in other movies of this kind. It was a spectacular experience-number one (even though you think Ben affleck is bad, he did a great job-filled the shoes perfectly). It is my favorite movie, give it a chance, and i am sure if you know anything about a good movie experience you will be a fan. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies of 1998!!!!!!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"19 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The cast and special effects lift this unique (and very much underrated) horror movie that also sports a interesting plot and some effectively creepy scenes. I give this movie 4 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Time for a remake","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sadly the basis of the book was not translated very well to the big screen, now that special effects are much improved, it may be time to rekindle the dying embers of what should have been a great film.The taunting of the people in Snowfield, the arrival and setup of a cordon, the reason why Santa Mira police were there in the first place were all dismissed. Sadly in many ways, the whole point of the movie wasn't really realised because they were so focused on getting to the end that they seem to have entirely forgotten about the story, no suspense moments whatsoever, no what's gonna happen next..It was a major disappointment sadly because it didn't get the treatment it deserved; it should have been so much better, one can only hope that the script is redone; with a better understanding of the book and the nature of the story. "},{"Title":"A sci-fi/horror mish-mash","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Apparently, Phantoms is based on a book, but, seeing as I haven't read it, I really can't compare it to that. The popular consensus from those that have is that - as usual - the film doesn't compare to the book.It's about two sisters who come to a small town after their mother died, only to find that the whole town has also died, only in more hideous and disturbing circumstances. Luckily, the youngest Sheriff in America (aka Ben Affleck) is on hand to help them out and steer them through the danger. Add into the mix eccentric British academic, Peter O'Toole and you have a rag-tag bunch ready to combat evil. Yes, the American army does try to help, but it's fair to say that Ben and Peter are better at saving the world than any trained military force.Somehow I managed to watch Stephen King's (much maligned) 'Dreamcatcher' before I saw Phantoms and I found the two were pretty similar - both decent enough sci-fi/horror movies, but both also a bit flawed. Neither seems to know really which direction it's going and throws one new element into the mix after the next.If you regularly watch sci-fi/horror B-movies, then Phantoms is definitely a cut above those. It's just a pity that it wasn't a bit more focused, otherwise it might have been a classic. "},{"Title":"Clichéd but gets better","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had no preconceptions about this movie since I happened across it just starting whilst channel flicking. The synopsis of the empty town appealed and then I saw it was based on a Koontz book, so I stuck with it.If I had rated this movie on the first 10 minutes it would be a 2 or 3. The acting is simply atrocious, especially by McGowen. What should have been the creepiest part, wandering around a deserted town, turned into a cringe-fest of terrible acting and clichéd lines and camera positioning, and some awful cheap looking effects.However, once the monster starts showing itself I was pleasantly surprised that the effects improved considerably. They were similar to The Thing in many respects (although not to the same level), and showed at least some originality over the usual monsters. They managed to distract me fromthe stilted acting.The fact remains that, despite decent effects, the whole film is so cliché ridden that my wife and I were reduced to predicting each scene as it played out. It really was that bad. I couldn't tell it was trying to be a B movie or not.All in all extremely average, but it did at least pick up from the start and was an entertaining enough diversion with nothing else on the TV. "},{"Title":"Lots of creepy $h!t","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Being the best Movie Ben Affleck ever acted in, and his personal best acting job, (LOL!) Phantoms is a really decent little horror movie. I love the first half, especially when all the poop hits the fan and people start changing into things that would really crash the property values in your neighborhood big time! Too bad Ben didn't stick to B horror, it suits him well. All the depth he brings to his craft is never taxed by the demands of that genre, unlike when he tries to do serious drama or comedy (pass the pepto-bismal). Liev Scheiber shows his wonderful talents in this early role as the creepy deputy who is gradually succumbing to the evil force that is taking over the town. I always thought that Koontz got his inspiration for this novel from Steve King's The Mist which is a much better story, and was made into a much better movie. You will note many similar elements and atmosphere here. All-in-all this film will generally do what any decent horror movie should do get a girl to move from the other end of the sofa and into your arms, or some semblance of that, anyway. Give it a try on DVD with some orville reddenbacher and diet soda (Girl on sofa not included). Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Phantoms","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It Wiped out the Mayans..Are We Next?Doctor Jennifer Pailey(Joanna Going)coerces her sister(Rose McGowen) into leaving LA for a little while so they can bond in the sleepy town of Snowfield only to find the place deserted for the exception of dead bodies drained of blood and severed body parts. Soon they are joined by policemen, Sheriff Bryce(Ben Affleck, who really isn't that bad, just a bit too young for the role)and his deputies Stuart(Liev Schrieber, who really makes his character come off an eccentric oddball)& Steve(Nicky Katt, wasted). Funny noises and blinking lights greet them along with some sort of bat creature and distorted voices. They can not leave for whatever has taken over this town drains power from vehicles and/or destroys the insides under the hoods. Bryce finds writing on a mirror(from red lipstick)calling for a Dr. Timothy Flyte(Peter O'Toole)and Ancient Enemy. They also find a mound of metal products such as wrist watches, buttons, and even a pacemaker..we later learn from Flyte himself that the metal is undigested remains vomited by whatever is doing the dirty deed. Calling for help from outside sources such as the FBI, Bryce and the clan wait in the hopes that they'll be on their way as soon as possible. The FBI, along with a biological and chemical task force suited and helmeted for the search, call on Flyte to assist him. He wrote a series of articles claiming that civilizations(such as the Mayans)and large groups of people vanished because of a specific organism not quite known by mankind. He was politely excommunicated from the scientific community where he began to write for World Wide News a rag dedicated to phenomena and mysteries unsolved..in other words, a rag whose voice veers towards the fantastic. It's soon understood that what has taken over the town is indeed a ancient organism which has lied dormant under ground that can feed on human and animal organisms absorbing everything about them including memories, thoughts, feelings of the host..perhaps their very soul. When nearly the entire task force is wiped out and taken over by the organism, Flyte, Bryce and the sisters(..his deputies don't quite make it)will have to somehow outsmart the thing or else perish. The organism has a massive ego claiming god-like status and this may be it's downfall. In essence, the thing is animal and therefore might have weaknesses that can be virally infected.I thought the opening thirty minutes which essentially makes the flick an old-fashioned type of boo flick is excellent. Director Chappelle really builds suspense as we ponder what happened to the people in this town. We also wonder what the small group of characters will find as they search for signs of life or a hidden killer. Peter O'Toole is a pleasure to watch as Flyte, a man who knows all the answers and has some funny zingers(..appropriately amusing considering the silly premise regarding the monster)that follow the bizarre circumstances he's faced with. The film loses steam and credibility when it becomes a monster movie fashioned directly after the 1988 version of The Blob even having a sink scene where a suited scientist sticks his hand toward the drain. Schrieber just behaves strange from the get-go often having you wonder what exactly keeps such a character on a police force..at least he does bring something unique to his character making him watchable. Going and McGowen are our female heroines we expect to see survive and Affleck is clearly the voice of reason in a situation of chaos. Good tentacle effects especially when a monstrous Schrieber comes hunting for the sisters. I just thought the final 45 minutes concerning the hilarious plot about the monster and how it consumes societies using them as hosts, with it's agenda for Flyte to write about it as a god to worship, hog-wash. The film simply slides in quality, in my opinion..it's kind of disappointing because the build-up in the opening I felt was very effective and scary. "},{"Title":"Phantoms -- all you need to know","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I hate to say this because it has been said a thousand times before in a thousand different movies.. but here it goes The book is SO much better. Since this is a comment space for the movie, I can only say that it tried to live up to the book, but it just simply could not be done. I think the movie failed due to casting.. Ben Affleck should not have been picked to be in this movie. More so than Affleck.. McGowen was horrible casting. The movie also seemed to cut out the most important parts of the book and the special effects were not up to speed. Overall, I think this movie would have been great if it were made in 2005, the special effects would have made it much better in the end. Also, if Hollywood hadn't tried so hard to appeal to the young people by casting Affleck and Mcgowen, the movie would have been that much better.There is still hope for the Koontz fans however, I would love to see a version of The Taking which is almost like Phantoms but with a sci-fi twist. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i watched this film a few years ago and can remember being disappointed by the end.Mainly because the first half of the film was good and quite tense as you didn't know what was coming up next,but then it became all too predictable.i remember Ben Affleck starring in this movie and i can honestly say i don't know how he got to where he is today because he was not impressive at all.i read the book a while before and enjoyed that and the film is certainly not a patch on the book by dean Koontz but then again you could argue that most movies are not as good as their books.Overall i would give it a 7 but it had the potential for a 8. "},{"Title":"Good movie with good special effects","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Before i watched this movie i looked at the cover of the DVD case and read the back of it and then i went on to this web site and i saw the bad rating of 4.9 out of 10 and i was convinced that this movie would be crap and then i watched it and it terned out to be really good and this movie is way under rated its at least a 6 out of 10.The acting in this movie was good at times and bad at times and this movie stars actors and actress like Ben Affleck,Rose Mcgowan,Peter O'Toole,Liev Schreiber,Joanna Going and Nicky Katt.There are some good action scenes in this movie like the scene when the scientists are in the church looking at a dead body and a dog comes in and one of the scientists starts pating it and then a monster comes out of the dogs back and the monsters long snake like arms start killing all of the scientists and the scenes at the end of the movie are good.Over all this movie was good but some times it got a little bit crap and my rating is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If you like the Silent Hill games, you'll like the first 42 minutes","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am a real big fan of the Silent Hill video game series. I read on wikipedia that this Silent Hill draws a lot of inspiration from this movie. That does not surprise me.The movie has a lot of things that I would change. For instance- 1.lose the deputies, and demote Ben Affleck from sheriff to deputy, making him the only police officer. 2. lose the military involvement.3. lose the science-y stuff.It's a decent movie - but the first 42 minutes are great. Even Ben Affleck, who annoys me, is alright in this movie. I liked it. "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck Is Da Bomb In Phantoms Y'all","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ben kicks ass in a great little romp, destined to go down in cinematic history through the references in JASBSB. a great performance from all involved, clever story and an equally good if not better script curtosy of having the Author being there! becomes quite eerie and uses some good effects. a convenient movie full of coincidences, a few holes are left in the plot tho because of this. this being said it does start to drift off towards the end. not to take anything away from it a thoughrally enjoyable movie. Not a must see, but well worth watching. "}{"Title":"Again the Book was much better","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What kinda kick does it give Hollywood to totally ruin a good story. They totally left out over half the plot. This movie could have been done much better. For some reason The TV networks seem to be doing a better job with Dean Koontz movies then Hollywood. Most of his books are a mini series waiting to happen. Its hard to get all the thrills packed into a Dean Koontz Novel into a 1 1/2 to 2 hour movie. If you liked the movie read the book you'll like it even more, if you didn't like the movie read the book and see what it should have been. "},{"Title":"Great first half, mediocre last half (except the dog)...","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dean Koontz adapted his novel of the same name for this good, but shallow Horror film. It starts out very promisingly Jennifer Pailey(Going) is taking her younger sister Lisa(McGowan) to Snowfield, California to get her away from Los Angeles. The population of Snowfield in the Winter is about four hundred, but when Jennifer and Lisa are driving down the road to their destination they see nobody walking the streets. When they finally arrive at their house it appears to have been broken into. Not much later they find their maid on the kitchen floor dead, of course. They do a bit more exploring in the small town finding a pair of heads and a pair of hands. Everyone else is either dead or missing. Enter Sheriff Bryce Hammond(Affleck) and his slightly odd partner, Stu(Shreiber). Together they figure out that what originally appeared to be a disease(the maid was a bright yellow) was something else(easy to deduce, since rolling pins can seldom be found with the previous owners hands attached to them). Okay, so it's some nut with a meat cleaver, right? Wrong.The plot to Phantoms is very interesting that an evil being that has existed in the Earth since the beginning of time can be blamed for numerous historical disappearances. Not much of this is explored in the film, unfortunately. Instead, we get various scare tactics and, every once in a while, some genuine suspense. Most of the terror is achieved with loud sounds accompanied by a few fair special effects. On the other hand, there're a few scenes toward the end of the film involving a rather innocent looking dog that are quite suspenseful. One scene, in particular, involves a confrontation with Hammond(Affleck). You'll never see such a cute dog look even the slightest bit more menacing. Chappelle manages a few more terrifying sequences, but, unfortunately, they all occur in the first half(the dog doesn't appear until the final quarter). The film goes quickly downhill once it hits the halfway point. That's a shame, since the build-up is quite well done.The final half of the film introduces Peter O'Toole as a tabloid writer. He's got some creative theories about what happened, but, like I stated above, they aren't explored. From what I've heard the confrontation between O'Toole and the monster is detailed beyond belief in the novel. It's a pity to not see it here.If you're interested in jumping out of your seat and being intrigued at the same time then Phantoms isn't a bad choice. Providing, of course, that you don't mind the under-developed characters and finale. It's good old fashion monster movie fun. "},{"Title":"A major letdown.","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Reading the description of this film on net-Flix made out to be better then it actually was. The film has enormous potential, imagine all the things you could have done with a ghost town. But no, it turns into some science fiction BS that really lets you down. Throughout the whole film, I was constantly making my own version of what could have happened. It really fails at bringing any horror, and doesn't offer enough suspense. I would gladly take the concept of a town where the residents disappeared, and make it into a better film. I'm not saying it's bad, it just didn't work. Don't even get me started on the Stu monster making jokes.Ben Affleck was good, the two sisters were just fine. Liev Schreiber was creepy as all hell. Overall, I didn't really care for it. Give it a watch if you are interested. "},{"Title":"This movie really doesn't know to handle its tension well.","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie really doesn't know to handle its tension well. The story had a promising premise but in the end all the movie ever is, is build up but without ever a pay off. It's like foreplay without sex. The ending is also disappointing and makes you think 'this is it?'. So only foreplay, no sex and no orgasm either...that's just cruel.The movie is based on a novel by popular horror writer Dean Koontz. Let's say he's a Stephen King kind of writer, only he is lesser known. He himself also wrote the screenplay for this movie but just as is the case with most of the movies based on Stephen King novels, it (and then mostly its horror) doesn't translate very well to the big screen. I have yet to see a good movie based on a Koontz movie.Like I mentioned before, all this movie does is building up its tension and mystery but very rarely does it ever have a 'shock moment' in it. The movie pays far too much attention to its build up and forgets all about its pay off. This is most especially notable in its weak and also quite sudden ending. This movie really doesn't leave a satisfying enough feeling, especially when considering that the concept actually did show some nice potential.It also feels as if the movie is incomplete. At times it to me seemed entire sequences got cut out. Often you see characters doing things, which make you wonder; 'Now what are they doing exactly?'. Or, 'why is going there and why does he need that thing?'. It just doesn't always flow too well. The movie also doesn't feel like it does because of the reason that the first- and second halve of the movie are quite different from each other. The first halve is a mystery/thriller/horror, with the Ben Affleck and Rose McGowan character, among others, walking around in the ghost town, trying to figure out a way to survive and what is happening around them. The second halve of the movie is about the Peter O'Toole character really and the science starts to kick in. From this point on the movie also tends to become even more formulaic and also less interesting than its first halve. Because of this all the movie is also lacking a good main character. Basically in the first minutes of the movie the two sisters played by Rose McGowan and Joanna Going are the main characters. Then when Ben Affleck pops up he becomes the main character but even before the halve way point he gets relieved again by Peter O'Toole.The movie features Ben Affleck and Rose McGowan before their days of fame. Affleck even hadn't done Armegeddon yet at the time of this movie. He's pretty miscast though in this movie. I'm no Affleck hater but he was just too young at the time to convincingly play a police sheriff. The actor that seemed in place though was Liev Schreiber and I'm not sure but I also think that the movie makers felt this and they extended his role in the movie. 4 years later Affleck and Schreiber would team up again in the movie The Sum of All Fears. Both were already established actors at that time. It's of course always nice to see Peter O'Toole in a movie. It's quite funny but ever since his role in Lawrence of Arabia he hasn't starred in anything halve-classic really but yet he is still respected so much. He of course also is a great actor, which also can be seen from the fact that ever since his Lawrence of Arabia role he has received 7 more Oscar nominations, to this date, though he has never won one yet, except for an Honorary Award, he received in 2003.For 1998 standards the special effects are simply good within this movie. Even better are its make-up effects but is it all enough and good enough to please the horror fans? I really don't think so!Simply too much lacking as an horror/thriller flick.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Better The Second Time Through","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" You will respect this movie, or at least enjoy it a little better the second time through. I just caught a showing of it on TMC after not seeing it since 98, and it was just as good if not better than I remember.The story is lackluster at points, but it doesn't let the action stop. You can't say that for many movies of this caliber. Is it a great movie? No, but it gives numerous scenes to get under your skin, esp. the first half. The second is questionable, but that is why it is better the second time through. The first time, you will ask yourself what?, but after a re watch, it will all make sense. Since Koontz did the screenplay himself, (unlike most book to movie conversions), it keeps the feel of his intentions and like stated before, it can be seen in the beginning of the movie. Regardless if you like the ending or not (as forced as it seems), give this movie a rental, if not a viewing on TV.As with most of Liev Schreiber's roles, he is just one plain weirdo.How looow can you go!? "},{"Title":"just read the review","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to lie to you this is not a good film but there's just something about these weird small town horror films where strangers don't seem to have a good time.  I guess I let some of the worse parts slip as I know modern Western horror films are shall we say lacking eg scream, I know what you did last summer so I knew it was going to be nothing special.  I think this is a little different to those as it tries to be something a bit different to the typical slasher films.  Now although it is different it is not original to anyone who has seen the thing, species, Stephen Kings 'It' and probably many other films.  I like the whole being stranded in a town with no way to get out and nobody else around, so the first half of the film is fairly ok until around the second half of the film where they have to reveal some unterrifying scares and try and deliver a good end to the film.  I hate Ben Afleck but he actually came across less arrogant and less full of his usual self.        "},{"Title":"Worst adaptation ever","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the greatest horror novels of recent years (Two sisters and a small police force are trapped in a small town where something has killed the entire population) and this is the movie we get?  For shame.And Koontz even wrote the script, which makes the disappoint all too close to home.  I appreciate some things get lost from book to screen but the director doesn't have a clue what 'suspense' means.  In the book the policemen are old haggard guys but here we get Ben Affleck and Liev Schrieber to satisfy the teen market after the success of Scream (Dimension produced both).Read the book and you'll be scared to death.  See the film and be scared to death at how BAD it is. "},{"Title":"Affleck was the bomb in phantoms","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  a good film, good story, good performance's again another good film affleck was the better performer of all the cast enjoyable flick something to just stick in and escape reality for 90 mins. most people i know didnt like phantoms, but i did, good fun,6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Spooky and Suspenseful","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms gets off to a very promising start. You have two gorgeous girls, and a bunch of dead people. Sounds like a killer movie. Actually, it is. The suspense you feel is very intense as the movie builds. The acting from Rose McGowan (Scream), Liev Schrieber (Scream 2) and surprisingly Ben Affleck (Mallrats) is all around great and believable. However, Phantoms does disappoint with a scifi ending that might leave some a little confused. However, it's definetly worth a watch; especially on cold, spooky night. Overall an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting premise. (SPOILERS)","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked the first 5 or 10 minutes of this film when it was just Rose McGowan and Joanna Going. Things don't get drastically worse when Affleck & co. show up. It's just not as eerie. Things get weird after Nicky Katt (Boston Public) is killed off especially with nutcase Liev Schreiber (Scream 2, 3) getting his face devoured by a ravenous bird-like creature.The music was pretty cool to set the mood. (Not the tacky Patsy Cline crap, the actual musical score).There's little character development which makes it hard to identify with these people. I should probably read the book.Once the army come in things go a bit downhill. But, the scene where Affleck has to cross from trailer to trailer with the spooky dog shadowing him is very suspenseful.GOOD STUFFPeter O' Toole- he delivered (with a straight face) THE hammiest line I've ever heard in a film  CHAOS. CHAOS in the flesh!. It's all in the delivery. Also, the man proves himself to be a precursor to Stone Cold Steve Austin So, how do you propose we go about it? NO RESPONSE. What?The eeriness at the beginning reminded me of Part I of The Langoliers, which went to crap by Part II.Affleck, McGowan and Going are all good, but a bit under-used.BAD STUFFLiev Schreiber with tentacles. Awful, awful, awful.The loss of eeriness, plus the Ancient Evil being defeated quite easily.Overall, it's a reasonably good sci-fi/horror which, for once, is NOT set in Space.  "}{"Title":"Phantoms Rocks","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms rocks. Anyone who states otherwise is a celluloid snob. Yes, I have read the novel. Yes,I loved it. Yes, director ChapPelle takes certain liberties in his novel to screen adaptation. And yes, the film has the odd moment of incoherence. But what the hell, for the most part this is classic B-movie heaven. The book worked and, judged on it's own merit, the film is a guilty little pleasure all of its own. The screenplay (adapted by Koontz himself) is quick and to the point, Chappelle gives the film an intimate, moody atmosphere and the cast are all game. O' Toole is at his fruitiest, Schreiber makes for a grade-A scum bag, Going is beautiful and appealing, Nicky Katt is brief and the man Affleck is the stoic sheriff at the centre of it all. The build up is suspenseful and well handled, the finale is fast and deadly. This is cracking stuff that stands up to repeated viewing. One of Dimension Films better offerings, and sadly underrated. "},{"Title":"A Great Entertaining and Scary Film.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     Phantoms is a great movie that is very entertaining and fun to watch. It isn't exactly scary, but it really does keep you glued to the screen. The acting was great, and the movie had a great plot. I give Phantoms a 10 out of 10!!  ) "},{"Title":"AFFLECK is DA BOMB in PHANTOMS!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck, Ben Affleck, Ben Affleck what more can I say about this Mad chick magnet other then he is the total bippity bomb in this movie, blazing the silver screen with his good looks and hero like shananigans.  This movie is about two sisters who go to this town where a  bunch of people are dead and look all dead and stuff.  And BEN AFFLECK is their Representing like no other (he plays a sheriff)  The only thing missing in this is MATT DAMON(yes, Will Hunting) if he were in this film this film would be one of the best films ever in recorded history.  Go AFFLECK GO! Snoogans! "},{"Title":"Keen!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You ask me, I think Phantoms is a pretty slick little horror pic. But what do I know? Everyone hates it, I like it. Haven't read a lot of Dean Koontz novels, just one in fact. Watchers. Now if ever there was a screw up of a movie adaption, that was it. But anything with one of the 80's tag-team Coreys in it (in this case, Haim), is instant death as far as I'm concerned. But this time Koontz, tired of Hollywood raping and murdering his novels for the screen, decided he would pen the screenplay for Phantoms his own self, and I think he did a pretty bang up job. I mean, with the exception of lines like, Well, its the devil don't you think, come up from hell tonite? I think he wants to dance with us. Yikes! Take it easy, Dean. Lines like that just don't make the transfer from page to screen that easy. But what do you want, it's Rose McGowan. It was probably like doing Shakespear for her. Mustn't forget Liev Schreiber, who is a riot as the creepy deputy. Man, I wanted to see more of this guy. He steals every scene he's in with those huge glasses and goofy smile. What a character. Ben Affleck's pretty good too. Ben is all over the place, ain't he? Unlike best buddy Matt Damon, his career is full of ups and downs. Matt may only do one or two movies a year, but when he does you know they're worth watching. Ben does everything from box office smashes (Armageddon) to lame Sandra Bullock romantic comedies (Forces of Nature). Dude has got to stop doing everything that is offered him.I think Joe Chappelle is a better than average horror director. Actually, he's pretty talented. Some interesting scenes, though a little reminiscent of other, better horror films. The 80's remake of The Blob comes to mind (in several scenes), and a touch of John Carpenter's The Thing (yet another remake. What gives?). For those who haven't seen the movie, I won't say who or what the antagonist of this film is (that's kinda part of the fun of watching it). The first half hour to forty five minutes will leave you guessing as to what is killing the townsfolk. I don't think I'm giving too much away if I say the Ancient Enemy is basically the same bad guy from Stephen King's It. Basically, but I don't think it was ripped off (for one reason because I doubt either author would steal from the other, and also because I'm not sure which novel was written first). It's also a little bit H.P. Lovecraft in a way. Or so I say, having never read anything by Lovecraft myself. Better stop now, before I reveal myself for the fraud I am. Wait a minute, he never even saw the movie!. Gulp! 8/10 stars for me. "},{"Title":"A solid sci-fi horror hybrid","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This flick seemed to get lost in the mix when it came out, but having just watched it I think it got the short shrift. As with many of Koontz's stories, the horror in `Phantoms' is based not in theology but biology. Though the science may be more than a trifle dubious, it makes the incredible seem more plausible, and also more inventive. Any clod can bang out a horror yarn and tack the blame for the hoodoo on Satan, witchcraft, or some other paranormal phenomenon, but to at least put some semblance of credibility behind the seemingly inexplicable takes a bit more work and talent.I don't want to over praise this effort -- it's not the end-all and be-all of horrordom -- but it's a damn sight better than most recent fright fare and deserves some more attention than it got theatrically. The cast is fine (though somehow Rose McGowan is more convincing as a ne'er-do-well than a good girl), and it's always nice to see Peter O'Toole busy on screen. The special effects are also pretty decent. It's entertaining and far more engrossing than I expected it to be.  "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good & scary. I loved the gore here. I'm a horror fan and thought it could've been better but its still worth it. Affleck does a good job, one of his better movies like Reindeer Games. This is McGowen's best movie. Schrieber has a pretty creepy role. I know most books that are turned into movies, aren't always going  to be exact but I liked this. The special effects are very good. The ending was weird but this is still worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"scary! Just as good as the book","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just as good as the book! Why? because Dean Koontz himself wrote te screenplay. It is scary, and although I read the book (6 years ago) it scared the hell out of me! Okay, you don't see much of the monster (not a big budget, I guess) but less is more in movies like this. Good cast, I liked Liev Schreiber and Ben Afleck. And the actrice who played Lisa (I did not recognize her, although I have a copy of Scream at home!) rent it and enjoy it! 8/10 (for a movie in this genre)  "},{"Title":"A fun, enjoyable, spooky movie","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My Age 13Lisa and Jennifer Pailey, played by Rose McGowan and Joanna Going, visit their family in a small town called Snowfield.  The whole town is quiet and appears abandoned until they find some dead bodies.  They run into the town sheriff, played by Ben Affleck, and his deputies, who must save themselves from the mysterious things around that are out to get them.  Soon the authorities show up, as does journalist Timothy Flyte, played by Peter O'Toole, who may know what is going on.Phantoms is a mysterious, spooky film that is also fun and enjoyable.  Good performances from Ben Affleck and Peter O'Toole as well as most of the others.  There are some suspenseful scenes in the film and it is exciting.  It is interesting and I find the plot to be quite a good one.  Overall, it is a fun, spooky film with good performances and I recommend it.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level Violence, Horror ThemeRating 70 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Great Premise; Lame Film","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms, based on a frightening novel by the great Dean R. Koontz, is one of those film adaptation tragedies. I mean, this movie is LAME. It's even more surprising that Koontz himself, one of the world's greatest novelists sidetracked by his genre as just another sci-fi/horror writer, wrote the screenplay to this dreadful movie.Still, I'm going to give the film credit for having one great premise. Something paid a visit to Snowfield, Colorado, the eerie coming attractions narrator informed us. It did, and everyone seems to have either disappeared or is mutilated in some horrendous way. It turns out, there is some sort of otherworldly force, not from the stars, but from under the ground. (A lot of the time, this movie resembles Tremors, but taken in a much more sober, serious way.)The Koontz novel wasn't his best, but it was certainly enjoyable and certainly very scary. The book dealt more with the monstrosity itself (and the entity in the movie as opposed to the one described in the book is something of a special effects joke). The novel also dealt more with this thing as the cohort behind all the world's bizarre mass disappearances. In short, the book was much more fascinating, much more scary, and a WHOLE LOT better. Rated R. 94 minutes. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"hmmmm...","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to agree with other posting here. This movies was pretty good, the effects weren't that bad. I didn't feel the beginning of the movie was strong, as you have to wait till about half way through the movie before you start to understand things. There were still some things that weren't understood at the end of the movie. But Overall the plot was good. Good Storyline, acting pretty good. Character development sucked big time. But well worth the $3.50 to rent it! ) "}{"Title":"Chaos in the flesh...","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good action/suspense/horror film.  It is highlighted  by solid performances by Peter O'Toole and the rest of the cast  and a well written story/screenplay by Dean Koontz.  These  highlights are nicely complemented by what I thought was  excellent 'spooky' direction, eerie cinematography, and really  scary music, sound effects, and special effects.  It reminded me  of a few of my favorite horror movies. I give Phantoms an A- (8). Check it out  "},{"Title":"Decently Scary","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the talent of its prolific creator, Dean Koontz, Phantoms really didn't make much of a blip.  Which is a shame, since it's a half-way decent movie.  My only real complaints are that it is very rushed, and Lisa Pailey is recast from being a 10-year old girl to a college-age senior - huh??  It does keep a great deal of the original source material though, and Peter O'Toole seems to be having fun.  What more can you ask for? "},{"Title":"I thought it was Good and scary!","Date":"24 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't read the book but ever since the movie came out in theaters i wanted to see it and soon as it was on video i got it from Blockbuster. I wasn't left unhappy i thought the movie was Cool! The best parts are when the girls find the heads in the oven and at the end when the guy is still alive and says to the people at the bar wana see somthing "},{"Title":"Three Words Read The Book","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of Dean Koontz I could not help feel for him as his horrifying  novel translated into a watered down, matinee type monster movie.  None of  the terror of the novel is conveyed nor could it be.  Although the movie goes  along almost verbose to the novel, the mood set by internal dialoge and  great descriptions by Koontz novel leaves me wanting more. Perhaps if I had  not read the book first, my expectations would not had been so high.    "},{"Title":"Phantoms.....not too scary....but decent.","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Like most films based on popular novels.....Phantoms pales in comparison to its novel predecessor. But I still liked the film......while it was no Aliens (and in this day and age what is) I still thought it was worth the video rental. The concept behind the evil creature in Phantoms was something I found the most interesting of all. I only hoped they would've gone into that subject a little bit more. The film overall delivered a few creepy scenes, and once again proved that Liev Schrieber can play one hell of a creepy guy. Ben Affleck fans looking for a deep and intense performance may be disappointed, but I felt given the type of movie this is , Affleck handled things the best he could.In the end, Phantoms gets a 7.5 on my 1-10 scale. "},{"Title":"Inhuman Monsters","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The first half hour or so, when two young women find themselves in the completely uninhabited town of Snowfall, Colorado, is kind of interesting. Shots of communities that are empty of people can be fascinating. They stimulate fantasies of what WE might do if we were set loose in a place where, no matter what indiscretions we commit, they would hurt no one, and there is no authority to answer to.And that's about it. The remainder of this horror movie does to the mind what the Trinity Test did to Yucca Flats. Your brain turns to fragile flakes of glass.Rose McGowan does alright by the role of the threatened girl. Peter O'Toole is firm and authoritarian, though I appreciated him more in those films in which he was nuts -- Lawrence of Arabia and Night of the Generals. He's even good when he's relatively normal and has the right material, as in Stuntman. Here, he's stuck in the hapless role of the foreign expert brought in to solve an impenetrable mystery.It resembles Alien in that men get sucked up into barely-glimpsed globs of crap, accompanied by the sound of a paddle stirring a pot of molasses. But it's not nearly as good as Alien. It has succumbed to the fads for instant editing during action scenes and bodies flying through the air in slow motion.Don't do it. "},{"Title":"Lawrence of America","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The thought of Peter O'Toole in a movie about a group of twenty-somethings discovering that an ancient evil has killed everyone in a small Colorado town would at first sound like such a joke that it would most likely have to star Leslie Nielsen. But Phantoms isn't half-bad. If the whole thing is completely outlandish, then they don't present it as anything but. As it is, O'Toole's explanation of everything offers a possible explanation to various events throughout history (maybe). But overall, I think that this movie was more targeted at younger crowds, given the presence of Joanna Going, Ben Affleck, Rose McGowan, and Liev Schreiber.And now that Peter O'Toole has won an honorary Oscar, does he intend to make another movie? I mean, Phantoms was fairly neat, but does he want it to be his last movie? "},{"Title":"Familiar and Flawed but Entertaining Sci/Fi Thriller.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two Sisters (Joanna Going & Rose McGowen) arrived in a small town in the state of Colorado. The town appears empty and they find dead bodies in this seemingly peaceful town. The sisters find Three Sheriffs alive (Oscar-WinnerBen Affleck, Liev Schreiber & Nicky Katt). The Survivors find themselves fighting a Ferious Force of Evil lying below the earth for Centuries. But to save themselves, they need the help of a noted tabloid journalist (Peter O'Toole) who understand the Cause of Evil. Now they have surfaced with the power to destroy every human on the planet.Directed by Joe Chappelle (Halloween 6The Curse of Micheal Myers) made a entertaining, sometimes scary sci/fi thriller. Good Performances does help a lot from the Cast, especially the amusing Preverted role of Schreiber as the deputy is funny. This film was a Box Office disappointment in the winter of 1998. The film is quickly forgotten now but the film is better than expected with echoes from The Body Snatchers films, Event Horizon and John Carpenter's The Thing. The film is also fairly suspenseful.DVD has an sharp non-anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an terrific-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD Offers no extras, which is too bad but the film speaks itself. Based on a Novel by Dean Koontz (The Funhouse, Odd Thomas, Watchers). Knootz did wrote the Screenplay from his Novel. He is also One of the Executive Producers of the Film. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Okay.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this movie and I have to admit that it was not as bad as the critics stated. Sure, the last 30 minutes of the movie lack direction, but were still mildly interesting. The storyline and the presentation appear to be consistent with slasher horror flicks of the seventies and eighties. But let me be clear, the suspense and attention to detail is not in the same league as Halloween, or even Child's Play. The gore is not consistent with the gore element in John Carpenter's The Thing or the recently released  Underworld. Nope, this movie does not take itself that seriously in terms of gore or suspense. I have never read Dean Koontz, (personally, I love Stephen King for my horror), but I've been told that the screenplay is consistent with the book. Nevertheless. I have to say that this was a decent rental. I've seen worse, much worse!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Follows the book","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, I think, followed the book pretty well.  I'm an avid Dean Koontz reader & have been unimpressed with other films that came from his books. The actors do a good job in their roles.  It gets kind of hokey but all in all a decent movie. "}{"Title":"Decent flick from a superior novel","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This big screen adaptation of one of the best of Koontz novels with a great cast and really gory effects is a good one. Scary enough, with a decent plot, several interesting moments, two great babes to look at, a great O'Toole in one of his most peculiar role since Dr.Creator, sum up to an entertaining popcorn-eating vision. Think of it as an average THe Thing clone, similar to The Faculty - but less fun in the end. "},{"Title":"It ate through his face, consumed the eyes, most of the soft tissue & the entire brain. I really liked it.","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Phantoms begins as Jennifer Pailey (Joanna Going) & her younger sister Lisa (Rose McGowan) who will be staying with her for a while head for the small mountain town of Snowfield in California, population about 400. As they arrive it quickly becomes apparent that the town seems almost deserted & they soon find out why. Upon entering Jennifer's house the sisters discover the dead body of Hilda (Judith Drake) the housekeeper & when they try to report it they find the local Deputy dead as well. As they explore the town & try to figure out what could have caused an entire town's disappearance in such a short space of time they discover more gruesome remains including severed hands & decapitated heads. Suddenly Sheriff Bryce Hammond (Ben Affleck) & two of his Deputy's, Steve Shanning (Nicky Kett) & Stu Wargle (Liev Schreiber) show up but are as baffled by what they see as Jennifer & Lisa. It's not long before they realise something nasty is lurking about, something none of them has seen the like of before, something intelligent that can manipulate it's surroundings & learn. Sheriff Hammond's only clue to it's identity is a cryptic message left by one of it's victims which says 'Timothy Flyte the ancient evil'...Directed by Joe Chappelle I thought Phantoms was a great horror film & one of the best I have seen that the genre has offered lately (well, during the 90's then). The script by Dean R. Koontz, based on his own novel of the same name which I have not read so I cannot compare it to the filmed adaptation, starts off brilliantly & is one of the creepiest, taught & eeriest opening 45 minutes I've seen. The opening is fantastic as the sisters arrive in Snowfield & find dead bodies, severed body parts, pots still cooking on hobs, pies baking in ovens, tables set for dinner & things start to get more strange as they find piles of metallic objects, messages written in a locked room with no windows, odd electrical disturbances & eventually horrific creatures. This opening sequence moves at an absolute break neck speed, never lets up & grips you instantly. Unfortunately Phantoms cannot keep this up & about half way through the military & FBI move in & it becomes far more overblown complete with over-the-top CGI, guns, explosions & it loses it's tension. It starts off like a haunted house horror but then changes into Aliens (1986). As a whole Phantoms works very well in my opinion, the character's are good, it's not too silly, it moves along at a nice pace & is a bit different.Director Chappellle manages to create fantastic atmosphere & tension during the opening which he fails to maintain as the film progresses, but overall Phantoms has a great feel to it. There are plenty of nicely lit shots & some cool camera angles. There is also some decent gore here with a skinless face, various dead bodies, severed heads & hands, a gory scalpel cut & an exploding head.Technically Phantoms is great with that big budget Hollywood look to it, the photography, music & production values are very good while the special effects are also excellent with plenty of slimy tentacles & some cool monsters. The acting is pretty good from all involved & Peter O'Toole makes an appearance during the second half of the film.Personally I really rate Phantoms as a horror film, it's pretty creepy at times, there's some good gore & some nice action scenes as well. I highly recommend it & think it's definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Intense, immensely satisfying thriller is one of the best Dean Koontz adaptations to ever grace a screen. This one is about two sisters returning to their tiny home town to only find out that either everyone is missing or dead. This is one thriller where the director is able to maintain the chills from start to finish. It never runs out of steam and the cast is very well chosen. The special effects are also a treat!Rated R; Violence and Profanity.  "},{"Title":"Koontz tops King!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of the best adaptations of Koontz's work ever made! And no wonder! He wrote the screenplay! And he's MUCH better at it than Stephen King appears to be!I saw this movie on the shelf and thought to myself, Great, another movie I'll just HATE, based on a novel I loved. I could not have been more mistaken.For centuries we've been told terror would come from the sky. Thankfully, there is Dr. Timothy Flyte (Peter O'Toole), who has some knowledge of this ancient terror, its origins and intent. This is a quirky movie, just as the book was, exhibiting man's ability to be easily influenced, manipulated, and victimized.After Dr. Flyte is practically dragged to the small mountain town of Snowfield, California, it is his job to puzzle together the pieces of what is going on.Liev Schriber (Scream's Cotton Weary) is a total lunatic in this movie; a sick, perverted, would-be necrophiliac deputy who can't seem to keep it together. Also from the cast of Scream, is Rose McGowan (who portrayed Dewey's unfortunate sister, Tatum Riley, in Scream) in a co-starring role as Lisa Pailey.I found the use of Patsy Cline's music in this production was quite inventive, and lends a creepy air to the finished product that it would never have had, had these specific musical selections been omitted. It was the perfect accompaniment to the eidolonic presence in this work.This was a disturbing novel of suspense and Dean Koontz has translated the dark humor and clever characters, masterfully into this creative screenplay. This movie is intense and very enjoyable thanks to Koontz's ability to adapt his own work effectively, and the surprisingly wonderful direction by Joe Chappelle. As I have never liked anything else he has directed, I was more than a bit surprised with the care and talent exhibited in this work. The opening shots of the Colorado mountains is breathtaking, and the scenery and settings throughout ring true; ie the motel felt like a motel and not a movie set; the town, the businesses and homes all had the feeling they were real and not some cheap imitation thrown together on the cheesy back lot of some obscure studio. This in itself is an accomplishment. Although this movie is set in California, it was shot in Colorado, lending to us the beautiful cinematic shots that I have come to appreciate in any good production.The budget for this work is not listed, but I can tell you they never spend the same amount of money on Dean Koontz's work as they do on Stephen King's, although in my opinion, Koontz's work deserves much more investmental interest. A good many of his novels would translate beautifully to the big screen, making some very successful financial ventures, as well as great entertainment successes. Darkfall, Night Visions, Midnight, and The Bad Place, immediately spring to mind. While I favor his more simplistic older novels, his newer literary ventures are far more well written. His talent was unquestionable earlier on, but his style has greatly improved over the years. If you are, by chance, a producer, director, or work for a producer/director, and are reading this, please do give this some consideration.Also, in my opinion, this is one of Ben Affleck's best performances. It is possibly ~the~ best performance of his career. Not saying much, I realize, but his character is so very well enacted in this production that I thought I was a fan. That went away about 20 minutes after the movie ended, but needless to say his performance was quite compelling.I found this movie to be disturbing on a very base level, creatively written, talentedly portrayed, and imaginatively directed. This was not the let-down I've come to expect from the low budgets, cheesy sets, and lack of caring direction I've witnessed in other Koontz adaptations. (ie Whispers, Watchers, which was not anything LIKE the novel, and The Servants of Twilight.) While Servants of Twilight was quite suspenseful and enjoyable, the budget was extremely low, and it could not help but be all too evident in the finished product. This was also, a low budgeted Koontz movie, but the story line, plot and performances more than make up for the lack of love and caring given by the ungenerous producers of this work.If you are a fan of Dean Koontz's novels; if you enjoyed The Faculty or Invasion of the Bodysnatchers; if you are a fan of good B horror movies, or if you are just looking for something good to watch on a Saturday night, you should enjoy this movie very much.In spite of this project's obvious lack of budget, this work rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Good Idea ; Bad Movie","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms has a great concept. The force mankind is dealing with is  mysterious and deadly. However, the movie has many problems. One of the  problems with the movie is that the characters aren't interesting because  we know very little about them. We find out a little about Ben Affleck's,  however, making him the only character I found any bit interesting. The  scary parts are way too predictable and so is the story itself. We see the  big threatening thing that killed all the town at the end of the movie, and  we find it ruins the only thing that kept the movie going. This movie  should have made more time to know more about the characters and the thing  they were fighting than trying lame ways to scare people. In conclusion,  good idea;bad movie. "},{"Title":"Worth watching for genre fans!","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Phantoms is probably better known for being a great punchline in Kevin Smith's Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (Affleck, you the bomb in Phantoms yo!) than it is as an actual movie. One of the many late 90s horror offering from Bob and Harvey Weinstein's Dimension Films, it was a box office flop when it hit theaters, and unlike several other Dimension releases from the same era, it hasn't become much of a cult favorite. Adapted by Dean Koontz from his novel of the same, Phantoms is Koontz's only screen writing credit. Reportedly, Koontz wasn't crazy about the final cut, blaming the editing in the postproduction process. While Koontz maybe right about the film's editing being messy, and while Phantoms is far from a great movie, I still kind of like it.Like most Dimension horror flicks, Phantoms has an amazing cast. Ben Affleck, Rose McGowan, and Liev Schreiber were regularly cast in Dimension Films, and it's not hard to see why. Their performances don't necessarily elevate the material, but they are a lot of fun to watch on screen, especially Affleck in a role he was especially too young for at the time of filming. Peter O'Toole is one of the most legendary actors who ever lived, and his presence definitely makes Phantoms seem classier than it would have been otherwise, although O'Toole plays his role straighter than I would have liked. Overall, the whole tone is a bit too serious considering how silly everything about the story is, but when Phantoms does show a sense of humor about its ridiculousness, the movie is at its best.Phantoms didn't have a huge budget, though visually it holds up better than a lot of the bigger budget offerings of the era. There seems to be very little CGI, and a lot of cool-looking practical special effects. Whether one likes or hates Phantoms, it's clear that there was hard work put into making the film look slick in a way very few horror flicks actually do. The cinematography looks great, the sets provide the film with the isolated atmosphere the story requires, and the directing is legitimately suspenseful in places. Phantoms is the type of film that almost never gets made anymore an interesting R-rated horror flick not reliant on computers to make stuff look scary, and not reliant on twist ending after twist ending just for the sake of it. If made today, a movie like Phantoms would be either a limp PG-13 offering, or a much lower-budget, possibly found-footage VOD premiere not worthy of anyone's time.Unlike most horror movies made in the late 1990s and today, Phantoms wasn't made to launch a franchise. It was made to provide audiences with a 90 minutes' worth of scares and adrenaline, and more often than not, it succeeds at doing so. Phantoms may not even be close to the best the late 90s had to offer. With one more try to smooth things out in the editing room and a slightly firmer grasp on tone, Phantoms could have been a better movie, one that wouldn't be remembered just for being a joke (albeit an absolutely hilarious one) in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. As it is, the film is still fairly entertaining and worth checking out for genre fans. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Phantoms?","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes titles truly belie their content. I was looking for ghosts, apparitions, specters, etc. and I got some other creature.Phantoms wastes no time jumping into the action. Within five minutes of the film's opening credits we're treated to a dead body in a cozy little vacation town. The cause is unknown but soon the two female protagonists show us more dead bodies. They meet up with three armed men (and later more armed men) but that only produced an increased body count.The movie was mildly entertaining but it lacked any real umph. The scene was bleak enough with the absence of people and a slight haze, but the actors were too nonchalant and cavalier. There was no real sense of danger, I don't even think I saw any of them sweat. Even the most threatening and tense moments were met with a slight apprehension at most. It was all too clean and too textbook. "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck was the bomb in 'Phantoms.' (Some spoilers.)","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I revisited Phantoms (1998) the other night, and I thought I'd just speak up briefly here on its behalf. Because this critically and popularly panned movie is one that I happened to like.Ben Affleck actually wasn't 'the bomb' in Phantoms.' (Referring to something as the bomb was, at one time, a high compliment in American slang.) He mostly phoned it in, and even seriously flubbed a scene or two. (Hey, I actually like the guy a lot, and I'm willing to give him a chance as the next Batman.) The headline above is actually some particularly meta humor from another character played by Affleck, in Kevin Smith's Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (2001). Affleck was poking fun at himself a little here, along with his fellow denizens of Smith's View Askewniverse.Roger Ebert dismissed Phantoms as another one of those Gotcha! thrillers in which loathsome slimy creatures leap out of drain pipes and sewers and ingest supporting actors, while the stars pump bullets into them. You can read his entire review right herehttp//www.rogerebert.com/reviews/phantoms-1998No, Phantoms isn't classic sci-fi-horror. It's sometimes pretty thin stuff on a number of levels &#x85; but primarily the levels of acting and screen writing.But, dammit, I still liked this movie a lot. If you're a fan of the book (I've suggested it's Koontz' best), you'll be happy to discover that it indeed conscientiously sticks to its wicked-cool source material. We see a small Colorado mountain town where all the inhabitants have vanished; a clutch of wayward visitors then try to escape the same grisly, mysterious fate as its residents.)The book's central plot device is a nicely conceived and executed idea for a monster, with some effectively creepy historical and scientific context. (I can still remember a colonial victim's warning, which is referenced in the book, but not the movie It has no shape; it has every shape.)Despite its clunky script, the film brings us a story that is pretty intelligent &#x97; thanks to retaining so many elements of the novel. This is a thinking man's monster movie &#x97; like somebody rewrote Beware the Blob (1972), but put a hell of a lot of smarts and creativity into it. We've got two groups of bright people who fight back against the Ancient Enemy, and their actions and strategies generally make sense.Also &#x85; Liev Schreiber does creepy incredibly well, and Peter O'Toole does everything incredibly well. The former's face and mannerisms do much to unsettle us. And the latter brings the Lawrence of Arabia (1962) treatment to the fifties-esque trope of the monster- fighting hero scientist.Finally, this might be an odd thing to praise a film for, but I loved its sound effects. Because that voice (or voices) on the story's single working telephone was exactly how I wanted the adversary here to sound.Slam it all you want. I'll watch this one again. "},{"Title":"Indelibly atmospheric&#x97; at least for the first act","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Phantoms chronicles a doctor, Jennifer (Joanna Going) taking her L.A. sister, Lisa (Rose McGowan) to stay with her in the quaint Colorado mountain town she has settled in. Upon arriving to the town, it is clear something is wrong&#x97; everybody seems to have vanished, and the ones who do remain have died under inexplicable circumstances. Enter Ben Affleck and Liev Schreiber as a sheriff and his deputy who come to save the day, but things become more and more complicated after the arrival of an academic theories (Peter O'Toole).In the style of Miramax's late-'90s/early 2000s horror films, Phantoms was directed by Joe Chappelle, who had previously directed the middling Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers in 1995. With Phantoms, Chappelle employs a similar visual style to his Halloween sequel, which includes flashy cinematography and editing techniques. Halloween The Curse... is one of the most despised films of its franchise, but I've always appreciated Chappelle's visual aesthetic which, while sometimes one dimensional, still has its own unique sensibility.Phantoms starts out phenomenally breathtaking overhead shots of the Rockies, moving toward a small community nestled in the mountains in the dead of winter. What the film does extremely well is create a pervasive apocalyptic feel that upholds its entire first act, and it is surprisingly riveting. Silent Hill and even films like Dawn of the Dead have shown us that there are few things eerier than empty streets that shouldn't be empty. An entire town, furthermore&#x97; especially one as isolated as it is in Phantoms&#x97; is even more quietly oppressive. The unease and intrigue is immediately established, and there are plenty of fun and chilling gimmicks as Going and McGowan wander through the Colorado wasteland.The film shifts gears about halfway in, and veers toward Predator territory with a philosophical and scientific bent to it, brought to us by none there than Peter O'Toole. While this shift is necessary for the film to run its intended course, it definitely creates a rift in the narrative that isn't as well-situated as it could have been. There are some fantastic moments in the last half of the film, but there is a sense that you are almost seeing two different movies.Joanna Going and a late '90s, post-Scream Rose McGowan play the ostensible lead characters, though there is a bit of confusion as to who constitutes protagonist in this film. Affleck and Schreiber are great, with Schreiber being especially abrasive and leery on the audience. O'Toole is fitting as the token Brit professor.Overall, Phantoms is very much enjoyable as raw entertainment; it has star power and is stylishly directed, and its first act is wildly atmospheric and nightmarish. Unfortunately, I do feel the film spins its wheels a bit too much as it delves into the second half, and sabotages the very tone that makes the first half so unnerving. No less, it is a fun film with enough memorable highlights to be worth a watch. 7/10. "},{"Title":"It had potential","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I would not call this movie a guilty pleasure, I've seen this movie several times and i still think the same thing, this film is a diamond in the rough, there was so much it could do better, had a good chance to exploit all kinds of possibilities, they could build up more the mystery around the town, The idea of the creature is similar to the one in the The Thing, and they just scratch the surface of what the monster what capable off, instead we get minor character development, secondary characters with no purpose than getting killed off quickly.This movie attracted a pretty stellar cast in their earlier careers, there are a lot of good names attached to it Peter O'Toole, Rose McGowan and Liev Schreiber,Ben Affleck, how could anyone refuse to watch this movie in 2015.Phantoms is reported as being an adaptation from a Dean Koontz novel of the same name i never read it but it has a lot of similarities but the ending is different, i honestly would check the book other than that if you are curious give this movie a look. "}{"Title":"A missed opportunity for another The Thing or The Blob","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Based on a Koontz book (and with Koontz writing the script), this film is a fantastic opportunity that was unfortunately missed. It could have been great. The premise is really scary, combining successfully concepts from The Blob and The Thing, but dismissing the need for otherworldy intruders altogether (thus making it even more scary). Instead we are confronted with a terrifying monster who is just now learning to think. So many ideas are popping into my head right now about how the movie could have been. Alas...The first thing that is wrong is the title. There are no phantoms in the movie and the term is indeed only used once in its entirety, hardly a reason to call the film for it, even if the book had that name.Then there are the characters. I don't know how the book was, but in the film Liev Schreiber is playing an obviously deranged cop - he is a great actor, but the character made no sense! Most of the actions of the characters make no sense, in fact.And then there are these scenes with pointless dialogue that brings nothing to the story, yet so many things happening without anyone bothering to explain how or why. Finally the direction. How come in all the army scenes there are people in uniform running around? Is that what the army is, a bunch of people running around aimlessly? I wonder what Carpenter would have made with this material.Bottom line this is a film that screams for a remake. Or a sequel, maybe. The concept needs reimagining, though, and it needs a really good director. As a scifi-horror fan, I was surprised that I haven't seen this movie before. As it is, it feels like a TV movie that someone forgot to tell you about, but if you go past the bad way the movie was made, you can see what immense potential lies there. "},{"Title":"An adaptation worth watching","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember reading the book and thinking after the first hundred pages, This is crap. The film fast forwards the first hundred pages in a matter of minutes...to a fault. They earlier scenes of horror seem random and senseless, as if no one has any idea overall of what to do but just shove old school practices into your face. Unfortunately, most people (those who haven't read the book) won't realize that all that effort was for the sake of the bored Ancient Enemy who is just playing its is prey. It's hunger is satiated. It's lust and desire satisfied. The only thing left is it's enormous ego. One thing that translates well from page to screen is hubris and the downfall it entails. Minor things will scrape against your skin (like a shot of sudden nightfall, followed by another shot in full daylight, or the fact that guns have infinite ammo and don't require reloading...or how a young Ben Affleck is a former FBI agent turned small town Sheriff at the ripe old age of 25) In the end, it holds up well more than 15 years later. I love the fact that the Ancient Enemy can assume the form of anything and everything it has consumed, as well as the thoughts and ideas from what it has devoured. There are so many other films that will waste your time, this isn't one of them........thought the last minute could have easily been cut out. "},{"Title":"The first thing we'd like to know is what we're dealing with, biological, chemical, or other.","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Joe Chappelle and written by Dean Koontz, who adapts from his own novel, Phantoms (not the greatest title all things considered) is a considerably well put together amalgamation of horror/sci-fi/creature feature tropes. If at times it feels clichéd and formulaic, then that is ultimately a curse of the cinematic genres it lives and breaths in.Plot basically has two sisters played by Rose McGowan and Joanna Going arriving in the town of Snowfield, Cololrado, to find most of the inhabitants dead, diseased or dismembered. A trio of coppers turn up played by Liev Schreiber (shifty malevolence), Ben Affleck (square jawed bastion of heroism) and Nicky Katt (fodder of course), and thus a fight for survival ensues as Peter O'Toole's sharp doctor character comes flying in to become the fulcrum of the story. So yep! There's something very evil and nasty at work here and the makers expand upon the reasons why with a drip-feed mixture of mad science and intelligent thematic ideas.The effects work is more than adequate and the strong cast list perform well up to scratch (nice to see O'Toole doesn't phone it in to denigrate the story). Things are taken very seriously throughout, the makers in no way biting the hand that feeds them, while the requisite insertions of jump - shocks - twists and mayhem are handled with care and attention by the director. You may come away as I did with a hunger to dig out your copy of John Carpenter's sublime The Thing? Which in truth is never a bad thing, but this is still sturdy stuff, a pic caked in genre cement, and crucially it doesn't waste the time invested by the genre compliant viewers. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Falling to Pieces","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Drop-dead gorgeous doctor Joanna Going (as Jennifer Jenny Pailey) wants little sister Rose McGowan (as Lisa Pailey) to ease up on the Los Angeles fast lane. So Ms. Going takes Ms. McGowan to relax in the sleepy resort town of Snowfield, Colorado. The two women discover the town is so sleepy, it's dead. In fact, they are immediately greeted by creepy lifeless bodies. There are some live ones, too - like handsome sheriff Ben Affleck (as Bryce Hammond) and his deputies - gum chewing Liev Schreiber (as Stuart Stu Wargle) and heavily mustached Nicky Katt (as Steve Shanning)...Top-billed Peter O'Toole (as Timothy Flyte) is a tabloid reporter who may be able to solve the mystery. Appearing later, Mr. O'Toole's character writes articles about Bigfoot and Elvis sightings. More important is his series about an Ancient Enemy responsible for killing the Mayans, among others...Phantoms starts out well and goes downhill. Direction and editing go for a style which does not build much suspense. There are many slow pans, leading to and from close-ups. The special effects are mostly there for the cameras to document, without building tension. There is no intrigue about what is happening. However, you can see how the mysteries may have unraveled skillfully in the original novel, by Dean Koontz. It's likely many involved in this production wished their efforts looked better. Whatever It is shows good taste in music by liking Patsy Cline's I Fall to Pieces.**** Phantoms (1/23/98) Joe Chappelle ~ Ben Affleck, Joanna Going, Peter O'Toole, Rose McGowan "},{"Title":"Koontz novel turns into entertaining Monster/Creature film","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Jennifer Pailey (Going) brings her younger sister Lisa (McGowan) to her small Colorado town in an attempt to keep her out of trouble. When they arrive they find everyone in town dead minus a few others including Sheriff Bryce (Affleck) and a handful of others. Fearing an outbreak of some kind, the small band of people tries to find logic and a common thread. One victim has scrawled the name Timothy Flyte in blood on the wall. Flyte (O'Toole), is a tabloid writer who wrote a story about an ancient evil that comes up from the depths of the earth every 100 years or so, and devours anything in it's way. Flyte, and the Army is called in and the entity takes on the form of the people's fear. Lisa calls it the Devil and now it thinks it is and it seems intent on killing everyone. Dean Koontz adapts his own novel into this screenplay and Director Joe Chappelle makes the first 20 minutes incredibly tight with jump scares and thick atmosphere. The girls walking around a dead town in fright is simply chilling. Horror fans will enjoy many elements at work here including some cool monster designs, gore and even suspense. The cast is solid with Peter O'Toole giving the picture a sense of class. Elements of the story could have made this very cheesy but Chappelle manages to steer the film away from that. The middle drags a little and there is an unnecessary and stupid final twist that threatens the films effectiveness. By far, the most chilling scene in the film is when Flyte is going to meet the being face to face. It is brilliantly executed and chilling as hell! This memorable moment almost deserves to be in a better film it is that good. 'Phantoms' is a fun and entertaining monster/creature film. "},{"Title":"Worst writer ever... Directors and producers, look elsewhere for movie ideas.","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I read the novel and also watched the movie (although one could question why I would see the movie after reading the novel.) By the way this review contains no spoilers although it's hard to spoil a story as predictable a this one. My minivan broke down in the middle of nowhere (Salina, Utah - a town of 2,393 persons) while I was trying to move to California from Florida. The hotel I stayed at had a lending library and the woman at the desk recommended this book while I waited the two days for my vehicle's repairs. Now I must say that this isn't the first Koontz book I've read but it was the worst. And the movie didn't make things any better. The same predictable plots and plot devices. You still know who the love interest is right at the beginning (which works for a rom-com plot but not a thriller, usually). You know who's going to die right away. You can even predict how they will die. Everything about this movie is cliché squared. I cannot recommend to anyone who likes suspense. There is no suspense to be had here... move along. "},{"Title":"Higher budget B movie","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's been years since I saw Phantoms last time, so when I found this one on DVD, I decided to give it one more chance since I could recall some scenes from it here and there, but couldn't remember what exactly movie was about. (It happens!)Now, since I am more mature audience and into filmmaking myself, I found that Phantoms is lot better then I expected. It's well made horror flick, resembling those good old '80 horror flicks that weren't meant to be preachy (like most new ones are) but rather just want to entertain or scare it's audience. Phantoms doesn't give it's viewers a chance. Plot and horror part starts right off the bat, just after the credits. Director Joe Chappelle (who's preview work was not that great Halloween 6) clearly knows what he's doing. He builds up tension nicely, and even if some scenes are rather cliché (like characters walking into dark room all alone) they are rather effective due to director's good sense of storytelling. Among other things, it's obvious script as well as director like to play on the whole the less is more concept, establishing only terror that's been unleashed on characters, but keeping it hidden as long as they can... which works pretty well for the movie itself. It's also nicely paced for the first half of the movie ('till around 1h mark) but unfortunately, second half of the movie slows down when scripts says everything must be explained.That's where movie goes into heavy dialogs, where things get bit silly, and movie slows down. All atmosphere is also lost. Luckily, this doesn't last for too long, and movie gets back into it's first half mood. Now, concept of what exactly is thing that terrorizes small town of Snowfield (the heck?) is bit silly, but I didn't mind it at all - I think of it as a tribute to '80s horror movies where some of the silliest ideas turned out to be fun and entertaining movies (Killer Clowns from Outerspace, anyone?)Special effect are really great, even by today standards. There are some scenes that simply look great and what I liked the most is that there's very little CGI (mostly at the last few minutes of the movie) while around 95% of the movie effects were practical, which is always a great thing in horror flick. Note that some effects and scenes which involves them are also tribute to one of the best horror movies made in '80. If you are a horror fan, you'll know which movie I am talking about once you see those scenes.Acting It's well acted for B movie. Even Ben Affleck is great in this one (I am usually not big fan of his work). Peter O'Toole steals every scene he's in, and Liev Schreiber sometimes goes over the top, but it's probably the reason why he's so much fun in this movie. He's can also be creepy if scene needs him to be. Joanna Going is always a nice presence on screen and she's likable here. Rose McGowan is bit wooden here, but I think that was director's choice for her character. Rose isn't the best actress out there, but she can put up a show. It's definitively not her highlight of career, but then again, her character isn't that important for overall plot (they could easily do without her).Overall, it's a descent horror flick. It doesn't try to be too smart, it knows it's just a horror flick that wants to scare and entertain it's viewers. More experienced horror fans will have fun watching this, and mainstream audiences are probably gonna be creep out by it for the most parts. "},{"Title":"Affleck versus the slime monster","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" PHANTOMS is one of my favorite guilty pleasures. Based on a Dean Koontz story, it takes place in a small town that is being consumed by a primordial force, which is essentially The Blob with shape-shifting ability. A young doctor and her sister arrive in town at the worst possible moment, and are saved from the creature by Sheriff Benjamin Affleck and Deputy Barney Fife -- oops, I mean Liev Schreiber, who plays creepy quite convincingly here. Peter O'Toole later shows up as a government-recruited scientist's who may know something about the ancient creature. He is escorted by Army troops. After that, it's a battle to the death. The first half of the movie is suspenseful and a mystery as to why the town is dying. The second half is a standard monster movie, not dissimilar to the 1982 remake of THE THING. Affleck is a bit young to play a sheriff, but he's the star of th show, so go with it. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Great Book, Bad Movie","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I read Phantoms before watching it. It was one of my favorite reads. The book was just so mysterious, and moved at the perfect speed revealing just enough to stay interesting but remain cryptic. The ending was also very interesting (it differs greatly from the movie).Unfortunately I can't say the same for the movie.Everything moved along so fast. I could never feel the mystery or suspense of the movie because it moved so damn fast. There wasn't any time for build up. The acting was flat, and like the mystery the characters didn't have nearly enough time to develop. The ending was easy and completely uneventful. It felt like an original brainstorm that was never built on or processed any further.The movie is very much watchable, there's just absolutely nothing that's above average. Do yourself a favor. Check out the book. Then one night if you have nothing else to watch, check out the movie to say you've seen it. Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Affleck was the bomb in Phantoms..","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Kevin Smith has said it a thousand times over; Affleck's performance in this film really was a fantastic piece of work. The film itself is marred in cliché but occasionally almost knowingly so. However the first hour or so is still a really well made piece of film - that is, until you SEE what it is they are up against.For the first half hour or so, the film very wisely focuses on creating a dark and eerie atmosphere, with some good jumps and tension. but after you see the creature they're up against i feel the tension fades away slightly. Maybe its because I bought this film expecting it to be about phantoms as opposed to (sorry if i'm spoiling this for anyone) moths and parasites. Maybe i expected too much from a film i admit came recommended to me from Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. Worth the average retail price (about £5) just for the first half - just don't expect much from the very anticlimactic ending which just took me out of the film altogether personally. even after i got over the moth. "}{"Title":"This ancient enemy needs a host.","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't help but feel this one was a real lost opportunity. Within the late 90's there was a stew of teenage slashers, but Dean Koontz's 'Phantoms' could've been a diamond in the rough. Alas good intentions go to waste. I'm pretty much on the same wave with the viewers who believe it starts off better than it actually finishes. After such a truly atmospheric build up of blistering intensity and engulfing mystery in the first 50 minutes it eventually loses steam and the over-explained concept transcends in to routine silliness. There's still something smartly conceived in Kootz's innovative screenplay, but how they went about executing it came off rather breezy and daft. More thought was needed after that strong opening.Director Joe Chappelle gets out of what is a b-film at heart, some professional gloss, smooth photography and the engineered special effects aren't too bad and looking convincing. The jolts work early on because they're well placed, timed and used in an effective manner, but soon enough they become downtrodden and predictably tired. Sometimes humour working its way in and spoiling the underlining tension. However some of the action scenes midway offer few nasty surprises. But really where the story decides to head after the evil entity reveals its true intentions just destroys that edgy mood formed. Again in comes the military crack force and scientists who underestimated the problem.Performances are tolerable. Rose McGowen and Joanna Going shape up fairly. Ben Affleck cruises through it with little to no effort and Peter O'Toole just shows up and emit's some class. Liev Schreiber performance was an odd one, because of his shady/ unusual character.After being plunged right in it, the eeriness soon wears off to be nothing more than your forgettable monster feature. "},{"Title":"Really just okay and nothing more","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really kinda had high hopes for Phantoms, and I think that's what made me not like it as much in the outcome. I love Rose McGowan and the plot to this movie seemed really cool and different so I decided to give it a try. For about the first 30 minutes, to me, it was just not good at all. It picked up every now and then, but it just couldn't keep my interest that much, and I also thought some things were actually quite stupid. When the movie was over, I wasn't satisfied. It wasn't bad, but it's really nothing special, so watch with an open mind and you might be able find it likable and enjoyable, but as for me it was just dull and needed a little bit more. "},{"Title":"A rarity an intelligent, visually compelling creature feature","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this expecting an average, low budget, poorly scripted, badly acted creature feature. Phantoms, however pleasantly surprised me. Some interesting and original ideas by Koontz have been carried over to the silver screen with good effect. The movie contains everything a good creature feature should, suitably over-dramatic lines, serious firepower, hot chicks, humorous moments and a visually compelling creature. A young Ben Affleck plays alongside a stereotyped O'Toole, but the stellar performance by the ever-creepy Liev Schreiber steals the show. The healthy budget shows through some good effects that make ludicrous concepts seem palatable and some poignant imagery stands this feature at the top end of its genre. Lots of nice eerie touches are used to effectively create a suitably creepy atmosphere that supports the various nightmarish sequences. I liked the transition from the isolated feel of the ghost town opening to the universal threat to humanity. The action spirals into total mayhem, or, as Michael Flyte (O'Toole) puts it 'chaos in the flesh' only to end, as most movies of this genre seem to, rather tamely, but the effects and the obligatory final twist carry it over the finish line. In summary, a must see of the genre. It takes itself more seriously than I generally like my creature features to, but it has the budget and the originality to pull it off. Up there with The Thing. "},{"Title":"Contrary to popular opinion, Affleck is not the bomb in Phantoms.","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" That would be Liev Schreiber, who makes the movie with his creepy deputy who falls to pieces. He elevates what feels oddly like a bad made for TV movie. Too many horror novels are adapted into lumbering, moody masses like this. Everything just feels held back, the scares are too tame and the acting is gamey. What makes Schreiber good is that he goes over the top with his badly written role. Is it one for the ages? No. But it does make this watchable. Ben Affleck on the other hand is grossly unbelievable as an officer of the law. He doesn't have enough strength in his voice, he always sounds like he is in some stage of whine. Sheriff Whiny takes on one of those faceless centuries old evils without a face that can take over people's bodies. It should be scary, but there is a lack of tension, that is the phantom. "},{"Title":"Waste of an idea!","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While the book is among my favorites by Koontz, the movie is a terrible let-down. They should have shot for a 2 1/2 hour movie, and utilized this incredible creature, like Koontz did in the novel. Instead, they kept it to a few basic components (the giant moth--from the book!--a dog and humans), and only suggested the creature's potential. At one point the doctor poses that the thing could probably arrange itself into fictional creatures--and we see some fantastic creature drawings in a victims house shortly before she suggests this--then nothing. A great set-up with no pay off. At another time, a computer screen in the background displays something like the genetic memories found in the cells of the phantom, and morphs many pictures from human to bug to dinosaur to bear; again--big set-up, no pay off! While I usually can't agree more with the sentiment that CG is WAY overused, it could have really been a very effective tool in this film. After all, this is a MONSTER MOVIE! So show some monster!!!! This is one of the few times that it would have been helped, not hindered (like most), for showing more creature. Think John Carpenter's The Thing, or Spielberg's Jurrasic Park. The book was fantstic. The movie fell flat. "},{"Title":"The Rumor's True Ben Affleck Is The Bomb In This Film","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Ben Affleck is a sheriff who comes to the aid of two young ladies (one played by the smoking hot Rose McGowan) who are alone in an abandoned Colorado town. He, along with another cop (Liev Schreiber) and an occult professor (Peter O'Toole), must take on the Ancient Enemy, a creature of evil incarnate from before the dawn of man.Starting in the Kevin Smith film Mallrats and escalating to Smith's Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, there has been the cult joke that Affleck was the bomb in Phantoms. But the sad truth is that Phantoms might just be Affleck's best role up to that time... (though he has done some fine work since, particularly Extract). Phantoms is something of a transitional piece. On one hand, the film clearly gets some of its imagery from other films, most noticeably John Carpenter's The Thing (the creepy alien-like dog). But, also, Phantoms has lent its imagery to those who have come after it. There is evidence to support the theory that Silent Hill took some of its abandoned town scenes from Phantoms. The exact connection, if any, is unknown to me. I also see similar themes in X-Files Fight the Future, with the petroleum-based alien. And the influence this had on Mothman Prophesies is undeniable.But in short, Phantoms is an interesting story with above average special effects for the time and enough gore to sustain the average horror of science fiction fan. The story might be a little lacking, but when you keep in mind it's a Dean Koontz story, it's not a big shock.Fans of The Thing might like this, and any Affleck or McGowan fans should definitely check this one out. I own it, and I have no regrets for my purchase. If it hasn't become one already, someday this will be a cult film. My only concern? The DVD is a bit too bare bones. "},{"Title":"** out of ****","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms highly confused me.  I almost recommended it (***) but suddenly let the disappointment sept in.  The movie has a great atmosphere; it was competently made and actually had thrilling moments, but the evil being wasn't scary and I just didn't get it.  "},{"Title":"I Liked it! Not Bad at all!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Talk about low expectations! This is one of the poorest reviewed movies, so my wife and I planned to watch just to make fun of it (like watching Carnosaur 3 Primal Species). But darned if I didn't find it heavy with atmosphere, action, twists and enjoyed the crisp running time. Haven't read Koontz' book, but if it's BETTER than this, I think I will. Photography, sound, and lighting combine for a very eerie watch (opening as it does as a nighttime version of Andromeda Strain). OK, there were cliches like anytime a light is turned on it sounds like an Amtrack going by (note to Hollywood cut it with over-the top sound effects; it's like Jerry Lewis' hangover in Nutty Professor). Also, the humorous stinger is straight out of Howling and Twilight Zone, the Movie. Other than that, quite spooky.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing for a fan . . .","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I know that you can never compare novels to the movies that are made from them, but as a Dean Koontz fan, I found this movie hugely disappointing.  I looked forward to seeing it for awhile, but after renting it with friends, I was left thinking What was that?  The movie started off well enough, but after the first bit of action, I couldn't think anything but This is ridiculous.  I'm a huge fan of Ben Affleck as well, and even his role couldn't save the movie.  I've never seen a Koontz adaptation before, but this one left a bad taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"Where's the slime?","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had high expectations when I went to see this movie. I had never seen any good adaptation of a Koontz book, though in my head they were always very easy to picture.This time, the man himself was part of the process and I hoped that this would keep the story true and exciting. I was right and I was wrong.The movie is very true to the story. But sadly it fails on some very major points. Though the suspense is good at most times, the periodically bad effects and predictable NOOOOoooo! <ratatatatatatat argh!!!> Harry! Answer me Harry! Where are you Harry! scenes drag it down a bit. But the effects aren't that bad and these scenes are only to be expected, so what is wrong?The whole movie builds up to one moment; the confrontation with the beast itself. But here, instead of seeing a huge pulsating black (or clear) ameuba mass as expected from the book we are confronted with somthing that more resembles a tornado of smoke and light. The visual effects here where below average.By the way look for these bloopers in the film Sudden cuts in the sound effects between scenes. In a scene wher Ben Affleck is standing in a room in the hotel where they have found a big pile of jewelery you can see a boom mike hanging down from above. That is just unforgivable!Well, all in all a disappointment, but by far the best Koontz adaptation yet. I hope they get better at it. "}{"Title":"Duff","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A compendium of horror clichés adapted by typing machine Dean Koontz from his own book. It starts promisingly with a deserted town and a mysterious force, but any interest is soon buried beneath an increasingly tedious avalanche of unsubtle dialogue, listless performances, non-characters, shooting and familiar visual effects.This is a mechanical and lazily written film in which the characters take credibility-defying leaps in figuring out what's going on, with the inevitable inclusion of the over-informed expert to plug the gaps (in this case it's Peter O'Toole, whose performance is rotten). What little character development exists is there only to set up a couple of cheap scares and so many surprises fail to surprise that the movie quickly becomes tiresome.Worst of all is the inattentive direction of the performances there's a lack of reaction to what should be horrifying and bizarre events; no one seems too amazed even when a man spews up a lizard onto a piece of broken glass he pulls out of his mouth before collapsing into a puddle of black goo. Rubbish. "},{"Title":"Affleck is the bomb in Phantoms yo!","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" oh my god this movie is the bomb. Affleck is in the movie. Affleck is the bomb in Phantoms you. Creepy time and time watches and voices and screaming. It also has that dude that was Sabertooth in this movie. Creeoy time watching this one. Is that a bird!? No its Phantoms! Affleck is the sheriff, and hes gotta save these dumb white girls from the whole creepy town. There is this giant moth thing that eats this cops face, its pretty sick yo. Affleck cant save everyone. its a rough life in small strange town backwards hick America. Oh and by the way, don't go rolling into strange town America and walk into grannies house and try to eat pumpkin pie with bloody heads all over it yo.This one is for you shock, Its Phantoms! "},{"Title":"Primeval Roles","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Whatever confluence of forces that were at work, when I saw 'Lawrence of Arabia' I was dumbstruck. The sweep of the desert and its lonely complexities mapped thoroughly with the internal landscape this man revealed. Lonely, sexually obsessed but incompetent, determined to press through what seems certain oblivion. Later, when we learned he is a severe drunk &#x97; and unable to get parts as a result &#x97; it fit into the iconography of the Arabian desert.So, all the man has to do for me is show up and reveal his broken self. One of the endearing elements of this is that he can't and doesn't want to hide it, and as a performer he cannot avoid showing up, even if the only opportunity is trash like this film. This film is a mess in many ways. He plays a iconoclast scholar reduced to writing trashy articles for supermarket magazines. Turns out he is the only expert in the world who understands this ancient being that periodically decimates areas.Oh gosh, but the thing is so bad, you don't have to pay any sort of attention to the story itself and can reflect on the man and what he is asked to do, which roughly speaking is to play himself. ('My Favorite Year' is this idea taken seriously, as is 'Club Paradise.')It is sort of circular. In 1962, he merged with the desert and Islam. Here, he fights the beast made of oil that rises from under the ground to destroy a city while the army is befuddled.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a solid 7 at least. I read the book back in the 90's, and I have known about the movie for a decade without sitting down to watch it. My expectations where low, thinking this story would be very hard to put into film. Incidentally I re-watched The Thing the other day, a proclaimed sci-fi classic. There is in my opinion some similarity between what these two movies are trying to do, and if asked now I would have to say Phantoms surpasses The Thing. The former is as underrated as the latter is overrated. Not that The Thing isn't a decent movie, I just think 80's- and The-first-sci-fi-horror-I-watched-nostalgia has caused some to look with gentler eyes on it, as well as some might have judged Phantoms harder because of Ben Affleck. "},{"Title":"After A Wonderfully Creepy Start This Falls Apart","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The first third (or so) of this movie is one of the creepiest starts to a movie I've ever seen. A young woman brings her younger sister from Los Angeles to stay with her in the small town of Snowfield, where she's the town doctor. When they arrive, everyone has either disappeared or is dead - some of them being horribly dismembered. There's no answer to this; no obvious reason for it; no apparent suspect. It's a horrible, creepy mystery - not frightening, really, but truly creepy. It sets you up for what appears to be a very good suspense/thriller. Then, it falls apart.First there was the introduction of the truly creepy police officer. Why make this guy such a nonsensical jerk? Then, there was Dr. Flyte (Peter O'Toole) - some discredited scientist who now writes what one character calls Bigfoot stories for a tabloid who conveniently knows the answer to what's happening and even figures out how to solve it. Then, there's the introduction of the anti-terrorist team that led to lots of gun battles but little more. The idea of the mystery was good - very good. But why it had to be turned into a pretty standard and nonsensical action type movie was beyond me.The movie also suffered from performances that were average at best, and from a complete lack of any real character development, with the possible exceptions of Sheriff Hammond (played by Ben Affleck) and Flyte. We learn a bit about Hammond's past - that he used to be an FBI agent, that he's haunted by having killed a child and apparently left the FBI to be the sheriff of this small town to escape that, and that there's tension with the creepy deputy - and of Flyte, whose story I summarized above. But the overall lack of character development made it difficult to care for these people.The idea of the creature was pretty good - some type of entity that lives inside the earth and devours living things (every now and then people.) It's linked to a number of historical mysteries in the film - like the disappearance of the Roanoke Island colony in 1590. Supposedly, it could absorb the knowledge of whatever it consumed, which made it a rather formidable foe and also made it think - because it apparently had devoured some religious folk over the years - that it was either God or the devil (depending on the response of the devoured as to what was devouring them!)This had potential - I give it that much credit - but in the end was disappointing, especially after the expectations that were raised by the extremely creepy opening. "},{"Title":"Quite good, reminds me of The Blob","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was in two minds about this flick. I thought the spooky, mysterious 1st half of the film was fantastic. It reminded me of playing Resident Evil or Silent Hill alone with the lights out. You never knew what was going to happen, the eerie silence as Affleck and co search the seemingly derelict town. Then they go and goof it up with the Army coming in and that big fat monster thing. Tho I thought adding Peter O'Toole to the cast was pretty shrewd. All in all I thoroughly enjoyed the first half of the movie and was mildly entertained by the second half. Worth it for horror fans.It was a good idea and could of been so much more!!! "},{"Title":"More than watchable","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I should admit I am a big Dean Koontz fan, perhaps more than I am of Stephen King. And even though Koontz for years imitated King. PHANTOMS, which is Koontz's variation on King's IT and also contains touches of JOHN CARPENTER'S THE THING, starts out with most of a small mountain town's population dead or missing. A young female doctor (Joanna Going) and her younger sister (Rose McGowan) have arrived in town at the worst possible moment, but soon hook up with the local sheriff (Ben Affleck) and his deputies (Liev Schreiber and Nicky Katt). The town is being taken over by an elemental force that has lain dormant in the bowels of the earth for untold millenia. Now it wants out. A scientist (Peter O'Toole) and the military arrive soon enough, but cannot stop it. The primordial shapeshifter keeps right on absorbing and killing people. This modest horror movie, shot in scenic Colorado, is scary and atmospheric and should not be watched alone, especially in the dark, unless you like having nightmares. Affleck is a bit young to be a sheriff, but hey, what do I know? Schreiber is spooky right from the start, and only gets spookier as the movie progresses. The gore is sufficient for a low-budget effort, and the final confrontation with the monster is surprisingly satisfying. I watch this tidy little monster flick every chance I get. "},{"Title":"Badly flawed, yet effective ...","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a tough one - the movie has clear problems, but the suspense level and underlying story are really good. Most horror / monster movies never get half as good as this, so on that level, I'm pretty impressed.Basically, the story is about two sisters that arrive at a town that seems to be empty. Soon they are joined by a few police but realize their situation is getting worst by the moment.What sets this movie apart from its peers is that the story is grounded in a popular novel by Dean Koontz and the suspense is strong. Even though there are some crazy things that are plainly ridiculous, the core story and intensity of many scenes win out.If you're willing to let your intellectual guard down for good atmospherics and a decent background story, this is probably for you. "},{"Title":"entertaining and well done","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have no idea for what reason this film received all the bad reviews. Starting from the opening titles this film builts a nice and scary atmosphere which continues throughout the film. It is not another movie where you get all the thrills one after another but they are interestingly and surprisingly presented one at a time. The cast is great. I like Ben Affleck, but the reason I watched this film is Rose McGowan. I've been following her career since Scream and I truly hope she'll get to the big stars section sooner than you think. She's got it all. ) As far as the soundtrack is concerned, it is wonderfully written piece of music that will satisfy every true horror fan. "},{"Title":"I Enjoyed it!","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've enjoyed this movie Very Much. Peter O'Toole is Great and I've enjoyed the movie enough to own it (Even on Video). My wife considers it a Very Good movie (for someone who doesn't like Horror of any kind) and watches it with me at least 3 - 4 times a year. Maybe those who didn't like it might not want to watch it on TV!I enjoy Sci-Fi files and some Horror (Not a Blood and Gut's kind of Guy) and look more towards the story line and the Actors/Actresses in the film itself. I like the casting and this movie doesn't waist you're time and get's to the point quick.Decide for Yourself. "}{"Title":"Atmospheric and highly entertaining","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Phantoms is a really solid and entertaining creature feature with a few flaws.**SPOILERS**Arriving in a small Colorado town, sisters Lisa, (Rose McGowan) and Jennifer Pailey, (Joanna Going) to set up Jennifer's Doctor practice quickly find that the entire town is deserted. Fearing that the town has been killed, their fears are justified until Sheriff Bryce Hammond, (Ben Affleck) Deputies Stuart Wargle, (Liev Schreiber) and Steve Channing, (Nicky Katt) arrive in town. Becoming confused over the whole situation, their attempts at solving it only make them even more confused at what is going on. Finally forced into bringing in special forces to deal with the situation, Dr. Timothy Flyte, (Peter O'Toole) to help out, they realize that they are facing an ancient breed of creature that is among the most vicious forms of life ever produced. Determining that the source is vulnerable to a means of attack, they conjure up a last minute plan to deal with the deadly creature.The Good News This was an overall solid creature feature. What works most in the film is it's spectacular first-half. This is a great idea to have such a powerful opening to the film, allowing for the opportunity to have a lot of fun later on. The deserted streets through the town are just simply eerie and the walk-through is pretty spine-chilling. The fact that there's a sinister feeling, along with the discovery of the bodies and the feeling that there's an unseen presence watching everything going on gives them an added feeling of doom. There's plenty of suspenseful scenes in this as well. Anything in the hotel is superb, as there's simply tons of great scenes in here that really standout to a big degree, and is home to some of the biggest shocks in the film. The second time searching the one room is an excellent example of this, as there's plenty of shocks right after another. That it also adds a piece to the mystery rather than giving answers is rather brilliant. There's even a couple of great deaths in here, including one where a bat attacks a victim and begins to devour their face in front of the others, the whole thing lit by a flashing light from a nearby-broken fixture that gives it an eerie feeling. By keeping it an ongoing mystery as to what's the cause of the disappearances around, there's a lot of suspense as to what the eventual source actually is. The second half does have one memorable sequence, where the creature attacks a military team inside a church. With the eerie lighting making the entire thing quite creepy, a large amount of kills in here and some pretty great action pieces. The last big plus is that it kept the monster off-screen for the majority of the screen-time, making it a complete mystery as to what it really was and making it's appearance a nice shock. These are all the points that favor it.The Bad News There wasn't a whole lot wrong with this one. The biggest flaw is that there's a huge tonal shift halfway through the film. The beginning half is a beautifully construed suspense tale that is eerie, creepy and completely realistic in it's depiction of a mysterious creature preying upon the town, yet the curve thrown at the halfway point is a weird shift. It goes into a normal science fiction film, complete with military scientists, cover-ups and a complete behavior shift from the creature itself. On more than one occasion, it has ample opportunity to attack and get at the characters, yet it lets them go simply for the reason that it wants it's existence known to the world. While that in itself doesn't work as a motive, completely demystifying the creature, that it would suddenly stop taking victims despite earlier on actually going to great lengths to get them seems a little off. Beyond one massacre scene that really works, it leaves the creature out of the spotlight and focuses on the hunt to discover what it is, and this is a little hard to swallow following what came before. This shift in tone is what really kills the film.The Final Verdict While it was pretty flawed, there was enough to like about it for it to be a pretty good entry. This is really recommended to those who really enjoy these kinds of films or have a desire to see an underrated gem, while those that aren't big on these will be put off more by the negatives.Rated R Graphic Language and Graphic Violence "},{"Title":"Chaos, chaos in the flesh.","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Man, when the creature got Stu (Liev Schreiber), I was celebrating. I don't think I could have held on another minute with his creepy laughing. Unfortunately, we could not get rid of him and had to suffer more.So, we have the lovely Rose McGowan (Death Proof, Jawbreaker), Sheriff Ben Affleck, and the good doctor (Joanna Going) to battle whatever is out there. Of course Peter O'Toole with his wacky conspiracy theories comes to aid them.The dialog was absolutely horrible. The special effects were good, and the movie was kinda creepy, but it was definitely Grade C.Rose was just wasted in this film. What a shame. "},{"Title":"Dean Koontz knows how to keep you on the edge of your seat.","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a scary little film. If I found any fault with it at all it was Liev Schreiber's over the top performance. The music is suitably haunting and spooky and the cast is mostly right on. It is not the kind of film, however, that one would expect to find Peter O' Toole to be involved with. The small mountain town would not be the kind of place where something evil would come to be, but the incidents begin within the first three minutes of the film and continue almost non-stop. We have seen this kind of story before but having seen this you understand how Dean Koontz ranks right up there with Stphen King. If if doesn't keep you on the edge of your seat then you have seen too many slasher movies. "},{"Title":"Total Cinematic Nonsense.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Stephen King-wanna-be Dean Koontz' ode to supernatural confusion and chaos as two sisters (Joanna Going and Rose McGowan) arrive in a small California town that has pretty much been wiped out by some unknown force. Sheriff Ben Affleck and his deputies (led by Liev Schreiber) are the only others around, but it becomes blatantly apparent that law enforcement officers with guns are not going to be able to save the day. Finally the national guard is brought in with tabloid reporter/quack scientist Peter O'Toole (What in the world is he doing in this film!?) serving as the designated expert. Science-fiction/horror genre junk that is about as clunky and unwanted as they come. The film is dark, cheaply made and makes very little sense with an all-over-the-map screenplay. Makes you wonder if the book is as incoherent. Totally sad waste. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Phantoms","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I highly recommend that those that have read the book by Dean Koontz not watch this. You will be highly disappointed since there are so man major changes in the movie. I had a hard time watching the movie and thinking all throughout what was wrong, or what could have been expanded to make the movie better. Some parts of the movie stuck with the story line, but key parts of the book were left out. I highly recommend that people actually take the time to read the book. Then you will know what I mean. For those that have not read the book, then enjoy the show. I am almost certain that had I not read the book, I would have enjoyed the movie. "},{"Title":"movie shows how bad Oscar winning actors can be","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Phantoms is very much like an untrained marathon runner who starts out fast and with lots of energy and zest, only to faultier at the half mile mark and taken away by the paramedics at one mile. Phantoms is based on a book by Dean Koontz; whose recent work seems to lack originality. In this instance Koontz borrowed much from H. P. Lovecraft. As for the movie, it does start out well and then quickly dies. The producers and directors seem to be suffering from the same problem as Koontz. If you have seen the last Blob film you need not bother with Phantoms. As for Ben, his performance comes right out of daytime soap operas; while Peter O'Toole should stop acting and rest on his laurels. "},{"Title":"One of the top ten worst films of all time.","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Without resorting to profanity, obscenity, or spiteful remarks (and why would you, really), I can safely say that this movie was one of the top ten worst films of all time. Peter O'Toole appears to be having a particularly nightmarish time, although unlike his younger cast members I suppose he has more experience to compare this unbearably asinine drivel to. It's chaos. Aaaaaaaaaaaahhhh. Chaos. How scary. I expect that accounts easily for the many different forms the ancient evil takes. And Joe Chapelle, the director. Well, it's been all downhill since his original film, Thieves Quartet (1994). He should have stuck to writing. Look, I suppose it is possible that the producers, or editors, or something sold him out... but how does that account for Witchblade (2001) (still better than Phantoms but...) or The Skulls II (2002) as if that film needed a sequel?What is with Dean R. Koontz and dogs? Dogs in his films, and his books, get way more time than a lot of the human characters. Hmm.Joanna Going was far better in Runaway Jury (2003) and I'm sure a bunch of other stuff but I'm not really familiar with her work. (Nixon?)Every film Liev Schreiber was in since Phantoms (up to The Sum Of All Fears, anyway) has been infinitely superior.Affleck, his Sum Of All Fears cohort, has made some incredibly good films (Dazed & Confused, everything with Kevin Smith, Boiler Room, Shakespeare In Love etc.) and some appalling nonsense (everything since 2001 for instance - Changing Lanes and Jersey Girl being the possible exceptions). Did you know he was one of the basketball players in the original Buffy film? (Another memorable performance).Rose McGowan - I've liked her since The Doom Generation (1995) but I'm not always sure why. Her performance in Phantoms was terrible. Actually that's not fair. Everybody in this film is terrible.Except maybe Nicky Katt (also from Boiler Room and The Doom Generation). He dies pretty quickly so it's hard to tell.Down the bottom of the IMDb page they had a recommndationIf you like this title, we also recommend... Dreamcatcher (2003) Welcome to the top ten my friends. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal plot that even would destroy an ancient enemy","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Without any doubt, `Phantoms' is one of the most unoriginal movies I've ever seen, but I think I've got to say, an entertaining one. In bringing in Peter O'Toole and Ben Affleck, the producers made a fine choice. While O'Toole outstandingly acts as a eccentric scientist, there could be no better part for Ben Affleck than the sheriff. Surely, the movie has a silly plot (somehow a recycling of `Ghostbusters II') and is not comparable to `Good Will Hunting', but it is thrilling and you won't get bored! The quintessence If King Kong rises your house or terrorists hold you for ransom and Superman and James Bond failed, phone Lawrence of Arabia.  "},{"Title":"Can't decide whether to like it or to hate it","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ~ SPOILERS ~I usually dont't watch horror movies, but today I caught this on TV in a middle of the church massacre scene. Judging by the tentacles breaking into helmets I thought this was some scene from Species I somehow missed before. So I kept watching and realized it wasn't Species but something similar, only not so good.Well, Phantoms was fun. A bit too gory at times. But there IS something wrong with it - from time to time you'll feel that you already saw some scenes in another movie. The blood and the tentacles are from Species. The dog is from The Thing. The monster beneath surface is from It, and so on.If you're looking for a film in which there are reasons to why something is happening, look somewhere else. But if you want some not-so-serious fun for the evening, give this one a try. Now I've seen it, I wouldn't bother watching it again.Oh, I don't usually watch these kind of movies. But Species had Natasha Henstridge in it ) "},{"Title":"Dean Koontz should be ashamed","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For a man who wrote such a brilliant book, you think he would put more of an effort into the screen adaptation of Phantoms. This movie could have had major potential, but was sloppily thrown together by the man who made it great in the first place. All those who have seen it and claim to enjoy, I suggest you read the book-then you will see what I mean.  "}{"Title":"Good Start, Weak Finish","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is really the tale of two movies -- for the first 45 minutes or so, up until the point where the monster actually makes its appearance, the movie is actually quite effective, and has a number of genuinely creepy moments, but once the creature arrives in force the remainder of the movie stumbles badly and turns into pretty bad grade B trash.  Watch the first half of the film -- its probably an 8 out of 10 or so -- then turn off the TV and go play a video game or something -- the last half hour is just a waste of time. "},{"Title":"How do movies like this get made?","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Man - what the hell happened here? I bet even Bobo the circus chimp could've told you this was doomed to failure right from the start. The movie begins with the disappearance of a whole town (never seen that before), a poor excuse for a plot takes place next, a buncha people get killed, and I think I blacked out by the time the end came about. But if you do happen to come to watch this film, make sure you keep an eye out for the stunning performance put forth by Rose McGowan... and if you can't tell - I'm being sarcastic. "},{"Title":"Suprisingly good","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It just goes to show that peoples views differ in many ways. The imdb average was 5.2 before i watched this film and it nearly put me off watching it but in no way did i think this film was worth only 5.2 out of 10. Ok it is not an oscar nomiminated film or nor should it be but as horror movies go this hit the spot for me. The story is about a town that has been overtaken by demonic force that is thousands of years old and can materialise in any form( check out the giant moth!).  If you dont take the storyline to seriously you will enjoy this film as i did. The most scariest thing about this film?.......  Peter O,Toole!. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Study In Mediocrity...","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Like many of his colleagues, Dean Koonz was upset with the treatment accorded his written work, especially Hideaway, which he disowned completely. However, in this particular case, much of the blame must fall on him. He wrote the screenplay himself, and shares a producer credit to boot.His 1983 novel wasn't a knockout, but it was a fast-paced, reasonably enjoyable book, with characters that were interesting (if sometimes too broadly drawn). On the other hand, the film, while not a total disaster, is a generic, forgettable horror entry, with inadequately developed principals.It starts out fairly well. There are a few creepy bits scattered about. The cast is good, and one can only wish Koonz could have given them a better script to work with. In a few years, this one will be forgotten altogether-if that isn't already the case.One question to ponder why are there TWELVE (12) producer credits?!?Rating ** (out of ****)96 min/Released by Dimension Films "},{"Title":"Video fodder makes mincemeat of excellent novel","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" PHANTOMS Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalSeveral disparate characters are trapped in a small town whose population has been wiped out by an ancient alien organism that threatens to destroy the world. One of Dean R. Koontz' best novels makes a surprisingly lacklustre transfer to the big screen in Joe Chappelle's PHANTOMS. Koontz' own screenplay jettisons the novel's complexities in favor of straight-ahead horror, and while the early mystery of the town's devastation raises hopes of something juicy, the 'solution' involves little more than a few brief CGI effects and faded memories of older, better films (FORBIDDEN PLANET, Carpenter's THE THING, etc.). Chappelle's slick visuals are OK, but the movie is blatantly designed to play better on TV, where its grating lack of substance may not seem quite so offensive. Though remarkably straight-faced, the script isn't entirely without humor - watch out for the awful visual pun which accompanies the Patsy Cline song I Fall to Pieces... "},{"Title":"I wasted eight bucks on a used copy of this movie at Hollywood Video?!?","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wish I had found it cheaper elsewhere...After watching the luminous Joanna Going in Still Breathing, I went out and bought this movie. I had low expectations before watching this movie; afterall, it's based on a Dean R. Koontz novel. Somehow, Phantoms managed to go below them.The reason was probably the storyline. It was so insipid and strange and dumb, my friend and I talked throughout the whole movie. But we did like how Patsy Cline's I fall to pieces fit in. That's one of the few things we remember about the movie, besides getting creeped out at the thought of the monster coming out of the sink.As for the actors... This is the kind of role Ben Affleck would gladly forget, something he can omit from his resume, thanks to great work done in Good Will Hunting and Dogma.... Rose McGowan's character should have died---her character was there just to ask dumb questions, in case the audience didn't understand what was going on. Huh? Not only did her character act annoying, her face was a bit distracting because it had a glossy sheen... Peter O'Toole was probably cast in this movie because of Supergirl.... Liev Schreiber had the best character, hands down, because he kept singing that Patsy Cline tune.And as for the reason why I watched this movie in the first place... Oh, poor, poor Joanna... How were they able to make this hauntingly ethereal creature just look plain haunting? Throughout the whole movie, it looked like she needed to lie down and sleep... Also, on the videotape cover, Joanna's hair is long and straight. In the movie, it is short and curly. What's up with that? That's got to be the third videotape cover I've seen that has this kind of discrepancy with Joanna's hair. "},{"Title":"BOO!! Did that scare you?","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Someone should tell the director of this movie that the difference between startling the audience and scaring them is the difference between grade school horror and good horror.  Maybe they should watch Sixth Sense to see how to build a suspenseful mood.  Of course then I think Dean Koontz is way way overrated as a suspense author. This plot was a one-trick pony.  I can just see Mr. Koontz sitting around the house saying, what if my evil force had this life form?  How would I defeat it?  Oh yeah, here's how.  Now can I milk two hours out of this simple premise?  We are supposed to believe that two white women who see so much horror in one night they can hardly breathe then volunteer to not get the hell out of Dodge as soon as they can?  The BET Comedy Hour can get a lot of mileage out of that.  I'll bet Ben Affleck doesn't put this dog on any of his resumes.   "},{"Title":"A tense, scary movie with a few unanswered questions...","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't see this mentioned in any of the other comments.  I like the flatworm-learning idea.  It was a neat little explanation for how this thing actually became evil from just being hungry.  The question then becomes one of motivation---did it mutilate some of its victims just because it is evil?  I'd call it insane, but since it is not human I do not think that applies. It was worth seeing, but it's no masterpiece.  And the DVD does have all the clarity, but it has no other significant special features or info... "},{"Title":"OKAY IF YOU LIKE SUPERNATURAL HORRORS!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms is a pretty cool movie. the mystery of what is killing everyone keeps you hooked. The story starts to die away to the end and i didn't like the finish. But I'm not a fan of supernatural horrors, i would rather a killer. But if your a fan of that genre type I would recommend this to you. O yeah Rose McGowan is in it so that makes it worth the watch. The story is in the peaceful town of Snowfield, Colorado something evil has wiped out the community. And now, its up to a group of people to stop it, or at least get out of Snowfield alive.  "},{"Title":"This movie was a OK movie !!B-grade science fiction/horror movie!!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about a group of young adults who are trapped in a small town in the mountains. When they arrive , the town is empty.The two girls eventually meet Ben Affleck,the local sheriff and the Cotton guy from Scream. Eventually , the U. S government sends in a group of scientists to find out what happened to the town. The evil takes over the remaining people in the town. The end was ok , if you like the stars or the author of the book!!At times this movie felt like a chessy B grade science fiction/horror movie.I will say it has a few neat special effects scenes !!Overall, it's a OK movie with a little B grade stuff thrown in for good measure!! "}{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't as good as I was hoping it was going to be.  The book was way better than this.  The acting was pretty bad, it tried hard for the thrills but didn't really get there.Most of the time I was checking my watch. So overall don't rent this film, watch it when it comes on television. "},{"Title":"Awesome concept, disappointing movie.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have read many of Dean Koontz's novels, and I always look forward to seeing them when they are made into movies.  I was ecstatic when I heard about Phantoms because the book was excellent, with many original and awesome ideas in it.  I thought that they might be able to make this one into a good movie.  When I heard that Ben Affleck was starring in it, I knew that I had to see it.  Then I went and saw it...Ugh.  I was really depressed after about 20 minutes, once the movie starting skipping over certain explanations and insights that were present in the book.  It felt like the story was being, dumbened down for the average joe.  I know that dumbened isn't a real word, but it worked for the Simpsons,and it does convey my feelings about what I experienced, watching this film.Due to all of the concepts that are vaguely referred to and then ignored for the rest of the movie, there is nothing innovative about this story, and it becomes little more than a cheesy horror movie.Dean Koontz did write a fantastic story, but I'm surprised at how much was sacrificed to bring it to the big screen.  Considering that Koontz was involved in the actual production of this movie, I'm surprised that he would allow this to happen.In conclusion, I'd like to say that this could have been as good as the book with about an hour of additional footage including more detailed explanations about the monster.  Ben Affleck's performance was as good as could be done, but he wasn't give enough to work with.  The ending was silly, and I'd like to add that it isn't the same as the ending in the book. Hollywood always has to leave a option for a sequel though... I'd have to say this is one that got away, and it's too bad because now, it can never be what it should have been.  Please, Mr. Koontz, save your stories until you can get them produced exactly as you present them in your novels.  It would be a tragedy if this happens to stories like Lightning, Midnight, and Dragon Tears.  I also want to say that Dean Koontz is in no way second to Steven King as the master of horror.  Anyone who reads his novels would agree, don't judge him on what Hollywood does to his work.  "},{"Title":"Pretty ok book turned into a less than ok movie","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read the book Phantoms by Dean Koontz a couple of years ago. I have always preferred Dean Koontz books over Stephen King, they write in a pretty similar style although Koontz´ books have always been more scary -)Anyways, this kind of books seem very hard to make good movies from. I think we´ve seen that when almost every attempt at making good movies from Kings´ books have failed miserably. So i didn´t have very high expectancies when i rented this movie. And now i don´t really know what to think. The effects where pretty ok as was the acting considering that there was not much room to develop the characters. Comparing the movie to the book i think they approached the story a bit wrong. They could have had more of an approach where they talked more of the enemy. In the book the author describes the monster pretty well, and i thought it was actually pretty fascinating..Well. Anways. To round it up i think that this was a mediocre movie that could have been done better. It has it´s moments when it was actually pretty scary, but i can´t say i recommend it other than as a rental. And definitetly not as a DVD. "},{"Title":"Badly done Stephen King","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not having read anything by Dean Koontz, I don't know if this is  a compliment or not, but Phantoms could easily have been based on a Stephen King-novel. As with most King-films, it starts off scary and mysterious, and builds the tension to levels where the climax can't possibly follow. Having backed itself into a corner, instead of even trying to fulfill our expectations, the movie degenerates into simple and boring action a la It. Now, I'll give Koontz the benefit of the doubt and agree that it's a story that would have worked better if it hadn't been squeezed into a 1 hour and 30 minute frame. The characters in Phantoms are never even introduced properly, they are just thrown into the action with nothing to support them but a two minute long conversation about boyfriends during  the opening credits. This actually worked well in the first half of the film, as it seemed a refreshing exception to the rule, and since it added to the mystique that clouded the story to begin with. Still, Phantoms is otherwise infested with horror-cliches, and as the story unravels it would have benefitted from being based around characters we actually care for. As for actors, Liev Schreiber and Ben Affleck do well,  but Rose McGowan stinks it up a little. Mainly it's due to bad casting, as she looks like a 25 year old disguised as a kid. So, it's a film with few surprises. You'll be scared, then you'll laugh at the cheap computer graphics, and finally you'll be disappointed. You decide if it's worth it.  "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just a superb movie from a superb writer !!!!! Watch it !!! "},{"Title":"It was not as scary as I thought it would be.","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story still left me feeling like, 'what the heck was it.'  The main reason I went to see it was because it was Michael DeLorenzo's first role after leaving New York undercover.  I have a web site dedicatd to him, so I  needed to see what it was about. "},{"Title":"The terror stays grounded.","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Deep under the soil of a sleepy Colorado mountain town lurks an unimaginable  horror.  Its sole purpose to feed, terrorize, and make headlines.  In fact , it wants to be recognized so badly, it makes the equivalent of a call to  its agent.  Peter O'Toole steps down from his multiple academy award nominations as an  investigative reporter for a world-renowned supermarket tabloid.  He's the  only one who knows what the terror wants.  Maybe he should have advised it  to try gaining notoriety by devastating New York City instead of Snowfield,  Colorado.  At least it would have made some typical summer box office  revenue and deals with fast-food restaurants.Ben Affleck gives a lukewarm performance of the local (and very young)  sheriff.  Rose McGowan demonstrates why she's the teen queen of the scare  flicks these days.  And Liev Schrieber is particularly evil as a  necrophilic cop.Rating This movie is worth watching on video, provided you aren't the one  paying to see it. "},{"Title":"","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's really sad that Dean Koontz's chilling novel of the same name produced the yawn-inducing Phantoms. The best thing about this totally pointless, outrageously un-scary horror movie is that it's very short. D "},{"Title":"...avoid it....","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...one of THE WORST movies I've ever seen...paper thin characters that the viewer could care-less about....Ben Affleck could not be more inexperienced in acting...the entire movie feels like it's being made up on the spot...very uninformative in it's delivery....this movie truly is a waste of time...other movies with the same vibe but much more effective The Blob, Children of the Corn, Event Horizon, all of which use similar filming techniques to build suspense but they actually work in most cases...also, nothing is worse than a movie that tries to incorporate elements of the occult or physics without providing anything in the way of true explanation...Outer Limits would have done this one better.... "},{"Title":"phantom is it the movie for you?","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" PHANTOMS now heres a film it is a great movie one for all great movies fans to see it, its gripping one of the best horror movies made in the 1990s,it stars like all horrors boring but the rest makes up for it there are four main characters how many live u find out WATCH IT this film has non stop action and suspense and does not reveal anything till the end and then u weren't expecting it either p.s nice vehicle lab thing.its the kind of film we all like apart from the film critics they don't like most good films so don't listen to them they find thing wrong that you would even see. Affleck the boom in phantom yo "}{"Title":"Koontz degenerates into a mindless subhuman that looks like Stephen King","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The short version is that this is just a tedious pile of boring horror movie cliches with alot of fear for fears sake, gore for gore's sake, alot of noisy shooting, yelling, kicking in doors, alot of tedious special effects, alot of ripoffs from movies from Alien to Friday the 13th. I mean, the phone rings and theres this evil voice from hell on it. Give me a break. And spare me the dripping goo, and spare me the plot filler explanations. You mean if we shoot (whatever) with this special (whatever) it will kill the (whatever)? God, if I hear that drivel once more tentacles may shoot out of *my* eyeballs.I say this as a Dean Koontz fan, and I know he did the script. I believe I've read just about all his books, and his books are not like this. His books are good. He gets a real creepy thing going in some of them. So .. don't see this because you like him. This is alot like of Stephen King's drivel where evil forces do things to scare crap out of people for no reason (other than making money). These people should be required  by law to have a logical explanation for everything that results in things that look like people but really aren't, or heads exploding and all the blasted brains pulsating around.You've sold your soul, Koontz, now you're one of those mind-controlled zombie you always write about. "},{"Title":"Not that good, but it tried its best","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms is an OK movie, with some serious problems. It started off with some of the worst opening credits ever. The opening credits are a big factor in horror movies, they set the mood for them. These opening credits just seemed to scream 'Arial!'. It starts off with two women driving in a car to check out this town. They arrive at the town, and go into this house. They find the person living there is dead, run around for a bit, and realise the town is deserted. These scenes could have been really creepy, but it all happens too creepy. Then the two females meet these cops, and they help them around the place, and try to search for an answer. The great thing about this movie is, it doesn't give an answer, which I always like. In fact every good horror movie leaves its questions unanswered. Not in the sense that a boogeyman jumps out of a closet for no reason, but in the sense that something is doing something and they must find out. The ending is unsatisfying, but this movie has enough suspense and scares to hold your interest for the duration. 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"yet another recent movie where the first half is good but the second half sucks","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i saw this not too long after the poor Mimic, and i was expecting the same quality.surprisingly, the first half of this Dean Koontz adaption is pretty good and the filmmakers create a genuine spooky atmosphere within the deserted town cliche.unfortunately this movie spirals downwards toward complete disaster during the messy second half. it just gets goofy, cheesy and stupid.a lot of recent movies seem to have this problem. it's like they get a good premise and forget to follow it through the whole movie.and in an about face, Rose McGowan actually keeps her clothes on in this movie. she's a decent actress but is overrated in regards to her looks (great breasts though).pretty poor in most respects.rating4 "},{"Title":"A rare Affleck movie in which he isn't the most annoying person.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yet another unimaginative 90s horror flick. Liev Schreiber, whom I liked in some previous movies, threatens to sink this movie single-handedly. He is designated here as comic relief. In order to compensate for his incredibly ridiculous character and the mediocre script Schreiber resorted to excessive mugging, which has the potential of irritating every single viewer. Fortunately, before he is given the chance to completely ruin the film, his character is killed off (about half-an-hour into the film). Thank God for that, I thought. However, he does reappear as a zombie about fifty minutes later in order to annoy us more with his unfunny comedy shtick. Minutes later he is killed as a zombie. Or so I thought. In the very last scene, quite predictably, he resurrects once again and gets the last word in the movie, thereby giving room for a sequel. How original. Schreiber is getting typecast recently as comic relief which is fine when the part and the script are good, but neither are in this case. Buscemi has been misused in a similar way as a very annoying, unfunny character in Armageddon.The director has mostly failed to create an exceptional horror mood which he was trying hard to achieve (or was he?). The easiest part where this could have been done was at the beginning when the two women arrive to the dead town. He has missed the opportunity to make this part of the movie highly atmospheric and eerie. (Andromeda Strain comes to mind, and how superior its dead-town scenes are to this movie's.) Instead, weak dialog soon creeps in, and a little later a badly miscast and talentless Affleck (and the supremely annoying Schreiber).The script is a mediocrity. The monster and the concept surrounding it are by and large derivative. Almost every monster shtick has been seen before. The most borrowing is from The Thing. Rose McGowan is a very pretty face to look at and it's a nice distraction from idiots Schreiber and Affleck. Seeing Peter O'Toole in a film of this sort is very strange. The motive isn't hard to guess; at one point his character says that he is writing for a magazine only for money. "},{"Title":"Did you ever think what is REALLY underground?","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms is one creepy film. I just like how the beginning and middle of the film is. Just so scary and lonely. EXCELLENT! The story is good and it really makes you think what if? All horror,science fiction fans is got check this one out! "},{"Title":"A lesson in bad...a mediocre-at-best horror movie","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms was pretty decent book by Dean Koontz that I was looking forward to seeing on screen. When I went with my girlfriend, the theater we went to had only 5 other people there by themselves. I had the feeling there that this movie would suck from then on and I wish we would've left the theaters and got a refund. This was the slowest 90 minutes I've spent in the movies. I don't know how so many people can rave about this; it was basically every horror movie cliche taken and thrown into one movie. At one point, I was so bored, in my mind I was playing a game of guess which movie this is ripping off of. Sure, another movie, Virus was exactly the same, taking elements from millions of horror films, but at least Virus was campy and it came off as mindless fun. The audience I went to in this seemed bored to death, I even heard some loud yawns behind me in the movie. For how much he complains about screenwriters screwing up his novels by bad adaptions, Dean himself did a pretty p**s-poor job adapting this one. This one makes Watchers look great. Enough with the script, the director (who brought us the crap-fest Halloween 6) can't seem to know what to do with the script and just has the cast endlessly walking around a quiet town looking dazed by how quiet everything is, while we're stuck waiting for a cheap pop-out to appear or someone to shout out some stupid one-liner about how bad things everything thats happening around them is. The actors give it their worst and obviously needed a paycheck; Ben Affleck is miscast as a hick sheriff, Liev Schreiber makes an ass out of himself, overacting terribly as a retard deputy and deserves an award for actor most making an ass out of himself. Rose McGowan, who wasn't bad in Scream, though her cleavage did the acting for her there didn't improve any bit from Doom Generation, and what the hell was the great Peter O'Toole thinking when he signed on this film. Since I hated so much about this movie, the only good thing about the film was the performance by Joanna Going, she isn't given much to do, but she makes the best out of her one-dimensional character and is the only one who you hope won't get hacked to pieces. The make-up effects were really bad as well and were only a small improvement over Plan 9 From Outer Space (no pun intended on that movie). This is probably one of the worst movies I've had to sit through. . "},{"Title":"I'm Certain It Missed Something From Printed Page To Silver Screen","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm right in saying that it's fairly uncommon nowadays for a horror movie to have been based upon a novel or at least one that wasn't based on a Stephen King novel . Most horror movies seem to have been produced at a pitch though how on earth you pitch a movie that has horny teenagers getting their heads chopped ( Yawn ) I have no idea , so I guess a Dean R Koontz novel being produced is a rare event and the original author has adapted his own novel but my gut instinct is that the author has adapted it very badly for the screen Two sisters Lisa and Jennifer Pailey arrive in a small California town in Winter and find it deserted . Something is very wrong but Lisa and Jennifer arrive at the conclusion as to what's happening far too readily thereby diffusing all tension and mystery . Not only but it makes for very unconvincing charaterisation and it's not only just the Pailey sisters who suffer from this poor characterisation it's everyone else too . This is a movie where scientists feature but the two most intelligent people happen to be an author of mystical speculation and a small town sheriff ! Yes very likely . Mind you characters hypothesise and speculate and answer things they would almost have no knowledge of and there's no explanation as to how they arrived at these conclusions . Of course in a book you can print characters thought process and why they thought such and such a thing , on screen it's impossible but Koontz obviously thought everyone who rushed out to watch this film had read the source novel so explanation wasn't a priority . Either that or it's a marketing ploy for confused audiences members to buy his novel . Sorry Dean I won't be writing off to Santa for a copy of PHANTOMS - Or any other of your novels PHANTOMS comes across as a good idea but a very mediocre movie and would perhaps have worked better as an episode of THE X FILES . The only interest it had for me was trying to spot what other movies it reminded me of  THE FOG ( 1980 version ) , THE BLOB (1988 version ) THE THING ( 1982 version ) etc etc "},{"Title":"How low can you go?.....","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Knowing that the Scream franchise was so huge at the time of this films release, Dimension and Miramax marketed this film as another nod to the audience, wink wink movie, as seen on the DVD cover.And why have they done this? Its a mess of a movie.Who sisters go back to their hometown for silly reasons, only to find that its desolate, and half the townsfolk have been wiped out by an unknown force. They bump into Ben Affleck and his gang, and things start to happen, like awful CGI critters wiping out the group one by one.Luckily the producers of the film had enough money to get Peter O' Toole on board to come in halfway through the film to explain what it's all about...The problem with this film is that it can't decide what it wants to be, full on horror science fiction, or tongue in cheek pastiche. One moment it can be quite gripping, the claustrophobic set is pretty suitable, but then you'll have someone like McGowan or Schrieiber saying something stupid, and it just takes you out of the moment.Affleck is okay, but has very little to do, and as said before, O'Toole is just there to okay Basil Exposition.The final third picks up, only because it has no other choice but to be totally bonkers and throw bad CGI cars at O'Toole, and it all ends up with a little wink wink at the end.Its a wasted opportunity, with half decent performances...... "},{"Title":"a Mix bag","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" the phantoms (1998)I saw this on Netflix, I did not think it sounded that good but I gave a chance . I was not aware it was based on one dean Koots books , which I have not read that book , this also be compared a old movie called x unknown , which I have seen either.I liked the movies dose not take long to get going , as the first half the movie was kind fast moving at times.First we don't know who or what is talking or whispers over the phone but dose take long to find what the thing is!I liked some effects in the movie , were really good, the loved dog scenes, it kind of reminded me of the thing a little.The middle part of the movie was bit dull at times but it picks up again near the end.5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Not a terrible as many would have you believe.","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dr. Jennifer Pailey (Joanna Going) and her younger sister Lisa (Rose McGowan) arrive in the remote town of Snowfield, Colorado, only to find the inhabitants either dead or missing, having fallen foul of a subterranean creature that believes itself to be a god. While searching the town for signs of life, the sisters meet local sheriff Bryce Hammond (Ben Affleck) and his deputies, but even with the lawmen's added firepower, survival looks unlikely&#x97;at least until the arrival of a team of government agents and their unlikely expert on the 'ancient evil', tabloid journalist Dr. Timothy Flyte (Peter O'Toole).Based on the novel by Dean Koontz (who also wrote the screenplay), Phantoms starts off very promisingly with the Pailey sisters' nail-biting search of the town's seemingly deserted buildings a few delightfully grisly discoveries, some truly eerie sounds and the gradually dwindling daylight keep the level of tension high and the viewer right on the edge of their seat. An attack by a bizarre flying critter that leaves Deputy Stuart 'Stu' Wargle (Liev Schreiber) minus his face and several subsequent well-executed supernatural scares serve to heighten the horror.Unfortunately, with the introduction of O'Toole as Flyte, matters start to go downhill, the plot becoming more and more far fetched, eventually losing all sense of credibility during the inevitable showdown with the monster that involves the use of a handy experimental chemical that can break down the structure of oil&#x97;which just happens to be what the Lovecraftian creature is largely comprised of.However, despite its flaws, I'm happy to rate Phantoms a more than reasonable 6/10 simply for the wonderfully atmospheric first half, which surely served as inspiration for the successful 'Silent Hill' series of computer games. "}{"Title":"Gods have nothing to fear......Or do they?","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you have never read a Dean Koontz Horror Novel this Movie will likely not inspire such wantings. Scripted by the Book's Author this adaptation of his own work is full of it. Full of clichés, uninspired Acting, mediocre SFX, unfunny funny lines and references (Patsy Cline's I Fall to Pieces is heard while you see, you guessed it), well that's enough, but there's more.The Cast seems to be standing around a lot with blank stares waiting for someone, anyone, to say Action, or something. Speaking of Action, early on there is a Scene that telegraphs just how lame and misdirected this is. A Thing shows up and we have our three Leads, standing shoulder to shoulder pumping hundreds of bullets at a window. It looks like something out of completely different Movie, or Genre for that matter.So the warning comes early, and it is right on. Nothing that happens after-wards is remotely scary, interesting, or worth your time. This is not the worst Horror/Sci-Fi Movie ever made but it tries really hard to be a contender. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"10 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Most thriller/horror movies have plots that are completely ridiculous when a bit of thought is applied to them. This one surprised me in the scientific integrity. Not only was the antagonist believable even after it was explained, not all the characters came off as total morons! The doctors actually acted like and spoke as if they had more than a high school education. Even the corpses looked pretty realistic! The set was nothing special. The cinematography and sound were both mediocre at best. The acting was pretty good. But if you're a science fiction fan and sick of silly plots, give this movie a chance. You may just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Complete tripe; the book isn't bad though.","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's like the movie was written by a simpleton and directed by someone with ADD.The dialogue is awful, there is no chemistry between the actors, and before any one scene has enough time to develop another scene has already started.It's like they took the basic story and a few scenes from the book and threw the rest away. In fact they only did two things right that I can think of. The first was to eliminate the Fletcher Kale subplot. The second was to make the Author be a journalist in America. Because of this he need a lot less introduction than he had in the book.Today I read the book and then I watched this movie right after. If the book had been nearly as bad as the movie I wouldn't have bothered finishing it. The book grabs you from the first chapter and while it takes you a while to learn what is happening you are not at all confused. This movie on the other hand was just a bunch of crap without much exposition. I really don't care about the characters at all either. The attempts at giving depth to the characters are laughable.I know it is a cliché but the book really is much better than the movie. I would rate the book at 7 or 8 out of 10 but this movie I only give a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A shadow of what it could have been","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't believe I've read anything by Koontz, and I honestly don't know if he's respected or not, either. This is the second adaptation of a novel of his that I've seen, the other being Whispers, and again, the outcome is less than compelling. The direction is fair, though considering what Chapelle has to work with, this should have been far better. It does do several things reasonably well, however; the isolation isn't bad, for example. Atmosphere is OK. The plot is interesting enough, and parts of it are somewhat original(the rest is... not). I think each viewer's reaction to the overtones will depend greatly on the individual. The editing and cinematography are average. This is well-paced, and this is seldom boring. The effects are pretty well-done, if a little dated today. This doesn't fully utilize its cast, and outright wastes the immense talent of Peter O'Toole, and to a lesser extent, Liev Schreiber. If you are watching this mainly for the sci-fi aspect, don't expect new ideas, except this particular take on a tale we've heard before(I won't reveal which it is here, so as to not spoil the surprise for those who've not yet seen this, and want to find out for themselves). There is a lot of strong language in this, as well as bloody, gory violence and disturbing content. I recommend this to any fan of those who made it, and/or of the author behind the book and script. 6/10 "},{"Title":"I Hope Mr O'Toole Got Well Paid","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One commentary refers to this movie as - amongst other things - intelligent. I have to say that upon at least that fundamental I entirely disagree. It is anything but. Confused would be a more suitable description, and lame.Once more it has the appearance that so many modern horror movies now possess the semblance to a montage of rip-offs.It starts out with a fairly promising intro. The camera pans across a series of gloomy wilderness tableaux, with suitably suspenseful theme music in a series of deep cords. Our attention is drawn to a solitary motorcar, picking its way along an empty, meandering road, dwarfed by threatening mountains. Now where have I seen that before? Ah yes; I remember - 'The Shining'.Notwithstanding this blatant rip-off, it's quite effective (though nowhere near so as the original) and curiosity is aroused.The vehicle contains two rather tiresome, bitchy bratesses, who seem to have 'victim' stamped all over them. My heart quails at the prospect of a hysterics-'n'-screams-fest.The hick town they're heading for is deserted, or so it seems. In fact; many of the houses are found to contain dead people, horribly disfigured. They look pretty grim. One of these young women, it seems, is a doctor, but she appears to offer very little explanation as to their condition. It's a mystery. Both have momentary visions of 'people'. and there are strange sounds. The telephones don't work (I bet £5 that they wouldn't). In one kitchen there's a pair of severed hands clutching a rolling pin. The oven timer 'pings'. I bet another £5 that there was a head in it (I lost; there were two).In the course of their wandering, the doctor and her companion encounter three deputies, also lately arrived. 'What the hell's going on?'. Oh it's just another second-rate horror movie, mate. As if to confirm this, the lights start going haywire. No thunderstorm as yet.The movie is called 'Phantoms'. And what with the creepy noises, power-supply problems and visionary flashes one might reasonably expect a bit of supernatural hokum. That's certainly what it seems to be leading towards. There are even cryptic messages scrawled on mirrors.Cue Peter O'Toole, making a pose as an ageing 'Spooky Mulder'. How are the mighty fallen? He's the proprietor of everything strange. And the FBI take his work seriously enough to drag him away from his fireside on grounds of 'national security' (I thought that was the remit of the CIA). A quick blast in a Lear jet and he's at the hick town. Not quite sure where they parked the plane.After a series of frightful deaths, it very soon becomes 'clear' that what they're actually dealing with is a smartypants worm, or super-colony of smartypants worms that think they're a god and need a good, stern talking to, followed by a bacterial infection enema to restore their sense of proportion. I kid you not.Cue some wretchedly inept CGI as this oak-tree sized worm-thing goes infection bonkers. Well that's another end-of-civilisation-as-we-know-it-situation narrowly averted. Dr O'Toole can go back to his fireside and gloat over his paycheque.Surprisingly, both bratesses survive.To be fair, there are some really tense moments and atmospheric situations. But the script is cornball, the acting is marginal, and the story is laughable. Special effects? You've seen them all before. Even Peter O'Toole fails to render any gravitas. He has the expression of one who is doing something slightly gross and undignified, and hopes that others (like his fellow thespians) will not see.As I say; it's a crummy little confection of ripped-off ideas. A slice of 'The Shining', a bit of 'The Blob' (the remake), a tincture of 'The Thing', a miniscule of 'Mimic' and a splash of 'Species' are immediately evident. A large bug gets a brief fly-on part, before biting-off a deputy's face and eating his brain (not much nutrition there, I would have thought) before buzzing-off, never to be seen again. And, of course, never explained either.Sad-arses will no doubt queue-up to claim that this is 'brilliant', 'a classic' and 'the greatest horror movie ever made'. Whereas those who have not had their brains eaten will see it for the plagiaristic non-event that it is.Give it a whizz and see if your cerebral cortex is still intact. "},{"Title":"A good creepy horror film","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this film and was very surprised that I hadn't heard of it before. Phantoms is very well done. It is creepy and suspenseful with out being cliché like most horror movies are these days. The special effects are good and used sparingly and there isn't over the top gore. Though there are gory parts which add to the very tense atmosphere. The acting is pretty good though not exceptional. I was easily able to believe in the characters except for Ben Affleck but that may be a personal problem. The acting in the beginning however was very forced which made me slightly skeptical about the movie. Don't worry, hang in there for the first 5 minuets as the creepiness starts right away. I really liked this movie and strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"This was not such a bad experience after all","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Most people saw this movie as a can full of douche that is ready to be absorb into your system at anytime. But by heaven's...I beg to differ. This is not such a bad FANTASY ideas after all. Dean Koontz, yes, is pretty much an argument basis. BOOKS should leave itself on the shelf alongside with SHINING, FAHRENHEIT 451, THE MAN IN THE HIGH CASTLE, et cetera. And MOVIES should be leave along with ...i don't have to tell you this. The location and the camera settings are somewhat impressive, as well as the sound recording and the effects. Some Throughout the entire film, you could FEEL the town. Well, to each his own. You have got to watch the movie to understand. But that's just my opinion.You wouldn't belief if you do not watch for yourself. An underrated, cool suspense horror. 8/10 is the fairest. "},{"Title":"Better than Ben Aflleck","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" know this isn't very well liked and I'm sure thats got something to do with Ben Affleck sleepwalking his way through the flick.It begins with two sisters (Rose McGowan & Joanna Going) returning to their home town. However when they get there, its deserted. There is no long build up to getting to the creepiness of the town where it seems the whole population have met a nasty end. I remember thinking how similar it was to Silent Hill (which I had played not too long before watching it). They try to leave but their car won't start...and they end up meeting some police officers (the aforementioned Affleck, the delightfully creepy Liev Schrieber...and ummm some other actor).As they try and find the cause of the disappearance there are ghost like voices and strange phantoms. Linked into the plot and the second half of the movie is a professor who has written about mass dissapearances throughout history (Peter O'Toole who hams it up wonderfully).The second half is similar to the second half of the remake of The Blob with the army called in to help find the cause.Again, I won't mention the full plot, but its kinda out there.TTKK's Bottom Line - Try and forget Affleck's in it (and don't be put off by the terrible DVD cover). Its a very imaginative and creepy sci-fi/horror. "},{"Title":"Dean Koontz's story of an abandoned wintery town and the team finding out why","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Surprisingly scary in that make-you-jump sense.  Decent acting, good plotting, and some good special effects. "},{"Title":"movie for brainless","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's a nice idea. There are fine actors. Problem is with a scenario and actors play. It's really terrible. You will be scared because of the music, not the tale. It is a classic story. It's dark and I don't have weapon but I'll still go to dark. Two chicks, three shotguns.... we'll take just one. Kill them all of my crew and then I'll shot. Movie is about evil but nobody is afraid. Horror is all around us and everybody is dying and I must say that sentence Don't be afraid. If you are a doctor you must know not to touch dead, possibly infected corpse with bare hands. Who need gloves?!? Not me, I have a main role. Yea, very interesting... Watch this movie only if you don't have something else. "}{"Title":"doesn't even try to hold together","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It would be very easy to take this movie apart piece by piece, as nothing in it makes much sense, but why put more effort into disecting a movie than the filmmakers did in putting it together?  Good cast doesn't get to do much and in spite of several names the only memorable character is the Schrieber's deputy, although the movie doesn't make any attempt to explain his early behavior (of course).  The movie does have some effective action/horror scenes strewn around and occassionally shows a little flair, but it's really not worth bothering with. "},{"Title":"Simply Dreadful","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this one on TV.  Ben Affleck and Peter O'Toole?  Plus Rose McGowan, the third ditzy witch from Charmed?  This might be worth watching, I naively thought to myself.The beginning of this movie isn't half bad, if utterly conventional.  A creepily deserted town, then the shock as the first corpse is stumbled upon. Eerie sunlight gives way to forboding dusk.  There are the usual horror-movie tracking shots of the usual pair of young women as they explore their perilous surroundings.  Look out!  Behind you!  It has all been done a hundred times before, but it's not badly done here.Is there a mass murderer on the loose?  Some kind of horrible plague?  As long as there are more questions than answers, it holds some interest. But as soon as the answers start coming in, it turns very stupid, very quickly. The army shows up, bringing in a team of scientists and lots of high-tech gear with lots of silly blinking lights on it.  They're soon monster food. Peter O'Toole shows up halfway through the movie, a kind of all-purpose scientist... or is he an historian?  The movie never really makes up its mind, but you know he's a wonderfully brainy fellow because he has an English accent.Plot holes abound, such as the earlier mystery of the diseased-looking corpses being entirely forgotten about.  But why bother to list them? Suffice it to say that the movie makes no sense.My favorite bit was the part with the dog.  It's channeling the monster, and it's supposed to be real scary as it menaces Ben Affleck in the street. But it's the tamest, friendliest hound you could ever hope to see.  I never had such respect for Affleck's acting till I saw him mimicing dread before that pooch.  "},{"Title":"Kootz should have included movies in his contract with satan.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"       I am consistantly stunned at how bad a job hollywood does at translating Koontz's books to film.  Between this one and Watchers I have made a solid pact to never see another Koontz adaptation again.      ***Spoilers***      I'll be brief  Imagine going to visit you grandma in a remote mountain town and discovering that the entire population is missing.  Once you find one of the former denizens, they are swollen and bloated and quite dead.  From there your nightmare only gets worse as 'something' lurks around the town...      How's that sound?  Ok?  Well go read the book.  Sometimes a movie can almost work as Cliff Notes; here it is only Cr*p Notes.  "},{"Title":"A movie with few scares **1/2 out of ****","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Phantoms began dull and disappointing but near the middle it got pretty tense. I liked the visual effects near the lame ending, but they couldn't save the film.The performances were as bad as they otherwise come. Not one of the unknown actors lived up to their potential. The book is much better than the movie. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Really really boring","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Come on, this movie's really bad! I've seen 3rd class TV- movies, which were more exciting than this trash. A boring town, very boring actors (yea, Affleck in his worst movie) and the most boring monsters I've ever recognized (did I?). Let's face it Dean R. Koontz is the most untalented producer out there. If you've got Affleck, O'Toole and cutie Rose McGowan, a movie just needs to become somehow good, or acceptable at least. Even if the story has been used for so much times in movie history Evil monsters in an abandoned town... man! I recommend Alone in the Dark with C. Slater if you want to watch a non-high-quality-excitement-movie with some action and fun. I know, this movie's not that great at all. But way better than this ultra- boring phantom- crap with bad visual effects, stupid dialogues and the worst storyboard ever. Don't watch it... please! "},{"Title":"Quasi-Spook Flick","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Dean Koontz came up with a good idea when he wrote the book this film was based on. Instead of some alien presence arriving from another planet, there is one on our own that we've been oblivious to for centuries. When the residents of Snowfield, California start mysteriously missing and dying, there turns out to be an old evil at work.The cast includes stars like Ben Affleck, Peter O'Toole, and Liev Schreiber. Good CGI is used to give eye candy to the film. The ancient evil is an organism from beneath the earth's surface. Somehow it is able to manifest itself as apparitions. This seemed a bit far-fetched and out of place, especially since the story tries to hold true to science. As to the acting, the characters could've been a little more believable in how scared they were. I thought Scheiber's character, while deranged, was a bit funny.Phantoms has a few good suspense scenes and definitely shows that a bigger production budget was used compared to your average creature feature. The ending, despite being VERY predictable, at least makes some sense. 4/10 P.S. It's amazing what two women with shotguns can do when shooting at a monster. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Guilty Pleasure Movie","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As every movie lover does, I have guilty pleasure movies. 1998's horror film Phantoms is the top of my guilty pleasure list. It's well paced, okay acting, and just so much fun. The premise is very familiar and the aura is spooky on it's own as well as it has some fun similarities to the original Silent Hill video game (especially the big bug thing that attack Liev Schriber). My favorite part of the film is the fact that Oscar Winner Ben Affleck, and Oscar Nominee Pete O'Toole, appear in the cast along with Grindhouse's Rose McGowan, and Everything is Illuminated director (and the guy who played Cotton Weary in Scream) Liev Schriber. So if you like B-grade supernatural horror movies on those nights you find that all your friends get together and need something fun to watch, i'd say try Phantoms. "},{"Title":"god awful","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really don't know what it is about book or game to film adaptations where no one on earth can do one remotely correct. First off Dean Koontz is an awesome writer, the Phantoms novel is excellent, the movie is absolutely awful. Seems a lot of people who reviewed the movie don't know that Dean Koontz is an author. First off Ben Affleck and Rose McGowen sucks at acting. Then they have Liev playing Stu of all people. Completely cut out Tal, Gordy and Kale which are bigger characters in the book but they leave such scenes with the dog in which is with Gordy and no the nameless nobody in the film. Also switching around tons of plot elements and removing key ones while having the story progress so fast is a big reason the movie sucks. Also adding in zombies when the story contains none is a surefire way to ruin a flick. They could have just cut out a few key moments that the movie could do without and still have it at 2 hours minimum. Stay away from this movie go read the book instead. "},{"Title":"This sucked","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Did anyone involved with this film actually read the book?????? Did Dean Koontz even realize how bad he screwed up his own book?? This played like a REALLY bad made-for-TV movie. Koontz' book was brilliant and vividly described each character. When it came time to make the film, I guess everyone involved said Screw the damn book, lets just get new actors that will make young people want to see this. With the exception of Peter O'Toole as Timothy Flyte, this ENTIRE FILM WAS TOTALLY MISCAST!!!!!!!!  Ben Affleck as Sheriff Bryce Hammond???? Rose McGowan is about 10-12 years older than the character in the book that she is playing!!!  Liev Schrieber as Deputy Stu Wargle???? What are you people in Hollywood thinking???? No wonder this movie flopped. If you have discrepancies with what I've said or if you liked this movie for some odd reason, I ask you to PLEASE read the book!!!  "},{"Title":"Do not watch this trite","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that some losers have given this film a 10 out of 10. Are you all mad? This film was so poor. Now don't get me wrong. I kind of like cheap horror/sci-fi films. Some of them are nice little gems and can really play on your mind (In the Mouth of Madness or Night of the Living Dead for instance). This, however, was just a waste of time (I'm finding it very difficult here not to write expletives). It might have been a good book but it sure doesn't make a good film. I'm just amazed that it managed to get Ben Afflek and Peter O'Toole involved. What were they thinking?!? I'm sure they now would like this film to be quickly forgotten. "}{"Title":"Is THIS supposed to scare me??!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Affleck. Not the most consistent of actors is he? He can really pick a bad film when he wants to, and THIS, is no exception! Hard lines Ben, you should have read the script first I think!! Better luck next time eh?How did this ever get made? Based on a book you say? really? I think I'll use it as toilet paper! Actually no, I know from experience that the books are always far better than the films, so that's a BIT harsh.And harsh is what this film is. Harsh. There are other far more meaningful words that I could use to describe this film, but I don't think my review will be posted!!It started well, as well as it could, but boy did they loose the plot!!!A finely deserved 1/10!!! AND I'M BEING VERY, VERY, VERY NICE HERE!!!!!!enjoy! "},{"Title":"Where do I start?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the worst film I have seen this year. I pride myself on the ability to seek out and endure a truly terrible flick and this did not disappoint. Affleck does not act. How the stock of one of Hollywood's brightest young starts has fallen so low so fast is a mystery.The two girls are there to look fit and Liev Schreiber character has no place in the film. To get such a meagre return from such a stellar cast is also disappointing. Perhaps if they spent more on production values than they did on attracting star names there may have been some redemption. However the makers gambled on star power over quality and lost. The plot had potential but the way it was executed made it sound like nonsense. Even the effects are average. All in all this is an underwhelming waste of money. Nobody involved emerges from this cinematic debacle with any credit unless Phantoms is supposed to be a cringe worthy comedy. I can't believe it got a cinema release. "},{"Title":"horrible movie","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i suggest if you want to watch this movie you make sure that no one in the viewing area has a weapon of any kind because you or they may have the urge to kill everyone in the room and than take your own life the only thing kept me alive was the thought that i may someday get a hold of Ben Affleck and kick him in the face. this move is awful one of the worst movies i have ever seen i saw in the theaters in 98 and to this day i am still terribly upset about it Ben has never redeemed himself and i am still waiting for my moment to strike him in the face with my foot and on a side note Dean Koontz should probably be struck as well. my only question Dean is what is the name of the drug that some how made all this seem like a good idea. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, the book Phantoms is better then the movie, but when isn't it. This movie did not try to cash in on Scream because it's a thriller with no connection to a human serial killer. The movie, with the screenplay written by the author Dean Koontz, is fantastic. Combining fact with fiction, it keeps you wondering what will happen next. There are major differences between the book and movie but none that will make you dislike it. Books and movies should never be compared. Rose McGowan, Ben Affleck, Liev Schreiber, Joanna Going, and Peter O'Toole give performances that make you think, scare you, and make you laugh. So many people put this movie down and some had preconceived notions about it they didn't see it, but if you 're at a video store, RENT IT!!!!!!! Phantoms is one of those movies that stay in the back of your mind forever. "}]