[{"Title":"Strangers in the night","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   It's 1977 and Chris is a 30ish bloke who still has the eager, wistful face of an angelic adolescent, enjoys a placid existence in the London suburbs, taking comforting in his wife, his baby, and his garden.  Yet he's a haunted man. Spurred by the arrival of Toni, his rakish counterculture chum, he is tormented by visions of what might have been - the enticing word of sexual possibility he left behind, embodied in memories of his blissed out love affair with a sultry secretary during his bohemian Paris days in the late '60s.  As the film glides back and forth between eras, the churning of Chris' heart comes to the force with with disarming intimacy. We feel as if we're seeing the formation of an individual his all too brief fling with hedonism, the sadness and hidden wisdom of a path that seems to have choosen him rather than the other way around.  Metroland is a no-fuss movie that casts a rich, tranquil spell. It's a rare portrait of a happy marriage that is honest about the complex currents of desire, and the drama is beautifully played by Bale who gawks with soulful sweetness, and Emily Watson does her most piercing work since Breaking the waves. "},{"Title":"A great subtle movie with a great little message that everyone takes for granted","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The main character in Metroland embodies the crisis that every one of us has already or will probably go through. Have we made the right choices in our lives to make ourselves happy?.The movie portrays this character's search for the answers through flashbacks to his past as well as new events that are occurring in his present. The two paths that he could have taken were shown. He begins questioning if he had made the right choice with his current life. A life which he thought he would never want when he was younger and rebellious. The 9 to 5 job that we, or at least some of us, have all dreaded in fear of the death of our own creativity and individualism. The main male character basically is the imperfect hero with imperfect thoughts, much akin to the hero that we can hope to be at this day and age. The last line in the movie, If not now, then, never. is a line we always hear but take its meaning for granted. Truly, if happiness is not found in the moment..in the now..then, where else can it ever be?  "},{"Title":"Take the train","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Metroland Christian Bale stars as Chris, a 30 year old man who must reexamine his priorities and life choices once an old friend(Lee Ross) comes back into his life. The friend criticizes Chris on the lack of excitement in his life and urges him to leave his wife Marion (Emily Watson) and travel the world. As enticing the dramatic possibilities seem with this plot, Metroland takes all the expectations one might have and tries something new. It's a character piece, headlined with a smashing performance by Bale. It's also funny, bright, and deeply introspective. The plot takes us on a tour of Chris's past. A past that included a stay in Paris with a beautiful native. The woman teaches Chris the ways of love and bohemian lifestyle, a lifestyle Chris has always wanted. The section takes up about half of the film, and is the film's strongest suit. We see the very English Chris try to pass himself off as a Parisian and curse at other Brits, he also loses his virginity is a grandly comical scene. The other half of the film deals with Chris trying to justify his lack of shame in his calm, predictable life. Veteran director Philip Saville does a good job making sure the audience never loses faith in Chris. It could have been real easy to drag the film through a series of lame dramatics, but Saville gives realistic answers to realistic questions.There are a lot of pluses in Metroland. It's well written, sharply shot with a good eye for detail, and everybody out there knows how I feel about the brilliant Emily Watson. What I liked best, and this might seem weird, but with all the grotesque nudity in such films as Go and He Got Game, Metroland is refreshingly blunt. There is a lot of bodies on display here, but in a very natural and - dare I say - beautiful way. It's not thrown in your face. It just is. This is a good movie that relies on a soft, steady narrative than a hyped, antsy one.------------- 8  "},{"Title":"A man questions his life's direction when an old friend comes for a visit.","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If Francois Truffaut were still alive today I think Metroland would easily fit into his oeuvre. A film about a person taking stock of himself at the crossroads, Metroland introduces us to a suburban utopia where people go to work everyday, take their kids to school, and wash their cars on the weekend. Christian Bale seems to accept this life until an old friend rings him up wanting to revisit the old times. Throughout the film we see what Bale's character could've been and how much happier he thought he was. Metroland's assertion is to accept life for what it is and not what it is not. Not everyone's cup of tea as evidenced by Bale's boyhood chum but being the film's setting takes place during the late seventies in England right before the rise of Thatcherism may be a subtle stab at what the middle class of the film will come to accept. Conformity over confrontation may ultimately be Metroland's theme no matter how much it hurts us to admit it.  "},{"Title":"Witty, thoughtful and funny...","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I agree with all the posts about what this movie was about -- a man evaluating his present life. But what made this film so good to me was the fantastic acting by Christian Bale and Emily Watson who portrayed their characters so authentically. As a 30 yo single woman myself, the relationships portrayed in this movie came off in a genuine way. What it's like to be married for nearly 10 years and how to preserve the love in the relationship and yet deal w/ the tensions and problems from it. All of this was portrayed subtly, sensitively, and with humour at many times throughout this movie in a natural and unforced way. I credit this to Christian Bale and Emily Watson's acting abilities and the Director's talent. To me, underlying the mid-life crisis of one man in this movie is the theme of relationship and how he gets his life from them. Whether it's with his wife, girlfriend or best friend from childhood. I really thought everything about this moview was excellent script, acting, directing, scenes. More than that, it captured the subtle nuances and emotions shared between people which wasn't stated in words but one felt as a viewer that one knew what that look meant or the silent treatment was for. It's now my favorite top 10 movies in my book. "},{"Title":"Second half saves some unnecessary characters","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Metroland is true to the midlife crisis, except between two people who haven't quite reached that stage of their lives yet. Christian Bale plays an Englishman who begins to reminisce about his past in the mid and late '60s when an old friend (played by Lee Ross) comes back to stir up his life. While I felt that the story was strong and seemingly dramatic enough to keep me interested and entertained, the character played by Lee Ross just seemed unnecessary. This character is supposed to build the plot the first half of the movie and I felt this could've been reached in many other directions.And if you love France, well, you'll love the beautiful depiction of French women with an excellent performance given by Elsa Zylberstein, Bale's character's 'old flame' that he thinks about constantly throughout the film.Beautiful 'still' cinematography throughout is perfect for Bale's character's love for photography and makes the film very watchable just for art's sake.By the time I reached the last 45 minutes or so, I was much more intrigued and worried for the well-being of Bale's marriage with his present day (1977) wife, played wonderfully by Emily Watson. The tension between the two of them throughout the film is far more than believable and I loved it.While I wanted to give this movie a much higher rating, I think it is fair to say that the first half moves much too slow. I was also slightly disappointed by the ending of the film, but it was still a great surprise and hit me unexpectedly. I highly recommend for Bale/Watson fans. "},{"Title":"Grooving in Metroland","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the novel by Julian Barnes and directed by Philip Saville (Masterpiece Theatre's The Buccaneers, The Life and Loves of a She-Devil miniseries), Metroland is a charming little British movie. It's a character study of Chris, played by Christian Bale (American Psycho, Batman Begins, Rescue Dawn), in an early role that is a nice change of pace for him. Bale captures this sweet, geeky, funny every-man character brilliantly. In 1977, now a married man with a baby girl, Chris lives in the suburb of Metroland, his hometown, where he vowed as a teenager that he would leave and never return. Every working day he takes the mass transit rail out of the suburb to London to his job at an advertising agency. He wanted to be a globe-trotting photographer, but settled for this. Chris seems content with his life, but when his ne'er-do-well chum Toni, played by Lee Ross (Secrets and Lies), shows up, Chris has a midlife crisis, albeit a young midlife crisis. Toni's appearance brings back the memories of his carefree life before marriage and responsibility during the 1960s, when he lives in Paris, takes photographs, and has his first serious girlfriend, Annick (Elsa Zylberstein). Bale plays a naive, love sick man to Annick's worldly, sexy French woman. They start an intense sexual affair, and Chris is quite smitten with Annick until he meets Marion&#151;all decked out in go-go boots, liquid eyeliner, and a That-Girl hair flip. Chris is attracted to Marion mainly because she can see through some of his foolishness. In one conversation between the two&#151;reminiscent of It's a Wonderful Life, in which James Stewart informs Donna Reed that he doesn't want to marry or have kids, but then gleefully gives in, kissing Reed&#151;, Chris tells Marion that he wants to stay on in Paris and doesn't want to get married and have children. Marion cruelly replies, You're not original enough to. Chris reconsiders his relationship with Annick, who he has nothing in common with&#151;only lust. And he chooses Marion. In one of many funny scenes, Chris is in bed with his wife, Marion, played by Emily Watson (Breaking the Waves, Hilary and Jackie, The Water Horse Legend of the Deep). He starts kissing her sweetly, but she is too tired for that. He says to her, I can't remember the last time. Yesterday morning, she replies. Then he says, Yeah, we used to do it three times a day. She says, It only happened once, and you complained about being sore a week afterwards. He smiles and replies, Sore, but very smug. This changes Marion's mind, but they are soon interrupted by their daughter's cry--such is the life of a family man. During Toni's visit, Marion makes her dislike for him clear to Chris who defends his lifelong friend. Toni is bound and determined to lead Chris astray, so that Toni can prove to himself that he made the right decision not to settle down. Toni plays his part well as the devil on Chris' shoulder. At his party, Tony convinces one of his free minded girlfriends to give Chris a shag. Just as Chris is considering consummation, he imagines Marion being carried away in an ambulance. When Toni happens to pass by the room, Chris realizes that Toni put her up to it&#151;and is insulted and leaves. It shows how even the closest, longest friendships can die in adulthood when people choose to go down different paths. Later Chris suspects something happened between Marion and Toni, and he gets into fisticuffs with Toni. Marion tells Chris that he made a pass at her; she was somewhat tempted, but refused. As Toni gets ready to leave town, Chris and he make up somewhat half-heartedly. While taking a bath together, Chris tells Marion about the girl at Toni's party who he nearly slept with, and, of course, Marion has an ongoing joke of telling Chris to go ahead and have an affair. Marion then reveals to Chris she had a one night stand long ago and tells him that it won't happen again. We don't know if this is true, or if Marion is only trying to spice things up&#151;because as a result of her confession, they have passionate sex. And afterwards she kids him about having sex with the girl at the party.Christian Bale's mutton chops and flared collars and pants legs give the movie a real retro feel. Bale has some great comedic moments here. In one of two very good scenes, Toni takes Chris to a punk rock concert, but Chris hates punk and only tolerates it by getting drunk and stoned. Chris comes home quite randy and keeps trying to pull Marion down on the bed in his inebriated state. The other scene is Chris' first date with Annick in which he conspicuously kisses her&#151;and pulls her into bed awkwardly. The female characters teeter on being stereotypical. Annick and Marion are the archetype of the all-knowing, all-beautiful, all-witty woman to the archetype of Chris as the bumbling, sex obsessed male. Emily Watson's performance elevates Marion's character, so she doesn't turn into a shrew&#151;we can sympathize with her as Chris shuts her out as he daydreams about his glory days of youth. We also feel sympathy towards Annick as she goes from being the experienced one in the relationship to being the needy and jealous one as Chris matures. I describe Metroland as a British cozy romantic dramedy&#151;if such a thing exists. Some memorable scenes and some funny moments make the film worthwhile. As does the good acting between Bale and Watson, who make it more than a forgettable flick. Bale and Watson have good chemistry and repeat that again in the 2002 Sci-Fi cult classic, Equilibrium. Metroland is a movie you rarely see now a movie that deals intelligently and realistically with themes of adulthood. "},{"Title":"Metroland...a state of mind, not a place.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After several years of a happy marriage an old friend from his single years re-appears. The movie then lets us see in flashbacks how the main characters have evolved into an  urban long time married couple. The friend's return creates great tension between the husband and wife and leads the husband to a re-examination of his life. The characters play off each other very well and the actress that plays the French girlfriend was terrific. The best line in the movie was, Oh, you'll get married and have a family, your not original enough not to. This film tells its story, develops the characters, and by the time it ends has tied everything up in nice packages leaving the viewer satisfied.  "},{"Title":"The road more travelled...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie. Its stars, Christian Bales and Emily Watson, shine with a refreshing innocence.It is one of those pictures where you can regret the time wasted watching it, or reflect on what it means to settle for the suburban lifestyle with its daily commutes to the city, the crying baby in the middle of the night, the sometimes jaded sex. All the time knowing it will continue until you retire.And to look back at the freedom of the young years in Paris with sex in the afternoon and not much money. Toni, played by Lee Ross, looking dissolute and hedonistic, blows back into the life of Christian Bales ten years later and tries to make him take the road less travelled by going around the world and living free and easy with no ties.There are then a series of many flashbacks to the carefree years. I liked the way Chris takes the time to evaluate his current life. It is not all about duty and responsibility but choices too and there is a bit of a zinger in the last few scenes. 7 out of 10. A thoughtful adaptation of the novel. "},{"Title":"Someone's Idea of the Sixties","Date":"24 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The acting was OK. It's refreshing to see the protagonist with his 'boy body' before he found steroids in 'American Psycho'! Now he just looks like everybody else.This story is not original. The theme has been explored a thousand times in a thousand films that were better. I hate movies portraying other times. It's always impossible to 'recreate an era'! When will Hollywood learn that? The mood, the people, the mores are gone forever. Everyone wants innocence back but you cannot erase the smugness and skepticism of now. It just creeps through everything we do. This is at best someone's dream of what some 1960s young people thought and discovered. I notice that nobody ever tells stories about working class people anymore. The working class never had the luxury of these choices. There was no question about life--it was just survival. One went to school if one got loans or scholarships or worked his way through. One went to war if one was drafted. One went to factory if one was below average. One got married or lived with parents. The act of getting a license to drive or see a movie was special. You took nothing for granted. Your parents didn't adore you; they put up with you. You were most likely an accident. You rarely questioned anything because what you had was such a struggle to obtain and the daily chore of trying to keep it was huge. Just once, I'd like to see this investigated in film. It's a reminder that the film industry is owned/run by wealthy people of the Mideast faith and they delight in reflections of themselves only. "}{"Title":"No, it's not. It's eight pints of lager with an erection.","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film adapted from a novel by one of England's best writers, Julian Barnes, was a story to anyone who has been married for a while. Set mainly during 1977, the drama focuses on Chris (Christian Bale) and Tony (Lee Ross), who grew up together in suburban England a decade earlier.Chris is now happily married to Marion (Emily Watson) and has a baby daughter. Tony has never settled down. A surprise visit from his childhood friend causes Chris to reassess his present life and to remember his days working in Paris; there he lived with Annick (Elsa Zylberstein), a young, liberated French woman, before he fell in love with Marion.Bale and Watson were superb in this film. He fantasizes about how his life would have been had he not gotten married. Tony is trying to convince him to give it all up, and Marion is trying to save her marriage.There is a lot of nudity and sex, but none is gratuitous. It all adds to the story and , at times, is funny, especially when he was new at sex in Paris.The most interesting part of the film consists of two related scenes. he tells Tony that he is content. Maybe that is the best you can hope for from an Englishman. His wife asks later if he is happy. he says, If not now, never. That is certainly, to me at least, not a ringing endorsement. Maybe again, it is particularly English.The film was very enjoyable, and the only criticism I would have is the graininess in the middle. I am beginning to like Bale more and more. "},{"Title":"Baby Boomers Attractively Wallowing in Regrets and Good Music","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Metroland should appeal to boomers, particularly ones who now find themselves in the suburbs and/or with families. (It did not appeal to the two senior citizen couples next to and in back of me who did not shut up throughout the whole movie as they didn't seem to grasp the concepts of flashbacks or fantasy images) I'm sure there's other movies that have a friend and/or sibling interfering in a stable relationship and shaking the tree (my friend thought of Hilary and Jackie-- but maybe because both have Emily Watson, here bundled up in sweaters to try and make her less ravishing) but I couldn't think of one that deals with our time period of post-'60's measurements of personal happiness and fulfillment. We could relate to the English and Parisian experiences with parallel ones here from the same time periods of '68 vs. '78 (nicely accurate hair styles, make-up and clothes).While there are no shortage of shots of gorgeous naked women, there's ironic visual comment regardless the lead character's lovemaking techniques don't improve over the decade of experience. One sees plenty of Christian Bale, such that I think it would, I imagine, appeal to gay men as well.Nice use of punk music (freaking out the senior next to me!), otherwise the score was quite lovely by Mark Knopfler, with a closing song original to the movie, with apropos lyrics.(originally written 4/17/1999) "},{"Title":"Nostalgia for the ex-swinging bachelor","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're a guy who had lots of fun in the past, but married now and in your thirties then it's easy to identify with this movie. Christian Bale plays Chris Lloyd, a family man tempted to go back to his devil-may-care bachelor days of the 60s. The temptation comes in the visit of old school chum, played by Lee Ross, who epitomizes everything that life should have turned out for Chris. Emily Watson plays the stabilizing force as Chris' wife who tries to keep him on the straight and narrow path. The movie brought back lots of nostalgia to me, especially my teenage days in the 80s. Everything is very British and the accent takes getting used to, but this is an entertaining story, based on a 1980 novel by Julian Barnes. My only gripe is that the color prints of the film were really bad, making it look dull and lifeless. I know the setting is 1977 but the whole production was disappointing. "},{"Title":"Attention Baleheads!  This Brit Flick Dares To Show What American Psycho couldn't... (SPOILERS - Maybe)","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Think the violent and brutal American Psycho showed more ofactor Christian Bale than any other movie?Think again.Despite what you may have heard about 'Psycho's less than daring implied sexuality, and it's typically restrained American nude scenes, you won't see all of Christian anywhere in there, or likely will you ever in any American studio release.If you are interested, though, you will see all of him in Metroland, a quirky, non-violent, non-threatening, whimsical and romantic little British coming of age film. Confused?If you are used to movies that feature sex, violence, and nudityas one tantilizing package, you have a right be confused.Imagine the recent Hollywood wholesome film, A Walk To Remember. Only this time gosh golly Shane West walks around somewhere in there with absolutely nothing on. Mandy Moore occasionally decides to do the same thing. Same movie, just those little changes.  Metroland is something  like that. Innocently graphic in a way that an American-made film never could be.It is true that Mr. Bale doesn't appear quite as yankee, yuppie buff here in London's suburban Metroland as he would later across the Atlantic killing prostitutes in Manhattan, and he doesn't once show us his behind while wielding a chainsaw.****SPOILERS (Maybe)****His proper, young fish-belly white British banker character; however, sheds his duds midway through Metroland and walks around in full frontal wagging glory in front of a completely naked woman while earnestly deciding NOT to commit adultery.  Pretty tame stuff maybe compared to chainsaws and axes, but any red-blooded Balehead will scream like a banshee in heat, and themselves turn into a psycho to get access to the pause button on the VCR or DVD remote when it happens.If you are not a Balehead, be sure to invite one, or preferably several over, and see what happens. Rent this movie for no other reason than this, even if you otherwise detest talky British flicks with a happy ending. The experience is not to be missed.  -)  "},{"Title":"Conventional life vs. Bohemian...for an ordinary guy...","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Metroland isn't a place. It's a state of mind. So says a retired worker, a passenger on a train, to Christian BALE, after they both take some shots at the provincial life of the bourgeois. Bale comes under the influence of an old friend, Toni (LEE ROSS), who reminds him of all the fun they had as swingers in Paris during the '60s. His patient wife at home fully understands his wanderlust. Meanwhile, we see through flashbacks what his life style was like in Paris, unlike the comfortable middle class life he's living in London with his wife (EMILY WATSON). Watson is the kind of pragmatic wife who even suggests casually that he should be having an affair.It's that kind of story. A man caught up in the everyday suburban life with wife and baby clinging to him longs for days of yore and sexual freedom--or at least he thinks he does. All along we're given to think his wife was right about him--he's just an ordinary guy and really not like his best friend, the vagabond poet played in frenzied, sometimes flamboyant style by LEE ROSS, who is incapable of settling down and is perhaps envious of Bale's suburban bliss.Sometimes sad, sometimes funny (the painfully clumsy first sexual experience), it never quite lives up to its potential despite some sensitive performances. Best moment Before his marriage to Emily Watson, she tells him she's sure he's going to get married some day. Why? he asks. Because you're not original enough not to.Summing up There are no startling revelations and this examination of compromised dreams remains a rather ordinary drama. "},{"Title":"Need more excitement, flash, and drama","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Chris (Christian Bale) lives a pleasant life with his wife Marion (Emily Watson). In his younger days, he was restless with his delinquent friend Toni (Lee Ross). While he escaped to Paris, Toni traveled around the world. Now Toni is back and is dismayed at Chris' ordinary lifestyle. He tries to free Chris from the grips of Metroland, and Chris starts to doubt his life with Marion. The movie also flashes back to Chris' life in Paris where he meets french girlfriend Annick (Elsa Zylberstein) and eventually Marion.I love both Christian Bale and Emily Watson. They have done more exciting work elsewhere. Emily is doing a very quiet saintly character. Lee Ross is at least exciting as an absolute douche. I like Christian Bale's struggle. However the past story in Paris is rather slow and provide little drama. The flashback could easily be cut in half. The movie could do well with more of Toni's debaucherous world travels. At least that would add more color to this bland movie. The movie starts with a wish for something darker or more exciting, but ends with something much too ordinary. "},{"Title":"You're Not Original Enough Not to Get Married'","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When Marion (Emily Watson) says this to husband Chris (Christian Bale), I thought, Ouch! Poor Chris, longing to return to his Bohemian past, which was not very Bohemian at all. Basically an ordinary English guy in his 30s, Chris finally admits to his would-be Mephistopheles Toni (Lee Ross) that he's comfortable in the life he has, thank you very much.The problem with this movie is that nobody in it with the exception of the French girl Annick (Elsa Zylberstein) is very likable. Chris is childish and, until the end, too easily led by the nose by Toni, who is clearly a phony, and an unscrupulous one to boot. Marion is so patient and reasonable with Chris that she borders on smug--it's a thankless part, really, for a good actress.The Paris flashback sequences are the best part of the film, if only because we get to enjoy Annick, a sincere, unpretentious, and sexy young woman, clearly a joy to be with. She was really too good for Chris. When he stupidly alienates her by talking about his new friend Marion and she responds by walking out on him, I thought, You're losing a damn good thing, pal! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Performance by Emily Watson","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a performance so stunning it will leave you breathless, Ms. Emily Watson puts her heart and soul, the essence of her being, into another character that equals or surpasses her artistry in Breaking the Waves and the recent Appropriate Adult. This is an actor of such power that it overwhelms one to watch her bring life to a character with such subtle beauty and heart. In any future retrospective of this incredibly talented and lovely actor's body of work, there is no doubt whatsoever this film will be among her most superb work. Ms. Emily Watson simply captures the screen with her presence and elevates the work of Bale and fellow cast members with the excellence of her own triumphant skill. That she was not nominated for an Oscar or a Bafta once again proves how meaningless these hollow awards are. She was honored for Appropriate Adult with a Bafta but both the Emmys and even the Golden Globes reflected their ignorance and lack of appreciation for true artistry and genius. By this point in her career, Ms. Watson should have enumerable nominations and several Academy Awards to her credit. However, that is not what really matters. The true significance of her brilliance as an actor is that she touches the souls of everyone graced by performance after performance. Ms. Emily Watson may well be one of the greatest female actors to ever appear on stage, in film, or television. No one should allow themselves to miss this film for they will be much the lesser for it. In itself, Metroland is not a great cinematic experience. Emily Watson, however, is. "},{"Title":"Must watch for people who feel boringly settled in their life!","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every person, once in a while, during his adolescent years, dreams of doing something different- something more meaningful. But then he grows up and makes the choices- mostly ending up on paths that many had taken before him and many will take after him. While traveling on that path of course, he often stops and wonders whether he made the right decision- is this the right path for him. Metroland beautifully explores this state of mind when a person is half way down the road and wondering whether the decision he took was right or whether he should really become that rebel he always dreamed of becoming. The fact that this movie (made in nineties) is shot in the context of seventies emphasizes this point even further- the situation doesn't change with the decade- or with the ages. The acting is brilliant with Christian Bale on the top. The two leading ladies are OK though not too impressive.The direction is the one that truly steals the show. The director is able to create the effect of the viewer actually being part of the journey with the protagonist, where he starts from the feeling of what if and ending up in the awakening. A must watch for anyone past there 20s and feeling settled in their life. "},{"Title":"Engaging and well-executed","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like this movie a lot.I watched it with my wife, and I get the impression that it is more of a guy's movie than a woman's. Sort of a male chick flick. The key questions it addresses are what are the important things in life, and when and how do we let go of childhood dreams? This seems to me to be one of those differences in wiring between men and women. Men are driven to be alpha males, with all that brings. Women (I think) have a hard time understanding why we would want more than a good wife, kids, a nice home, stable job, etc. This is an issue the movie explores nicely.The pacing was a bit slow. It was 146, but I felt like it could have easily been 120 or 130. Cinematography, set and costume design, and direction was very good, and I thought Bale was very good (I'm not his biggest fan). Watson and Zylberstein were excellent, however.Metroland is well worth seeing, and is good fodder for conversation. At almost two hours long, thought, I'd recommend an early showing. "}{"Title":"A character drama with a few cogs missing...","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  -Spoiler-Metroland is a movie that studies the choices we make in our lives and if, in retrospect, we made the best decisions regarding our personal happiness.The movie, on the whole, had a nice idea going for it. Merely watching Chris (Christian Bale) and Marion (Emily Watson) live their present lives through the memories of their past made for an interesting (if not engrossing) film. It's flaw, I think, lies in the film's way of batting you over the head with it's ideas. The film literally leaves nothing for you to think through on your own. The result of slathering on the characters and plot elements is that the movie starts to really sag under its own weight during the last 45-some-odd minutes. I actually thought to fast-forward merely because everything was winding down so slowly and predictably. I finished the movie unconvinced that Chris was completely happy with his life. He was content but that does not equate to happiness...I thought Bale and Watson played well off of each other (especially upon their first meeting and in the final flashback on the bridge). Ross had an occasional few good moments that held his character up shakily. I found that my main technical point would have to have been the cinematography (the scenes in Paris could have been so much more wild and vivid, while in contrast- the scenes at home could have been more loving and smooth...).All-in-all, the movie is watchable, but only just. If you are a Christian Bale or Emily Watson fan (or preferably both) the movie will hold your attention lightly.  "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable... charming","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this a wonderful film to watch, the performances were utterly believable and I could relate so well with the main character. I found the storyline very restrained, not falling into the trap of melodrama or unbelievable twists. The costume and sets are all exact and the retro Asda sign a lovely touch.First rate. Especially good at 2am, for some reason. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable.  7.2/10","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this DVD on a whim, having never seen or heard of it before.  I must admit that I picked it up solely because Christian Bale was on the cover, whom I absolutely adore but have had yet to see him in a movie I enjoyed (I found both A Midsummer's Night Dream and Velvet Goldmine to be a bore, and haven't had a chance yet to see American Psycho).  The person at the video store commented that patrons who generally enjoy the non-Hollywood type movies liked this one, and he was right.There is nothing really marketable for a North American audience in this movie.  I don't think it would've survived against the American Beauties and Green Miles of american drama.  But this brit drama is a really superb character study of a man caught at a crossroads is he content with where he is now, 31 years of age with wife and child, or does he yearn for the freedom of his youthful days?  This is not an easily answerable question but Metroland attempts to in a very honest and real way.  What truly shines in this movie is the depth and three-dimension in the characters.  Being 22 I never thought that I myself could identify with this story and its characters but the director does an excellent job at simply telling a good story.If you're looking for an intelligent drama, one which won't cheat you at the end with a cliche finale (ala Notting Hill), this one is definately worth the rent.  But be warned, this DVD is a full-framed transfer.  I also found myself fiddlying with the colour dial on my DVD player, especially in the grainy flashback sequences.  I wonder if that was just an artifact of the transfer or an intentional part of those sequences...  but that aside the performances of Christian Bale and Emily Watson far outweigh these technical difficulties. "},{"Title":"roads not taken","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  METROLAND's retrospection comes from a young mid-life vantage point. As Chris wanders away, recalling a past life, love, lost avenues . . . what is he, all of 31? Then again, parenthood ages most people. I liked this movie much more than the 6.5/10 suggested. Saville and his fine cast do a good job of conveying both the male and the female perspectives on sex, romance, marriage, and maturation. It all seemed very real. Emily Watson did an (expectedly) fine job. But Elsa Zylberstein was really charming! So 60s, so Truffaut! For another bittersweet look at youthful adventures, sex and roads-not-taken BEFORE SUNRISE with Ethan Hawke.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful actors and story (from a great book), but not enough of Chris' and Toni's teen experiences.","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just read the book and stumbled upon the movie on pay-per-view. Emily Watson is amazing; her character, so opposite of her character in Breaking the Waves, is portrayed with immense humour and skill. Her facial expressions alone, she smiles and laughs a lot in this film, deserve awards. The story, which could've been rather banal, was told with exceptional humanity, humour and linguistic virtuosity by Julian Barnes in the book and was re-interpreted faithfully in the screenplay by Adrian Hodges. I just wish there were more of Chris' and Toni's teenage experiences shown in the film, these were so vivid in the book. "},{"Title":"Busy movie","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie Metroland is best enjoyed by those who are 25 or older and are looking for a way to fill a time slot either in the afternoon or in the evening. It is also one of those movies easily turned on to hear some noise coming out of the TV. It is also a movie which can be gotten into almost anywhere in the movie. Metroland is not very memorable and easily and quickly forgotten. No need to watch it again. Once is more than enough. The stars do okay in the movie. It is difficult to be memorable in a movie with little purpose except to entertain. This is what I call a Busy movie -- one that you can move around the house and still not miss much, but gives satisfaction of hearing the TV noise. Don't worry about the popcorn here. You'll be to busy to enjoy eating it. "},{"Title":"Christian is still wonderful in role as Chris","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am not a critic. All I have to say is that I read that Christian Bale's sister said that this role in Metroland, as Chris, is the one that most represents Christian in real life. I saw him, in his role as Chris, the married with child, middle class husband, as one who looked back at his sexual awakening in Paris, and saw how good he had it with Marion,his wife, that what he really wanted, in the end, was commitment, stability, loyalty, and the sweet bliss that only marriage, covenant with one person, can bring. I thought the movie had a wonderful message and beautiful ending. He chose his wife in the end, the woman he fell in love with, not the fantasy. Bravo Chris, Bravo! Loved this movie. However, I am a very biased critic as I love everything Christian Bale has been in, as he is an incredible actor, my favorite, and brings it, no matter what the quality of the film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Metroland","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" All of us, as we age, recall the choices we've made in our lives that led us to the place we are currently. Inevitably, there is at least a tinge of regret and wonder about how our lives would be different if we had chosen an alternate path. The self-doubts become starker when we meet up with old friends who took that different route.That is the theme of Metroland, which takes place in suburban London in the late 70s. Chris (Christian Bale) is a middle class husband and father approaching middle age who commutes to an office job in the city. The excitement has waned from his marriage to Marian (Emily Watson), and he has constant reveries about his first girlfriend (Elsa Zylberstein), and the good times he had as a young single man in Paris during the late 60s. The longing for those days intensifies when he is visited by his old friend Tony (Lee Ross), who has remained single, traveled the world, and boasts of a string of exotic affairs. Sensing Chris's restlessness, Tony tries to provide him with a taste of the swinger's lifestyle. This temptation confounds Chris all the more, and things don't crystallize until Tony ultimately makes a pass at Marian.There is nothing about this film that doesn't work. The writing is superb; the acting outstanding; and the story extremely entertaining, in that the situations are those with which we can all relate. According to the credits, Metroland was funded in part by proceeds from the English national lottery. This is one gamble that paid off handsomely for everyone. "},{"Title":"Why?  Why?  And Why?","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, you can tell me I'm crazy but I completely wonder why the hell this movie was made.  I gave it an okay rating, but only because I hate butchering films.  The cinematography was less than good, the story was weak and lacked and real twist or meat to it and the characters were so bland that there really wasn't much to invest in.  I mean, I found this difficult to bother to sit through on television while sick with a cold and dying just to chill to the TV.  To me, that's a pretty bad sign.  I love Emily Watson, so I stuck it through to the end, but even my enthusiasm for her as an actress was not enough to make a difference in the taste this movie left in my mouth, which I can only describe as blander than any food I've ever tasted, even when I was a baby on Gerber.My advice to others that wish to take any...  Do not bother wasting your time.  Life is too short and if you're going to watch a movie about other people's lives, it should at least be as interesting as your own. "},{"Title":"I wasn't impressed","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since I've been traveling on Christian Bale streak for a few movies, I was eager to see Metroland. The synopsis on the back of the movie cover sounded promising enough, but this film isn't for everyone...specifically me.I felt there was just so much missing in the movie. I came away with it saying OK...Christian Bale is a fantastic actor...but did I just spend 1 hour and 42 minutes watching that piece of insert expletive? There were a few things I found a little off in the movie  1) unnecessary amount of sexual scenes. I mean, hello, we know that Chris and Annik shared this passionate affair...we get it! Enough with it!2) the message. By the end of the flick I don't really believe that Chris is truly happy in his life. The story structure didn't have a clear outline, i.e. it didn't work like a normal movie did, which is person has problem, person tries to fix problem, person goes through trials and tribulations, person vs. problem, person fixes or doesn't fix problem. The end. There wasn't any level of excitement in which Bale's character attacked his problem, unless you count the mediocre fight between his character and Toni- and even that didn't really have much of a purpose albeit to put some suspense into the remaining 5 minutes. 3) Marion. Is she nice? Cynical? Trying to ruin her husband's life? A prude? A sex object? Human? Who knows...The movie really wasn't how I expected it to be. I even had to fast-forward through some of the sexual bits. Christian Bale IS a great actor, and he displayed the range of emotions in his character as best he could, but this movie really didn't do it for me. "}{"Title":"Mediocre flick about premature male menopause","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Metroland tells of a married middle class family man (Bale) who is reunited with a childhood chum and bachelor (Ross) who's living a fast and footloose lifestyle. The latter encourages his more conservative friend to adopt his Bohemian ways and leave his wife (Watson) causing considerable introspection and examination on the part of the former. Overall, Metroland, a euphemism for the middle class work-a-day rut, is a mediocre Brit flick which shows us nothing new, bogs down somewhere in the middle, and manages to sort itself out with some meaning in the very end. "},{"Title":"End of the Line","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Will someone please find a good film for Christian Bale!  This fine actor and internet icon strives valiantly to make METROLAND somewhat watchable. Emily Watson does her bit as well, but to no avail.  This tale of a artsy youth caught in the life he swore he'd never live in suburban Metroland is erratic and predictable at best.Spurred into furious flashbacks by a visitation from a former best buddy and still kid-at-heart, the first half of this flick is nicely on track and arrives ontime.  Bale is especially great in the flashback to his school days.But mid-way through, Bale (like the viewer) goes into a catatonic flashback that takes him from Metroland (home of bankers, allsorts) to Paris (home of bohemians, allsorts) for much too long a time.  Bale's tryst with a French bird is only momentarily interupted for quick repeated shots of Bale wide-eyed and stunned on his pillow, wondering how he got a wife and child and a nine to five life.John Wood does a nice turn as a (real or imagined) commuter with retirement looming.  But, at days end, Metroland is still end of the line.  All we can do is wait for Bale's next film and hope the star is on the right track.  "},{"Title":"Metroland is a state of mind","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ... and this state of mind is Chris' (Christian Bale) concern throughout the film - it is about not going anywhere or doing anything, but being stuck in Suburbia with a wife and baby in 1970s Midlands. In particular, this is Chris' childhood friend's concern for him as he visits his old friend and sees what rut he appears to be in. Chris gradually starts to reflect on his younger years with the help from his mate Toni and remembers what a rebellious spirit he once was. This flashback device is efficient for the film as it further emphasizes the tediousness of Metroland by contrasting it to Chris' dreams and idealism as a young man.Metroland greatly showcases Christian Bale's versatility as an actor, stripping him of whatever traces of superhero glamour from Batman Begins that was left in his image. Here we can recognize his ability to portray a character that is a downright loser and we enjoy it. There is plenty of Bale-goodies in this film, not just in his acting performance. Credit should also go to the lovely Emily Watson as Chris' little Suburbian wife.Metroland is a fairly cute low-budget English film that occasionally borders on being severely depressing. Yet, this is compensated for by including the punk edge of the 1970s that takes the form of a disdain for the bourgeoisie and a rebellious attitude. All the Paris segments that Chris recalls are well-made and entertaining and by far the more memorable parts of this film. Everything else is nice, but forgettable. 7/10 "},{"Title":"So, can a rebel really be happy with a 'Metroland' type of life?","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this one on Netflix streaming movies, I wanted to see it because it is an early Christian Bale movie. He was probably 21 during filming, and Emily Watson who plays his wife was probably 28. They actually play a couple in their early 30s. It is a smart movie, basically a character study to see what happens when an old friend shows up and tries to undo everything.The movie starts in 1977 which is their present time, Christian Bale is Chris with a wife, a daughter, a house with a vegetable garden, and a train ride to his work in the city. He lives in an area generally known as Metroland. Just about exactly all the things that 14 years earlier he and his friend Toni said they would never be interested in.His wife is Emily Watson as Marion . His friend that shows up is Lee Ross as Toni, who is appalled that Chris has, in his words sold out, abandoning the carefree lifestyle both of them said they wanted. So much of the story is Toni working hard to get Chris to be unfaithful to his wife and family and get carefree again. I found myself truly detesting Toni, and that means Ross did a fine job with that role.Much of the middle of the movie is a long flashback to 10 to 12 years earlier, when Chris, fluent in French, lived in Paris as a photographer, only wanting to make art. But he never really sold anything. It was there he met pretty French Elsa Zylberstein as Annick, and for a while they had a great love affair. But when Chris told her he had met Marion, Annick just picked up and left, even though his relationship with Marion was just friendly. Naturally he and Marion got married, moved back to England just outside of London, and had a happy if sometimes boring life.The story was mostly Chris examining his own life, the doubts instilled by Toni, and finally coming to the realization that he liked his life, he didn't want to get out of it, and he sent Toni on his way without him. "},{"Title":"what are you on, you menner","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" everybody out there knows how I feel about the brilliant Emily Watson Do they? Are you the most famous man in the world, or something? Perhaps you are in fact God, a status belied by your appalling typing skills. Or else you suffer from an unparalled case of egotism, in which case, you should consider therapy as a matter of some urgency.I liked this film. It's the first of Bale's adult acting career. His portrayal of a man who is no longer young, yet not quite middle-aged, is intelligent and textured. Emily Watson delivers a subtly understated and beguiling performance as his wife. As a discussion of the process of growing older, and the changing relationships and sense of loss that this entails, Metroland is an absorbing and entertaining film. "},{"Title":"This movie is not for everyone.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Christian Bale plays Chris a man who has returned to a suburban existence and a wife and kid after having gone to Paris as a young man vowing never to sell out.  This film is well made and interesting to a point but it will never be fascinating. Then, neither will the main character. I think that the point of the movie is that we find contentment as we pass through life. No, we never get some of those things that we want but those of us that are fortunate realize that we never wanted them that much to begin with.I can recommend this film to anyone that is at that point in his or her life where a bit of introspection is in order. Unfortunately it's a bit like when your mother recommends that you finish your vegetables. You know that they are good for you and you don't really hate them but they will never be exciting.And as to the sex scenes in this film, I thought that they were a bit tepid and about as sexy as a pair of old pajamas. Compare the sexual tension in this film with even the implied sexuality of American Psycho and see if you agree.  "},{"Title":"Just as good as the novel (which is rare)","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film demonstrates natural acting at its best.  The issues raised are typical life dilemmas making the characters very easy to identify with. Christian Bale is fantastic and even manages to carry off the horrendous 70s Mullet and side burns.  Emily Watson is brilliant as the cynical yet endearing housewife. The film is an easy watch, realistically romantic and thought provoking.  The optimistic ending is valuable in making it a feel good film. "},{"Title":"Love and marriage in the 70's is as good as any time frame for married couple lessons","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Christian Bale is solid as Chris the husband. Emily Watson her steady-delivery self as Marion the wife.Films with stories about the woman/wife straying/taking a diverted course from married life we have Francis Ford Coppola's 1969 The Rain People with Shirley Knight and James Caan; Benoit Jacquot's 1997 Seventh Heaven (French Le Septieme ciel) with casually cool Sandrine Kiberlain as the young married woman, Vincent Lindon as the doctor husband, and Francois Berleand as the mysterious doctor who talked of Fung Shui with Mathilde (Kiberlain's central character), performed hypnosis and cured her of her sexual deterrence; Tony Goldwyn's 1999 A Walk on the Moon with Diane Lane as the mature-naïve mix of a restrained  housewife, Liev Schreiber as the hardworking husband, and Viggo Mortensen as the arousing outsider.Here's a different angle from the perspective of the man/husband having diverting thoughts from his marriage. A settled family life seemingly perfect and fine, along comes the diversion his best friend (male) from 10 years ago, bringing back memories of those carefree artist life of the '60's and being in Paris. Story setting began in England's Eastwood 1977, where husbands go to work in the city by train and return home in the evenings to their wife and family in stable quiet suburbia Metroland. Flashbacks of '60's scene in Paris gave us clues to how it was and has been for Chris (Bale's character). We also get to know Marion (Watson's character, Chris' wife) in and out of flashbacks and also in Chris' daydreams.The film raises questions on marriage. Watson's character Marion pointed out that marriage and relationship are not two separate things. Here, in this movie, the women (both Marion and Annick) do seem to be more mature in their views of relationship while the young men seem to be still in want of learning and growth in that department of life.As the film's tagline goes Metroland is a state of mind -- it doesn't matter where you go. It's really up to you how you see yourself and adapt yourself to the environment you're in. Occasional dissatisfaction prompts one to do re-thinking and it is a means to improvement and changes in life.I've noticed Christian Bale's performance in Gillian Armstrong's 1994 Little Women with Winona Ryder and co. He did a terrific job in Todd Haynes' 1998 Velvet Goldmine -- he's actually the central character of that story even though he's billed after Ewan McGregor and Jonathan Rhys-Myers. Here he is in the leading role and deserves his top billing recognition. Look forward to seeing him in the upcoming A Midsummer Night's Dream and American Psycho. Emily Watson delivered an equally matching performance and complemented Christian's character well.Probably more appreciated by audiences in the Baby Boomer age, who's been through the '60's and '70's and understand what identity crisis and chasing after one's dream could be like. It's a mature topic.For marriage/sexual problems, a more in depth conscientious treatment of the sexual revelations approach can be found in 1996 Bliss with Sheryl Lee and Craig Sheffer, and Terence Stamp in the sexual therapist role (NFE explicit scenes and story content for mature audiences only; film provides probing questions to one's way of loving and what loving is). A slightly lighter approach is Benoit Jacquot's 1997 Seventh Heaven (French), while a tense emotional approach is Christian Vincent's 1994 La Separation (French) with Isabelle Huppert and Daniel Auteuil, a wonderful pair to watch in spite of the hard medicine.  "},{"Title":"'Sad-humored' comedy-drama...Christian Bale in an acting holding-pattern","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of Christian Bale's more benign vehicles, an adaptation of Julian Barnes' novel which mixes moods playfully, if not incisively. In 1977, a British married couple in their thirties have their household mildly disrupted after the husband's boyhood best friend sweeps into town, encouraging the man to test the boundaries of his commuter lifestyle. Somewhat reminiscent in content of the British kitchen-sink dramas from the 1960s--and yet innocuous enough to remind one of the later The Banger Sisters--the film is solidly-performed and designed, interesting without cutting very deeply. The flashbacks to Bale's young adulthood, living in Paris with dreams of being a professional photographer, are starry-eyed and dewy, helped along by the actor's effective boyishness. The film hopes to paint a portrait of one life which may (subtly) mirror thousands, but it is ultimately too mild and tidy to be a thorough character study. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A Look at Choices","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Metroland is about choices. Chris, a young London professional, has his slice of the good life; job, house in the suburbs, wife, daughter. At 30, Chris has settled into his life's routine. Then into his life returns Toni, a friend from his carefree youth, to entice him with the prospect of the vagabond's life of the road. Should he do it? Ditch his wife and kid and leave with Toni? While he ponders the question he reminisces about the time ten years ago, he spent in Paris, living in the cafes and romancing the ladies.  Not exactly a unique storyline, but one that is set-up very well. Unfortunately that's all there is. There is no dramatic event around which Chris makes his momentous decision.  Not that Metroland is a bad movie; it is not. But with better screenwriting, it could have had more dramatic punch.  "}{"Title":"Thoughtful drama","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie very much.  The actors give great performances and the drama is realistic and interesting.  It was nice to see Emily Watson smile, too! She is radiant as the not-so-clueless wife, Marion.  Christian Bale is great also. "},{"Title":"Pardon Moi , It`s A little Too French For Me","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When the titles of METROLAND started it instantly reminded me of the Rachel Weisz black comedy BEAUTIFUL CREATURES which had been on the previous night. The title sequences were so similar it was uncanny as the camera travels along a rail track to a hypnotic beat . Mind you if I remember correctly things actually happened in BEAUTIFUL CREATURES , hardly anything happens in METROLAND I think this problem isn`t helped by the fact there`s some French input to this movie , yes despite it being set in middle England METROLAND is an Anglo-French co-production not a very succesful combination at the best of times and even a bigger failure where film making is concerned . You see the French gave the world the concept of film study and analysis which means a French critic or a French audience will be able to strip away the veneer of what`s on screen and draw their own conclusions as to what the story is really about - An English speaking audience won`t which means this critic here can only see a slow moving romantic comedy with a very episodic nature. Have you ever been invited to a dinner party where all the guests know each very well and just talk amongst themselves making you feel very left out ? That`s how I felt watching METROLAND , and couldn`t help thinking it might have been far better if the story had been set in Paris with an entirely French cast  "},{"Title":"Are the choices made the right ones?","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on a novel by Julia Barnes. A somewhat comedic drama with strong sexuality. Chris(Christian Bale)and Toni(Lee Ross)are two chums that grew up outside London and shared an aversion to Metroland. Is Metroland a state of mind; or does it mean married with family in the suburbs? They part for ten years...Chris going to Paris and falling in love with a beautiful Frenchwoman, Annick(Elsa Zylberstein). After the affair, Chris has taken back to London another acquaintance, Marion(Emily Watson). When Toni comes for a visit, he finds Chris and Marion married and living in the suburbs. The old friends begin comparing and re-evaluating each others life styles. Is Metroland really just a state of mind after-all? Also appearing are Amanda Ryan, Jonathan Aris and Lucy Speed. I was most impressed with the stunning Zylberstein and her very arousing sex scenes. A very fluid soundtrack features music by Franciose Hardy, Hot Chocolate, Elvis Costello and Dire Straits. "}]