[{"Title":"one of the best vampire movies ever","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm not one to be at a loss of words when it comes to movies, but I believe I have seen one of the best of all time. What do you do to a vampire movie to make it stand above the rest? Don't make it an obvious vampire movie that's what you do. Po-Chih Leong did an excellent job of directing a film which kept me, a vampire movie enthusiast glued to my seat.He didn't use the typical dark gloomy setting per typical vamp movies, neither did he restrict hi vampire character to the typical stereotypes of common vampire movies. This vampire could be out in the sunlight, see his reflection, yaddayaddayadda. The only thing that holds to the truth is he must drink blood. He is caring, sensitive, and above even his thirst all he is searching for is love.The plot of this movie was outstanding. The dialog made me think of having everyday conversations. Jude Law was an excellent pick for the main character. I give this movie a 10 based on it's originality and new look at vampires. It can be a bit slow at parts but over all an outstanding movie. "},{"Title":"A love story set in blood","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Retitled as Immortality for US release, The Wisdom of the Crocodiles is another splendid film which not accorded widespread theatrical distribution when it reached America. First, it is not a vampire film in the vein of Bram Stoker's Dracula, or Interview with the Vampire. It is an iconoclastic love story, similar to the non-vampire film, Eye of the Beholder. Love cannot be explained, obsession cannot be understood, for both must be felt in the heart. This personal film (Immortality) is filled with ideas and themes, many of which are conveyed in allegories. Jude Law and Elina Löwensohn are eating take-out Chinese food. She begins telling him a Confucian tale about the difference between heaven and hell. There is ample food in both dominions. Yet, the only implements you are allowed to use are 5 foot chopsticks. Those in hell starve, those in heaven are well-fed. How is this so? The souls in heaven cooperate by feeding one another, while those in hell, being selfish, go hungry. Yes, love is about giving, and this is the dilemma of the film. Jude Law needs blood to continue his existence. Elina Löwensohn needs Jude because he (unlike most men) is her protector, intellectual equal, and (I know it sounds silly) soul mate.The DVD release of this movie is fascinating. The special effects do not overwhelm you. For instance, there is no shape-shifting or gory feeding orgy. Yet the cinematography is unforgettable. There are twisted bone/spinal fragments that are about the size of 3-inch pretzel sticks. Possibly they have a reptilian ancestry. Jude has a box of these, collected from his earlier victims (all women?). Jude's coffin is not a coffin, but a circular metal chamber, with swivel doors. He straps himself with electrical medical devices to maintain his heartbeat and respiration. They even wake him from his sleep. His regular bed is covered in a silver cloth. On the mattress are blood stains from his previous victims. This is never shown. It is left to the viewer's imagination. The only way you know this exists is from Elina's reaction to Jude uncovering the bed. How horrifying this vision must have been to her. Another interesting aspect of this film is a scene Jude has with a little girl. She appears to be having her kidney stones disintegrated by an ultra-sound device. Thus Jude is most likely a gastroenterologist. Elina is a structural engineer. Two competent, intelligent, literate people in the 20th century. How shocking, given the abundant number of films about stupid people in typical Hollywood schlock. Miramax should be commended for importing this film to the US. Po-chih Leong (d) and Paul Hoffman (w) should be praised for bringing this wonderful story to the screen. "},{"Title":"Slow, but engaging and strong dialogue","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  As a vampire-movie enthusiast I had some high hopes for this picture. Jude Law usually makes for pleasant watching and Elina Lowensohn matches perfectly. That's the first good thing about the movie that really stood out to me the casting is perfect. Not stereotypical, but very believable and right on target.The movie is a bit slow and doesn't offer a lot in the way of a horror-movie as most viewers might expect it to, but it tells an engaging story. The plot isn't overly original, but when you look at some of the details, it's obviously well thought out. I loved most of the dialogue witty, to the point and original. No fake grandeur or excessive posing (like many vampire movies do have), subtle jokes and no giveaways by the characters.The movie is a good one overall, but even on its strong points, it sometimes misses genius and excellence, so only a 7 for this one.  "},{"Title":"Who is willing to destroy a piece of his own heart?","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing about this film's jacket that impresses one with the thought provoking dialog that is inside. I am most impressed with this film as among the few that causes me to become introspective.The discussion that Steven Grlscz (Jude Law) has with Healey about good and evil, is the essence of the film. Evil isn't just malice, murder and rape and massacre. Before everything, the devil is the father of lies. The lies you tell, the truth you don't tell. Everything hidden is theft. Everything reserved from those we love is fraud. And there's always something, isn't there? What everyone wants is for evil people to be off insidiously committing evil deeds. Then they can be separate from ordinary men and women and destroyed. But the line that separates good and evil cuts through every human heart. And who is willing to destroy a piece of his own heart.Is Grlscz unknowingly speaking his own epitaph? Worthy viewing for those who think.  "},{"Title":"Love Bites","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For a vampire movie set in modern-day England, The Wisdom of Crocodiles is peculiarly bloodless. But then, vampire hunger is more a metaphor than a cue for screaming, and sucking in this chilly love story, a philosophical thriller that's no less intriguing for being murkily theological and ceaselessly artsy.The line that separates good and evil cuts through every human heart, Steven murmurs to Anna. And that's just one of the many quotable Steven spouts to explain his dilemma He needs nourishment from a woman's love - but he is doomed to destroy love in the process.Steven also sustains a Russian-lit-like relationship with a detective on his trail, a man who takes his Catholicism as portentously as Steven takes his existential crisis. Through all the agony and ecstasy, Chinese-born, English-educated film-maker Po Chih Leong, working from an epigrammatic script, sustains a luxury-loving interest in the play of light on texture Fountain pens have rarely looked more sensuous, nor vampires more like aesthetes who are never too blood-starved to appreciate fine craftsmanship. "},{"Title":"Wisdom of Passion","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought this film was quite good and more genuine in its story, for it questions the wisdom of passion.Jude Law is incredibly vulnerable , yet fiercely determined ,in his portrayal of a lovestruck, obsessed vampire.The object of his desire is a very sassy lady who brings elements to the film that are unpredictable.Some of Law's scenes are gross, but therein lies a victim in him.It carries a lot of tension , for I did not know where the plot was going-I like that.I try to guess the outcome  of movies  as I watch them. A lot of movies are just too predictable; this one is not.If you like a different kind of vampire film, with a lot of emotion and some sexy love scenes, this is a movie you'll love.If you are a fan of Jude, by all means see it.He uses his eyes in  incredibly intense and versatile ways. He is charming and kind to people.He's also not afraid of looking absolutely horrible.He's more than a pretty face, much more. I would compare this more to Basic Instinct and Fatal Attraction than any of the Dracula films. But be warned although this is not your typical vampire film, there is a lot of bloodshed. "},{"Title":"A vampire film with bags of originality.","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Wisdom if Crocodiles is a very well made, character driven vampire film, that does away with many of the clichés associated with vampire films for the better.The film centres around it's central character, Steven Grlscz, his relationship with women, and the police, who eventually suspect him of murder.Steven doesn't have fangs, (which incidentally, were first brought into the vampire myths by the Hammer films.) doesn't burn up in the sunlight, (or even worse, go around wearing sunglasses and black in the day.) he is not a poseur, he is a real vampire. He needs to drink blood to live, for reasons that are revealed gently throughout the film.The films success lies in it's shedding of these usual clichés, to make something that is less a part of a fantasy world, a more grounded in reality. This is fully represented through the whole of the films strata, for example when a fight breaks out involving local thugs, we are not treated to a slow-motion fest set to some industrial metal or matrix-like techno, but a realistic scrap, with a weird white noise sound crossed with choral singing musical accompaniment.The film is also successful in some small touches that make it worth re-watching. Some little things that seem normal on a first viewing, that take up perhaps a second, are seen in a different way on repeat viewings. I find this quite a admirable addition to the films quality.To sum up, The Wisdom of Crocodiles is an inventive, intelligent vampire film, without the clichés, grounded in reality and definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hypnotic","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a film that is beautifully haunting, and requires much thought from the viewer. Narrated by poetry infused with pain from Steven Grlscz (in a spellbinding performance by the great Jude Law), who captivates from the very beginning by describing his agony to his audience. Steven is a metaphorical vampire (for lack of a better term), he physically must have the love from the blood of those he seduces to survive. The love creates a manifestation in the blood that he must have to live, without it his body will shut own. Steven's body forms physical manifestations of the different emotions he feels after each killing, further enrichment to an already brilliant script. Emotions taking a Steven's pattern is broken when he meets a woman who he actually loves (a very memorable and lovable Elina Lowensohn),and he cannot bring himself to immediately harm her. This is a film that is not to be missed, as it is full of superb performances and an exceptional story. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Indeed, this is a brilliant movie. This is a brave movie. A movie with a beautifully constructed narrative which doesn't seem constructed at all, with fascinating actors great acting and depth everywhere.The most unusual Vampire film I've seen to date and certainly the best one.Blood is the color of love.  "},{"Title":"Very Fascinating Thriller","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The Wisdom of Crocodiles (or the inferior video-box title Immortality) is a very interesting and different kind of vampire movie. During the first fifteen minutes of the movie, I was very skeptical about it (especially during the first killing, which I thought would lead into another blood-and-guts vampire movie), but I decided to ride it out and give it a chance. I'm glad I did, because this was quite a moving and fascinating drama/suspense film with some excellent acting (Jude Law is undoubtedly going to rise up to become an amazing movie star) and awesome cinematography. The plot follows the tragic story of a vampire who feeds on the love of women, but he finds a girl that he truly falls in love with, and he is faced with the choice of dying to let her live, or kill her so he can live his sad life longer. The thing that surprised me with this movie was that it was a complete drama/romance with suspense and thriller elements in it, but in NO way is it a horror or vampire movie. This delighted me, because I am getting very tired of the formulaic vampire flicks (Dracula 2000, John Carpenter's Vampires). This movie, as well as the phenomenal Shadow of the Vampire, is one of the most intelligent, suspenseful, and and genuinely interesting vampire movies in a long, LONG time.   "}{"Title":"Fed by Love","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In London, Steven Grlscz (Jude Law) helps the suicidal Maria Vaughan (Kerry Fox) in the subway and seduces her. After a period living with Maria, Steven kills her in his apartment drinking her blood and dumps her body in the sea. Steven becomes a suspect for the Londoner police and is chased by Inspector Healey (Timothy Spall). Meanwhile Steven meets the structure engineer Anne Labels (Elina Löwensohn) and she falls in love with him. However, she discovers a dark secret about her lover that needs to survive.Immortality is a weird movie about a sort of vampire fed by the love in human blood. The stylish cinematography associated to the great performances of Jude Law and Elina Löwensohn are not enough to make a good film since the intriguing screenplay has a disappointing conclusion. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Not Available. "},{"Title":"Can this truly be classified as a Vampire Movie?","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I will honestly tell you, my reason for renting this movie was because of the brilliant actor named Jude Law.  After viewing this movie twice, (I do that with all films I find intriguing, for I am a closet critic at heart), I have decided that, The Wisdom of Crocodiles, is Jude Law's best acting performance yet.He manages to pull off charm, sex appeal, mystery, intelligence, hope, hopelessness, agony, despair, defeat, and last but not least, innocence. Do I have your attention?Now I ask myself, can this truly be classified as a Vampire Movie?  And when we utter that word, vampire, we ultimately see blood, fangs, and darkness and we remember Anne Rice, for she is the truest tale-teller of these malicious creatures.  No, that is not what the Wisdom of Crocodiles represents.  It takes every story, every image, and every idea we have of vampires and puts them in an interesting and unique perspective of a modern day bloodsucker.  It allows you to feel what its main character felt.  The range of emotions is spectacular.  And you, as well as the vampire, nearly forget to breathe.If you have not yet seen this movie, rent it today.  Rent it yesterday.I give my strongest standing ovation to the writers, directors, producers and actors who painted this picture into a true stroke of genius.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"A dark and brooding thriller","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The Wisdom of Crocodiles is one of a new breed of vampire movies. Probably started by Abel Ferrera's The Addiction, vampirism has turned into a sort of curse that turns it's afflicted into brooding philosophers. Gone are the vampire bats, wooden stakes and crucifixes that once were the staples of the genre, and the vampire genre has been changed into a commentary on disease. However, I'm all for innovation, even if it's not always advisable innovation, and The Wisdom of Crocodiles is one of the better 'new wave' vampire films. It actually seems to be taking more influence from George Romero's excellent 'Martin' than 'The Addiction' anyway. The Wisdom of Crocodiles (great name, by the way) stars Jude Law, in a tight performance, as a man afflicted with some sort of curse that forces him to suck the blood of women while in the act of lovemaking. To say any more than that would mean spoiling it, so I'll leave it there.The Wisdom of Crocodiles has gained itself something of a cult following, and the channel I saw it on even introduced it as a 'cult classic'. I think this is an incorrect description of the film, as although it's not bad and certainly has it's moments; it hardly has the same qualities as true cult masterpieces, such as the aforementioned 'Martin'. The film benefits from a brooding atmosphere that is created by a brooding musical score that plays through almost the entire running time. This never gets annoying however, as the music is good and almost always adds to the images seen on screen. The film is slowly plotted, which might annoy some people and it's littered with philosophical ideas that Jude Law utters for a lot of the running time. This will probably irritate people that tuned in expecting a vampire movie, especially as there's little bloodletting, but some of the ideas put forward are fairly interesting, and keep the film alive.This film shouldn't really be in with the classic vampire films at all, as it's a completely different animal (I suppose they couldn't really put it in with 'brooding cursed people', though). Vampire fans should take note of this, but even without the classic vampire thrills; there is much to like about this British chiller. "},{"Title":"A Reptilian Vampire Story","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The film is named 'Immortality' in the DVD version I saw, and the alternative title is not listed in IMDb, which almost made it the first movie I would miss when doing a search in IMDb!Not that I have too much to say about this film. It is certainly not an enjoyable experience. The script is bad, with literary ambitions that are never fulfilled by real emotions. The atmosphere (kind of London outside, definitely Beverly Hills interiors) brings nothing new to the genre. The plot is slow, trailing, and the end is what can be defined a real anti-climax. There is some good acting, though - Jude Law in one of his pre-A.I. movies gives me reason to believe that with some luck he will fall upon a great script, and a good director and make his Oscar day. It is not enough to save an un-pleasant and un-satisfying cinema experience.Unless you are a fan of vampire movies, you have no reason to pick it from the shelves.  "},{"Title":"Major Disappointment","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Jude Law gives his all in this beautifully filmed vampire flick which offers little else of value. Completely lacking in eroticism, excitement, or leading ladies with appeal. One decent fight, a few moments of mild suspense. And a one-note plot.The movie waxes philisophic in a series of conversations between Law's character and a dogged homicide detective, well played by Timothy Spall. But despite their best efforts, both actors are staked to the cross of the film's banality.With a lesser actor in the lead role -- and without the benefit of Oliver Curtis's cinematography -- Crocodiles would blend into the sea of low-budget vampire quickies. "},{"Title":"good movie, although everyone seems confused about what really happened","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Although so many comments are saying that the vampire fell for the girl, what actually happened is the same thing that has happened in the past the whole ending (pretending not to bit her, letting her nurse him, etc), the WHOLE thing was still a part of the vampire seducing her. If she had not by chance come back after finding the band-aid, she would never have known (note that suddenly he seemed so much healthier). He even played up his breathing issues because he knew she would sympathize. In fact, we are seeing a master at work. It was his intention all along to eat her and it was only by chance that she got away. She was lucky to have pierced his hand leading to his excessive bleeding and then he truly could no longer follow her. But he did get her to love him truly-- knowing more about what he was than any other woman ever had-- he almost got that perfect love he was searching for all along. "},{"Title":"Immortality","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A vampire, Steven Grlscz(Jude Law), chooses female victims for their emotional blood hoping that the perfect mate who'll love him perfectly, will indeed cure him of his illness. We see a victim in the early going he selects who was about to throw herself in front of a subway train. He offers kindness to her for she probably could've used it. But, his befriending her in a sense is a way of gaining her trust until she completely gives herself over emotionally(..through complete love hopefully), but as often as it has been, this person wasn't. He feels certain emotions in his chosen victims, whether it's disappointment or despair, each person has that strong emotion which carries freely through the blood. He must feed on blood to remain alive and when he disposes of the body in a quick-sanded marshland, it is unfortunately discovered by fisherman using illegal netting. He has to contact the police to inform them of his previous relationship with the dead woman so that his guilt won't be so glaring. So for a time, two detectives follow him suspecting him as the murderer. Meanwhile, Steven meets structural engineer named Anne(Elina Löwensohn)and they soon begin a growing relationship where he begins to feel is true love. Will Anne be able to save him? How will she react if Anne discovers who Steven really is? And, will Steven be able to elude the police from suspecting him? All these questions will get answered as Steven must eventually feed or die in the process. Something also touched on is that Anne notices how Steven studies people. One of the detectives, Healy(Timothy Spall)notices that Steven copied a finger gesture in how he puts out the tip of his cigarettes. We later find that besides blood, Steven must also keep himself alive by constantly studying the human condition.Fascinating study on a person whose illness is really never completely elaborated on. That might very well frustrate some viewers wanting an answer, but what if there isn't one? In a sense he is a vampire because he must survive by feeding on blood. But, his life is anything but flamboyant. There are improbabilities such as how Steven seems able to elude his crime against the victim at the beginning of the movie. The film provides us with a gang so that we can see how fast Syteven moves proving to us that he is beyond merely a mortal, but something much different. The love of the film is tested with Steven's condition which makes for an interesting drama particularly Anne's reaction once she finds out. "},{"Title":"The Wisdom of Crocodiles with Jude Law","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This vampire movie did not have undue special effects and offered no gimmicks. The movie was alive with Romance, seduction with some gore. The Vampire played a great cat and mouse game with the police detectives, which had a great positive effect in the movie. The movie kept away from the stereotype a vampire movie normally brings. It made the theme of the movie so real compared to like movies. The acting kept me glued to the movie, and it was not predictable. Also the way the vampire became redeemed was very genuine. The behavior was not scary. It was true to life. My only wish is that the movie was longer than an hour and 39 minutes. I give the movie 7 stars. "},{"Title":"I Thought That It Was Going To Be A Drama","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I watched The Wisdom of Crocodiles the other day completely oblivious to what the film would entail. That is the title to me insinuated a regular drama with current heartthrob Jude Law as the main protagonist. In fact I was so unaware of this that at the beginning of the film I assumed that he was in fact a police officer, until he ripped into the flesh of a woman with his teeth, blood splattering the walls. Due to my complete ignorance it came as a total shock to the system, and this I think is what made the film so creepy and sometimes repulsive to me. This is one of the reasons that I like to go into things not knowing one iota about the substance. It made the whole experience a much more enjoyable one when I had no expectations and could sit back see what occurred rather than rely on an introduction. As for the film itself, it was one of the better horrors I have seen in a while, though still clichéd elements of all the other suspense/thriller/horror films. I myself though felt a need to understand if he had in fact always been this way or it had somehow infected him in later life. I enjoyed the tales that Anna (the beautiful Elina Löwensohn) told and her energy that just seemed to radiate through the screen- that was until the end of the film whence her behaviour is incorrigible- or stupid rather. I did enjoy the film; there is no doubt about that. Having no expectations and the pure shock made the film much more, real- no, intriguing. And I have already begun practicing the two hand writing technique. Oh, it was also British, which are a good start!  "},{"Title":"a great new take on vampires","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film does a wonderful job of taking on the subject of vampires with few twists, some old - some not so old. The first thing I noticed about the film is that the subject matter - vampirism - is twisted a bit. The word vampire is never used, although references are subtly made. Steven does drink the blood of his victims, but it is not the blood which sustains him, but the emotions of the victim - which show up as chemicals in their blood. He feeds specifically on the love of the victim for him, so he must make the women love him before he can kill them.This leads to another twist, and the title of the film. He must in part at least love the women also, because love cannot be real unless it is shared by two people. Since he must love them before he kills them, he ends up killing them with tears in his eyes, like the crocodiles of the title. In the end, it is this attachment which is his undoing. No more said, see the film.Sef Tarbell "}{"Title":"Passionate!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  How refreshing it is to see the subject of immortality take on such an original twist!  Though the plot may seem far-fetched, the performances of Jude Law and Elina Lowensohn make it not only believable, but touching and emotionally drawing. "},{"Title":"Well done Vampire Movie","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting a Violent blood bath of a movie. But instead I got a Great love story. This was well done by director Po-Chih Leong. The female love interest(Elina Lowensohn)was perfect. I cared about her character the whole movie. She is a fine young actress. I hope to see more of her in the future. I like the title of the movie as well. It has a certain ring to it. If your looking for a suspense'ful love story go rent The Wisdom of Crocodiles, aka Immortality. Not a lot of action but the story is great. And of curse Jude Law with another cool performance. "},{"Title":"Stylish spin on the vampire flick","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" THE WISDOM OF CROCODILES (2000) **1/2 Jude Law, Elina Lowensohn, Timothy Spall, Jack Davenport, Colin Solmon, Kerry Fox. Unusual revisionistic spin on the vampire story with Law as a mysterious man whose sexual/romantic conquests feed his otherworldly health condition (essentially devouring his lovers' blood and absorbing their emotions including love which he desperately needs to continue to live) and meets his match when he falls deeply in love with his next victim Lowensohn. Stylish and at times original but the ending betrays the setup and ultimately destroys the established rhythm. (Dir Po Chih Leong) "},{"Title":"Take a sad film and make it better.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is the umpteenth story of the lonesome vampire who's got to bite -only women here- to survive.You get the picture?Directing is listless and does not create any stir.So why bother?Because Jude here carries the world upon his shoulders ;and he seems to realize that the director here doesn't even play it cool and thus makes his world a little colder.That is to say Jude Law saves the movie from absolute mediocrity.He's prodigious notably in two scenes that would be undistinguished without his presencethe first in the tube with the hoodlums where he mesmerizes the whole pack and even the cop ;the second in the hospital when he talks to the little girl,smiling sweetly .The wisdom of crocodiles indeed.One wishes Roman Polanski had directed him. "},{"Title":"Love with Scales","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Love and the gestures of men and women seeking love are familiar themes which film makers try to bring in new forms to the screen. Modern vampires in love with professional women is a twist to an old storyline brought up to date in The Wisdom of Crocodiles.  No longer the coffin bound creature of 19th century gothic literature, Jude Law's vampire works in the medical field, maintains a charming allure necessary to draw women to his lair, and faces dilemas of conscience and morality his literary ancestor never pondered.  A modern woman like Ellena Lowenstein's character is an engineer, performs tracheotomies as necessary, and she can walk away from her charming vampire lover after recognizing his inherent flaw -- did he fail to put the seat down, or was she just mad at the big hickey on her neck? This is a film with high production values, excellent supporting cast in Timothy Spall, a superior actor whose role is to joust with the vampire as a police investigator, but the script's religous overtones seem out of context and at times, incoherent.  A clutter of extraneous details, Chinese fables, chopsticks, spiral shell collections, silver sheets, and cars in trees makes for an even more muddled tale.  That the performance of the actors manage to hold through the film is likely an accident, but we are thankful because Wisdom of Crocodiles falls apart once the secondary storylines, e.g., police investigation, gang in the subway, baptism, and engineering accident, begin to interfere with the central storyline -- vampire loves girl, bites girl, kills girl, or doesn't bite girl and dies. Save redemption, chop suey, and kidney stones for another type of film. Please. "},{"Title":"More vampire silliness","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film reminds me of an old advert You can't top a Grolsch. But can you top a Grlscz? Especially before he tops you. Grlscz complains that he's a freak and can't fit in anywhere. I dunno, membership to 'The Groucho Club' can't be that difficult. He strikes some very enigmatic poses, such as squatting on a beach. This is to tell us he is other-worldly, or something. That irritating actress from Hal Hartley's film turns up and unfortunately stays for the duration. The premise of this film, about properties in the blood mysteriously over-looked by medical science, is not uniquely silly, but it's up there fighting. Also it is speculated, we are human on top of horse on top of reptile. So take your horse brain to see this picture, you'll feel more at home amongst all the manure. This is also one of those films that suffers from 'sudden gang syndrome'. This gang, bizarrely dressed in expensive designer gear, drops from the rafters to attack a man for no reason, and then casually decide to kill him when they discover he's a police officer. The gang leader just happens to have Samurai skills as well, and later takes on our hero in a scene of gobsmacking inanity. Do I smell co-production here? Chinese director, Chinese gang? Grlscz has other problems, such as forgetting to breathe sometimes. Perhaps that's why he was squatting on the beach, he decided to go to the toilet but forgot to remove his trousers which could prove quite a sticky problem. Jack Davenport shows up as a cop. Is he the same one as in 'Ultraviolet'? No wonder you can't find a copper when you need one, they're all working nights. Timothy Spall plays his partner and is the one bright spark in this pretentious art-house cobblers. See 'Razor Blade Smile' instead, it's more fun. So what is the wisdom of crocodiles? You'll have to find out for yourself but don't be surprised if afterwards you find yourself writing a cheque and sketching the shop assistant at the same time. "},{"Title":"The Wisdom of Crocodiles is thought provoking and sad in equal measure.","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Vampire in London is searching for the ideal woman to redeem him. Steven is multi-talented, handsome, and an expert seducer of women. He craves intimacy with women, literally cannot live without it, and is in search of the perfect woman. All of his relationships, however, end tragically. Eventually, he meets Anne, a strong woman who is different, better than the others. However, soon it becomes clear that this is a relationship that only one of them will survive. The title refers to a quote from Francis Bacon, who wrote about crocodiles, who shed tears when they devour their prey. This is a film that is beautifully haunting, and requires much thought from the viewer. Narrated by poetry infused with pain, it is just sublime. "},{"Title":"Incorrect Title Name but awesome movie","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It should be stated that the films name is Immortality - if you look at even the name on the outside of the picture its stated Immortality.I couldn't find the film under his filmography and finally checked the dates and just started clicking randomly to find that they are calling it the wisdom of crocodiles.I went to blockbuster to rent it, turns out its not wisdom of crocodiles its Immortality. Frustratingly enough there is no way to correct this incorrect title.The movie itself is wonderful and anyone watching would love this movie. Jude Law really goes all in for this film. Its a movie you can get lost into. "},{"Title":"Unusual, Stylish, worth your time","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie has been out for a long time, and nothing I can say in a review is going to have much of an effect on who might see it, if anyone will indeed see it anytime soon. But, just in case you are undecided, if you have just run across it and only have x hours and x minutes for a movie, then please go watch it. It is very, very good.OK, I already contradicted myself.A great deal is said these days about the derivative nature of some films, as if a bit of an homage to great cinema automatically relegates a movie to less than average status. I think that sort of thing is unfair. In fact, I think it is OK if something I see reminds me of something I liked before. I still like the effect, and maybe more.In fact, so many now sit back, throw darts, and identify contemporary work as derivative that their silly conformist critiques are pretty...you guessed it, derivative! You are thinking 'ok, maybe but...what about this movie' So, imagine cinematography from Hitchcock in America, soundtrack by middle period Bernard Hermann, Jude Law before he became a boring caricature of Brits (Dr. Watson), a vampire script unlike any you have run across before and an intriguing non-blonde that Hitch would never have employed in Elina Löwensohn and you have this movie in a nutshell.Of course, like almost every other vampire movie it ends sadly. If you are into vampire sad endings, well then here you go.If you like a good drama about a vampire with crisp dialogue and unusual characters, with a minimum of blood and slashing, then here is a movie for you. If you like your vamps otherwise then steer clear.Better yet, if you enjoyed Byzantium as I did (to a guilty extreme I must admit) then see this movie and you will be quite happy indeed. What happened to Jude, he seemed on such a roll especially after picking off Nazis in Stalingrad.Maybe he just bled out? Probably. "},{"Title":"Original and Haunting","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I gave the film an 8, not just for the qualities of the film everyone else years ago have mentioned, but for Jude Law's performance. Such a pleasure to stumble across this at Netflix instant watch. I always thought Law was completely overrated save for his savvy performance in A.I. I thought he was dreadfully cast in just about everything, showing no emotion I could connect to or subtlety of acting. I was wrong and am not ashamed to admit I was completely intrigued by him in this film. He was absolutely fearless and I don't know whether that is a testament to the director, to the director and script, or to Law/Director/Script.It is as odd and wonderful as if you just stumbled over The Man Who Fell to Earth, which is not your stereotypical sci fi film. This is not your stereotypical vampire film and I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"Vampire Movie...Where?","Date":"19 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I knew nothing of the vampire aspect of this film before seeing it, and I wouldn't have it any other way.I thought that I had watched a film about a terrifying, eccentric, charming, brutal, tormented man who (like many of us) felt abnormal and unreal in his own skin. His internal conflict, his willingness to act against what seemed to be his nature, and his compulsion to survive were the prominent themes.The opening scene of this film is captivatingly beautiful and haunting. I believed, mistakenly, that Jude Law's character was a police officer due to his presence at an auto accident. That impression (and it truly was only my own impression) lasted until he deftly and unexpectedly killed his lover/fiancé, a woman whose life he had previously saved.After killing his fiancé, Jude Law's character endures a physical agony, and eventually produces and saves a long crystal-like barb, labeled with his fiancé's name. This puzzled me initially, but later in the film, he talks about his work to study bladder and kidney stones or formations, and their possible connection to strong emotions in the patient. I believe that each of the barbs Stephen kept were formations from his own internal organs that resulted from the emotion of killing his prey... OR, they may have been the manifestation of the the prey's emotion, as conveyed to him through their blood. (This idea is supported by his one-word emotion notation in the diaries after the death of the two women in the first half of the film.) There were definitely moments in this film that made me wonder about the nature of Stephen (e.g., his forgetting to breath; the number of diaries which indicate the number of women he has killed while still being a young man; killing his fiancé with a bite; etc.), but I did not ever assume he was a literal vampire. It seemed to be more of a figurative identity,In hind sight, Stephen's curiosity with the police investigator's crucifix would have been a little more ironic with the knowledge that he was a vampire, but not knowing did not take anything away from the film or story for me. To the contrary, I am a little disappointed that I now know.The overall revealing of Jude Law's character evolves slowly throughout the film, even until the very end. It is a fascinating depiction of complex character.There is a great deal of symbolism in the film, and it does not pander to the audience -- nothing is handed over on a silver platter. It's definitely worth a look! "},{"Title":"The line that separates good and evil cuts through every human heart.","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This wasn't you usual vampire story with lots of blood and scary scenes. It was more primeval.It was simply about survival and the search for love, which would ensure immortality. It was about someone who was just tired of the whole effort at living. It was about that line between good and evil.Jude Law was fantastic as the primitive being just trying to find the right mate. Elina Löwensohn was captivating and you never knew if she would fall into the spell of Law. Timothy Spall was fantastic as the cop.The film was a good mix of comedy and drama and mystery. It was highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Modern day take on the vampire, with a twist...","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Immortality (or Wisdom of Crocodiles as its known across the pond) should be classified as a vampire flick, but I think to see it as nothing more would be missing the point. Just as the original Dracula carried powerful sexual undercurrents in its own heyday, so too must the current crop of vampire stories reveal something of the carnal desires in us today.Jude Law plays the vampire who lives off the blood of others. In human terms he's a real charmer who (en lieu of love) lusts after the women he's with - only to toss them aside when someone new catches his attention - leaving an emotional car wreck in his wake. But this selfish and cruel heart-breaker may finally meet his match when against the odds he finds love with a woman who ultimately rejects him.This sort of man or woman fits well with the vampire archetype, and makes for a nice twist on the genre in the vein of Anne Rice's work. Jude Law was on the rise to his now household name status when he took this on and as always delivers a stellar performance. I would've liked it more had they delved into some of the creepier parts of his character, such as the crystallized shards of blood he painfully removes after a kill (somehow like the purging or catharsis one undergoes after any relationship, revealing he suffers something if not a crisis of conscience). Or the fact that his strange last name has no vowels and can't be traced to any heritage or country of origin.The casting is not without its flaws however, for Jude's foil is not the most interesting choice and I imagine could've been better with a more recognizable actress. I'm just not sure I'm convinced of her charms in the face of a man who we can assume has been treating women as nothing more than a life sustaining meal for many years.But no matter. Law carries the film, delivers an excellent performance in this stark but classy production. If you're a fan of his films or the vampire genre, Immortality is definitely worth a viewing or two. May have been even better with a female in the role of the vampire. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A moving, beautifully told, and original vampire movie, and one which has since vanished into the unknown. Jude Law, probably in his best performance is a modern day vampire. Naturally, this being a modern movie which tries to be original, Law's character has few of the vampire traits we would recognise; he can live in daylight, crucifixes etc hold no power over him, he cannot transform into other animals, and does not have fangs. However, he is semi-immortal, and must drink human blood to survive. Indeed it is this which lies behind the story, and it is a tragedy rather than a horror. With great acting, beautiful and subtle camera-work, a touching story and a good soundtrack, The Wisdom of Crocodiles bears all the markings of a good movie. It is; unfortunately it is little known, and of course has flaws which probably stopped it from becoming an instant hit.Law is Stephen, an attractive, clever, charming young man who happens to be a vampire. In his quest for the 'perfect' woman who can save him from his torturous life, a strong woman with the ability to love him, literally changing her blood. All the women he has found in the past have been scared of him, so he has killed them. When he does this, he takes a fang like object from them. In his desperate search for love he finds Anna, (Lowensohn) a beautiful young woman and they begin to fall for each other. She is enchanted by him, but sher is also cautious, and when he saves her from a gang of muggers she becomes scared. The truth soon comes out in parts, and all the time the police are interested in Stephen's involvement in the death of his ex-girlfriend. The story builds to a suitable emotional climax, and never at any point can we predict what will happen.The film failed at the box-office because it is very downbeat, and only features one big name star. The director is also little known, but he shows an immense talent here, and gets the best from the cast. Hoffman's script has some of the best dialogue in years, but is also clever and full of metaphor and depth. It is definitely a film crying out to be rewatched as you will find something new with each viewing. The film is filled with imagery to suit the script, and Law's charismatic performance could not have been bettered. Lowensohn is also very good, her intensity growing as she finds out more about Stephen. Of course, as a vampire movie people will expect blood and scares. Here there is little blood shed and few scenes of violence, though all are handled perfectly, and of course it is not that kind of film. Hopefully a DVD release in the UK will be forthcoming. The cop storyline adds another depth, but for some the proceedings will be too slow. The film has its own pace, and rarely gets out of first gear, but this is the way it should be. An underrated film, but as Jude Law's stardom rises hopefully he will not forget this, and his fans will discover it.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film tells us the story about Steven Grlscz, a handsome, seductive, mysterious and charming, vampire who does not kill for pleasure but for love. He dates many women, but in order to survive all his relationships end up tragically. That it is until he finds Anna, a very special lady, different from all the others. But he cannot hurt Anna or else he will miss her. Jude Law interprets Steven Grlscz in a very brilliant way, all the gestures he releases are very unique. No one could say no to him, no one could possibly think he was a murderer although he showed himself as a mysterious man who admitted he has acted badly twice and that his last relationship died. "},{"Title":"Blood runs deeper than Love...or Does it?","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"    ***MILD SPOILERS*** This film is so simple, and yet, it doesn't appear that way at all. When you first see the film you do not immediately understand that Jude Law is a vampire. I mean, to be ancient he has a definite boyish charm about him, as though everything still fascinates him. Indeed I believe that human's are what fascinates him. He must feed on blood, and I believe that he understands that women-due to his good looks and debonair qualities-are the easiest target. It's possible to say that he is a vampire with a soul, no, I think he is a vampire with the lingering sensation of a soul. Anyways, don't expect this to be like a guy all dressed in black-well he does wear a lot of black but some color-walking around at night hanging around ally ways for unsuspecting floosies. It's not like that at all. True, just like any other vampire, blood is his sustenance, on the other hand there is an interesting little twist in here that is pure ingenuity Every time that he takes the blood, he coughs up a crystal, usually the size of a tiny nail. It's painful, and a little gross. Jude law fixes himself to appeal to his prey. Indeed if you watch he becomes what he believes every woman wants. In the beginning of the movie you see him with a female that is capricous and modern, and so he becomes just that. His sole purpose is to make them love him. Truly, utterly, and with all of the souls love him. But every time it fails, and the women do not love him. Perhaps in their mind they do, but not their hearts. Jude Law's theory is that is he can find a woman, who will love him, and take her life, then his life will be...returned. He won't need blood anymore, and he won't get sick like he does when he can't get it. He meets Elena Lowenstein, she is immediately different. Even though she is lovely and intelligent like all the others. And so, Jude Law again changes, he becomes what he assumes she wants. And this time, this time it seems to work. During the film, there is a cop chasing him-for all the dead women showing up in England-and a gritty scene in the subway where he actually saves the cop's life. This is actually interesting, here is the 'villain' actually playing dual parts as the hero, indeed he also saves Elena Lowenstein from the same thugs in another scene. But the film is really about the girl, and the boy. You follow their lives in this short time, and you receive bits of them, and their realities, and you watch him trying to be like her. There is even a part where he tries to draw this symbol that she draws when doodling. In the end she discovers him for what he truly is, and still, she can't help but love him. He tells her that he has been looking for someone like her, someone to make the pain go away. And that every time he coughs up a crystal it is emotion, the strongest emotion that the woman he killed felt for him was what was in the crystal. He even carries around the black books throughout the movie with the emotions that all of the women felt for him such as Hate, Sadness, Detest,. etc,.This movie is a love story, plain and simple. If you can make it through all of the cobwebs and find the center you will most definitely adore this film. In the end, I won't tell it, love does conquer, but, not in the way you would want.  All things must come to and end. "},{"Title":"love sucks(and bites)","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  exactly. it does't take a lugosi to tell a story of humans who need blood to sustain them -what human doesn't- there is a human story to tell disillusion, mini-triumphs, love scorned(scared away), and death of a kind, if merely metaphoric, that visits all.  it's a matter of time, even if thousands of years away.the story is well-constructed if one can shelve disbelief, and dwell on the art of fiction as a vehicle for analogy, metonymy, and metaphor to humanize it and let it the gods and goddesses continue wrangling about who we are.this movie is thought-provoking as is the movie with susan sarandon.  look it up and you'll discover similarities in pacing, scoring, dialogue and mis en scene.give a cheer for eeriness that delights in itself and gives satisfaction to others. "},{"Title":"a modern take on vampirism","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Jude Law is a vampire.  He's not an old-fashioned long-toothed, coffin-dwelling, sun-fearing vampire.  He's modern he's got a well-paying job, a nice flat, and can travel as he wishes.  But he needs to feed.  Without the blood of a woman in love with him, his health deteriorates. So, his life becomes a series of seductions, betrayals, and murders. Clearly this disturbs him (he may be a vampire, but he's not a bad guy) but he sees no option.Jude Law is terrific in this film.  The storyline is compelling, and the characters come from a different part of the imagination.  A really great movie.   "},{"Title":"The kind of film that will make going to the cinema worth it!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  They come once in a while but this is definitely one of them.  A great film with great actors.  I enjoyed it and gave it a 10 for all that it is!  If you like a good and well thought plot, great acting and a touch of supernatural in very realistic characters, go and see it.Thank you for this film. "},{"Title":"Surely the best 'vampire' film of the last decade.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  'Subtle' best summarizes this brilliant film. Mr Law is an excellent actor and his performance captures the essence of the character of Steven to perfection- an impassive facade that hides an impassioned interior, betrayed in shifts of expression that perturb his eyes like hints of life at the bottom of a dark pond. Holden Caulfield likes books that make him want to have their author as a friend- Mr Law's performance makes you wish that you had a friend like Steven.The film's cinematography and edit take your breath away, in particular in a scene which involves Kerry Fox ('Shallow Grave'), who intends to throw herself before the subway and Steven, who saves her life after an instant of tormented hesitation. Fans of Hal Hartley's films ('Amateur') will need no introduction to Elina Löwensohn, who is the perfect match for Mr Law.The film was released in Germany in the early summer of 1999. "}{"Title":"A Thriller that is Really a Thriller","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Director Po Chih Leong and writer Paul Hoffman keep a steady stream of low tension going throughout the entire film.  This tension builds in the mind of the viewer until one finds themself eagerly awaiting the final climax. The Wisdom of the Crocodiles is a thriller that is actually thrilling!  "},{"Title":"My love feeds on your love beloved... (Pablo Neruda)","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The story of this  film can only be summarized in this short verse. Jude Law is a man that loves. And feeds on love. He is a man that NEEDS to feed on love. And he does just that. Women love him. And it's quite obvious why. Even WE love him. We know he's evil but somehow we also know that that's his fate. Without blood and the love that's in it he cannot survive. He thinks that when he finds the woman that will love him perfectly, utterly, this will stop. He's not mistaken. But what happens when the woman that loves him more than any other in the world is the woman that he also loves more than his own life?This is exactly the point of the film. Jude Law's character is a troubled man. Perhaps even not a man. He is a creature of one kind, as he himself says. And the only thing that remains for us, is to admire how he's going to fight for his own life and win it. How he's going to do what we want. Or maybe what we don't want. How he's going to slip into his fate without regret. And how in the end we'll all know that The line that separates Good and Evil cuts through every human heart. His heart. Our hearts.Jude Law and Elina Lowensohn. You will remember them for ever. As you will this film. "},{"Title":"Be prepared for surprises...","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This stylish and beautifully filmed thriller finally made its way to Portland, Oregon in our International Film Festival.  Since my favorite movie-buddy and I never miss a Jude Law film, it was a must-see.The plotting was very adult--gaps left to the imagination and twists left to a talented cast.  Little service is paid to the cliches of the vampire genre.  Law plays a uniquely vulnerable killer, emotionally and physically. Be prepared for surprises.It's a shame this movie hasn't received a wider U.S. release, but it may later this year.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Fascinating cult-type film","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film last June (6/99) in Johannesburg, South Africa at cinema near my hotel.  I was trying to get out from under my jet lag and this helped.  It feels like a cross between Trainspotting and Interview with the Vampire.  Definitely worthy of movie cult status (like, for example, Dead Man -- the Johnny Depp film that no one else I know has ever seen).  When I got back to the US, no one had ever heard of this movie.  What the hell happened?  Did it ever make it to the US anywhere?  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not great","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Jude Law sparkles in an ultimately unsatisfying rework of the vampire theme. Unsubtle editing leaves sub-plots visible but unexplored. Timothy Spall brings a beautifully sculpted police officer to the screen in a plot line that goes largely wasted. Beautifully shot, the film has some great ideas, but doesn't hang together too well. A wasted opportunity. "},{"Title":"Stylish British thriller with a supernatural twist","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is something really different.  It's gem of a movie, stylish and dark with complex supernatural undertones.  Jude Law and Elina Lowensohn (the bob-haired vamp from Hal Hartley's Amateur) must be the best-looking couple in the business, so men and women alike can enjoy their on-screen affair (not least to marvel at their razor-sharp cheekbones).Jude Law, appropriately enough, plays a charming seducer with a mysterious past (and an amazing apartment) - Elina L is a beautiful engineer(!) who warily takes him into her affection, intrigued by his strangeness.  However, bits of his past start to come back to disturb their burgeoning romance, not least of which is his rather blood-thirsty animal (reptile?) side, which hasn't been too good for the health of his previous lovers.Will it be different this time round?  Will Good or Evil win?  This could have been so predictable, but it ain't. "},{"Title":"Dark","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The best line I have heard regarding this film is If you take a lady along to see it, make sure she has 5 pairs of knickers, and make sure she is wearing all of them.The cinematography is in a class of its own, the plot line leaves you guessing all the way through, and from the second the film starts rolling, you are completely engrossed in the story, as though you were there. (but not in body, only in spirit...) "},{"Title":"Stylish vampire thriller shows the dark side of Law...","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Not a run of the mill vampire movie by any means, although JUDE LAW plays his usual deeply disturbed character, a doctor who stalks women he sees as suitable to seduce. Sure of himself, he decides to play a cat and mouse game with detectives investigating the case.Law uses his hypnotizing gaze with good effect. His latest conquest is an industrial engineer who says, I like a man with a bit of mystery about him. She immediately becomes an item on his list of future victims. He wins her over completely when he saves her from a vicious attack by thugs. There's an air of unpredictability lurking over every scene.The last half-hour has the woman scrutinizing him--wondering what's inside his mind. You have to wonder where their relationship is going. Will she still be his next victim? The detective is having an equally hard time trying to figure him out.The line that separates good from evil cuts through every human heart, he tells the detective.To say the least, he's an ambiguous character, this vampire, and Jude Law plays him with conviction. Timothy Spall as the dogged detective is good, as is Elina Lowensohn as the puzzled romantic interest.The finale drags a bit before it goes for the climax. A bit too sluggish throughout but still manages to hold the interest. "},{"Title":"Review and spoiler","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" At its heart, The Wisdom of Crocodiles alludes to being cross between a story about someone in mental torment and a modern-day vampire movie. The Jude Law character - the story's villain - comes across as a convincingly menacing and cunning master of his own destiny and of other peoples' destinies too. However, the main driving impetus in his life is either haemophilia, apnea or asthma - a medical problem that the movie fails to clarify.Jude Law is a man driven to consume other people's emotions by gorging himself on their blood in a gruesome Dracula-like fashion and the question nags as to when the killer will strike again. When he meets an attractive foreigner who engages in a fateful relationship with him, we expect the inevitable. Jude struggles with the reality of who he is and the genuine affection he feels for his latest victim until he resolves to act out his bloodthirsty course.In the final act, we see him weave an elaborate web to deceive the victim to her death by appealing to her sympathy. It is a part of the movie where the villain becomes truly vampiric in behaviour and motive.The movie has several flaws, which can't be covered by the excellence of the acting. First is the cryptic title, which confuses rather than informs. Secondly, a tangle of unclear plot-threads knot into perplexing scenes throughout the movie.It's as if the producer can't decide whether to make this a vampire movie, a romance, a thriller, a detective story or a story about someone in mental anguish. I get the feeling that if Leong had chosen one throughline and played to its strengths he might've produced a strong movie. Instead its a story that never makes up its mind what its main thread is and so leaves an unsatisfying series of questions.The result is that, in the confusion, Leong never gets the chance to tell us anything about the villain's condition or even why he's got it, and we never learn the reasons that motivate Law in his choice of victims.Not the best movie I've seen, though not the worst either. Jude Law lives up to his reputation by pulling off a convincing portrayal of a very disturbed man. Timothy Spall provides a strong supporting role as the dogged detective. "},{"Title":"Victim, Model","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I have a hobby of carefully selecting films to see back to back. The very best experience  is when you find two films that are imperfect by themselves, but when merged in one's  mind become complete and powerful.This worked for me with `Maze' and `Immortality.' Both are about diseased, talented  men who fall in love in an unwanted fashion. One involves birth, the other death. In  perfect symmetry, one involves creative artifacts as art looking at bodies, the other art as  actually being produced by bodies.One is a vampire movie. Vampire movies NEED redheads. The other film has the redhead,  in almost irresistible, lovely, perfect openness. The vampire film eschews the compulsion  and involuntary action usually found in the genre, where the other one embraces it.You really need to see both to see how perfectly these merge, how the impossibly sweet  love of `Maze' fixes the problem with `Immortality' that the power of the love just isn't  there. And similarly in `Maze,' the curse of the blood is always present, but never MEANS  anything beyond a few comedic moments. Conflate the two and you have something constructed like Lynch's `Blue Velvet,' where  darkness and light, love and curse, are played out as the battle between two film genres.  `Velvet' had those two genres in the same film, but you as an intelligent viewer need not  be so limited.You can even use the hooks each already provides `Maze' shifts to shaky POV when the  Tourette spasm strikes. Insert there, parts of `Immortality.'  `Immortality,' on the other  hand - following the French tradition - introduces the viewer (the policeman) into the  story. He `creates' the vampire by watching insert Lyle Maze's artistic process here,  which in his home film is equated to the literal creation of a human (which is then  introduced at an exhibit).Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "}{"Title":"Blade Runner with vampires, instead of androids","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" The plot A philosophical vampire falls in love with his latest victim and befriends the cop investigating his previous murders.This is certainly a non-traditional vampire movie. The protagonist is a vampire who feeds only on the blood of people who have experienced strong emotions. He's basically a serial killer who makes his victims love him, before he kills them -- a rather disturbing thought. He seems to mourn his victims, in a detached and philosophical way, until he finally meets someone that he truly cares for. It is his nature to destroy, however, and one can't help but think that this romance is doomed.This is an understated romantic thriller, more interested in artistic pretension than gory scenes. The movie is strongly influenced by Ridley Scott, and, in some ways, seems like a retelling of Blade Runner, with Roy Batty as the protagonist, instead of Deckard. It's quite interesting but, ultimately, a bit derivative. "},{"Title":"Adequate modern day vampire story","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This film is about a vampire in modern day London, who needs to feed off blood of love.The Wisdom of Crocodiles is an interesting tale of love. The plot shows in detail how one can be touched by love and make the greatest sacrifice for love. However, the low budget shows itself throughout the film, and I kept thinking it would have been great if there were more visually stimulating scenes to counterbalance the dark tone of the film. I think Jude Law could have done better in his acting. He looks rather restricted in his facial expressions, maybe it was because it was one of his early films. "},{"Title":"Good vampire movie","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A strange vampire film that is above everything a tragic love story, is better than watching Blade, Buffy or Carpenter's Vampires. Interesting to watch Jude Law before his experiences with Annaud (Enemy At the Gates), Cronenberg (eXistenZ) and Spielberg (A.I.)... He was already weird by then. "},{"Title":"interesting alternative","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  this film if nothing else offers an interesting alternative to hollywood vamp blockbusters. One of the more serious films without too many of the cliches usually thrown into the scripts. Great viewing for those interested in human vampires "},{"Title":"well executed but fairly pointless","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" i think it was technically fairly well done, but i think the basic plot is a big FAIL.The Jude Law character feeds on blood, but can walk around in daylight with no issues. The problem is that when he feeds on women to stay alive, the women have to die in the process.Trying to stay alive is generally admirable, but trying to stay alive at the cost of other innocent people's lives is going too far. Once he crossed this road, he was no longer someone I could identify or sympathize with. Here's an analogy Suppose the cure for a particular type of cancer turned out to require the killing of an innocent person at least once a month. The cure ends up being worse than the disease. You end up transforming from a victim of cancer into a mass murderer. This is sort of similar to the plot line of this story. You can't really glamorize it or hold it in any kind of positive, romantic light, because there is none. Which all makes me wonder what qualities in the story drove the people involved in producing this movie to actually green light it. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing for free or at a very low price","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie looked as if it might be good at the beginning, but never fleshed out to it's expectations. The director is talented and has some good camera angles and artistic ideas (typical of the Asian directors), but doesn't know how to create or tell a good story to go along with it. The story was fragmented and seemed to go off in all sorts of different directions throughout the film, never finding a solid, explainable, interesting angle. Basically, the movie never fit the explanation on the press releases. The acting was very good, however. All the actors gave good performances, and Jude Law was outstanding as he is always is. It is too bad he chose to do such a weak film.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful shots in a class of its own. I think the Gang Leader (Ashley Artus) out shone the lead (Jude Law). Absolutely Brilliant!!  "},{"Title":"Oddly Off the Mark","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  (SPOILERS) Maybe it's the pacing, or the complete lack of chemistry between the man and the woman, or an inability due to time to follow through on some nifty little sidebars (like the crystals that get coughed up, and where their money comes from, and what comes out on the gang's camera, and why a detective decides to be re-baptized).  Maybe it's the non-acting.  Or the silliness of the plot such as it is.  Or the implausibility of the concept (as if regular vampires are more plausible).Not a pleasant or enjoyable or illuminating moment in this movie for me. And do you think you could dangle one-handed over a precipice and plunge a chopstick twice clear through somebody's hand?  Golly, I do that two or three times a day.At the very end of the movie, when it should have come to a climax, it reminded me suddenly of Theodore Sturgeon's story, Some of Your Blood and I thought wow, these people have made a movie out of that story; all will be well.  Endings will be happy or at least logical.  But no.  (If you thought the movie plot was confused but bought the vampire idea, you might want to see how Sturgeon handled a similar situation.)Pretty boring all around.  "},{"Title":"I love Jude, but... (includes spoilers)","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I just didn't get this movie.He's beautiful; he's a vampire; he can go out in the sun; he can touch a crucifix.Okay...he writes about and sketches his victims before he kills them.He meets Anna and falls in love with her (?) to the point where he would rather die than kill her, which touches her, so she stays to nurse him back to health/death.Then he decides to kill her anyway only she kills him first and...What?  This movie makes no sense.  What is Anna's motivation?  What is Steven's? They didn't really seem to fall in love in my opinion.  He didn't seem to have any doubts or crisis of conscience until the end.  She didn't seem to be all that understanding or caring or loving towards him until he decided not to bite her.  I just don't get it.Fortunately, I was able to stare at Jude for an hour or so; well worth $9.50. "},{"Title":"Slick and glossy, but silly and pretentious","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The trailer is what attracted me to this film, and you can see how it was easy to pick out some stunning shots for it. Obviously fresh from film school, the makers try and pull off every cinematic trick in the book, and with every single shot so painstakingly conceived, it generally looks impressive, though a little self-conscious at times. This contemporary horror fantasy is primarily a visual film, for the most part playing like an extended pop-promo, and almost devoid of dialog for the fist 20 minutes or so, which is just as well, as the dialog is pretty ropey once it does start. As with Lyne's 'Lolita', it is impossible to maintain this sort of atmosphere for the entire duration of the film. Good scripts build up to climaxes then give the audience a chance to wind down before the next. This tries to keep them at a level for the entire running time, and interest begins to wane in the final quarter. More than this, the film comes across as a little forced in its representation of contemporary London, with unconvincing characters and a plot which sacrifices a hell of a lot in the name of artistic license. The script doesn't give the actors much leeway, and quite where Ellen Lowenstein is meant to come from, I'm not sure. Though the film never quite achieves any sort of real cohesion or tension, it does possess a certain oneiric quality, like 'The Hunger', and is one of those films that probably looks better in hindsight than it does when you are actually watching it. "}{"Title":"Interview with Jude Law?","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If you get past the first 15 minutes you might wish you hadn't. I didn't quite get what was happening. It's a vampire story, but I was continually thinking werewolf. I kept expecting Jude Law to grow claws or sprout hair. The first (and thankfully the only one shown on screen) killing sequence is quite gory and almost made me want to leave. I stuck it out and wasn't really rewarded. Jude Law does a fine job, as do the detectives, but I just couldn't figure out where the movie wanted to go. It had a surreal feel to it, a la A Clockwork Orange that made his killing somehow feel acceptable. But in the end, the movie just didn't add up. I can't really recommend it. "},{"Title":"Like a vacuum cleaner sucking itself into oblivion,","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  What makes a good movie? Some of these factors might, so here's how I rate this one. Plausibility (0.9 / 10). Resolution (good ending (0.3 / 10). Production (4/10) How come everyone in movies lives in such sumptuous dwellings? Come on, give us a break! Acting (ah, now there's something worth talking about) (7/10) but how can an actor give something when what is asked of them is nothing but cliche? Music (5/10). Foxy babe(s) factor (6/10). Purely subjective this one, right? Waste of time factor 3/10 (I enjoyed the first 50 minutes but after that someone owes me for my time, right? How much is that worth?). Summary Don't waste your time on this. "},{"Title":"Vampire B-movie","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  With the abundance of recent good 'fantastic' movies such as Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes or the Others, the last thing we need is a perfectly bland n-th remake of a classical vampire tale. No atmosphere, no dialogues, no acting - even though I usually love Jude Law, I have to admit that what he does here, almost anybody could have done; he looks more like Ewan Mc Gregor in  Trainspotting than any vampire I know. Oh yes, and don't expect any plot twist either, final or otherwise... "},{"Title":"Jude Law Boondoggle","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Romance","Review":" For all of you Jude Law fans, don't go picking this film just because he is in it. That was the mistake I made. Immortality a.k.a. The Wisdom of Crocodiles attempts to present a modern day view of a vampire, although it's still a bit sketchy in the end that that is exactly what he is (he seems mostly disturbed and sick). The film is about the handsome Steven Grlscz (Jude Law) and his seduction of women for his blood craving. The romantic tragedy arrives when he falls in love with one of his prey.Steven Grlscz is everything a woman could want, handsome, smart, well-to-do, and works as a doctor to boot. But this female dish is best not served at all, lest the diner becomes the dined. Undescribed in the film, Steven suffers from some sort of modern day vampirism where he needs blood to survive. He describes blood as being more than just fluid in the veins and that is contains feelings/emotions. Why he forms relationships with beautiful women only to kill them all is weak as is the police investigation after they find one of his victims. Steven's ability to remain cool in the hottest of situations is also a bit unnerving at times. The only real evidence we get to satisfy our cinematic preconceptions of what a vampire should be, other than his biting women on the neck and taking their blood, is one brief scene in which he is able to move quickly. There aren't any effects from sunlight, no garlic, and no fangs. The ending's predictability of a dying Nosferatu just left me with a frown and shaking my head. 2/10 "}]