[{"Title":"Dark, yet oddly funny","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"45 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I taped this movie on the USA Network at three o'clock in the morning, watched it some time afterward, and I was blown away by this film. Former gangster Carlo Bartolucci aka Charlie Barrett (Christopher Walken in one of his best roles ever) attends a bistro where he finds that a group of swaggering young men, consisting of Max (Sean Patrick Flanery), Avery (Henry Thomas), Brett (Jay Mohr), T.K. (Jeremy Sisto), and Ira (Johnny Galecki), have taken over his usual booth. Charmed by the guys, Charlie takes them for a ride, only for them to knock him out with some chloroform while going down the Queens tunnel in a hilarious sequence. Charlie regains consciousness inside of Ira's mansion taped to a chair with one of his fingers missing, having been cut off to compensate for Avery's kidnapped sister's missing limb. The guys keep Charlie prisoner in the mansion, but soon, Charlie starts to play head games with them, and it soon becomes obvious that there is a traitor in their midst.This darkly humorous crime thriller can be described in the most simple terms as The Breakfast Club meets The Godfather or something like that, even though I myself never saw The Godfather. Walken is increasingly laughter-provoking, suave, and creepy all at the same time as he delivers witticism after witticism despite his usual situation. Four of the lead males (Henry Thomas, Jay Mohr, Sean Patrick Flanery, and Jeremy Sisto) all portray swaggering rich boys, while Johnny Galecki (David from TV's Roseanne) is screamingly funny as the nitpicking nerd of the bunch and Denis Leary is his usual laid-back self as slick and wisecracking gangster Lono (what a funny name!).I said it once and I'll say it again -- Suicide Kings is a darkly comical film, but it is highly recommended (for those with kids) that you watch this either late at night or while the kids are away.I give Suicide Kings a 10 out of 10 on a scale of 1-10 in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"Creepy cool thriller","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's hard to name a genre for Suicide Kings,  so I put it in my beloved category of twisted thriller.  I compare it with movies like Reservoir Dogs, The Usual Suspects,  U-Turn,  Kalifornia,  Wild Things,  True Romance and A Simple Plan.  Like all of the above,  SK was violent,  bloody and full of surprising twists.  To add to its shadowy charm,  it had a psychotic sense of humor.  But the most amazing thing about this movie is Christopher Walken's subtly venomous performance,  which complements the sharp, individualized performances of the younger cast members.  Walken plays Charlie Barrett,  a man who is unwittingly recruited to help five college-aged rich kids rescue one of their sisters,  who has been kidnapped for a $2 million ransom.  The five kids  nervous Avery (Henry Thomas),  the one whose sis Elise (Laura Harris) is endangered;  handsome Max (Sean Patrick Flanery),  who is Elise's sweetheart;  Brett (Jay Mohr),  the one with a hell of an anger problem;  aspiring doctor TK (Jeremy Sisto);  and ultra-neurotic Ira (Johnny Galecki) whose house becomes a hideout for the kids after they kidnap Barrett.  Brett concocts the plan.  Max drugs him, TK severs one of his digits,  and Charlie is duct-taped to a fancy office chair,  hooked up to an IV which is pumping more drugs into him.  Meantime, Avery broods nervously over his missing sis and Ira squeals endlessly about the blood TK is getting all over the nice varnished floor.  While the boys bicker at each other about how to continue their insanely flawed caper, Barrett regards this group of inexperienced whipper-snappers with a myriad mix of sympathy,  amusement and anger.  But anger from a man like Charlie Barrett is not to be taken lightly,  it is to be feared.  Charlie is a man who with one spoken word,  could have these five kids murdered and their bodies hidden where no one will ever find them.  You know that from the minute you meet him,  but the scariest thing about Charlie is his quiet mannerism.  This serpent is indeed subtil.  He does not shout,  he gently whispers hints of warning to the kids that they've made a bad mistake messing with him.  He taps into these kids early on,  uncovering their dirty little family secrets and their own individual not-so-secret addictions,  to drink,  to drugs,  to gambling.   And he uses devices, honed from years of experience in a world these kids know nothing about, to his advantage.  He may be physically incapacitated,  he may be outnumbered,  but he knows the kids are still no match for him.  There's no arrogance in this knowledge, and it is truly creepy.  It's a battle of wits that kept me on the edge of my seat,  gave me the most delicious shivers of perverse anticipation,  and it was honestly very hard to know which side to route for.  I really love this movie.  See it if you haven't.   )~  "},{"Title":"Kidnap Yarn Done Very Well","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Kidnap films have been made for decades. (Check out Ransom for a typical example.) In a way Suicide Kings starts out like a low budget B movie of the 40's and 50's. The beginning is obvious and a bit overly dramatic. But this is when Suicide Kings began to surprise me.Christopher Walken in an amazing performance shows that an actor can be the center of a film while sitting down for almost an hour. Also, this movie pulls no punches in showing organized crime/mob violence. Yet, the vigilante college kidnapers are shown in such a harsh manner that after a while you begin to root for the mobsters over the ivy league losers. It's an amazing turn around.On top of this there is some wicked humor in the film not unlike Goodfellas. Denis Leary as he was in the Ref is great as the abusive and befuddled thug.What was very satisfying was that the ending was just right. Finally a movie that does not have a ridiculous happy ending tacked on to it. Suicide Kings is brutal in its logic but the story makes sense from start to finish. Despite its low budget and its routine beginning, this is a very good film.  "},{"Title":"First We Bicker!!","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"45 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie exemplifies the praise a movie gets by virtue of the plethora of outstanding acting talent it possesses!! Christopher Walken could have coasted on his credentials in the elitist Hollywood venue after his performance in Deer Hunter but, he decided not do that!! He combines psychotic reasoning with deliberate hostility, you the movie viewer may take your pick as to what you prefer!! Either way, he is sensational in every movie he stars in !!! Denis Leary (The former Cop) always seems to make his point very clearly with a gun and/or a lethal object!! Jay Mohr has a flippant demeanor towards his roles no matter how serious these roles are!! This acting mode of his makes him very effective!! He is wonderful at engaging in degrading condescension and intellectual obviation of anyone he perceives as his adversary!!!Anything that has to be accomplished in a role, Jay Mohr seems to carry it off and flawlessly!! The list of all other actors in this movie merely epitomizes the superb acting talent in Suicide Kings..Very few films exude such acting ability!!The movie starts out with an amateurishly orchestrated kidnapping attempt which is used as a defense strategy to abort another kidnapping!! It is a proverbial case of the adolescent's version of an eye for an eye!! This convoluted logic serves as a dementedly lingering discontentment for a bunch of educated pipsqueaks!! The bottom line on this whole charade is that there is little or no organization for the expedition of this particular kidnapping!! Mutilation of Christopher Walken's finger serve as a cry for attention!! It really does not work, of course, this is the movies, not real life!! The intensity of emotions in this film makes everything cohesive in terms of what depraved mixes of irrationality prevail in these affluent derelict's lives!!I thought the acting was fantastic in this film, and it was a simple plot outline of age and experience winning out over precocious recreation with criminal chicanery!! Everything was an argument..there were more issues out there besides a kidnapping!!! Criminal doubts and insecurities are always depicted in movies like these, just not so succinctly!! This movie illustrates how ideological disagreement with a prevailing situation does not sufficiently justify engaging in a felony!! I thought this film was excellent!!! "},{"Title":"Careful who your friends are ....","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was surprised with Suicide Kings.  In the same spirit as Something Wild and The Usual Suspects, this movie is not about the end, but getting you there.  The film is well told, keeping you on the edge wanting to know who's on the inside.  Unlike some movies where the wrap up at the end seems too improbable, this one works and works well.  I was unsure of what the movie would be like and so my expectations were low.  At the end I had done an 180 degree turn. I was impressed. I look forward to watching this again and picking up on all the clues as to who was doing what and seeing the small details from the start. "},{"Title":"damn good flick","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can't believe I hadn't heard of this movie before last night, although I do live in a fairly cinematically sheltered environment.  I was walking through Blockbuster when I see out of the corner of my eye a picture of Chris Walken taped to a chair in front of Dennis Leary and Jay Mohr.  I pick up the box, I read the back, I rent the movie.  When I got home and watched it, I was, to say the very least, impressed.  Left with only one question regarding Dennis Leary's character's heritage (which isn't all that important), I really liked this movie.  I wouldn't call it a film for the ages, but I surely would disregard it as decent entertainment either.  I would call it a really good movie.  Chris Walken is fantastic and the dialouge is great.  Come to find out this is Peter O'Fallon's first film, and that he has only done one other film since (he's done a bunch of television), I'm surprized and impressed. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but a bit too twisty for it's own good","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When the sister of one young man is kidnapped while she is out on a date with another young man, the group of friends kidnap an ex-mobster to make use of his contacts and his money to help get her back in one piece.  However the longer they keep Bartolucci the closer his right hand man Veccio gets to finding them and the more the friends realise that the kidnapping plot may be more complex than first thought.Attracted to this film by the presence of Walken playing the role he does best &#150; some sort of mobster &#150; I wasn't really sure what to expect.  The overly stylised opening credits and the initially confusing mix of flashbacks within flashbacks to set the story were quite distracting however soon settled down into a more straightforward plot.  This plot holds the interest due to the confined situation in which most of the action occurs and is quite involving.  The first few twists are well handled but it starts to put the film into a spin from which it doesn't recover, as more twists mount up and become increasingly alienating and contrived.  At the end I didn't feel any involvement or surprise by the twists whereas I had sat up and paid attention to the first few.The film is quite comic at places and this makes it feel like a more enjoyable piece than it would have if it had just been played straight.  However this comic touch doesn't take away from the fact that the film is really a thriller of sorts.  The cast is roundly good, without anyone of the main group really stealing the show.  Walken does his role in his sleep but is still effective &#150; his transformation as he gains confidence during the film is well put across.  The young group of actors playing the friends are all pretty good although the `where have I seen him before factor' was a little distracting (6 Feet Under, Roseanne etc).  However it is the (wisely expanded) character played by Leary that really is the one that I kept looking forward to seeing.  His character almost feels like he is in a movie of his own which is a distraction, but means his scenes are all very enjoyable.  His dialogue is knowingly cool and his character is comically overblown to good effect.  The film truly benefits from having him in the role.Overall this film wants to be cooler and better than it really is, the end result of which is a spiral of twists which become increasingly uncontrolled and uninvolving.  It is enjoyable enough to watch and the use of one main set helps to add to the tension of the story, however once the twists come they don't stop which sadly leads to them becoming increasingly less effective.  Worth a watch but subject to the law of diminishing returns in terms of plotting. "},{"Title":"No Usual Suspects but I don't think it was meant to be","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First, I like Mafia movies. Second, I like comedy. I find this movie to be more of the latter. And I enjoy it. I found Johnny Galecki to play the most interesting and funniest character in this movie. It's a good movie overall, enjoyable, and yes, I do own it. In my massive collection of 10 DVD's, this is one of them. I'm no film buff, but it has its good parts and it has its bad parts. I won't over-analyze it, but I liked the plot twists... all of them.. didn't like the overuse of profanity... loved the comedy parts. It has some awkward dialog and what sounds like dubbing, but it is entertaining, and I watch it on a regular basis. Give it a shot! I rated it 7 / 10  "},{"Title":"Jokers Wild","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Tarantino is greatly overrated to my mind. This film isn't great, but it is better than `Dogs.'  Tarantino's innovation was to add a more self-aware cinematic quotation of prior films. The humor over violence is just an instance of that new distance with the viewer. Seemed novel at the time, but since so many people are doing this better, now it seems rather trivial.`Kings' is a very simple thing, done well. The ensemble works. The camerawork and editing isn't very adventuresome, but does do some impressive continuous shots. I think it is worth seeing for the framing.The plot twists the requisite number of times in the last 15 minutes. But it is the simplest and cheapest kind of twist the doublecross. It is a shame that they cut the women so severely. I think more development on that side would have made this seem less derivative.Is it art? No. Neither is `Dogs.' "},{"Title":"Nicely done urban tale.","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A sort of frat boy and his girl friend get lost in uptown New York and the girl is kidnapped. Two million dollars in ransom is demanded. Her finger arrives in the mail. (I think this is what happens anyway. I missed a few critical minutes at the beginning.) The frat boy organizes a handful of his upper-middle-class friends and they manage to kidnap a notorious capo, Christopher Walken, who is either behind the kidnapping or knows who is, and so will help them retrieve the rest of her body, minus the finger. They chloroform him and take him to an empty mansion on Long Island where, to convince him they are hard-hearted and determined, instead of the inexperienced nudniks they are, they remove his finger while he's unconscious.Walken wakes up in this large house belonging to one of the preppies and the rest of the film is taken up with his trying to get the girl back from the wheelchair he is duct-taped into.Doesn't sound too promising. It's mostly shot on one set, like a filmed play. But three things lift this effort above the level I'd expected.One is the working out of the plot, which has several unexpected pirouettes. The kidnapping is pegged by the mob almost immediately as an inside job, which is about as far as attorney-client privilege will allow me to go.The second is the dialog, which has innumerable sparkles in it -- and that's critical because it's a talky movie. Some lines are very amusing. Some are dead serious. Here's one of the funnier ones. Walken is taped into his chair and has to pee. So how will it be managed? Do they free his hands, something they're understandable loathe to do, or does somebody unzip Walken and make sure he evacuates his bladder in a tidy manner? (Aim him good!, cries the chubby little kid whose parents own the mansion.) While this mission is being discussed, Walken contributes his point of view. If somebody is going to be holding hands with my ****, can I at least get a drink first? I'm not asking for dinner and dancing. I'm not asking for a commitment. The third is the acting. Man, do these guys put it across. Especially notable are Dennis Leary as Walken's chief agent, and Walken himself. Neither steps wrong. Christopher Walken is a marvelous actor. He's confined to a chair. He's bled half to death. He's strung out behind some analgesics and booze. And his set expression is one that artfully blends boredom with mild interest in the proceedings. At times he speaks like the soul of reason amidst these adolescent collisions of will. The director, Peter O'Fallon, gives us multiple reaction shots of Walker placidly watching the arguments and barbs being thrown back and forth by his captors, and they're funny as hell.But don't be misled. It's not ALL talk. There's action too for the aficionados. Several shootings take place and while none of them results in a bath tub full of gore and splattered brains, none is done for laughs either.It's well written, nicely directed, and the cast is fine. "}{"Title":"Great Stuff","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie highly amusing. Jeremy Sisto is a favorite of mine, so I caught it for that very reason. I watched this awhile ago, so my memories may not be all that fresh. It was a dark comedy that had you guessing till the end. The ending was great by the way. You would've never guessed where the movie was going. Christopher Walken was awesome as usual. The plot seemed silly, but it was still worthy of a good watch. Some very good up and coming actors (of the time) made an appearance in this film. The performances were honest and gripping. One was driven by a need to protect his sister and his friends, who would do anything for him, helped to kidnap a powerful man in order to turn the tables. Another was driven by protecting his girlfriend. Nothing was really forced or unbelievable within their acting. Even though Walken seems to do these types of mafia parts often, it's only cuz he's good at it. Even though he's kidnapped, he's trying to talk some sense into these kids. That was humorous at best. Not only that, he studies his captors to find out their weaknesses and who could actually be involved in the kidnapping, thus lying to his friends. Sisto's character was a little underdeveloped for me. *SPOILER* You find out he abuses morphine to combat the pressures of being a doctor, but it's like a blip in the celluloid. Nothing after that. It seems fairly irrelevant and not worth the 30 seconds it took to reveal. The whole movie is good and teases you until the ending, which as I said before it wow. I could watch this movie over and over and you see the hidden clues it had from the get-go. Very intelligent movie. Oh, and I must comment on Dennis Leary's role. What a riot! He was great and delightfully amusing as he tries to get his boss (Walken) back. His cynicism and sailor's mouth were a nice retreat from the gravity of the film. Yet, the delving into his character's dual nature (his nice side) was poignant as well. It didn't make him one-dimensional and allowed you to like him more as a person than a comic relief. Very good film! "},{"Title":"Crimes, corruption, intrigue and comedy","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Suicide Kings believe that when one crime is committed, the best way to solve it is to commit a couple more crimes. This sets up the dark comedy execution. It begins with crimes, corruption and enough intrigue to keep moving forward.Christopher Walken is Charlie, the mob boss with connections, a shady past and even shadier make-up. Avery (Henry Thomas)'s sister is kidnapped, and then Avery, Max (Sean Patrick Flannery) and Brett (Jay Mohr) kidnap Charlie with the help of aspiring doctor T.K. (Jeremy Sisto). Ira (Johnny Galecki) unfortunately knows none of these goings-ons even though they decided to use his father's house. They are all smart and privileged, but also blindly stubborn and confident. Taking place almost entirely in one house and one bloody night, everything is put in question.As the characters develop with the plot, they start learning more about themselves just as we do, and there is a surprising amount of thought and introspection to the Suicide Kings. It is a crime drama thriller with a liberal use of dark comedy and just so well written that I can't even fault it for being mostly male-driven. "},{"Title":"Slick, entertaining thriller with fine cast","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is an often enjoyable and compelling film, despite a few plot holes due to some twists at the end that the writers desperately threw in to surprise the audience, but didn't take the time to reflect on whether they made perfect sense or not.  Nevertheless, it's a fun ride all the way through.  The characters are all interesting, in their own way.  People have referred to the Ira character as annoying and obnoxious, but he's also the character I most relate to.  You'll never catch me throwing a party in my house when my parents are gone, because I'm incredibly paranoid about people wrecking the place and I can imagine how paranoid I'd be in Ira's situation with his friends keeping a gangster with his finger cut off captive in my parents' living room.  The actors all do splendid jobs, and have a natural chemistry.  As for Christopher Walken, when does he not please?  He's one of the most intense, engaging, brilliant actors of all time and that's that!  Once Walken's on screen, the dynamic completely changes for the better, whether it be a movie of this quality or one of the Prophecy sequels.  Denis Leary is hilarious as Walken's right hand man whose running gag is the fact that he wears boots made from stingrays.  People keep referring to them as fish boots.  He plays the same irritable, pugnacious, f-word-spewing character as in 90 percent of his work, but who cares?  Some actors are so good at playing one character that they get away with it no matter how many times it's reprised.  Leary is one of those actors.  His talents mainly lie in stand-up comedy, so his range isn't that broad.  But Leary's good at playing Leary, or an extension of himself, and I'd much rather see him in that role than as, say, a sensitive romantic lead.  I loved watching him beat the guy up with a toaster and the other one with a golf club.  I love to see Leary do stuff like that.  Jay Mohr, a fellow stand-up comedian, is also good mainly at playing that particular role and that's what he does in this movie.  Not a big stretch for him either, but it's what he's good at.  It was also cool to see Everybody Loves Raymond's Brad Garrett in a more serious role, and using language he can't use on TV.  The whole film is basically filled with 4-letter words, but it fits the testosterone-filled tone, being that the cast is predominantly male.  There is as much excitement as there is dark humor.  Director Peter O'Fallon balances those elements nicely.  And I loved the theme song over the credit sequence.  For some reason, it's still pounding in my head.  My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Excellent acting, mediocre film","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The premise of Suicide Kings - four young and privileged men kidnap a retired mob boss played by Christopher Walken - is appealing. So much so that it makes me wish it made for a better film.Suicide Kings tries to be a psychological thriller focusing on mental cat-and-mouse games between the mobsters and his kidnappers, and the actors are good enough to pull it off - in fact, they're good enough to make you think that there's any psychological depth to the film, when really there's none. Walken and the talented young cast - Denis Leary, Jay Mohr, Sean Patrick Flanery (The Boondock Saints), Jeremy Sisto (Law & Order), Johnny Galecki (The Big Bang Theory) and Henry Thomas (E.T's Elliot all grown up) - all deliver their lines with so much passion and conviction that you almost don't notice how messy and shallow the script really is.This fine group of actors - and Walken's wildly charismatic performance most of all, from an actor so powerful he can dominate the film while being tied to a chair for all but a few minutes of it - is more than enough to make the film entertaining, even very enjoyable. The weak script, which deteriorates into cheap twists and conspiracies towards the end - makes it entirely forgettable. A quick comparison to Danny Boyle's Shallow Grave is a testament to how much more comfortable the British are with theatrical minimalism. With a great director and a great script, Suicide Kings could have been something wonderful. As it is, it's good enough for one pleasurable watch, but leaves no mark and no impression. "},{"Title":"Suicide Kings are wild.","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Suicide Kings is a rich cinematic treasure reflecting movies such as The Game, Usual Suspects, Unknown, and L.A. Confidential. Suspense and drama intensify the storyline, and the intensity continues to rise straight toward an ending that you will never see coming. A blend of talent and charisma from dedicated actors ignites the characters to life. The bonds of friendship are put to the ultimate test, and the act of betrayal is delivered as sharp as a razor's edge. And from the beginning to the end, we are held captive, taking a walk on the dark side of the moon, and watching as the cards fall. And Aces are high, Jokers dance, and Suicide Kings are wild. "},{"Title":"A classic thriller","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When was the last time you saw a movie where the director actually had the power to show his creativity. What works for this movie is the fact that it has no hero or villains, there are only characters. This is what makes it so real. Five college kids kidnap a supposed to be mafia Charlie(Christopher Walken) because they need help to get their sister back who has been kidnapped.Whole drama takes place in a deserted house where Charlie is held hostage.Secrets are revealed and twists follow . Walken lends a charisma to his role . As the tag line says their plan was perfect they weren't. Its a small budget thriller which does keep you glued to screen nothing less nothing more "},{"Title":"An astonishing performance by Walken and a twisty plot make this worth seeing","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In case you didn't know (I didn't know this the first time I saw this film), the Suicide King is the gambler's nickname for one of the face cards in a deck of cards. The King of Diamonds is called the Suicide King because while all the other face cards (Kings, Queens, and Jacks) appear to be holding scepters, globes, etc, the King Of Diamond is holding a sword, and on close examination, he appears to be sticking it in his own ear. FYI.Anyway, this is the kind of little gem you hope for when you go out to see a crime thriller - strong performances, a quirky plot centering around a battle of wits, effective dialog which not only rings true to the ear (with two exceptions, see below), but also successfully mixes menace, humor, and pathos in equal measure. While this is definitely not family fare, and while I can't imagine the Oprah crowd ever enjoying a movie like Suicide Kings, anyone with a taste for suspense, noir or thriller material will find much to enjoy here.The scenario is brilliantly conceived five callow preppie college kids kidnap a semi-retired crime boss. They hope to force his cooperation in rescuing a second kidnap victim (a young woman who is the sister of one of the boys and the lover of another member of the group. Because Walken's character has been semi-legit for many years, the boys get lucky and catch him off guard. Walken's character (Charlie) wakes up duct taped to a chair, with one finger already chopped off (to impress on him the urgency of their situation) and pumped full of pain killers.However, the movie soon makes it clear that the boys have caught a tiger by the tail. Even taped to a chair and physically helpless,Charlie is far tougher, shrewder, and more ruthless than all of his captors put together. Even while slowly bleeding to death, he manages to use his contacts to get the hunt for the young woman under way and turn the members of the group against each other with carefully chosen observations and revelations. The process is fascinating to behold - Charlie can be witty, patronizing, menacing and comforting all in the space of 60 seconds, and you literally fear for these young mens' lives and futures even though they seem to have the upper hand. They aren't street sharks and killers, and Charlie is.Also impressive is Denis Leary, who plays Charlie's chief strong arm and factotum, Lono. Leary's rants and ravings are long, involved, quirky, funny, and highly entertaining. There is a running joke involving Lono's new stingray skin boots that is almost worth the price of admission by itself. Although I never believed Leary's dangerous tough guy image in the movies (he would have gotten his butt kicked at my junior high school), I give him credit. He fairly boils over with restless, angry energy as an actor. This makes his character Lono is a lot of fun to watch. Lono is the kind of guy who gripes about the new graphite shafts of the golf clubs he uses to beat the stuffings out of people, and how much better the old metal shafts were for the task.The movie isn't perfect. The weakest character of the group of kidnappers, Ira is written and played so broadly that at times he is quite annoying. It's obvious he is supposed to be the comic relief of the group, and the actor works hard to invest a thankless character with some depth and humanity. And if this were a pure caper film,I think the character and the performance would have been fine. But Ira is such a whiny schmuck that he saps the movie of some of the energy it has at times. Other people may disagree with me on this one, and I'm not saying he's bad, I'm just saying that he takes things a little too far for this kind of movie.The other weak point is the second pair of kidnappers, Heckle and Jeckyl. The two character actors who play them (including Brad Garrett, most recently known for his part in Everybody Loves Raymond) are obviously old hands at this sort of character, but in the scenes set in their apartment (where they are supposedly holding the girl), they come off as buffoons, sort of like Laurel and Hardy with snub nosed 38s. While they are quite entertaining, it's impossible to take them seriously, and this also detracts from the sense of menace and urgency that is supposed to be driving the situation.Anyway, aside from those minor caveats, I was really, really impressed by this movie. Anyone with a taste for darkly humored, quirky noir films such as Reservoir Dogs and The Usual Suspects will find this a worthy entry in the genre, as long as they can overlook those two sub-par aspects.PS The DVD reissue of Suicide Kings contains two alternate endings which film completists and fanatics will enjoy. The first alternate ending is somewhat sappy and romantic, and doesn't really jibe with the tone of the previous 15 minutes. The second ending is more workable, and has a nice twist. IMO, I think that the grimmer ending they kept was ultimately the most satisfying way to end the film. You may disagree. "},{"Title":"A suspenseful thriller that has you guessing until the end","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie and it held my attention throughout. Christopher Walken was of course great. And you can see some up and coming stars like Jay Mohr.The blood and gore isn't too gratuitous and Dennis Leary is just smashing. This is an excellent movie to share with a friend and a bucket of popcorn. "},{"Title":"Not great but not bad","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I admit I only saw this movie because it starred Christopher Walken and I figured it would at least be worth the time. And sure enough... I liked it. Sure, there were more then a few strange holes in the plot. And sure, you won't be seeing any Oscar-worthy performances. But I enjoyed it nonetheless goddammit! Sometimes you just have to watch a movie without overanalysing it and just enjoy the ride. I guess one of the things you could get hung up on is the fact that the whole set-up for the movie depends on the fact whether a mob-boss chooses to get in a car with a gang of youngsters he's never seen before to join for dinner with one of their fathers. A bit hard to swallow I'll admit. But hey, if you accept that someone could acquire superpowers by getting bitten by a radioactive spider this is a small leap of faith. Anyway, there are more of these strange irregularities in the script but I'll take a few strange coincidences for the sake of a good movie. What I'm having a harder time dealing with is the strange tone. It's like the director couldn't make up his mind whether to make it a dark comedy or a thriller/gangster film. Now it just sort of stumbles in between. A shame really, because it is a great set up with a rather unusual hostage situation where the hostage gradually takes control of and turns the tables on his kidnappers. In the right hands this could have been a fantastic movie instead of just a good one.6/10 "},{"Title":"Ridiculously unbelievable","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps if this movie had been better structured I might for one minute have bought its premise, but as it was I found the whole thing laughable. I couldn't imagine how any of the characters would have come up with their idiotic plan, since it made no sense. And since the characters are poorly introduced and inadequately developed, I didn't understand any of their motivations for going along with it. I've never been a fan of Quentin Tarantino, but this film made me admit that he at least has a sense of pacing and timing. Suicide Kings injects bits of Tarantinoesque humor in the most inappropriate places, and goes off into meaningless tangents that never add anything to the storyline. It also tried to make suspenseful moments out of nothing, merely by throwing in some anxious music. Some of the acting is okay, e.g., Denis Leary's performance as a Mafia thug, but mostly the actors are powerless to make anything out of the foolish script. Christopher Walken is the most grounded person in the movie--and that's a scary thought. "}{"Title":"No wonder the theater was empty...","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What an awful movie.  I usually like Walken, but this movie was downright terrible.  Any empathy you build up with the main characters is ripped away in the movie's closing moments.  This whole trend of trying to make a movie on a plot twist given away at the end (see Scream, etc.) can really pull movies with half a chance down.  There's something to be said for movies like Double Indemnity where you see the end coming but still enjoy the show even when the good guy doesn't come out of it ok. Save your money and forget this one.  "},{"Title":"A Plot Twist Too Far","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A survey of the cast, which include Christopher Walken, Jay Mohr, and Denis Leary, suggests there might have been a cracker here, alas 'Suicide Kings' founders with a script more shallow than a paddling pool and plot so contorted an audience can feel cheated.The collegiate bucks at the centre of this film make up annoying group of young man, each friends and each jerks with an intense pre-existing dislike for each other. That makes it doubly bizarre and unbelievable to suppose they'd ever trust each other to carry out the convoluted plan which serves as the basis of the story. Indeed they're all so devoid of any redeeming qualities it's difficult to imagine why we should care what happens to them.Ultimately I'm left assuming this was an attempt at a thriller with the shock value of 'The Usual Suspects', but the devices used are so obvious you spend half the film second guessing an answer that doesn't make a whole lot of sense. In fact whatever you come up with would probably have been better.This is a dud. "},{"Title":"Not the best plot nor production, but thought-provoking","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You're not missing much story wise, if that's all you're interested in. Instead the story sets the context for that strange protagonist switch that starts to evolve throughout the movie, culminating in what I thought was a brutally efficient thought-provoker above that of the Warhol Soup Can.Yeah I just praised this movies sense of art more so than a widely respected and acclaimed cultural icon. Sue me.Starring the kid from Rosanne was a nice touch I thought, his character is so pitiful its hard not to feel bad for him, and he conveys that pretty well... Giving a stark contrast between the seemingly ignorant yet vicious character played by Jay Mohr, as well as the seemingly compassionate yet troubled character played by Jeremy Sisto.... Walken does Walken tied down in a chair most of the flick. 'Nuff said. No really, you *know* he's mafioso, yet the situation he's in could make one ponder that his motives are actually true and just... Not just the typical ruthless mobster. Hence the protagonist switch.It's that thought alone that brings a lot of artistic value to this film. I thought about pre-judgement and true common sense. That's the artistic quality of a painting, right? It evokes thought, and emotion...On that note, some of the acting is pretty unbelievable, but the usual contrast by a more talented actor makes the emotional twist of this movie sink in a bit.Not a film for the ages, but this should be watched in film studies. The movie itself conveys the same thought I mentioned previously It's so campy and low budget, yet keeps you hooked with the awesomeness of Leary and Walken. And now that you've bitten, the movie delivers on a promise that you thought it couldn't make.Post-Modernity D "},{"Title":"It's fun, it's smart, what more do you want?","Date":"4 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sometimes you just stumble upon a really good movie. Such is the case with Suicide Kings. Largely overlooked upon its initial release and by now all but forgotten this is a movie which deserved to be seen by a much wider audience. It's highly entertaining with a great balance of dramatic tension and humor. The story has enough twists in it to keep you guessing right up until the end.Christopher Walken plays the central role of businessman Charlie Barret around whom everything in our story revolves. Why is that character's name in quotes? Because while he's now gone legit once upon a time Charlie was mob kingpin Carlo Bartolucci. While he may be a little out of practice there is no doubt that Charlie is still a man to be feared. Which makes kidnapping him and cutting off one of his fingers a rather bad idea. But that is what a group of young men do, ostensibly because one of them has a sister who has just been kidnapped and her finger was cut off and...well, it's complicated. They think Charlie can use his old connections to find the girl and get the ransom money. Surely there had to be a better way to go about this than tying a mob boss to a chair and cutting off his appendages but that's their plan and they're sticking to it. But it doesn't take long for things to begin to unravel. And that's where the movie's fun truly begins.Walken is a delight and surely the best thing the film has to offer although Denis Leary runs him close with his profane, explosive performance as Charlie's bodyguard Lono Veccio. None of the actors playing the kidnapping masterminds really stands out but they work well together. And that is important as Charlie starts playing off these close friends against one another. Charlie's no dummy, he realizes very quickly that this whole sister being kidnapped story has holes in it large enough to drive a truck through. What's really going on here? Charlie pokes and prods and breeds distrust. He has his kidnappers questioning everything, most especially each other. Charlie's tied to a chair, down to nine fingers, slowly bleeding to death but somehow he's got the upper hand. Walken is spot-on perfect and his performance really elevates the film. And the smart story with all its twists and turns keeps you captivated throughout, playing along with the characters as you and they try to get to the real truth. It's not a perfect movie. When it tries too hard to be funny, most notably with the character of Ira played by Johnny Galecki who is obviously there for comic relief, the humor falls a little flat. Things work much better when the humor is more subtle. And for as obviously well-thought out as the plot is it doesn't quite all come together perfectly in the end. It all makes sense when you think about it but the movie does seem to get a little bogged down when it ultimately gets around to explaining itself. But all in all Suicide Kings works very well. Somewhat of a hidden gem. "},{"Title":"'The beauty of it ... no one gets hurt.'   They thought...","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" So, what exactly does the tile of this movie refer to? I looked it up and found, 'Suicide King is a slang name given to the King of Hearts in a deck of playing cards. In standard decks, it appears that he is stabbing himself in the head with his sword.' And, as you watch the movie, at one point a card game is being played, and it is mentioned that the 'suicide king' was wild. A times it plays like a very dark comedy, but in fact it is a crime mob drama with some humorous elements, but overall has a very dark dramatic tone. Christopher Walken is the main reason for seeing it. He plays mob boss Carlo Bartolucci/Charlie Barret who ends up kidnapped by a group of otherwise nice young men, and held for a unique kind of ransom. All they want is for him to use his crime influence to find and return the kidnapped sister of one of the men, who also is the girlfriend of another of the group. But as we might suspect, nothing goes according to plan and most of the movie is seeing how new developments are handled.Denis Leary is also good as Lono Veccio, Charlie's driver and trigger man. Among the young men kidnappers are Henry Thomas (of E.T fame), Sean Patrick Flanery , and Jay Mohr.SPOILERS FOLLOW. When all is sorted out, and a scene we see near the end explains, the sister/girlfriend was never actually kidnapped, two thugs were hired to make it look like a kidnapping so that she could get $2Million out of Charlie. Which they do, and she and the boyfriend run away to a South Seas island chain (actually Catalina, Ca) and a sailboat. But Charlie and Lono track them down, get them to admit their deception, get the money back, then shoot the two as Charlie and Lono leave. Crime, once again, didn't pay! "},{"Title":"Tsk, Tsk, Tsk (Possible Spoilers)","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When are people going to recognize dialogue-driven movies for what they are? Christopher Walken doesn't need to be walking and moving for his character to be dynamic. Tied to a chair is just fine! Someone criticized the romance scenes in this film, all 3 minutes worth! Why do you NEED to know details about what Walken's character has done in the past? You know he's a gangster, you have all seen plenty of gangster films. We don't need backstory on this. All the backstory on the characters that is actually necessary for the story is given in the dialogue that is exchanged throughout the film. This film is not predictable in any way. Each time you think you have fingered the bad guy, you're proven wrong (This was actually very successful in Scream as well, but that is niether here nor there.). This doesn't borrow from Tarantino, as another person commented, a disjointed timeline is not exclusive to Tarantino, although he is the undisputed master of it. This movie is driven purely by dialogue, exchanges of words between people. Walken comes across as the cold-as-ice gangster, never worrying that he won't somehow get out of the mess he is in. He works on each character in his own style, and at his own pace. He plays people against each other, and gets them to admit their darkest sins. There aren't any fancy explosions, perfectly timed jokes, hilarious pratfalls, or any of the other typical tricks that Hollywood dishes out, just an intriguing storyline and some excellent casting. This movie even has a nice trick ending that is not over-explained. I would have to say that this is one of the better films I have seen, and I have no regrets owning it. P.S. I watched the two alternate endings on the DVD, the ending in the film is by far the best, the other two are sell-outs. "},{"Title":"Excellent, as expected","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It seems that people either love or hate this kind of movie.  Personally, I do love it.  It's definitely in the vein of Pulp Fiction or Reservoir Dogs. It's a character-driven movie, and I think the characters are really well-developed.  It kept me wondering what everyone's angle was.  I thought the acting was superb all around.  At times I really started hating certain characters, and felt sorry for others and then the next minute I felt totally different.  I really enjoy movies that can manipulate my emotions that way.  It was definitely dark comedy, and it's so rich in sarcasm I couldn't help but love it.  Christopher Walken is one of a kind.  It had a good plot.  It had great dialogue.  What else could you ask for? "},{"Title":"I saw where they were trying to go with this movie...it didn't get there.","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  **I started watching this movie with low expectations, hoping at least to be mindlessly entertained. Though some of the characters are mildly amusing, the plot and script didn't impress me, and the ending left me unsatisfied. Christopher Walken is good, but it is his usual performance...I certainly wouldn't call it the best performance of his life. Dennis Leary is funny, but his role is limited. The characters aren't developed enough to make me even remotely interested in what happens to them, and toward the end of the movie, if I didn't want them all dead, I at least didn't even care if they recovered the kidnapped girl or not. The plot twists were somewhat interesting at first, but there are just too many, especially in the latter half. The film did keep me guessing for a while, especially concerning the inside person, but the truth turned out to be neither surprising or interesting. I saw where the film makers were trying to go with this movie...and they didn't get there. Rent (don't buy) this movie, but don't expect much. I give it 2 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"truly a great film","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was great. Walken was brilliant as always.  Denis Leary was great as Walken's mob lieutenant ( he kicked everybody's ass).  Sean Patrick Flannery and his girlfriend got what they deserved at the end. The ending of this film is one of the best i have ever seen. AMAZING! See the movie and you will understand why this one is a classic.  Henry Thomas and Jay Mohr were cast well as guys you wanted to attack after a while.  Mohr's character deserved the gunshot to the kneecap since Walken said it best it was your idea.  Even Laura San Giacomo's role was good though brief.  Suicide Kings is great and Ira was even pretty funny in this one. "},{"Title":"Walken at his BEST EVER!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, that is a BOLD statement.  However, it's true.  This is the classic mind warp!  Chris delivers the goods in this film about some guys who think they can out think a mob boss.  However, nobody can outsmart Chris Walken! He uses so much reverse phychology in this movie.  He even outwits his arch enemy/impersonater!!  I am speaking of the comic Jay Mohr!  He and Jay have great banter together.  Jay plays a rotton jerk.  I would love to see Suicide Kings part 2.  However, that would be hard because one of the main characters can't be in part 2.  Rent the DVD.  The alternate ending is brutal!  I rate this one a huge thumb up! "}{"Title":"Reigns supreme.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In the vein of Reservoir Dogs and The Usual Suspects, Suicide Kings stands out as an entertaining and powerful film. The actors give great performances (with one exception -- the whiny kid from Roseanne)and Walken is stunning in his role as a kidnapped Mafiaoso attempting to rescue a missing girl. Dennis Leary gives a powerful turn as the Mob enforcer, and is the victim of what is undoubtedly the funniest line in film history (look for it... you'll agree). The plot twists and turns, and the role of prime suspect shifts between characters, casting shadows of guilt on all of the men. The ultimate ending is a shocker, and the denouement(especially the alternate on DVD) is especially satisfying. A well-written and thoroughly entertaining flick.  "},{"Title":"for a random movie  picked off the shelf this one turned out pretty good!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One night, me and some friends spend like an hour in the video store trying to decide what to get. Out of frustration, my  friend just picked Suicide Kings off the shelf to end our arguing. In the end, the movie was excellent! The premise of the movie is pretty cool a guy's sister is being held hostage for $2,000,000 which he, nor his friends have. Therefore him and his friends kidnap a rich guy (Christopher Walken) and hold him for a $2,000,000 ransom. The only way they'll let him free is if his connections save the guy's sister. I love a movie with a few twists and this one has got lots of them! The only things I didn't like were the ending and the fact that even though it would have been predictable, it would have been interesting to see the character, Ira get more involved. Overall a great movie though! "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Five kids get into serious trouble when kidnapping the man you don't want to upset.  They had a plan, a weird one and as you can imagine, everything went wrong.This is the first feature film of Peter O'Fallons and it's a great piece of work.  The script is really good, with many twists and interesting characters.  The cast is superb.  Great performances by the five young actors and a Christopher Walken as smooth as it gets. Denis Leary also appears as Walken's right hand man.Overall, Suicide Kings is beautifuly made and it is a shame that most people haven't even heard of it.  If you enjoy films full of suspense and twists, then you have to see this one.  You will just love it.  "},{"Title":"don't betray your friends","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Don't betray your friends is the lesson we learn out of this nice film. The film has a surprising plot which gives the viewer a nice shock. I like the acting of the young boys a lot. Even Ira, the neurotic dumb friend, awakes sympathy in the end. Christopher Walken tied to a chair in most part of the movie is an amazing gangster. But the best thing is the lesson that you should always be true to your friends.  "},{"Title":"one of the best!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings could very well be my favorite movie yet.  I saw it in an old, vintage theatre, which made it even better!  Walken is amazing, and Leary plays the bad*ss mobster type so well.  If you want to see a dark, funny, suspenseful movie, then take the time to watch Suicide Kings. A++++++!!! "},{"Title":"A thriller, captivating until the end.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched Suicide Kings based on a friends recommendation, and now I will watch any movie he suggests...even after he suggested Mean Guns...The Usual Suspects is one of my favorite movies, and I saw many of the same elements in Suicide Kings. The plot keeps you involved and guessing as to what exactly is going on. There are bits of comic relief and bits of seriousness, all well acted and well mixed. The best example would be Dennis Leary. His character has some very funny scenes and also has the Micky Mantle scene. Lastly, the end is much like Usual Suspects, trying to figure out who-done-it, only to find out who it really was...All in all, Suicide Kings is not one of the best movies ever, but is one of my favorites and I highly recommend at least renting this flick. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken at his best...","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great suspense/crime film cut straight from the mold of Reservoir Dogs.  There's a crime being committed by several people who trust each other at first, but later start to doubt each other's motivation as things don't go exactly as planned.  There's violence, suspense, and humor.Christopher Walken plays Charlie Barret, formerly Carlo Bartolucci.  His name has changed because he wants to dissociate himself from his past life as a mobster.  Barret actually is the victim of the crime committed by Avery, Max, TK, and Brett played by Henry Thomas, Max Minot, Jeremy Sisto, and Jay Mohr.  Avery's sister Elise, played by Laura Harris, has been kidnapped and is being held for two million dollars.  Even though they are from a rich family, Avery explains that most of the wealth is on paper and not cash so they really don't have the means to pay.  They are holding Barret ransom for the two million dollars to pay the ransom for Avery's sister.  They explain that things have gotten desperate because they have missed the deadline and the original kidnappers are starting to send them Elise's body parts for each hour they continue to be late.  They tell Barret that everything that is taken from Elise will be taken from him until he comes up with the money, so they cut off his pinky to show that they mean business.  Sounds simple, right?Things start to get complicated when unexpected turns of events take place.  For example  They are holding Barret for ransom, but they quickly realize that will identify themselves if they give a phone number where they can be reached by those who would pay the ransom.  Finger pointing and confusion ensue, and all the while, the sly Barret is sizing up his captors looking for the edge.  This is where Walken's presence invades this character.  His characteristic delivery is always fun.  He makes Barret seem to almost be on these kids side even though he is their prisoner.  Barret warns them to let him go before things go wrong, but then when they don't, he seems to be enjoying the theatre of their attempts to keep their plan on track.  He actually smiles ever so slightly on several occasions, looking as though he were  watching all the action from a darkened room with a bucket of popcorn on his lap.  However, you know that he'd dispose of these punks without a second thought if only he weren't tied to that chair.That's as far as I'm willing to go.  If you want more, you'll have to see it for yourself.  Walken is great, and Dennis Leary as Lono Veccio was funny and ruthless.   "},{"Title":"Good Thriller...","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love Christopher Walken. He played in a lot of Tim Burton's movies(which is a good thing), but now, he plays in Suicide Kings, a cool thriller with other good actors. Unlike somepeople, I think this movie was neither (too) violent nor bloody. But if we had to judge movies on the violence they contain, Mark Dacascos' movies would be the best(in your dreams Mark!). The story was common for that kind of thriller, but it was well-written, and it went in a way no one could expect, so it had lots of surprises(good ones). This is not an extremely WELL-KNOWN movie, but watching it is a lot of fun and you won't fall asleep...I give it 82%. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant...","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is absolutely brilliant. Taunt and tightly shot, this is one of those rare movies that I simply had to go out and buy. Christopher Walken is a credit to mobsters and himself; he manages to be scary while spending nearly the entire movie tied to a chair. And Denis Leary delivers a brilliant, tight piece of action in the Micky Mantle speech about spousal abuse.There is no excuse for missing this movie, and, with luck, history will remember it as one of the unfortunately overlooked greats. "},{"Title":"Dark comedy at it's twisted best.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Beautifully balances scenes featuring Christopher Walken's cool, grim style with Denis Leary's violent, profane charm.  And, unlike most modern mysteries, the finale is surprisingly satisfying.  Spins a kind of Pulp Fiction-esque web.  One of the best parts, the scene leading up to the line It was your idea.  I couldn't stop laughing. "}{"Title":"A King of a Movie","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film was GREAT! Perfect casting, tone, storyline and most of all very believable characters. Saw it twice at the theatre, Christopher Walken is a master of dry humor, the twist and turns keep you guessing who did it. The light humor provided by Dennis Leary's character Lono is great. The dialogue in the Car scene (boot scene) is classic. All around, a very original and entertaining movie. Get it on DVD it is worth it, specially because of the commentary track, very insightful. "},{"Title":"If you've not seen this film yet, see it!","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Saw this on rental last night having read reviews on this site, and I was not disappointed. I thought it was a great film, blackly funny (laugh out loud funny in a couple of places), a decent double (or was it treble?!)twist at the end, magnificent performances from Walken and Leary. If you've not seen this film yet, see it! "},{"Title":"The great mystery about the video-premier of this damn good movie","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best movies made in 1997.In Germany it was only a video premier and i expected not so much.But I'm a big Christopher Walken -fan and so we watched it with very great interests.Damn,what a great movie.All actors,especially Mr.Walken and the guy from Roseannewho played Ira(IMDb didn't list him in the character-.list),showed their  best.Respect to Sean Patrick Flanery.He is on the way to become one of the good so called underdogs of Hollywood.Also the plot astonish and hijacked us from the first minute on.I don't know why the responsible guys in Germany brought this very good movie only on video-tape.After watching it ,we started to present this movie to our friends.they couldn't believe it either.Now its an famous insider-tip  "},{"Title":"a wonderful comedic tragedy(possible spoilers)","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Christopher Walken is awesome in everything he does! i bought this movie for like $5 at target...cause i wanted to buy something! and only 7 dollors....so i saw it..and it looked good...so i bought it...and its awesome..one of my favorites....i love the atmosphere...how these young yuppies get themselves in a real bind over some lost dollors....how money makes you seems powerful...hey! i'm the son of this important guy! i can get away with anything....but its not like that in reality....this film has that feel like fight club has of what only way i can describe is...tragic comedy....but non-the less...this is a wonderful film...i loved every minute of it, awesome ending "},{"Title":"Twisty-turning, mild-mannered, but over all else, immensely enjoyable.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When a group of five rich (and gratingly whiny) rich kids decide to kidnap an ex-mob figure to help pay the $2,000,000 ransom for the sister of one of the boys, they figure out that they didn't quite think the situation out much past the kidnapping part.  Over the course of this darkly comic movie we get to see Dennis Leary give one of the best performances of his career. I'm not too fond of non-actors deciding to do movies, *cough,cough,SINBAD,cough,cough*, but I can stomach Dennis Leary.  He's mostly used for comic support (half the comedy alone comes from his rants, the other half mostly from pansy-boy Ira) but when he decides to give acting a real try he succeeds wonderfully. A monologue he delivers to an abusive step-father had me breathless.  YOU CAN'T MISS IT!!!  Worth watching just for that instance.  I must admit that the second ending (on the DVD) was better than the one most people see (mostly for the comic value) I consider it to be a delightfully insane movie. The plot doesn't go much further than the house.  Most of the scenes are either spent talking to Charlie or watching Dennis Leary hunt down who actually kidnapped the girl.  Not the best movie I've ever seen but it comes darn close. "},{"Title":"Terrible plot twists and dialogue.","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings had such great potential, considering the formidable cast it assembled.  However, I spent the whole movie waiting for it to get better, and it never did.  The screenwriters tried to add dark humor, but all that resulted out was terrible acting and dialogue from actor Johnny Galecki (Roseanne).  The fact that the director claims (on the DVD) that the movie's climax resulted from test audiences proves this project was doomed from the start.   On the plus side, the DVD is packed with extras, including a cool feature where you can watch scenes with only dialogue, only EFX sounds, only the movie score, etc.  Supposedly it shows how sounds come together for a film. "},{"Title":"Elliott Taylor meets Leonard Hofstadter in a world of sleaze","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Peter O'Fallon's Suicide Kings is sort of a combination of Quentin Tarantino and The Godfather. Christopher Walken plays a mob boss who gets kidnapped by a bunch of high-society young men and held hostage while one of them's sister is getting held hostage...but all might not be what it seems.A criticism that I've sometimes heard of movies like this is that there's no redeeming character. I hate to say it but sometimes that's an accurate reflection of reality. Whether it's politics (Syriana), organized crime (Goodfellas) or something else, there are times when every character is a slimeball. That's the case here. I liked how Walken's character started playing the other characters' minds. One gets the feeling that, having spent his life in a world of sleaze, he knows when something's up.Among the other cast members, there's Denis Leary. I've liked every movie in which I've seen him. There's also Laura San Giacomo (the sister in Sex, Lies and Videotape). And then we have some surprises Henry Thomas (Elliott in E.T.), Johnny Galecki (Leonard on The Big Bang Theory*), Jeremy Sisto (Billy on Six Feet Under) and Brad Garrett (of Everybody Loves Raymond, which I've never seen). Cliff DeYoung used to be a member of a rock group that performed with the Doors, Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin. What a combo.Basically, it's not a great movie, but it's an enjoyable one. Every cast member puts on a good performance. I recommend the movie.*Today is actually both his birthday and that of his co-star Kunal Nayyar. "},{"Title":"Damn good 90's new noir","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There's a whole ton of 90's crime flicks out there. I should know, as it's my favourite decade for the genre, and for film in general. There's nothing like a nice piece of sassy, bloody 90's neo noir. On that note, Suicide Kings makes a rewarding, if slight entry into the niche. It's got a well rounded cast, smart ass dialogue and some moments of pure, unfiltered black comedy. Parts of it are unfocused and not all attempts at humour land squarely, but when it's good, it's good, baby. The key ingredient in any crime/comedy? Stupid people. You have to have some dundering friggin morons who think they got what it takes to pull off some idiotic scheme that's well above their pay grade and intellegience level. They show up here in the form of a gaggle of cocky frat boys who attempt to kidnap an ex mafioso for ransom. Slick pretty boy Sean Patrick Flanery, anxious dweeb Johnny Galecki, reserved Doctor Jeremy Sisto, terrified sensitive boy Henry Thomas and arrogent hotshot Jay Mohr. The mafioso is played by...guess. yep, Christopher Walken, silkily dangerous as Charlie Bartolucci, a guy who used to be a guy you don't want to mess with, and as the film progresses, unravels back to that volatile state. Walken spends most of the film tied to a chair and even then finds ways to amuse and terrify with his impish aura. Another key component in these neo noir's an angry bad dude sent to inflict all kinds of pain and suffering on the idiots, personified by wiseass Lono Vecchio (Denis Leary). He hunts them down with verve, also dealing with two clinically insane hit men (Brad Garrett and Frank Medrano, priceless) who are involved as well. The plot thickens to just this side of convoluted, as the boys realize that one amongst them is pulling a nasty Judas on the other four. Leary, like I said before, is capable of staggering gravitas in between sessions of manic joker antics. Here the film stops dead in its tracks midway through so he can teach an abusive father a cringe worthy, painful lesson, preceded by a sorrowful monologue about his youth. It's the best part of the film in the sense that the tone is completely different from every other scene, making it memorable. This one isn't perfect, I wouldn't call it an amazing flick, but it's got moments of pure genius, and overall is pretty fun, if only two thirds of a great one. Worth it for Walken and Leary. It also has a stinger of an ending that goes against the grain and may rub people the wrong way, but I applauded for not pussying out. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Surprisingly good. Starts off in very silly and random fashion, but gets better and better as it goes on. The twists toward the end are great, and completely unpredictable.Great cast, of stars and stars-to-be Christopher Walken, Dennis Leary, Jay Mohr, Sean Patrick Flannery. Christopher Walken brings his usual brooding intensity, Dennis Leary the humour and wisecracks (apparently many of his lines were ad libbed) and Jay Mohr the insanity. Also includes Johnny Galecki, long before he was famous for Big Bang Theory, and Laura San Giacomo in a minor role. "},{"Title":"Convoluted crime-thriller lacks originality","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Directed by Peter O'Fallen, Suicide Kings follows a group of five men who kidnap at former mob boss Carlo Bartolucci and hold him hostage, demanding for $2 million dollars to save one of the men's sister who's been kidnapped. Complexities and dilemmas ensue between these five men when they struggle to execute their plans accurately. The film reaches the cast of Jay Mohr, Denis Leary, Sean Patrick Flanery, Henry Thomas, Jeremy Sisto, and Johnny Galecki.Upon watching this film, I was expecting to see a neo-noir thriller with suspense and originality. Unfortunately, what we get is an unoriginal and unnecessarily convoluted crime-thriller tries to be a Quentin Tarantino wannabe. The story shamelessly borrows elements from Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, and it fails to execute them with inspiration. When the watch this, you feel like you are watching a remake of Reservoir Dogs with a touch of Pulp Fiction. The five main characters are involved with a kidnapping that goes wrong, then there is the slight non-linear storyline similar to what Tarantino's films are known for. The characters are rather underdeveloped, even Christopher Walken who is the center-stage seems somewhat under constructed. The only candy this film has to offer is some scenes of suspense and tension between the characters. The cast does amazing jobs as their characters, especially Christopher Walken. Other than that, not much else. All in all, Suicide Kings was a bit of a disappointment. Even with its brilliant cast and suspenseful investment, this film fails to come up with anything original. "}{"Title":"not about the story","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" On the surface, this is a light drama-comedy-mystery about five young preppy guys who kidnap a professional criminal who they think is the master of criminals, because the sister of one of the young men is kidnapped, and they want to use him as leverage.There is the usual red herring and counter bluffs and all the movie stuff that makes the geeks happy.This is really not about the story, however. It is more how the more successful underworld people deal with upper crust people, in this case with the criminal the older, wiser guy who is more than supportive of his kidnappers, even after they cut off his finger.He sees them for what they are. In fact, one he even calls the man, a young nerd who had no part in the kidnapping, but who is used by the others. This respect for the young man is symbolic of the film. All through it, the other four give away their characters to him, and even those who cause him suffering, he relents to and works with, save for one whom he realizes is not capable of being reasoned with.The movie has dull filmography, cinematography, and scenery, so it lags quite a bit, and comes across as something that actually works better on stage. Putting this on film wasn't the best idea. Still, it has some assets. "},{"Title":"Suicide fools","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is certainly a movie for switching off the brain and cutting it a bit of slack. The story is unbelievable. The plan hatched by the rich kids isn't even half baked, They are sloppy, careless and idiotic to believe that they can rectify one kidnapping scenario by themselves kidnapping an infamous mobster. Then they cut off one of his fingers! No face masks, names and personal details revealed they get whats coming to them.Suicide Kings is close to a one man show. This is Walken at his supreme best. Angry , menacing, ice cold and funny. Often all at the same time. He carries the movie so much that it is difficult to imagine anyone else in the role. The weakest characters for me were the two gangsters used by the insider for the initial kidnap. They were just too screwball even for a black comedy like this. Their humour was forced and unnatural while the rest of the comedy flowed. Spoiled for me what otherwise would have been a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Now Playing with a Full Deck","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In upscale New York, Avery is desperate his sister has been kidnapped and ransomed for $2,000,000, and his father doesn't have the cash. So Avery and his buddies concoct a bold, semi-suicidal scheme abduct retired mob boss Charlie Bartolucci, hide out in their uptight friend Ira's house while his folks are out of town, and force Bartolucci to use his contacts to find the girl. Amused by his fledgling captors, the seasoned mobster agrees to help them&#x85; but not before he cautions then that the guilty party might be right under their noses, according to the home video scriber at Artisan...That's not the entire storyline, of course. The problem with Suicide Kings is that the plot gets mighty convoluted; after it all, we wonder why they did things like chop off Christopher Walken's digit in the first place. What really helps is sharp direction from Peter O'Fallon, who keeps Mr. Walken and his captors engaging in a limited situation. Flashbacks, framing and interludes are included - but the main story remains where Walken is planted. Good cast with good characterizations (note the Jeremy Sisto role) and comic relief (mostly Johnny Galecki's character) offsets the routine.****** Suicide Kings (9/6/97) Peter O'Fallon ~ Christopher Walken, Sean Patrick Flanery, Jeremy Sisto, Henry Thomas "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Chritopher Walken is an ex mob boss who is kidnapped by three spoiled, rich kids, who explain that one of them, Avery's sister has been taken hostage, and that the guys responsible want 2 million dollars for her release. They show Charlie(Walken) a pinkey finger floating in a bowl of ice, and threaten him with the same, not realizing that he would bleed to death, due to a medical condition. Things are not as they seem, as Charlie manipulates the boys against each other. He uncovers the fact of a bad gambling debt which was the reason for the ransom demand in the first place. Negotiations lead to a very clever twist in the story, which I will not give away and Christopher Walken is perfect as the bad man who tells the wannabee gangsters, at one point, I'm looking at dead men. The movie is loosely based on the case of some young rich guys in Westchester County who ran a multimillion dollar gambling and money laundering ring. Truth is stranger than fiction, and here it makes for interesting entertainment. "},{"Title":"Watch This Movie! Two of the best performances ever!","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a great drama that you do not want to miss. A group of friends kidnap a mob kingpin. Their plan is to force him to help them get back the sister of one of them, who has also been kidnapped. Unfortunately they do not plan the kidnapping very well, and eventually things begin to unravel. Two performances make this movie a must-see choice of mine. The first id Christopher Walken. I believe he is a brilliant actor, and he has always been one of my favorites (True Romance, Pulp Fiction, A View To A Kill, etc.) Walken is tied to a wheelchair the entire movie, but absolutely carries the entire film. His intelligence, wit, and determination are amazing to watch. Note especially his reaction when one of the kidnappers gives driving directions. Although he is the victim, there is no question that Walken has the boys in his palm the entire time. Also notable is the performance of Dennis Leary, another favorite actor of mine. As the thug who is working for Walken, he is funny, frightening, and violent. A superb performance much like the character he plays in Underworld, another film I highly recommend. The DVD with the multiple endings is especially enjoyable, but thankfully the director decided to put feel-good BS aside and go with the correct ending. A great drama that anyone is sure to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Kidnap movie done well","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a fun twisted thriller with blood, violence and some entertaining twists. Christopher Walken's performance was great and the individualized performances of the younger cast members were good too. This film kept me interested from beginning to end to see who the inside man is. The film is a bit over dramatized but it sort of adds to the comedic values of the film. This was a entertaining thriller with some great cast with good lines, it was slick and cool. Although kidnap films has been done for a very long time, this is a cool movie that makes sense and is well worth your time.8/10 "},{"Title":"no classic but a well done indie film","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You've got to love Christopher Walken. The rest of the cast of Suicide Kings might not sound familiar (Dennis Leary has a cool part) but they are good and believable. This film seems a bit slow now that I've watched it four or five times, but the plot is good and the suspense is put together very well. There are funny scenes, a couple weird scenes, but overall Suicide Kings is a really entertaining and suspenseful story with some smart twists that will keep viewers guessing. "},{"Title":"I'm a Moron","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I guess I'm an idiot because I really do love this movie. No, it's not the greatest plot in the world but the acting is pretty good. I cringe only at the Laura Sangiacomo part because she sounds like she's reading the lines off her wrist. Denis Leary is hilarious staunchly defending his fish boots, and ofcourse Walken is great.  But my favorite part of the movie is the end. I love movies that don't follow traditional guidelines with contrived happy endings , and this one was definitely not happy.  "},{"Title":"A winner...","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think this is one of Chris Walken's best efforts, past or present.  He was perfect in his role.All the guys were great in their roles and had obviously worked into some very good chemistry with each other and Walken.  It may not be an award winner or a heavy documentary, but it's a funny thriller that will keep you guessing.  Do yourself a favor and check this one out. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks! Dennis Leary is the bomb!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My friends think that this movie isn't so good, but I would say it is. First of all, it is a funny movie. Dennis Leary brings comedy into the movie, while Chrisopher Walkins brings all the cool-ass lines into it. Therefore I recommend that u watch this movie. "}{"Title":"Clever and skillfully told","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A skillfully told and at times hilarious thriller about a group of spoiled youths of whom one has received word that her sister has been kidnapped. In order for the kidnappers to return her sister they also decide to play the hostage game and subsequently abduct the local Cosa Nostra-chieftain Carlo Beneditti (Christopher Walken). As you might imagine, they indeed chose the wrong man to kidnap.I certainly can't complain about the acting in Suicide Kings, Christopher Walken is simply perfect in the role of a cold-hearted and methodical mafioso. I also have to mention that one of my favorite comedians of all time, Denis Leary (who figured the eminent No Cure for Cancer standup session), can be seen in the role of a brutal hitman, a role he was born to play it seems. Sean Patrick Flannery, Jay Mohr, Henry Thomas and the rest are otherwise great in impersonating desperate yuppie kids.When you see Suicide Kings it's very easy to compare it to the Tarantino-genre (especially Reservoir Dogs), and probably not without reasons. However, Peter O'Fallon has made such a superb movie that I wasn't bothered at all by any possible Tarantino-parallels. I enjoyed Suicide Kings immensely; then again, it might just be me who's a sucker for these kinds of movies. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, smart, clever, and hularious.","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie's premise is about four rich kids who kidnap an ex mobster, Charlie(Christopher Walken) for $2 million dollars. They need the money for Elise(one of their's sister). She has aslo been kidnapped. Bret, the leader of the group has a plan. An eye for an eye is his plan. They cut Elise's finger off so they cut Charlie's finger off. So Charlie is tapped up in a chair for basically the whole movie. Charlie contacts his friend, Lono(Denis Leary) to help him find the kindappers. While Lono is busy doing that Charlie has someone else getting the money. Charlie's freinds soon come up with the conclusion that there's a rat in the house that Charlie's in. The movie is great, the ending is great...the setup is outstanding. It will keep you guessing until the end.  "},{"Title":" Outrageous but Compelling","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought it would be another Resevoir Dogs ripoff, but it holds up well enough on it's own. If the director wanted a more romantic ending, he should've chosen a more romantic beginning or a different genre altogether. The ending chosen for the theater version was the right one. (Out of three shown on the DVD.)  So what if audience members above 25 didn't like it. (I am 36.) Christopher Walken tied up in a chair outacts all the young guys. "},{"Title":"Creepy Thriller with alot of twists and surprises.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie not knowing what to expect. However this is one great movie. Christopher Walken and Denis Leary are the highlights of the film. The other younger parts of the cast do pretty well also. This flick has alot of great twists and keeps you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Borrowed, yet good","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  All in all, the movie is worth renting.  The plot is a little stretched, but Walken plays a convincing character and the story is well told.Some of the plot twists seemed scripted.  There is a lot of Quentin influence, most people have heard the hitman dialog before. "},{"Title":"A Crime Film for the Whole Family!!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike most crime films that the 1990s have brought us, Suicide Kings is actually one that I would allow my children to watch.  Instead of placing the onus on colourful language and senseless violence to make the film, director Peter O'Fallon turns to plot twist, serious character development and the best of all, character manipulation.  Suicide Kings, in my opinion is in the top 3 crime films to come out of the last decade.   "},{"Title":"not Shakespeare, not Tarentino, not great, but decent","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First, let me say that when this originally came out, it recieved awful reviews, and got a scathing one from my favorite reviewer, who is only sometimes wrong.  Next, let me say that not too many other people I know have seen the movie.  Half of those that have say that this is the worst movie ever, and the other half say it is good, but not great.  I agree with the latter group.  This is not a movie that you should go out of your way to see, but you should rent it if there is nothing else that you really want to see.The plot  A bunch of kids (does not include Denis Leary) kidnap a retired mob boss (also not Leary, but is Walken).  Denis Leary  is the trustworthy servant of that boss.  He has a bit part, and they promote as the second biggest star when he should not even be on the cover.  The kids have kidnapped the boss because somebody has kidnapped one of their sisters, and is holding her for $2 mil.  They expect the box to use his connections to free her.  Now the kicker, one of them helped the kidnappers.  The rest of the movie is the interactions of the kids and the boss as they deal with info, and the fact that they cut off a mob boss's finger.  And Leary copes with the fact that he spent $1500 on a pair of boots.  The whole movie goes on, and really leaves everything so wide open that there are several possible endings, and they appear as alternate endings on the DVD.But, who cares?  We've seen the plot, and since it matters so little, let's move on to the acting.Acting  Good, but not great.  Leary rants, and is less energetic than usual.  He has made better rants in The Ref and in No Cure for Cancer.  Walken is up to his usual stuff, and does his usual decent job.  The kids don't shine too well, and everything seems just a little off.  So, what's next?Dialogue  Decent, but nothing to cheer about.  The dialogue is there.  Nothing seems right, and is a little too playful for the type of people that it belongs to.  Why doesn't it work?  Maybe, the writer just does not know the human rhythms.So, why am I giving this a good review?  Maybe it was because I did not expect anything from it.  I just wanted to be entertained, and mindlessly, I was.  So, if you want, check it out, otherwise, I will have to pass.  But I give it a marginal over the good rating.6/10 "},{"Title":"Strange yet magnificent","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film one night, and it sort of creeped me out, but it was very intruiging, odd and sometimes even funny.  The cast makes this film ultimately watchable as Christopher Walken (never been better) plays a retired mafia boss who is kidnapped one night by a group of spoiled rich kids (including such great talent as Jay Mohr, Sean Patcik Flannery, Jeremy Sisto and Johnny Galecki) with Mohr being my favorite pick in this group (not to mention that Mohr can do a on the spot immitation of Walken).  Denis Leary plays another gangster who is out looking for his old boss with not much luck.  I won't go into any more plot (spoilers), but I must say if you are looking for twists and turns at every second, this is it.  Not for anyone (especially those who fear people with only 9 fingers).  A+ "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great movie.  Keeping this short, Walken and Leary play their parts around each other like two dancers performing a perfect waltz. (I hope they team up for another flick...)What makes this a good movie is when guessing the ending is difficult, and that is exactly what transpired here.  It is more along the lines of black humor (being somewhat sadistic,) working alongside drama only a tense, heartpounding movie can do.  The characters are beautifully cast, from Walken's mobster lord role, to Leary's sarcastic sidekick to Henry Thomas's spoiled rich kid (yes, that's the kid from E.T.!  Look closely to see the remains of the little boy in the now grown up twentysomething,) and a plot worth renting.  A must see "},{"Title":"The story makes this film","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This story ranks up there with The Usual Suspects. Good acting by a great cast. Christopher Walken and Denis Leary convincingly play characters that prove Old age and treachery overcome youth and skill. Nina Siemaszko gets better, and more beautiful, with every part she plays.Keyser Soze "}{"Title":"Good get even type of movie","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this DVD was terriffic.   I don't want to give away too much except that no one knew which direction it was going and no one was sure who was the instigator.    The DVD with the alternate endings was interesting.   The only thing that I did not like were the credits which were very hard to read. "},{"Title":"Couldn't have been better","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You know when you see a movie that you think about until you fall asleep or that doesn't even let you fall asleep it's so intriguing.  You take it to work with you and everything but I'd have to say that . So it might just be me or the fact that I watched it at 2 A.M.,but I'd have to say that it had a truly envolved plot.  What I find the most interesting is that you don't understand what is REALLY going on until the end.  The end has a great twist to it too.  Of course we have to give credit for the spectacular performances from the cast(they all deserve a standing ovation).  Now if your the concerned parent reading these comments to check if its an appropriate movie then here's my opinion If you trust your children and think they're old enough it's your decision.  The movie's rated R for strong language,some violence, and one nude scene. Also its not for children who are grossed out by some blood or can't be truly dragged into a film.  This film takes concentration ,but it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Electrifying drama/suspense movie!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is on the verge of brilliance. The story is complex, but surprisingly easy to follow. The cinematography is great, it's very hard to find flaws in this movie. The acting couldn't have been much better with Walken playing, what else, but a gangster. The ending is very surprising. It seems the director is much like Bryan Singer, and this movie seems to be a lot like The Usual Suspects (however, not quite as good). If you haven't seen Suicide Kings, but liked Usual Suspects, I highly recommend you watch it. "},{"Title":"Walken brings it home, as always...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love Walken, and he really shows us what he can in this one. The co-stars aren't that great, but ok. The plot is really good See it "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen in a while.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is excellent. It is well done even on a small budget compared to others. This movie does have it all. Violence, done really well and just enough. The dialogue was great. The plot was good. The soundtrack is excellent. I only wish you can buy it. It is one of those movies you will not get sick of. I highly suggest you rent this movie at some point. But do not try to compare it to other movies. Just take it for what it is and you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good acting, bad plot","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Walken and Leary are great in this film. Most of the young men are good too. The problem here is that the plot is thin and implausible -- and the ending is stupid and tacked on. There are Very funny moments, and the movie starts to come apart only when we're asked to take the movie seriously as a drama on some level. The movie forgets it's a comedy, sadly. Still, there are a lot of laughs here, and when Walken is on, he's amazing to watch. 7/10 --Frink-3 "},{"Title":"No Usual Suspects, but still somewhat enjoyable","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, but I'm not quite sure why-probably just because I was in the mood for a mystery/comedy and it satisfied that craving.  But there were entirely too many plot loopholes left unanswered for me to truly call this a great movie, especially having recently seen The Usual Suspects. Still, Christopher Walken, creepy as ever, played the kidnapped mob boss superbly and added dry humor to lighten an otherwise less than perfect movie. "},{"Title":"Some problems but worth seeing","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is a movie that really has no identity of its own.  The movie tries to be a comedy-triller or a mystery-thriller with comedy thrown in among other types of genres.  A lot of different movies can be seen in this flick.  One movie like it is Deceiver, which has strong acting performances by Tim Roth and Michael Rooker (from HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer).  In comparison, I enjoyed Deceiver more than Suicide Kings due to the stronger overall acting.  Suicide Kings takes a familiar plot and really does not do anything new with it, yet the movie still is enjoyable.  One problem of this movie is the use of music to set the atmosphere.  Instead of the actors defining the mood, the music tries to and it does not work very well.  The music sticks out and distracts one from what is really happening.  It does not help that the actors are just looking around at each other and not doing any acting.  The movie also lacks some motivation in the beginning.  The viewer is left with a feeling of why did this happen or why are they doing this.  The movie just does not work very well as a mystery.  Despite these short comings I liked the movie overall.  The main reason to see it is for Denis Leary and definitely for Christopher Walken.  Denis steals the show when the movie focuses on minor parts of the plot.  When the movie is dealing with the main plot, Walken turns in a really good performance and for that reason alone this movie is worth seeing.  It is Walken after all! Another interesting actor is Henry Thomas.  He does not do a very good job acting but it is fun to see him so many years after he was Elliot in E.T.  I enjoyed Suicide Kings for the most part.  I would give it 2 and a half stars (**1/2) out of five.   "},{"Title":"...the movie does great through most of the 106 minutes.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's a point in this movie when you would say `This is one of the greatest movies I have seen', actually the movie does great through most of the 106 minutes.The cast is simply great The eternal classy and diabolic Mafia boss Christopher Walken, the funny but rough Denis Leary, and a great cast of kids leaded by Jay Mohr - an actor that does keep on improving movie after movie.The story could have been perfect but it gets a little too complex at the end. An intricate and intriguing plot might be a good thing but you need a very intelligent story and sadly, this one needed more thought given, particularly at the outcome, which certainly disappoints after a tremendous three quarters of the movie.The movie is great, otherwise a non-that-great end wouldn't mind and as I said, in some points Suicide Kings is a masterpiece, but there wasn't a Keyser Soze there to save the outcome.  "},{"Title":"Definitely worth the rental","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this film, although I do like Christopher Walken and his...distinctive style of acting.  I half-hoped for Jay Mohr to whip out his Christopher Walken impression, seeing as how he is probably the best at it.A great, dark film with comedic elements, 'Suicide Kings' was universally appreciated (among my friends) up until the last 10 minutes.  By an odd coincidence, the DVD version has alternate endings, which may satisfy those who didn't like the final ending.  The director's commentary on the DVD is also worth listening to for a few minutes.  "}{"Title":"Good actors, a great plot, a ton of twists and turns.  A perfect 10","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  a wonderfully done movie with twists and turns you wouldn't expect. An ending that leaves you wondering who thegood guys and who the bad guys really were.   "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An ingenious piece of filmmaking.  This movie brings comedy, action, drama and suspense into a well crafted dark scenario.  All of the young lead characters click, Christopher Walken plays a frighteningly good ex-mob leader and Denis Leary just does what he does best.  This is easily my favorite movie of the year.     "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie's story line is so in depth that it's mind bogling!  Its is a great movie that was well acted out especially by Christopher Walken!  I kept wondering who was to blame for the kidnapping, and the main blame switched constantly.  I won't tell you how it ended, but it was a very surprising ending! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I gave this movie a ten! It is now my second most liked movie(The Shawshank Redemption is my favorite). The reason I likedthis movie so much is the characters. Usually in a movie with asmany characters as this one with so many different personalitiesa couple of the actors take away from the performances of theother actors. However, that was not the case in this movie, allof the performances were superb.  The other thing I loved aboutthis movie was the changing moods. It was funny, it was edgy andit was one of those special films that draws the audience intothe picture. It's terrific! "},{"Title":"The Best--Or Worst Way To Kill Yourself? A Caper That Must Have Doomed From The Beginning","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" by Dane YoussefTarantinoesque (adj) &#x96; referring to or reminiscent of the work of the American film-maker and actor Quentin Tarantino (born 1963), known for the violence and wit of his films. --Collins English DictionaryTarantino never set foot in a film school. He might not even have taken TV Media in high school. But he still changed the genre. With Reservoir Dogs, he was established. With Pulp Fiction, he was God.Hollywood is like high school. When one does something that really gets popular, it sparks... the trend. And all the others follow suit-- following the leader like cult lemmings. And in film, influence can be essential. Or just sad and embarrassing. Tarantino inspired many--a lot of particular imitators. Some good. And... as for this one? SUICIDE KINGS dares to spin a yarn of a quartet of wealthy privileged youngsters who dream up... and then try the most desperate and daring of schemes... The reformed mobster is on his way home one night after an invigorating evening out. There's an ambush, he's attacked. He comes to... only to find himself bound-and-gagged in a chair somewhere. What the hell's going on?A hostage film. A mob-crime flick. And also eventually... kind of mystery whodunnit? thriller, the plot twists and turns--especially in the last quarter of the picture. Just a bunch of boys having fun. Bein' boys--not unlike Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction.The Godfather in question finds in a cabin somewhere surrounded by rich collegiate in nice suits who seem to fancy themselves their own independent Mafioso. He sees red--on someone's shirt, as it's covered in the Goodfella's blood. The whole plan goes as wrong as we'd expect and the spoiler richies panic--and then these dumb rich silver spoons all turn on each other. SUICIDE KINGS boasts one of those casts that we'd expect from the latest Tarantino picture. Christopher Walken, Laura Harris, Jeremy Sisto, Brad Garrett, Jay Mohr, Johnny Galecki, Sean Patrick Flanery, Henry Thomas, Laura San Giacomo and Dennis Leary.OK, not quite the highest-of-profile names for the most part. But still, everyone does a worthwhile job. Only Walken, Leary and Galecki only really stand-out. Walken confirms the belief that any scene he's in--just flat-out works. Even when the screenplay gives him the most ludicrous insights But I come from out there, and everybody out there knows, everybody lies cops lie, newspapers lie, parent's lyin'. The one thing you can count on - word on the street... yeah, that's solid. Uh-huh. That's why so many schoolyard and water-cooler rumors are considered holy fact.Walken sees how nervous they all are (who wouldn't be?) and attempts to get them to turn on each other. Seeing as it's a typical hostage situation with the victim being tied to a chair--he tries the usual of divide-and-conquer. There's an inside guy. A mole, he tells them. But who? When they do finally start playing poker, Walken reads them easily.Leary has the most fun in his role doing what I suppose can best be described as the quintessential Denis Leary role. He's Denis Leary in the mob. Ranting about his wife and his expensive footwear. Doing a good deed and then bring down his usual Biblical wrath. Galecki is kind of fun as the rich worrywart nebbish whose family owns the place and seems a lot more concerned with mud being tracked on the floor, what happening to his father's favorite chair than the fact that a mobster is bound and he know everyone's name...All the other actors--they get a passing grade, but they don't quite stand out. SUICIDE KINGS is like that--hit-and-miss. The whole abduction is so badly planned--the movie itself even takes notice of this. At one point in the movie, Walken's character says to his captors You guys didn't think this through too good, did you? Anyone with a handful of working brain cells will be thinking the same thing. I kind of wanted to ask the filmmakers this. The amount of obvious mistakes these guys make. Oh, they're clearly not professionals.The movie's screenwriters Josh McKinney, Gina Goldman and Wayne Allen Rice take Don Stanford's original short story The Hostage from and heavily Quentin Tarantino-ize it. Some thought they paid homage real proper. Some thought all this seems like something at best he might have in the bottom of his drawer--and forgot about forever. Director Peter O' Fallon has real flair and style. He certainly films this thing with a lot of energy to spare. The kind we've seen best in... well, you know where. He gives a lot of wild-child style and so does everyone else involved.Heist/kidnapping movies that deal with inside jobs just gotta have that moment where the ship's going down in flame and the rats all turn on each other.SUICIDE KINGS is still worth a look for a slow night. Better than a lot of the merde being crapped out of Hollywood's big uncreative anus. SUICIDE KINGS doesn't beat the house and take the pot, but like poker, it's not a bad way to spend a slow night with your friends. And in the end... Well... This is all pretty unbelievable. The ending however, is inevitable. And makes all the sense in the world.See, for me--The Suicide Kings seems more like Jon Favreau's Swingers than the Reservoir Dogs. Hey, maybe that was another source of inspiration!You might have to see it more than once to really get it all straight. Take notes, if you have to. Not to give anything away at all, but just to close it all on this one poetic line Sometimes the ends really do justify the means. Or at least define the meaning of the words 'karma' and 'justice'.--Having Really Enjoyed It, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"A couple of years back, I was looking through a copy of Maxim magazine and I found a list of 20 films saved by having Christopher Walken in them.","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A couple of years back, I was looking through a copy of Maxim magazine and I found a list of 20 films saved by having Christopher Walken in them. As you have probably guessed, Suicide Kings was among the 20, actually, I believe it was number 3.This was Peter O'Fallon's premiere film for the big screen (he has since made only one other, although he continues to direct numerous television series), and there are a lot of things that might have gone a little better. The dialog is weak in spots, the premise of a made guy going off with a bunch of preppy kids is a little off the wall, and the overall feel of the film drags from time to time. But that doesn't mean it is a total failure.As a matter of fact, just the opposite. Needless to say Walken and Leary come off exceptionally well, and the remainder of the cast is believable. Johnny Galecki comes off as Johnny Galecki, which is to say his dialog and acting are better suited to his current role in Big Bang Theory than to the big screen. Jay Mohr, well, I never have like Mohr, so I can tell you his character is passable, but he never quite rises to the level needed for his part. Henry Thomas and Sean Patrick Flannery both give good performances, and are really the two character who draw your interest. Jeremy Sisto as the medical student tending to Walken is more than adequate to the role, and you can see the young actor's ability flourishing into the actor he has become.As to the film itself, the plot, once you get past the implausible part, is good and moves pretty well, although there is a lot of exposition that seems pointless until you get to the very end. By then, unfortunately, you lose interest, unless you are a die hard Walken fan (guilty as charged).Since I have the DVD (yes, I pulled it out of the bargain bin at WalMart), I've watched the alternative endings and listened to O'Fallon's comments, and the one that struck me the most was his comparison of the final scene of the film to one in The Usual Suspects. Hmmm. Not even close, Pete.Rated R for violence, language, torture, and some nudity, this film is one you might want to rent just to see why television directors who are really good at their jobs should stick to television. Definitely a "},{"Title":"A good balance between comedy and thriller ( no spoilers ! )","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Suicide Kings' (named after a playing card, The king of hearts who appears to be stabbing himself in the head in a standard deck of playing cards. can be classified under 'one-man show' movies, a lot of smaller films rely solely on one 'star' and if he/she fails to deliver the rest of the ship goes down in flames too. Fortunately, in Suicide Kings, Christopher Walken is on top of his game, and witnessing the man's impeccable delivery and strange, threatening but disarming screen presence is enough to persuade me to see any movie, regardless of the rest of the cast members. But, again, fortunately for us the other actors are talented too, especially Dennis Leary, who nota bene improvised most of his dialog. It's quasi impossible to discuss the plot without spoiling anything, so let's just say I got a big kick out of the script, obviously not written by a hack. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Four twentysomethings decide that desperate times call for desperate measures. After Avery's (Henry Thomas) sister is kidnapped, they hatch a plan to do a little kidnapping of their own. The man they pick is Carlo/Charlie (Christopher Walken), a retired mobster who they suspect can 'use his contacts' to free the girl. Charlie's motivation to help, in addition to not being killed, is that he will be returned to his home in the exact same condition that Elise Chasten is returned home in. The man in charge is Bret (Jay Mohr), who hatches the plan and plays the role of 'bad cop' for most of the movie. T.K. (Jeremy Sisto), a fledgling med student, monitors Charlie's health and provides the voice of reason in many instances. Also along for the ride is Max Minot (Sean Patrick Flanery), Avery's pal and Elise's fianc. The group brings Ira (Johnny Galecki) in on the plan only after he agrees to let them use his parents' summer home for the night. The man responsible for recovering Charlie is Lono (Denis Leary), his driver. As time winds down, the boys' inexperience becomes more and more apparent ('you didn't think this through too good, did you? Charlie once comments), and Charlie's ever-worsening health becomes a major cause for concern. It's only a matter of time before Charlie decides to help the kids out, and he plays them against one another by showing them that the kidnappers may be much closer to home than they could have imagined.Suicide Kings is a good film not because of the big names, but because of those who have since become big names. Christopher Walken plays the same kind of character that made Christopher Walken famous, and Denis Leary plays the same kind of character that made Denis Leary famous. Who really shines in this film is Jay Mohr. His performance as Bret showcases his true talent. He makes the character into someone who is so sure he's right, you wonder if it isn't him behind the curtain pulling the strings. Jeremy Sisto turns in another solid performance as T.K. As the man keeping Charlie alive, and the first one to have any real conversation with the mobster, T.K. spends most of the movie with information that could tear the entire operation apart, while at the same time trying to keep cool and keep his friends cool. Johnny Galecki as Ira is also worth noting. Ira is the runt of the group, not a little spineless, and is eager to constantly remind Charlie that he had nothing to do with the kidnapping. Flanery and Thomas are good as well, but not the kind of good that makes you think only they could have pulled the roles off.Overall, Suicide Kings is an imperfect, but still enjoyable movie. There are times when you're sure you've figured it out, only to find yourself second-guessing minutes later. With equal bits of comedy, drama and thriller, Suicide Kings is no waste of time. "},{"Title":"Neat tidy little thriller given a bit of class by Christopher Walken","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Suicide Kings belongs to the weird little sub-genre of films that appeared in the mid to late 90's that basically just tried to follow / steal ideas from Tarantino movies and Bryan Singer's The Usual Suspects.Whats surprising about this effort is that it's really rather good true the Tarantino influences are there for all to see (Denis Leary's boots monologue etc.) but this doesn't effect what is a quality little thriller. Of course all thrillers rely on the performance of the actors to generate the required tension and pacing it's here suicide kings plays it's ace in a menacing performance by Christopher Walken. Walken uses that incendiary stare and general eriness to good effect and even though he spends 90% of the movie tied up we always know who is in control.The other performances are pretty good and there are a few well known faces from TV etc who all do pretty well. The script is good and the idea is interesting and unique. All in all this is a very entertaining movie.7/10 - Not a shred of originality but plenty of entertainment "},{"Title":"Great movie!! Good Acting by all involved","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The script was very good and well developed through out the movie, each person with the exception of avery had there personality developed through out the film. the twist was good and the ending even better(happy ending for those who enjoy realism). Denis Leary's part was hilarious and christopher walken was awesome. i recommend viewing this flick and if you have already then tell your friends! It is what i hope more movies would be, it didn't need fancy special effects to be good. Its a drama/comedy/mystery that fullfills in many ways. The cast selected was perfect and i love the scene with dennis leary and the toaster. i don't give a lot of movie's ten stars but i have to for this one because its just good all around! "}{"Title":"Another source for the song Shattered","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" FYI- If you like me, liked the movie and even more so, LOVED the song Shattered in this movie that plays throughout and were equally frustrated with the lack of soundtrack- you'll be overjoyed to know you can find it on the Crazy/Beautiful soundtrack. It's done by Remy Zero, written by one if its members Cinjun Tate (former (?) husband of Alyssa Milano), but you won't find it on any of its albums (that I know of at least).They have a great sound- I thought for a while it was as U2 song! Remy also has a couple of awesome songs on the Garden State soundtrack- also highly recommended!! "},{"Title":"Johnny Galecki & Christoper Walken  Were Fantastic !","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is always a pleasure to view the films of Christopher Walken,(Carlo Bartolucci),Around the Bend,'04, and in this picture Carlo is mostly in a wheel chair and his acting is just plain outstanding. Carlo manages to play with the minds of his so called playmates and starts all kinds of problems just sitting still and being wheeled around during most of the film. Johnny Galecki,(Ira Reder),Roseanne,1988 TV Series, gave a great supporting role and showed what great talent he really has playing the role of IRA. This is a great film that will make you laugh, get upset and make you wonder just how this picture will END. ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Suicide is right.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings has a decent premise on which to base a film, although unrealistic, but is hurt by just about everything else such as acting, direction, editing, and script. Before I go off in a fit of rage, I'd like to say that I did enjoy Walken and Leary here....they just got shafted by everything else but it's not their fault. They were both more than decent and are SK's only redeeming qualities whatsoever.SK is a classic example of a film that's very mildly entertaining on it's first viewing, but because of it's twists and red herrings the replay value is shot to about zero. It doesn't have respect for the audience's intelligence or perceptive skills. You really begin to realize how bad it is once you've seen it more than once. I like movies that I can watch time and time again like most people, so you can guess what I think about that. I remember it being a tad retarded, so I decided to give it another chance for my review. It was worse than I remembered it to be.It loses points right off for casting Henry Thomas, the epitome of a wuss who can't do much else, and Sean P. Flanery...the most fake and fabricated actor in a long time. I've only seen Flanery in this film, that I know of, and he's simply unconvincing and annoying to the point of throwing me into spasms of violence and utter destruction. This is best personified in his lame MTV-esque kidnapping sequence in which we're forced to swallow our own bile as he tries to act like he's in love with this chick and cares about her. It's pathetic, and not only that, I really don't like the taste of bile, not even my own. As of right now, it's the worst acting scene I can bring to mind in any film I've seen recently. Like I said, bad, bad MTV video....which can also be attributed to the director, whoever the hell he is. Yuck.The conclusion is typical of the film itself, it jumps around too much and never really gets anywhere or solves anything. And besides, who gives a s&*% about a bunch of poor, poor, rich kids with a little debt anyways? Boo-hoo. Not me. I was hoping and praying for an all out slaughter-fest of pure hatred and merciless vengeance with a dash of mad fury fueled by the embodiment of true evil. I did not get that and I was p*ssed. I'm going to try and go enjoy life now and get this crap out of my head before someone gets hurt. I am baffled at it's lofty rating. As one fellow reviewer suggested, when someone mentions they like or enjoy this film, end all relations immediately. People who enjoy films like these are the reason for the lack of quality in Hollywood these days.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant work!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is probably one of my favorite movies of all time. The acting is amazing, the cast is perfect, cameras are great. For an intense movie, it also has quite a bit of comedy, which makes a big difference in comparing it to other thrillers. Someone else wrote a great plot summary, so I won't write anything about that, but I believe that if you have a chance to see this, don't miss out. "},{"Title":"Mafia fun","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was direct to video in the UK.  Inconceivable.  Christopher Walken is a mafia boss.  Stop, it gets better.  For unlikely reasons, he is kidnapped by a bunch of incompetent poker buddies.  He starts bleeding to death while the likes of Young Indy, Elliott and David From Roseanna flap about uselessly.  Meanwhile, Denis Leary (yes!) is busy in what seems to be a whole different film about a man who hits people with a baseball bat.  It's an absolute classic, and totally overlooked. "},{"Title":"Good acting, good directing, bad plot","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have a confession to make.  I didn't watch this movie for Christopher Walken or Denis Leary, although both of them are excellent in this film. I was excited to see Sean Patrick Flanery in another movie.  He was excellent in Boondock Saints and I wanted to see more of his work.  In that, I was not disappointed by Suicide Kings.Unfortunately, Suicide Kings suffers from the illness of a well-written bad plot.  There are some excellent lines, and these three actors in particular deliver great performances, both in dialogue and in soliloquy.  But the movie as a whole is far too contrived.  The last few twists in the film tip the scales on what had previously been a smart balance between light and dark, between humor and suspense.  The movie spirals into a final act that leaves a viewer feeling empty, even cheated.  Perhaps this was director Peter O'Fallon's intention... being as this was his first film, he might have been looking to make an impact, do something avant-garde, etc.Regardless, there is some excellent acting, great dialogue, humor and suspense.  The movie works, and works well, up until the last five or ten minutes.  I'm glad I saw Suicide Kings, but I doubt I'll be watching it again any time soon.  Or at least I'll be excusing myself before the final act to get a fresh drink or hit the bathroom.  Either is certainly a better use of that time.Finally, kudos to Denis Leary and Sean Patrick Flanery, both of whom are great in this movie.  And of course, Christopher Walken.They should've known better than to tangle with Gabriel... "},{"Title":"I bought the DVD and put it right next to my Godfather Colection","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok...I watched this movie yesterday. I knew I must buy the DVD as soon as I saw Chritopher Walken is in it. He is just my favourite actor (well one of them). I took the DVD and played it. Then I played it again. And once again. Satisfied with what I saw three times I took the DVD out and put it on my DVD shelf right next to my Godfather Collection. That means Im going to watch this movie for many times and that its a superb movie that should get as known and acult as the Godfather. Why? The script was written with care and is the work of an genious. The dialouges are the thin red line of the film and you get to know what you need to know at any given point of any given time of the movie. Christopher Walken has the better part of the Dialogue and he acts it out well. Not just sayin it as the script said but with great facial expressions and with changes of tone wich almost no actor I know can achive. The plot has been told more then once here so Im not going to repeat it. All that I can say that the twists in the plot and the superb supporting role of Denis Leary shoot this film to greatest heights right against the legendary Godfather. I disliked the alternative endings that were on the DVD cause they just dont feel right. The theatrical is the best one. This is all I can say. "},{"Title":"You dont have to be a guy to appreciate this film","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yep, its a bit of a silly film, but I thought it was appealing, and I'm a girl.I think that Christopher Walken could make any film cool, but though there are flaws, like the music, I think the rest of it is pretty good too. Even girls can understand the sense of betrayal that they all feel at the end of the film, and though I agree its not a date movie, I think the end of the film is moving and plausible.  It works within its own logic.  I dont think that you need to explain everything about all of the characters in order to increase the tension, the acting does that.  It has brought Jeremy Sisto to my attention too, so I'm happy about that.So perhaps it doesnt do all the action etc that well, but its good psychologically, and us girls can appreciate that.  Its interesting to see Christopher Walken allowing them all to dig themselves into their own graves. "},{"Title":"Walken saves everything, even this sitcom-level garbage","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wouldn't have touched this film if Walken wasn't in it.  Let's face it, Christopher Walken is a brilliant, stupendous actor, who could make anything at least watchable.  There are good ideas here, but not much else.  The college boy actors are boring and unconvincing, giving the ensemble feel of a high school play.  Walken is perfect all through, and I found my attention waning when he wasn't on camera.  Most of this story is rubbish, and the story telling is terrible.  The music is corny, and long tangental scenes are clearly inserted to pad the running time.  The soundtrack is inexcusibly bad, and the romantic scenes would make Dawson's Creek look downright artistic.  A silly film best avoided.  "},{"Title":"Best movie you've never heard of","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the greatest movie you've never heard of.  Its not popluar by any means but is one everyone should see.  Its a sort of wannabe gangster movie with many twists and turns and although it is a drama you will find yourself laughing throughout "}{"Title":"A Great Movie all around!!!!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has a terrific blend of humour, plot twists & suspense, action and great dialogue... In my opinion, if you substituted a murder victim for the 'kidnapping' victim, it has many of the classic elements from a Dame Agatha Christie mystery. Christopher Walken, my favourite actor, once again stole the show... even spending most of the movie duct taped to a chair... due to his intense facial expressions and vocal inflection... from dripping menace to subtle, black humour... he's definitely the Master of Acting and it SHOWS in Suicide Kings! The other notable acting kudo goes to Dennis Leary, who with a steady line of profane wisecracks and one fairly intense dramatic monologue, kept up the rest of the film. All in all, a good movie to watch... i'm VERY glad i bought the DVD... But personally, i would have liked to *see* the alternate endings without the director blabbing all over the top of them...  "},{"Title":"good chris walken...bad jay mohyer","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  at first, i thought a cross between reservoir dogs and swingers...instead, a great character movie.  the plot's slow, but is worth it just to watch the ensemble cast.  henry thomas should get more work; i feel bad his ET costar gets all the credit.  jay moher plays the same character in every movie. the dude from roseanne is definitely a highlight.  there's one guy that looks exactly like derrick manley, and he does a great job.  BUT, the whole movie is worth it for walken's smart dialogue, perfectly played, and leary's irish gangster character acting more real than anything scorcese could have concocted in gangs of new york. "},{"Title":"Thriller With Brains and Style","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings took my by surprise on all cylinders. It has a simple plot, but it takes it and squeezes all of it can out of it. The result is thoroughly satisfying.With very strong direction by Peter O'Fallon, Suicide Kings tells the story of five kids who kidnap a mob boss in order to use him to get information on the whereabouts of one of the men's kidnapped sister. The story twists and turns until the final shot.Christopher Walken is outstanding as usual, as is Denis Leary, who is downright hilarious in this one. All of the other leads stand out because they each have a personality all their own. The acting is definitely the main factor that carries this one.This is a great guy movie to watch over a few brews. Highly recommended.Grade A "},{"Title":"Unpredictable, yet Realistic","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen a lot of B-Movieish crime movies in my time, and a lot of them have good ideas, but have fatal flaws with realism.  Either that or they are predictable.Suicide Kings was one of the best crime-thriller (the genre I would place it in) I have seen.  I haven't seen Reservoir Dogs, which people have been raving about here, so I can't compare it to that.  But Suicide Kings kept me entertained with the twists and turns, the interesting character development of even some minor characters (like Leary's scenes), the dark humor from Walken, and the realism that permeates the movie.  Screenwriters often make characters either complete idiots or geniuses that make no mistakes.  This movie is unpredictable, much like actual life is. A lot of movies will have unrealistic endings that make the audience happy or make large holes in logic to have the most shocking ending (Wild Things comes to mind), I believe that this movie could pretty much happen in real life.  With the exception of Ira, the neurotic nerd that brings down the movie pretty often.  I don't blame the actor, he was just poorly written.If it wasn't for Ira, this movie might've gotten a 10.  But it was a good, entertaining movie that took an idea that may sound a bit overdone to some, and turned into a solid piece of art.  I think this is a paragon of thiller films.  So it got a 9.Another movie of this genre (involving kidnapping as well) that I might suggest is Along Came A Spider. "},{"Title":"The most original movie at this point in time!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  See this movie if it is the last thing you do.  Great performances from all actors but Christopher Walken and Denis Leary stood out the most and were absolutely awesome throughout the film.  This is a must see movie for anyone who is a fan of twisted endings and incredible acting by both veterans and up and coming actors like Sean Patrick Flannery and Jay Mohr. "},{"Title":"Quite funny, if uneven.  Overall very entertaining.","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie couldn't seem to decide whether it was funny or dark.  Mostly it's funny and charming, not too dark.  Once it settles into the preposterous idea that these young amateurs could succeed in kidnapping this ex `capo di tutti capi', it has to go into the realm of comedy.  Here Christopher Walken is no longer outwardly angry with them, but chatty, sort of enjoying himself.  Other reviews say that J. Galecki's character is badly done, but I disagree.  The other characters straddle the edge between comedy and seriousness, while Ira is a flat out caricature of the wimp of the group.  Between him and a very amused Walken, it morphs firmly into a comedy with interesting plot twists.The chosen ending (you see two others on the DVD) was, in my opinion, too dark for the rest of the movie.  Barrett seems like a quite reasonable guy by the end.  Guess why they chose it?  It tested best for the under 25 demographic. (After testing, it's too bad the marketing group didn't have enough money to spend on actual advertising.)   I thought it left a bad taste to an otherwise lighthearted movie.  Wonder how the original short story ended...There are other flaws, like the unnecessary flashback with Laura San Giacomo, but seeing Walken in a 70s outfit and long wig is more than worth it!I rented this thinking `oh, another Tarantino-like noirish pseudo-hip guy-movie', but it was MUCH better than that--a very funny movie with great lines.  Walken and Leary are both very likable.  Leary's character is very close to the one he played on the very funny, short-lived TV show The Job. (Whatever happened to that, ABC?)  "},{"Title":"Me and Mr. Mantel...","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The one thing I love about this movie is not really what you would expect. You would think the story itself, the characters, Christopher Walken's creepy and twisted performance, or maybe even Denis Leary's funny and, characteristically, foul-mouthed Lono. You would be close with the last one, but not one hundred percent. In fact the thing I like most has absolutely no relevance to the story at all. The best thing, I found in the movie, was Denis Leary's uncharacteristic calmness when he tells the story of the time he tatooed his own father with a baseball bat after he found his mother, beaten. There is a certain eerie tranquility that accompanies that scene as Leary tells this story to a man who savages his step-daughter, culminating in one of the most calm, yet believable, threats ever. The best thing is, no matter what your opinion is of Leary in the rest of the movie, you will feel more able to see him as a likeable guy for what he does in that scene than anything.Don't get me wrong, the movie is unbelievable. It's slick, it's stylish. It has a dark cool which puts it into the same league as 'Pulp Fiction' and other films like it, yet it stays unique in its deliverance. Filled with twists and turns which make it better and better, this is an unmissable gem. "},{"Title":"its not exactly usual suspects","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This reminded me a lot of Usual Suspects, except for the part about its ending being a surprise.  If you knew the slightest thing about NY you would realize what was going on.  The acting in this movie is not bad though, and if you dont know NY you will be surprised in the same way Usual Suspects surprises. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Done! (Not sure if this contains spoilers, so be warned just in case.)","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is a brilliantly done movie, with right amounts of suspense, angst, comedy and romance to make it a perfect mystery. One that makes you think until the end, and well, even if it doesn't, you enjoy the movie in all it's entirety.The acting was superb. This is a movie done in chronological order, so talk about character build up. I saw Jay Mohr as a boy dying of AIDS in the movie Playing By Heart and comparing him to the obsessive compulsive jerk Brett in this movie made me see what an amazingly talented actor he is.Christopher Walken, who we all recognize as a talented actor, comes across as an even more talented actor as he does practically the entire movie duct taped to a chair. Christopher Walken said he really had to concentrate on the lines for this movie, since he really depends on body language and it shows.Henry Thomas has come a long way from ET. I thought him particularly amazing when he was explaining his motives to his friends, the tears were wonderful.Although Sean Patrick Flannery portrayed my least favorite character, he too did well during his character's climax. And Jeremy Sisto was a wonderful level headed druggy who added a sense of balance to one screwed up group. Johnny Galecki was great, what a nervous lead from the way too cool guy he played on Roseanne. And Denis Leary was an awesome comic relief- if only we could all swear that casually.The plot was great, despite the fact certain big wigs in the reveiwing area thought the ending was weak. I didn't think it that way at all. Twists and turns and shockers ahead. From having the boys have the upper hand, to suddenly letting Charlie have it, and finding out that one of their own was not at all on their side, and even after discovering who it was, having one final shock for the ending. That my friends, in my opinion does not a weak ending make.All in all, Suicide Kings is the perfect movie to rent, and to watch at any time. After seeing it 9 times it still makes me laugh as though I was seeing it the first time, making me want to watch it again. Worth the three dollars, or paying the whole amount to own it, Suicide Kings is one you should definitley not miss. "},{"Title":"Well Worth The Rental","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A great ensemble cast propels this movie far beyond what it would have been with a lesser cast. Christopher Walken drips an aura of danger, like blood from his hand. Dennis Leary's everyman , hitman, is as funny as it is believable, and the prep boys, all of them, do a great, pretty in pink gone bad imitation. Sure it borrows from some other flicks, like Pulp Fiction, and the Usual Suspects, but it's alot of fun, and it'll keep you guessing till the end. My vote. A solid 9 "}{"Title":"Walken at his best!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The best thing about this movie was that it surprised me.  Right out of the blue.  I was expecting perhaps a Godfather rip-off, or some kind of Dennis-Leary style rant-session with gangsters. This movie creeps up on you subtlety.  Even when the action's happening, it's kinda low-key and average.  But it's all setting up the dialogue. Everything in this movie focuses the wonderful performances by pretty much the entire cast.  Christopher Walken is quickly becoming one of my favorite actors, and he did not disappoint with this movie.  He fits the gangster stereotype, but adds to it immensely as well.  It's wonderful just to watch him speak.  (That's about all he does, he's taped to a chair in the movie.) Even the annoying, drawn-out speeches by the kid who lives in the house are great, and really add to the movie.And yes, Leary was good too.  It's great to see he actually DOES have some REAL acting talent, and I enjoyed his scenes a lot.9/10.  Low key movie.  But EXCELLENT acting on all fronts.   "},{"Title":"A very good black comedy","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a very well written movie that used the abilities of Christopher Walken, Dennis Leary, and a group of young male actors, to fashion a mystery, plot twist,  black comedy that is really different in today's action FX world.It doesn't surprise me that it made no dent at the movie houses. People don't pay $7 to see movies like this anymore.Thank God for videotape. "},{"Title":"A great movie.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is a terrific movie. This movie was very well cast and Christopher Walken is once again the man. When I heard about this movie everybody said it was a rip-off of the current hip lingo crime drama's that are being made today. This movie isn't the most original movie I've seen, but the story is told well and the director did a great job. One more thing before I finish this comment. Denis Leary's performance in this picture will be a quoted performance for years to come. He was frightening and funny at the same time. Check this one out and have a good time. "},{"Title":"Surprise, Surprise","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I would rate this a very good film, Walken is his usual diabolical self. Only he could take control of a situation while totally immobilized. The plot twists were humorous and entertaining. Rented this movie on a whim (Walken fan) and was most pleasantly surprised.....Enjoy "},{"Title":"Playing with Full Deck","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ever Seen a movie that made you think, laugh, cringe and sit on the edge of your seat the entire time watching it?Ever watch a film that took as much care in the dialog as it did the special effects and filmwork?If you have not or wish to see more of that kind of movie I would recommend going out and renting Suicide Kings.  I give it a 8 on a scale of 1 to 10. I do not rate movies carelessly.  This movie is one that deserves perhaps a award of some kind.This movie has it all!  If you are looking for a film to blow you out of your seat open your mind and tickle your funny bone then your search is over.Other RecommendationsThe Usual Suspects, King of New York, The Ref  "},{"Title":"Entertaining plot and dialog, but some plot problems","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a fun movie about a kidnapping gone wrong. The kidnappers are generally spoiled, rich kids in their 20s who trick an old mobster, played by Christopher Walken, into taking a ride with them. They hold him hostage and he cleverly manipulates them to fight with each other. there's nothing too dark, and the dialog and dynamic with the younger characters is really solid. Dennis Leary's mobster role is funny and angry and brutal in just the right doses.***Possible spoiler*** Most of the way through the film I was convinced there would be a killer climax. The problem is that the story is leading you to believe that there's an inside man... but when you find out who it really is, it seems misleading. The motivations behind the actions of the kidnappers don't quite add up, particularly Avery and Max's interaction. The flashback sections of the story lead you to think one way, but don't come off as too convincing. On the other hand, the movie's good at digging into these different personalities and Walken, Leary and the Ira character are really compelling. (It seems a lot of people didn't like Ira but he's pretty a very important foil for the others and the film would lose a lot without him. Plus, he's awfully convincing as the uptight kiss-up geek.) The twists are pretty cool, and not too tricky to get, just a little contradictory when you consider all the different ways the movie could have gone. But this was the way to make it interesting and not so obvious.Well worth renting or picking up used. "},{"Title":"A thriller that should get more credit","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This title had been around for a while at the rental shop! I ignored it because I hadn't heard about it! Since it was a small rental video store I was running out of titles for me to watch! I rented it and watched it and was a bit ashamed that I didn't rent it earlier! This was before I ever heard of Internet Movie Data Base! So I couldn't check if this movie was any good! This movie really surprised me! I expected this to be an average crime movie! But it is more than that! It is a very exciting thriller with a lot of twists and surprise ending! All the actors perform well! Of course they are no match for Christopher Walken since he steals every scene he is in! The plot seems simple,but soon you will realize that matters are more complex than presented! There are several comedic scenes since the kidnappers are not very experienced and even get tips from Christopher Walken how to do better! That a title this great didn't get more credit is a mystery to me! Go watch this movie! It is a funny thriller with excellent performances! What more do you want! "},{"Title":"Just watch it","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I first read the summary in a TV guide,I wasn't amazingly convinced'Students kidnap a respected mafia figure in order to save a young girl.Stars Christopher Walken and Henry Thomas'I'm sure you'll agree it isn't eye-catching.However,being a big fan of Walken,I felt I'd give it a try,and how I am glad I did.The plot is simple enough at first,students(Mohr,Thomas,Flannery etc) do indeed kidnap mafia figure Carlo Bartolucci(Walken) and tell him he is being used to free a girl. Simple enough really.Then the fun starts-Carlo,or Charlie as he prefers to be called,begins to talk to his hosts,finding out various bits of information.I wont say any more about this.It has a great ending,and if you don't like the sound of what I've said,fine,but give the film a chance.I'm pretty sure you'll like it as much as meEnjoy The FilmSean "},{"Title":"Royal Flush","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Several comments here for the price of one, and because space is tight anyway go see a switchback movie, go see (in no particular order) Suicide Kings, Reservoir Dogs, Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead, Wild Things, Two Days In The Valley and The Usual Suspects.Regard the movies as cards from the same genre pack (appropriately, given Suicide Kings' provenance) and the hand's pretty good one exceptionally strong card, two almost-as-good cards, one so-so, one feeble, and one that needs discarding from the outset.Exceptionally strong? For all the reasons IMDb users have given over the years Reservoir Dogs.Two almost-as-good? Two Days In The Valley and, yup, Suicide Kings.So-so? The Usual Suspects over-hyped, overwrought, over-valued.Weak? Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead -- everyone ran out of inspiration after conjuring up the title.Immediate discard? No doubt about it Wild Things, as mechanistic a mess of a movie has ever reached the screen, the plotline seemingly created by a computer program of mind-numbing sterility.But Suicide Kings? Ah, sublime stuff, downgraded here from top rank only because it is so often in the Tarantino school rather than distinct in its own right. But this is celebration, not mere emulation Leary's monologues make for a finely honed pastiche, whilst one climactic scene (no, no spoilers here) is the Dogs' warehouse tableaux pointedly, wittily, re-staged.A class act, then, and from all concerned sharp, fast, direction, skilled editing, some joyous dialogue (particularly where Christopher Walken is concerned, an actor imbued with an innate and charismatic immobility here -- cue joke -- rendered even more immobile for most of the movie, yet responsible for one of the most animated (and funny) performances he's ever given.Downside? Apparently the movie's ending was decided by a preview audience, a bunch of people I don't know, will never meet, and in whom I have no interest whatsoever. So why've I had to pay to see on film what passes through their collective brain (on the evidence of this film, plainly, not a lot)?Niggles aside though for sheer creativity, rich humour (the hidden gags -- Walken=immobile=totally unmoving, the Dogs' subtly, briefly reprised warehouse tableau -- inevitably work better than the more overt comedy) and, above all, boundless energy, Suicide Kings is a high card all the way, a stand-out in this now increasingly overcrowded genre.Pity about the final scenes though. Like preview audiences, we could've done without 'em.  "},{"Title":"Not original, but a great film nonetheless","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is a rare beast of a film- sure, it can be viewed as a knock-off film, but it ends up better than the films it knocks off! It came to light in the late 90's when crime drama was the word and though it may seem a direct re-imagining of some greater (and worse) films in the genre, the suspense and whodunit nature of the movie really puts it near the top of the list in my opinion. Comparisons to Usual Suspects will abound, but Suicide Kings holds it's own. I have read contrary views to this, but it is my assessment that Henry Thomas (yes, from E.T.), Jay Mohr, Denis Leary, and Christopher Walken blend really well together in this movie.Long story short A group of trust fund preppies kidnaps a known mob boss to fix a situation involving one of the young men's kidnapped sister- he can either pay the ransom or use his connections to find out who is behind the sister-snatching. Walken plays the mob boss to a hilt, and he turns the heat up on his kidnappers by suggesting (through his outside connections) that it may have been an inside job. Once this monkey wrench is thrown into the system, the men start doubting each other and themselves, and it is clear that they are in over their heads.The DVD of Suicide Kings has a few alternate endings, one of which I personally prefer over the actual ending.  "}{"Title":"An awesome movie","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just watching Suicide Kings was so cool, this is one of my new favorite movies! Christopher Walken is just so cool and creepy as the mob boss, I just loved his line Now we play my way!, isn't he just the coolest guy ever? The whole group of friends were just crazy and hilarious, this dark comedy is a must see for anybody! Some of my favorite scenes were the first wake up scene where Christopher Walken discovers his finger is missing, also where the unknowing friend walks into his own house and finds Christopher Walken and screams That is not poker! and holding the beer! Another favorite line of mine is Ira, you the man!, Do you remember? You said I was the man! I was your man!.This is just overall a great movie and you have to trust me, it's worth a watch and a buy! Don't you also just love Sean Patrick Flanery?! Isn't he gorgeous! D OK, well to some, but just have fun and I'd also recommend if you enjoyed this flick Very Bad Things, it's another cool flick. So, sit back and enjoy! 9/10 "},{"Title":"atrocious","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really built up to see this movie and extremely let down. So many plot holes, so many contrivances. Is it a comedy, is it a drama? Well, it's not funny and it's not dramatic. The real king of dramatic black comedy is John McNaughton (Wild Things). This movie tries hard but fails miserably. Why are we following Lono, why do we care about this girl, why would a mob boss get in a car with a bunch of kids, and why cut off his finger when her's never was. Why watch this movie? Don't. "},{"Title":"Clever dark comedy is a crime drama with a twist...","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" CHRISTOPHER WALKEN is a kidnapped man who uses his criminal contacts to help him out of a bad situation. Seems that HENRY THOMAS and his pals are holding Walken for ransom money they need to pay the men who kidnapped Thomas' sister. As it turns out, the plot is not as simple as that when we learn that there are darker forces afoot.The mixture of comedy, suspense, and strong drama are expertly blended, the script providing plenty of sharp lines for Walken and the kidnappers. SEAN PATRICK FLANERY, JAY MOHR, JEREMY SISTO and NATHAN DANA are all excellent as the young men with the plan that hasn't been carefully thought out, and JOHNNY GALECKI demonstrates a good deal of comic flair in his role as the unhappy friend who inadvertently allows the men to mess up his father's home for their criminal plans.DENIS LEARY injects a lot of grim humor into his role as Walken's aide handy with a gun and BRAD GARRETT and FRANK MEDRANO draw laughs as a pair of bickering gangsters who argue mostly about who gets to use the TV remote and threaten to shoot each other over it.The clever script even has a twist ending that gives the film a final crime doesn't pay fade-out. Darkly humorous, it also manages to be highly suspenseful and well worth watching, even with the overabundance of profanity. "},{"Title":"Great movie!! Good Acting by all involved","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The script was very good and well developed through out the movie, each person with the exception of avery had there personality developed through out the film. the twist was good and the ending even better(happy ending for those who enjoy realism). Denis Leary's part was hilarious and christopher walken was awesome. i recommend viewing this flick and if you have already then tell your friends! It is what i hope more movies would be, it didn't need fancy special effects to be good. Its a drama/comedy/mystery that fullfills in many ways. The cast selected was perfect and i love the scene with dennis leary and the toaster. i don't give a lot of movie's ten stars but i have to for this one because its just good all around! "},{"Title":"Why is this film not talked about more?","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love Christopher Walken in just about every movie he is in(Wayne's World 2 to Deer Hunter), but that is not the only reason this movie is great. The cast is solid and play their roles well, the script is entertaining and flows through out. My girlfriends and I see each character as one of us through their personality. I love movies like the Usual Suspects and Boondock Saints(which Sean Patrick Flanery is also in), and this falls into that category for me. Dennis Leary is at his best along with Jay Mohr. On the DVD you are able to see the original ending they had(plus another one) that they decided not to use after it didn't screen well with the preview audience, a smart move for sure b/c you hate to see such good plots ruined b/c they just couldn't pull the ending off due to some type of writers block or something. Definitely a movie you can watch again and again, and worth adding to your movie collection. "},{"Title":"Classic Christopher Walken","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a mildly clever movie featuring another great portrait of menace from Christopher Walken. He's a retired mafioso who ends up being taken hostage by four New York preppies as leverage, since Avery's (Henry Thomas) sister, Elise has been kidnapped by two psycho hoodlums (including Everybody Loves Raymond's Brad Garrett). Walken is supposed to supply them with connections and foot the bill for the $2,000,000 ransom money. Jay Mohr is the mastermind of the plan, a semi-psycho control freak who may have more at stake than anyone else knows. Johnny Galecki is hilarious as Ira, the guy who loaned his house to his four friends for poker and freaks out when he finds a mobster dct-taped to his father's favorite chair. Sean Patrick Flanery, Elise's boyfriend, and Jeremy Sisto, as a junkie male nurse round out the accomplices in the kidnap scheme. What Walken learns from his attorney is that, most likely, the other kidnappers used an inside player, and begins to turn everyone against each other, systematically.During all of this, Denis Leary, as Walken's sociopathic driver, is prowling New York City (actually Los Angeles) for anyone who knows anything about either of the kidnappings. In the meantime he raves on with liberal profanity with his partner, about everything from his $5000 boots to the cheap graphite golf club he uses to bean another another gangster into submission with in a strip club.The movie has one or two twists that don't quite gel. And it is definitely a dark and tense story, with only some mild comedy bits to warrant any laughs.One scene in particularly vexes me. Denis Leary's character, Lono Veccio, tells an abusive alcoholic father about his own father and grandfather. His grandfather came over from Ireland with the alcoholic gene. His father inherited it. And although Leary is Boston-Irish, he plays a guy with an Italian name. It's fine, I guess, but it leaves a gaping hole concerning his origins. "},{"Title":"WALKEN AT HIS BEST","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The cast of this movie will leave you speechless.  Dennis Leary gives a performance worth seeing.  Christopher Walken was absolutley stunning. The plot, sub plots, and counter plot leave you at the edge of your seat untill the very end. One of the ten best movies made in the decade.  A sleeper hit! "},{"Title":"An excellent 'Clue'like movie, but so much more.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rate this movie a 10 on a 1-10 scale, 10 being the best!You watch this, some humor, most things pretty abnormal, then, when you think you realize it all, BLAMMO! TOTAL CHANGE! They had me going for quite a while... a nonstopper!One of Leary's best, and it was good to see Walken in a semi-humorous role! "},{"Title":"What the?","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw this movie on the shelf I thought that the movie would show me a few good ways to bump myself off.  When I brought it home, sleeping pills in hand, I realized that it had nothing to do with suicide. Do Bomfim a favor and go rent this.  I think it may have been a play, before a movie. Well anyhow, it is one of Bomfim's faves.    "},{"Title":"Really suspenseful and surprising","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really hate it when you are watching a movie and you can see the ending coming from a mile away. This movie, with the exception of a few wobbles, was extremely suspenseful and well put together. A few sick laughs help, too!  "}{"Title":"One of the  best movies I have seen in a couple of years.","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Christopher was great as the retired mobster boss and Denis Leary was excellent as Walken's right-hand man (no pun intended if you have seen the movie). I enjoy movies that don't give away the direction it is going in and this one does not give you any clues as the plot unfolds. It can be classified as action/suspense and also as a black comedy. It makes it even more enjoyable to see a movie that I had never heard of and only watched because it was the only movie that was available and then be so pleasantly surprised. Too often a movie is heavily advertised and does live up to it's billing. "},{"Title":"Peter O'Fallon Swings and Misses!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I tried to write this without the spoiler, but it's just not possible as my main complaint is with the ending. Simply put IT SUCKS.Don't get me wrong, I am not one of those people who seek a happy ending in all of my films. However, in films that contain COMIC RELIEF -- especially in the form of Dennis Leary, who is awesome -- the director loses the right to go for the self-serving artistic, meaningful ending. B.S.! The topic is fairly serious, admittedly, but there is more than enough comic relief throughout the movie and to go for the everyone dies ending is a cop-out.Peter O'Fallon should have gone with his first alternate ending (available on the DVD). It makes much more sense, especially since Chistoper Walken's character is shown to be sort of a romantic at heart -- and letting the couple go at the end (AND giving them a wedding gift) works MUCH BETTER.That's my opinion anyway. But what do I know -- I go through life fat, drunk and stupid. "},{"Title":"Not your ordinary mafia film","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This isn't your typical gangster/mafia style movie. Most films of this genre include mafia bosses going after each other, but Suicide Kings is unique in the way that it brings a whole new dynamic to the whole scene. The plot is original, and funny at times, and some of the roles were acted out superbly, such as Christopher Walken's role as the retired mafia boss and Jeremy Sisto as the upcoming doctor, T.K. Some of the filming seemed a bit weak but overall I'd say if your a fan of the genre, then this is a must see movie simply because it offers something different. "},{"Title":"90 % of an entertaining film","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first 90 minutes of Suicide Kings is very entertaining. There is a great sense of humor which shows that the filmmakers did not take this film too seriously. Helped out by a great performance by Christopher Walken, this is a story of a mob guy who gets kidnapped by a group of kids so he can help them find one of their sisters. She supposedly was kidnapped and Walken's character has the connections and the money to get her back. There is a great sense of humor throughout the film. This continues until the last 10 minutes where it seems like everyone gets killed actually just 4 people die but I think this would have been a better film if they had changed the last part of the film. Even with my reservations about the ending of the film I highly recommend it mostly for Walken' performance "},{"Title":"probably last movie about Italian mafia I will ever watch","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yep! Too much is far more than enough. And what is the most terrible thing about these movies, that the mafia boss always seems to be, if not the hero, at least the cool guy in control. A healthy normal human being who just happen to get people murdered and stuff. Maybe some film makers had forgotten what scum these people really are. Seems that after making too much movies about Italian mobsters, they have become sort of normal businessmen for some film makers. Makes me just wonder why normal normal honest Italian American people don't seem to care none about the situation.The movie itself is predictable stereotypic none sense. The good acting plus other technical quality only seems to clarify the total lack substance in this movie.         "},{"Title":"Good to Watch, Not Worth Keeping","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those movies that are good to watch but not worth keeping. The cast are supposed to be a great one. However, the story is a bit ridiculous. The funny moments are pushed to the limit where it's no longer funny. It's either Johnny Galecki failed to fit into his character or the screenwriter failed to deliver good lines. Laura Harris as Elise, the so-called kidnapped girl, is also very weak in acting. The story is quite original though. All in all, rent this movie, don't buy. Unless you have your favorite actors in it... "},{"Title":"If only these 'Kings' offed themselves!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Suicide Kings is really trying to be The Usual Suspects. Really, really trying. The problem is that it's really, really bad. It's God awful as a matter of fact. Instead of being a clever, suspenseful movie full of interesting characters, it's a boring, uninteresting film with indistinguishable characters. It also tried to have a surprise twist ending, and I must say the filmmakers did deliver on that. Well, they kinda did. It was a surprise and a twist, but it certainly wasn't clever. It was just plain stupid.The cast, which includes one-time stars Sean Patrick Flannery and Henry Thomas, stalled-stars Jay Mohr and Jeremy Sisto and I'll-make-any-film-for-money stars Christopher Walken and Denis Leary, are all wasted with terrible, uninspired dialogue. Suicide Kings' younger stars, who could've brought a lot of neat depth to the film, only offer whiney characters that just don't go anywhere or give you anything to be sympathetic to.I really wish the film were better. As a viewer, I kept giving the film more brains than it had. Some of my erroneous thoughts about what could have happened, but didn't ... They didn't really cut off Walken's finger, they drugged him and told him it was (they would've shown him a cadaver's finger)... At the end, Denis Leary tries to take over the mob by shooting Walken, so he can ascend in the ranks ... Ira somehow being involved, and just playing dumb ...Ah! Enough of that, just take my word for it, this film isn't worth seeing. You have my word.7/20/99   "},{"Title":"Almost, but not quite","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are many good things to say about Suicide Things, the most obvious is that Chris Walken is in it. But even Mr. Walken, and the very strong supporting cast they've assembled here can't overcome a weak script and an obviously under-funded, while well-meaning movie.Convoluted heist yarns tend to suffer when the viewer is asked too many times to fill in the dots. The alternative has the movie foreshadowing characters or locations. There has to be a  reason, and the alert viewer will have the puzzle put together long before the story ends.Without the foreshadowing the viewer struggles to remember the relationships between characters and  locales, this quickly leads to disinterest, and then disgust. Arghh!Only a few (recently The Usual Suspects comes to mind) manage to straddle this gap effectively, so don't even begin to expect this from Suicide Kings.Dennis Leary is a highlight, in a roll written exactly for his temperament.Otherwise stillborn.  "},{"Title":"amateurishly orchestrated exclamations","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Totally ridiculous plot overwhelms any positive aspects. Don't bother.This movie exemplifies the praise a movie gets by virtue of film-school dropouts on Lake IMDBgone!! Elitist Hollywood nitwits call anything that stars someone they once saw walking down the street sensational!!! They even know how to turn a simple exclamation point into a lethal object!! Very ineffective and self-degrading!!! The list of other peculiarities in these comments epitomizes the superb acting required for them to exude false intellectualism!! The comment starts out with an amateurishly orchestrated exclamation attempt which is used as a defense strategy to abort the insight that the dropout has no clue!! It is proverbial adolescent convoluted logic to appear educated!! The bottom line on this whole charade is that there is little or no organ above the neck!! Mutilation of basic punctuation serve(s) as a cry for attention!! It really does not work, of course, not in real life!! The intensity of insecurities in this ... oh,, the humanity. "},{"Title":"Walken is the only thing this movie has going for it.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Make no mistake. Suicide Kings is a very, very, very bad movie. When I meet someone who says that they loved Suicide Kings, and they don't quickly clarify that it's actually only Christopher Walken that they loved about it, I end all relations with that person. I don't need to be associated with the type of imbecile who thinks Suicide Kings is a good movie.  "}{"Title":"a waste of talent","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i felt like this film was trying way too hard to be clever, and it just doesn't work. the story line was totally fake and some of the performances were poor. Henry Thomas was stone-faced and the kid from 'Roseanne' was merely annoying. i expected more from this film. even Dennis Leary's lines felt like they were forced. the small-talk about his boots didn't seem natural (obviously trying to recreate a pulp fiction vibe). what a letdown! "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't get it.  Everyone raves about this movie, but I found it predictable and trite.  It seemed much longer than it was.  I have no objection to long movies, just short movies that seem long.  Overall, I think it fails to live up to its undeserved hype. "},{"Title":"Almost drove me to suicide","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This ranks fairly highly on my all-time bad film list.It's one of only two or three movies I have actually stopped watching half-way through. I just knew that if I sat through any more, I would really want those minutes back at the end of my life. Horrific writing included completely unbelievable situations and preposterous dialogue. No suspension of disbelief whatsoever. I didn't buy it at all.  "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a piece of crap! A disjointed, ridiculous plot. I am so sick of movies trying to make me to feel sorry for rich kids and their awful lives.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining film","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Suicide Kings is a great film about a group of friends, led by Brett (Jay Mohr), who come up with a plan to save Avery's (Henry Thomas) sister from a pair of kidnappers. Their ill-fated plan consists of abducting gangster Carlo Bartolucci (Christopher Walken) and trying to use his mob ties to insure the safe return of Elise (Laura Harris), who happens to be Max's (Sean Patrick Flanery) sweetheart. Their plan is well conceived but they do not know what they have gotten themselves into. Everything begins to fall apart as Charlie begins to figure the kids out and starts playing mind games with them as his right-hand man Lono (Denis Leary) closes in on their location.Christopher Walken is stellar, in a role perfect for him, as Carlo. Denis Leary's biting comedy style is well suited for his character Lono. The rest of the cast put on excellent performances as well covering a wide range of characters types and personalities. Overall the movie is very good in both plot and acting.. "},{"Title":"worth it for Walken","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just watched this film last night and although it's not great it's got some good points. The good points are Christopher Walken I thought he was perfect for this movie and gave a great performance. He is one of the few actors who can make bad dialogue sound good. Secondly I loved the ending I'm not taking about the twist I will get to them, but the very ending. Without giving anything away you don't get the usual happy ending. The bad points. I would have liked to have seen more of Laura Harris so you could get a feel for the kidnapped girl. The Dialogue was not always great, but I did love the monologue in the middle of the movie by Denis Leary. The plot was full of holes with a lot of movie coincidence thrown in. The twists which is hard to explain without adding a spoiler, but when the final twist is revealed it makes the brothers role so far fetched and for everything to come together just to much. I hope that makes some sense. Despite what I have said it is defiantly worth seeing for its comedy and Walken. "},{"Title":"poorly acted, terrible dialog","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I bought this movie because of Christopher Walken. Ever since I saw him in Biloxi Blues, he has been one of my favorite actors. Not matter how crappy the movie is, if he's in it, I'll give it a go.That having been said, Suicide Kings is totally awful. Walken in a ridiculous wig at one point in the movie is laughable. None of the characters are memorable or interesting. That guy from Roseanne (Darlene's boyfriend) who plays Ira in this movie is intolerably annoying. I don't understand why one of the other characters doesn't just smack him, because I wanted to. The dialog is unrealistic and frustratingly awful. The story is full of uninteresting plot elements, and the director tries to weave a suspenseful tale to keep you guessing, but I lost interest. The ending was hacked together after some test audience screenings, and the way it is shot and edited, you have no idea what happens! Give this one a miss. Not even worth renting. "},{"Title":"Good thriller/comedy.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an okay movie for those rainy days.It has good acting performances,especially by Christopher Walken who I always thinks is great.The movie has a Mafia feel to it and the story takes place in among the rich people.I will not tell you anything about the plot,because the better it will be. "},{"Title":"Low-quality crime movie ..","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is certainly not an intelligent movie, that plays with you, tricks you, surprises you .. I found nothing to stimulate my mind .. The villains hence the ending becomes visible before half-an-hour counter elapses .. You are introduced with an interesting plot, but with no other driving factors that will keep you interested till the end ..The acting is definitely poor .. The only characters that save the movie are the old-crime-king (Walken) and his driver (Leary) .. But, even these two actors are somewhat below their well-known quality, because of the messy and amateurish dialog .. The young actors show no talent at all, even if they have some .. Only the wanna-be-doctor character, T.K., is somewhat interesting, the rest, especially Ira, kept be irritated all the time .. No character study is visible, no motivation, nothing .. The lines are spoken with no mind nor soul .. Without Walken (and Leary) this movie would be in the trash ..The saving feature of the movie is its plot (not the script, but the general plot) - the reason why my rating is above half-way point .. Several ideas are certainly unique, but the negative aspects corrupt the movie to the roots ..Bottom Line - Minimal enjoyment for crime/thriller fans .. I found no reason to keep the movie in my movie collection for a second viewing in the future - I don't regret the time I spent for the movie, but I will regret if I (am forced to) watch it again .. "},{"Title":"It really was terrible","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This really was an awful movie. Serious over-acting (ex. Jay Mohr ) or just plain bad acting. The plot made really no sense whatsoever. Not even a good rental.  "}{"Title":"Where do I start","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If someone told there was a worse 'comedy/drama/mob movie' than The Whole 9 Yards I would have found that hard to believe. Not after watching this absolute garbage of a movie.As another writer put it, if you like this movie, I don't want to know you. Bad acting, bad script, and nihilistic stupid ending.Everyone dies except the bad guys, who get away with multiple murders, in a script that makes no sense.Wow, what is not to love?Two stars for production values that are not totally in the toilet. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Nothing Wild - Bottom of the Deck","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Christopher Walken is about the only thing really worth living for in this highly uneven boys club kidnap flick.  More plodding than plotting is going on after a quick and promising opening.  Once Walken is bound and gagged, SUICIDE KINGS is more like JOKERS WILD with five thirty something young brats given nothing funny or dramatic to do as the weary story unfolds.  Even the promise of an insider in the pack doesn't help the tension and all we can do is fold or wait till the final hand.Some neat turns take place just before the final fade out, but too little too late and they are done in by a downer ending that film-makers tried five times to get right!  See it on DVD if you must, where there are enough extras (including better endings) to keep you distracted. Deal me out!   "},{"Title":"Disappointing film that tries to be clever and fails.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Disappointing flick that had the potential to be a lot better. Christopher Walken is fine, but the rest of the cast suffer from a bout of over-acting. The plot twists suffer from lack of imagination and invention, and the MUSIC is particularly irritating and intrusive. It has moments, but not enough. "},{"Title":"Good acting and some nice moments, but not quite enough to recommend. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SUICIDE KINGS / (1997) **1/2 (out of four)By Blake French	Suicide Kings is a an intense, complicated drama with an even more complicated script. Under the circumstances, the screenwriters, Josh McKinney, Gina Goldman, and Wayne Rice, working from a short story by Dan Stanford, do a fine job with the suspenseful and dramatic moments, but they fail to keep a consistent intrigue throughout. They take an interesting idea with original prospects and put them into a movie where the main character spends most his time tied to a chair bleeding to death. While there are some unpredictable twists, intense thematic moments, and strong performances, the movie does not provide quite enough to warrant a recommendation. 	Suicide Kings contains some very violent scenes, but doesn't really take advantage of having a dreaded and powerful mobster as the main character. For the most part, the film makes up for its lack of action with ample amounts of explicit declaratives and obscenities. If we knew more about him, witnessed some of his devious doings, and were provided with more information, we may have felt what the characters experienced, but the movie provides no such development. 	The film places five rich young men in a situation way over their heads. This is supposed to immediately increase the tension we feel, but like I said, we do not feel what they are experiencing because there is no proper introduction. The five friends are Avery (Henry Thomas), Brett (Jay Morh), Max (Sean Patrick Flanery), T.K. (Jeremy Sisto), and Ira (Johnny Galecki), who kidnap the most authoritative underground figure around. His name is Charles Barrett (Christopher Walken), who also goes by another name, but to avoid confusion, we'll stick with Barrett alone. Several criminals kidnapped Avery's sister and Max's girlfriend, Lisa (Laura Harris) and the police are unable to find her. The amateurs demand that Barrett, with his immense underground connections, dish out the ransom of two million dollars and locate the position of Lisa.  	The acting is what makes the movie involving. Christopher Walken can't really do much tied to a chair, but the scenes he does contribute his talent to are taut and imitating through a cunningly convincing evil appearance. Jay Morh comes off as a surprise after getting his career off to a comedic start. Sean Patrick Flanery supplies a rich and intriguing performance. Dennis Leary fabricates a smooth and uncompromising character of subtle humor and startling brutality. 	Suicide Kings offers some intelligent dialogue, but often recycles it from better movies like Pulp Fiction. It is getting to the point where we are going to have to give Hollywood a new genre stories that borrow anything they can from Quentin Tarantino films. Suicide Kings has a good setup and better plot complications, but with its main active character strung to a chair for most of the running time, its only a matter of time before the movie starts to wander and kill time until the next momentous occurrence transpires. "}]