[{"Title":"A Worthy Satire","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"34 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" While many reviewers gave this film mild or bad reviews, they all seem to miss the attention to detail -- the artistic attempt not only to recreate the look and atmosphere of THE GODFATHER, but also the look of the periods depicted.   I found the film delightful. I was expecting what I got -- a spoof from the AIRPLANE folks. They didn't promise Shakespeare so don't expect iambic pentameter. "},{"Title":"Kudos For Godfather Spoof","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here's a very funny spoof on The Godfather story. This is a Leslie Nielsen-type silly parody, except the late Lloyd Bridges played the lead role instead Nielson.Actually Jay Mohr was more of the lead actor in here, narrating the film and taking Al Pacino's Godfather role while Christina Applegate took Diane Keaton's character. There are a number of laugh-out-loud lines in this movie and a number of overdone slapstick scenes. As with any comedy in which the material comes at you at a rapid pace (see the Marx Brothers films from 70 years ago to see some of the origins of comedic mayhem), you get a lot funny and not-so-funny. They come at you so fast you can hardly keep up. I found that there were a lot of funny lines written on background buildings, street signs, etc. on this film. You almost have to freeze-frame some scenes to read all the jokes, much less hear them.This movie did do something that Hollywood films rarely have done poke fun at a Democrat. Usually, the cheap shots are reserved for Republcians (Nixon, Gingrich, Reagan, Bush, etc) but here we have the famous But I never had sex with that woman! line delivered in a obvious reference. Well, good for them. About time the Liberals were recipients of a cheap shot or two. It only happens about once every 25 years in films. So, I give this film points for being fair and balanced.Also points should be awarded for having several actors from the actual Godfather films make appearances here, too. The film was dedicated in loving memory to Bridges, so I assume this was his last movie. Well, he certainly went out with a laugh. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It certainly took a long time to get to see the first spoof on the ever-so -serious mafia flicks! However, it was worth the wait - Jim Abrahams has  certainly not lost his touch. Although there is an abundant number of  really bad jokes in the picture, and many times you've heard them before  (in Airplane!, Naked Gun etc.), one cannot help but like it. For one thing,  Mafia! looks fabulous (especially the Sicilian scenes). At times sparks  really fly in terms of funny dialogue and character interaction - I  especially enjoyed Christina Applegate's 'presidential' performance.  Although Lloyd Bridges will be fondly remembered (and missed), I would have  preferred to see Leslie Nielsen in Don Cortino's role.  "},{"Title":"Armani windbreaker","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Abrahams, the director of Jane Austen's Mafia, is a man that knows a thing, or two, about what to give the public as he has already shown in his acerbic satires. This one, came without any warning the other night and frankly, either we were in a giddy mood, or we were ready to laugh looking at this spoof on the different Godfathers films, as well as others, most notably, Goodfellas and Casino. Francis Ford Coppola and Martin Scorsese might have laughed at seeing some of the material they directed seen in a different light.The casting was excellent. LLoyd Bridges, for whom the film is dedicated, gives a great performance as the older Vincenzo Cortino. Jay Mohr as the younger Cortino is good. The same can be said for the rest of the cast that do some amazing funny turns.The only suggestion is to stay tuned to the credits because of the funny lines in between the names of the people involved in this film. If you're in a mood for fun and want to see some light fare, this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Not great","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Abrahams has written several of my favorite fast-paced comedies, like Hot Shots and The Naked Gun, and of course my favorite Airplane!. This was the first movie that i felt it was obvious he was losing his touch. The comedy is not as fast-paced here as it was before, nor is it as spot-on. Spoofing the Godfather-movies shouldn't be very hard really. Those movies are as potentially silly as great movies always are, walking the thin line that greatness is.The problem here is that i think they missed so many things that could have been spoofed, and they included some things that didn't need spoofing. The best part of the movie in my opinion is the one with the young Cortino coming to America. The more contemporary parts are less funny and more silly. Mostly i find it to be a lack in the script department as both Lloyd Bridges and Jay Mohr are pretty suitable for their parts.In the end this is about 50 percent embarrassing and 50 percent funny, much like many of Leslie Nielsens later movies. It's far from Hot Shots and Naked Gun but then again such comedy is not what it was. "},{"Title":"Funny movie.","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Young Vincenzo Cortino, son of a Sicilian postman, delivers a package for his father and accidentally sees something he should not see. In a donkey's, well, he is smuggled out of town, where he tries to reach a ship headed for America. There, Vincenzo works his way up to the top of the Mafia. One day, his youngest son makes a mistake and has to leave town. A little later, he ends up as a casino boss in Las Vegas. But the heads of the other families want old Don Cortino out of the way. So, they shoot him 47 times and send a *very* attractive woman to distract his son from his casino work. Will he fall for her or will he return to Diane, who, by the way, had run for President successfully in the meantime? Not every joke works, but many of them are indeed quite hilarious. If you liked Jim Abrahams previous films, i.e. Hot Shots 1&2, you'll probably like this film. It spoofs everything from The Godfather, to Jurassic park 2, to Forrest gump. It was also entertaining watching many people who were IN the Godfather spoofing they're own characters! My rating for Mafia!--8/10.ABOUT THE DVD Touchstone has released a reasonable DVD for the film. The image is presented in 1.851 and generally isn't a bad picture but has a surprisingly high amount of grain and dirt (This is especially obvious during darker sequences) but the picture is sharp,colors are good, and blacks are solid. The Dolby Digital 5.1 sound is as fine as I could have hoped for. Audio is crystal clear and there's plenty of surround sound effects to keep your rear speakers occupied. For extras we are given a tiny production featurette, which consist of cast interviews, film clips, and some behind-the-scene footage. This featurette runs a little less than 2 minutes. The disk is adequately closed-captioned with substantial paraphrasing. My rating for the DVD 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Don Cortezone","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is a nice tribute to the late (great) Lloyd Bridges in his final role as the main Don Conrtino (he keeps mixing it up though) who must pass on his business (mob) to his son Tony (played hilariously by Jay Mohr).  A great spoof as always coming from ZAZ man (A man actually) Jim Abrahams who casts Bridges for the 5th time.  He also brings to the screen zany yet funny parodies of films (gnagster in general) including- GoodFellas, Casino, The Godfather Trilogy, Jaws, Jurassic Park 1 & 2, and countless others.  Plenty of gags and two great performances save this film from plot destruction.  One of the funniest spoofs ever.  A+ "},{"Title":"Surprising!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  More comedy than I expected.  The one liners were hilarious.  It had its stupid parts, but so stupid you had to laugh at the stupidity. "},{"Title":"Watch this immediately after watching any mob/crime movie...","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow!  You'd think by now Jim Abraham's material would be worn out and unoriginal.  Think again.  MAFIA! has got to be among one of the funniest parody films of the 1990s.  This movie had me laughing for hours after I saw it, and even now when I think of some of the gags (especially the games in the casino) I can't help but to crack up.  Also, the acting is BRILLIANT. Kudos to everyone who starred in the film!  They all pulled off the ludicrously hilarious gags and delivered the most funny lines while keeping a straight face the entire time.  I could never do that. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A worthwhile spoof of gangster movies (especially the godfather and casino) with several really funny scenes that will keep you laughing. I enjoyed this when I saw it and would recommend it. Good script and good performances.** 1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Worth a few laughs","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Korean War veteran Tony (Jay Mohr), the son of Mafia boss Vincenzo Armani Windbreaker Cortino (Lloyd Bridges, in his final role before his death), is hand-picked by his retiring father to take over the family business. However, this causes a rift between him and his Protestant, peace-loving girlfriend, Diane (Christina Applegate), who leaves him when it's obvious that the man she loves is not really what she thought him to be.Now, Tony lives the life of a mafioso, while trying to find a long-time family enemy who lost his thumb in a bizarre incident.If you are a Lloyd Bridges fan, then you have to see this only because this was his final role before his death. This film is in the same vein as the Hot Shots movies, which also starred him, but you will not laugh as much as you would with those films. He was a lot funnier in the Hot Shots movies, but does bring some pretty good laughs in this film.Surprisingly, Mohr is pretty good in his role. He is pretty much the straight man for the rest of the cast and the visual jokes (like a Vegas version of Candy Land). If you ask me, he played Tony somewhere between a comedic role and a more dramatic role, and did it nicely. He also did a pretty good narration, but it wasn't perfect.You get a pretty even amount of physical comedy with some comical lines all through the film -- all the way through the end of the closing credits in fact. And I suggest you actually watch the closing credits because they slipped some jokes into them. However, I felt that many of the jokes just didn't work, and found myself not laughing at them.The plot somewhat follows the one seen in The Godfather and relies heavily on that, and other Mafia movies. However, The Godfather series is the obvious inspiration for this film. However, they do slip in some jokes poking fun at more modern things like HMOs, popular children's games like Chutes and Ladders and President Bill Clinton's denial of not having a sexual relationship with Monica Lewinski.There is character development in this film, but not a whole lot. I thought a few characters could have been developed more, especially if they helped in the plot twists. Even some of the major players in this film was not greatly developed.Because the cast is mainly Italian, a lot of jokes target the Italian life. Many people may find these jokes offensive. If you ask me, these jokes are fairly tame though.This movie is not for everybody. In fact, if you haven't seen some of the greatest Mafia movies, especially the Godfather trilogy, you might not like this movie. Like I said earlier, there are some jokes referencing things and events we've all experienced in out lives, but this movie is for fans of the Mafia movie genre more than any other audience.Believe it or not, there is no blood in this movie despite the subject. Yes, there is some violence, but it's played for comedy. At one point in the movie, Don Cortino (Bridges) is riddled with bullets, but no blood comes from the wounds and the witnesses, including the band playing during the scene, thinks he is doing various dances including the Macarena. You even get a death by flowers (where we are lead into by a reference to Forrest Gump).If you are looking for Oscar-worthy performances, this movie is absolutely not for you. Except for Mohr, you mainly get over-the-top performances from the cast. Mohr, who plays his role straight compared to the rest of the cast, and Bridges are easily the two best performances. However, Olympia Dukakis, who plays Bridges mother (she was actually 20 years younger than him at the time this film was made) stands from of the supporting cast. Other major performers were given weakly written characters, and their performances reflect that.Unlike the Godfather trilogy, the score here is not really memorable. You get some current music, from the time of its making and release, but nothing too spectacular worth noting by way of original music.This movie got destroyed by critics when it was finally released. But, like most movies, it's not as bad as they say. If you like the Airplane! and Hot Shots movies, you may like this one. However, I find that this one can't live up to the comic genius of those previous movies.If you ask me, I can't recommend this as a Must See movie, but check it out on HBO for some good laughs and because it's Bridges' final performance. "},{"Title":"a totally boring way to spend a monday evening","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well. Here you have it. This years try to make a new Naked Gun, Hot Shots or  something alike. And again, a total failure. Don't ask why i sat thru the  whole movie while i could easily run away during the break.. But then again my favourite highlights, the scene in the casino (that one  with the electric shocker (what's the word for this one in English?)) and  some Beavis and Butthead rip-offs.Should be released on video for the real freaks. "},{"Title":"mafia and why it was bad","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The funny scenes were what they showed in the previews the rest was really  stupid, wait until video to see it or just don't see it "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad!","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is probably one of the biggest flops ever made in the mafia-movie history. This was supposed to be a comedy, but one thing is missing ... the humor. It isn't funny at all. The ideas are old and not funny. I was almost embarrassed when I saw it. If you ever have considered to rent this movie, I recommend not to! Save your money, and use them on something that is worth seeing ...   "},{"Title":"SKIP IT. Rent THE NAKED GUN.","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As with most recent movie parodies, Mafia! also fails to  deliver anything but one or two chuckles (literally, and  take one away if you haven't seen CASINO). No laughing out  loud here, folks. To really experience a funny movie,  rent THE NAKED GUN or go see THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY.  Those two will definitely deliver the goods. "},{"Title":"Jim Abrahams has lost his touch","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has its moments, but very few.  I can recall a few scenes that I  laughed at, but I was very disapointed.  Jim Abrahams has brought us many  good films, but I can now see that he has lost his touch.  Mafia! is only  worth a few laughs.  The parts that were supposed to be funny might have  been funny to a young kid, but not an adult.  This could been a very funny  movie if it was made for adults.  But it could not cross any boundaries  because it is rated PG-13.  PG-13 humor is getting very lame these days.   Skip this movie and go see BASEketball or There's Something About Mary.  "},{"Title":"Forget About It.","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Decent concept, decent comedic crew, but terrible outcome.  There are very few laughs in this so-called comedy, and those laughs would only be  enjoyable for those that notice the resemblance between the godfather/mob movies.  It's too bad this is Lloyd Bridge's last movie, since it is a rather  embarrassing departure.  Hopefully people won't judge his career on this flop. "},{"Title":"Forced humor","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The other night I was looking for a movie to watch and I came across Mafia! For the most part, I'm a decent fan of mafia films, I love Goodfellas, Casino, and The Godfather. So a parody seemed like a good idea to me. After all, these films are always serious and sometimes you need to get a good joke out of them. So Mafia seemed like a good idea to me. I watched it last night and I have to say that while there were a few laughs here and there, Mafia's humor is mostly forced and typical. I know that most parody films are usually predictable in humor, but it would have been nice if it could have had more originality. Or maybe I'm wrong, mafia movies are just not what you could parody for a story. Mafia pretty much has the typical humor of kid getting hit by every object, movies that they parody that have nothing to do with the subject they're going for, fart, and sex jokes. It's just not original; but there are a few laughs here and there I admit. The story could have worked if they just cut back on a few typical gags.Anthony is part of the mafia family, he runs a casino in Las Vegas and his father is the Don of the family. But when his father is almost murdered during a wedding dance, he goes into the family business. With the non existing help from his coke addict brother, he must try to survive this business while trying to maintain a normal life. But he just about looses it when he decides to go ahead and kill everyone.Mafia! is over all not the most horrible comedy I've ever seen, there are movies that are a thousand times worse, but I think that the crew of the film just got a little out of control with what they had. I think it could have been a good film if the jokes were not just so predictable and bland. The cast seemed to have an alright time making the movie, I don't think they were really into it, except for Lloyd Bridges who played The Godfather, he looked like he had a fun time. I don't know if I would recommend this film, if you're looking for an average parody, this the movie for you, but don't expect anything more.4/10 "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen. I did not laugh once during the entire movie....and I usually enjoy spoofs.  Ugh...terrible movie. Please, dont anybody watch this film. If there were a way i could vote lower than 1 i would do it in a heartbeat.  THE WORST MOVIE EVER. "},{"Title":"Almost as bad as they can get !!!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I very much enjoy comedies - this movie was almost never funny and a waste of time ... Absolutely in the bottom 1% of all movies I've even seen (and there have been 100's if not 1000s)...    "}{"Title":"What have I ever done to make you treat me so disrespectfully?","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is the severed horse's head bleeding all over the pajamas of intelligent moviegoers everywhere.Helmed by writer-director Jim Abrahams - the comedy maverick who brought us Airplane and Hot Shots and The Naked Gun - words cannot describe the humor that every single frame of this movie judiciously avoids.Attempting desperately to be a spoof of The Godfather and its ilk, Mafia! stars Lloyd Bridges as Don Cortino and Jay Mohr (who does a killer Walken - but not here) as his Pacino-esquire son. That is all ye need to know. From there, it's downhill fast.Don't ever mention this film around me again. "},{"Title":"Funny depending on who you are","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Let me start out by saying that I'm the type of person who is open to all kinds of comedy, whether it's dumb or smart, that's just me. Though I'll admit, this movie was the kind of dumb comedy that my 8 year old brother would laugh hysterically at simply because of the physical humor. My parents however did not enjoy it as much. As for me, I found the movie to be funny despite what others may say. I found it be a clever dumb comedy, like watching a Leslie Nelson movie, things like that I enjoy. So, if you're the type of person who enjoys this type of movie, go ahead and enjoy it. If you're the person who would rather watch a comedy like American Splendor good for you. In short, this movie would only be considered funny, or even good, depending on the type of person you are. "},{"Title":"How to destroy a film genre in one easy lesson....","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Movies have been spoofed by themselves since the early days of Hollywood. Every archetype of film has had a day as a victim of polite ridicule over the years from westerns, horror movies, disaster flicks, and even the big musical. Prior to the fast-moving gags of Airplane! and The Naked Gun, there was the film version of the Broadway farce Hellzapoppin' where the gags flew faster than the stuffed stork with a baby over its audiences head. Mel Brooks brought back the genre years later, spoofing Gothic horror and westerns; Even Alfred Hitchcock got a good ribbing. By the time all the former serious actors got together to show they knew how to provide a silly laugh for Airplane!, the genre was perfected, and even to this day, just the sight of Leslie Nielsen, Peter Graves, Robert Stack and Lloyd Bridges in their earlier films can bring on hysterical laughter.Fast forward two decades. After the gut-busting Naked Gun and Hot Shots! films (some better than others) came Loaded Weapon, Fatal Instinct and even Repossessed!, the disastrous spoof of The Exorcist. Leslie Nielsen got in the custom of playing serious looking men who were actually much less serious. Between Spy Hard and Dracula Dead and Loving It, even playing Mr. Magoo, Nielsen became the King of Serious Actors turning to comedy. After all these films, the gags got sillier, some might even say tasteless, and in the case of Jane Austen's Mafia!, just plain stupid.O.K., so there are some moments of laughter which prevail in this rip-off movie that takes The Godfather to a new level of lowness. Nielsen isn't there for this entry in the genre. Lloyd Bridges, in his last film, takes on the role of the aging Mafia don whose big scene has him doing a break dance while being pelted with bullets. The story is told through the eyes of his youngest son, the obvious Michael Corleone clone (Jay Mohr) and goes back to the youthful days of Bridges' character, Vincenzo Cortino, in Italy, where his mob future becomes set in thumbs....I mean stone.Although everybody keeps a serious face throughout, it is not easy to sit there and watch them make absolute fools of themselves, although most of them probably cried all the way to the bank. The biggest abuse goes to the phenomenal Olympia Dukakis whose flatulent matriarch (Bridges' senile mother!) barely says a word and literally gasses someone to death. Christina Applegate comes off a bit more dignified as the Diane Keaton take-off, but the remainder of the cast seems totally naive as to the Derick they are involved in which seems to be peppered with unnecessary gags and moments of insipidness that they were obviously oblivious to.As for Bridges, I give him credit for his longevity and his speaking voice alone could add value to the dullest of anything he was in. He does get one of the funniest visual gags here concerning a slice of watermelon, but it is an absolute shame that he couldn't have ended his career with something that while lacking in dignity might have at least been a whole lot funnier than this rip-off movie that couldn't even leave Forrest Gump alone. "},{"Title":"They should have just sent me the jokes in the mail, and saved me from having to watch the film.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Granted, it was funny, granted, in places it was clever but this film lacked two things a spoof should have. One is a quick and easy plot, the other is Leslie Neilsen.Okay, so it's a spoof, it's not meant to have a storyline, but it appears as if they deliberately didn't give it one.  Jay Mohr was fantastic, however, as was Christina  but I thought the film was a waste of my viewing time. The makers or writers should have just posted me the jokes in the mail, saving us all a bit of time.But I do have one good thing to say, i thoroughly enjoyed the 'Fun Facts' that appeared during the credits.Watch this film, but don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"End of the Line","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Parodies of movies have had a long successful run from Blazing Saddles through Airplane to Hot Shots Part Deaux. But the sad Mafia! clearly shows that this genre has run out of steam. The formula for success of these movies is to find ridiculous films which are already silly which have lots of material for a comedy.  But there are only so many bad movies. The mistake Jim Abrams makes with Mafia! is that he is trying to poke fun at some of the best movies ever made, The Godfather 1 and 2 as well as Casino.This type of spoof needs a laugh a minute. But after the Sinatra joke and the Don being filled with bullets joke the movie quickly runs out of material and is left making fun of Italians, hairy women and small Italian towns with a dunk the Judas skit. It doesn't sound funny and it wasn't funny.Several years ago I saw a 30 minute Second City Television spoof of The Godfather that had more laughs than the 90 minute Mafia! My suggestion to Abrams and company is to give it a rest, retire or maybe try to make other types of films.  "},{"Title":"Same old tired Naked Gun humor","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is just another variation of the Naked Gun humor which has gotten old. Furthermore, the characters are not authentic enough to make this a good spoof. Lloyd Bridges is not the first person I would cast as a mafia don. Christina Applegate isn't even 30 yet and she's playing the role of a president?To indicate how much I did not enjoy this movie I was often stopping the tape to check in on live TV to see how my favorite baseball team was doing. They were getting clobbered, yet I was more interested in that game than I was in this movie.   "},{"Title":"No David Zucker, Few Laughs","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mafia! is a new low. If you watch this, you will be bored. If you're of Italian decent and you watch this, you will be bored and grossly offended. Although Jim Abrahams is a card-carrying member of the ZAZ film team (he's the A between the Zucker brothers) he just cannot do this sort of medium himself. Much like the Hot Shots series he helmed, Mafia is a collection of by-the-book sight gags and cliched toilet humor. It's the sort of film where you force a guffaw at each predictable punchline and vague pop culture reference, not because you are genuinely amused, but because you actually feel embarrassingly awkward if you don't. Certainly Mafia has its moments; much like being blindfolded and taking a hundred swings at a piñata, you're going to hit it at least once. It's mathematical. But Abrahams lacks the original comic-spoof snazz that's been churned out so often and seemingly so effortlessly by his Naked Gun and Airplane co-hort, David Zucker. In this wacky film genre, the movies always come out in small batches like a bad rash. And the best rash to come out of the summer of '98 would be Baseketball. If you want consecutive laughs, or if you're Italian, check it out and witness Mr. Zucker's gift first hand. And let's hope Jay Mohr stops fumbling his still-accelerating career before it stops accelerating. You only get so many chances in this business... "},{"Title":"WOW! This film was f*****g funny!","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing this film last night as I am a huge fan of the Airplanes, Hot Shots, Police Squads, Naked Guns and Top Secret. I found this on lovefilm and thought - why have i never heard of this? I haven't laughed this hard for ages. I admire the filmmakers so much for being so clever and entertaining. The production values are really high as well, everything looks quality and well made. Older films like Airplane etc can look cheap but it adds to their charm, so it was nice to see this modern film which was hardly a blockbuster, made so well and looking like the budget was much higher.Of course not every joke tickled my funny bone, I could have done without the farting, spewing and when Lloyd Bridges get shot up but people think he's dancing.But apart from that I found it absolutely hilarious and I can't wait to see it again. Jay Mohr is so great - if you can, watch Action. It's a TV series he did, only one series but it's soooo good! Really funny and totally uncheesy like all American sitcoms feel they have to be. It's about a Hollywood producer.Anyway, back to Mafia. The writers have worked so hard, not only on the script but the visual gags, injokes and references. I love spotting a funny poster, or something in the credits. Everyone has put so much effort into making this movie the best and the funniest it could be. I was stunned by the low rating but hey, different strokes for different folks.If you are reading the comments, deciding whether or not to rent/buy this movie, I definitely think you should - especially if you are a fan of Airplane,Top Secret, Police Squad, Naked Gun, Police Academy and Hot Shots.Fun Fact! Actor Jay Mohr is allergic to poiWhat the hell is poi? "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing.","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" According to arbitrary statistics; over 90% of Americans don't know who Jane Austen is, which is why the name was dropped from the promotion of Jane Austen's Mafia! (1998). In other news, at least five quarters of all Popes found to be Catholic. Film at eleven.Directed and partially written by spoof veteran Jim Abrahams; Mafia! is to The Godfather (1972) as Hot Shots! (1991) is to Top Gun (1986), a merciless p*ss take. The competent yet lacklustre Jay Mohr stars as Tony Cortino, an amalgam of Casino (1995) De Niro and Godfather Pacino, along with Christina 'don't call me Bundy' Applegate ostensibly filling Diane Keaton's shoes. Elder performers Olympia Dukakis and Lloyd Bridges get to suitably degrade themselves, in the late Bridges' case, for the last time, with roles as senior Cortino family members.This being a spoof movie, large liberties are taken with the films it sends up. Probably the most successful instance comes in the form of a well executed imitation of the explosive Casino opening titles. Unfortunately, this of course comes right at the start of the film, and it's a peak not really matched in the following hour and a bit. The period switching device of The Godfather Part II (1974) is borrowed, allowing the freedom for some amusing asides, but badly breaking up the flow of the movie. The gags manage to keep up a reasonable pace, but often whither on the vine in the hands of performers unskilled in this brand of comedy. Mohr in particular would have served better with a more confident, energetic performance similar to the one he later would display in short lived, cult hit series Action (1999). Fans of the genre will notice some flatly recycled material and will probably miss the input of usual Abrahams collaborators the Zucker brothers.Though Scorsese's Casino receives plenty of attention, it's superior predecessor Goodfellas (1990) remains inexplicably untapped. Clearly a wasted opportunity as the faster pace and contemporary tone of Scorsese's films lend themselves to parody far more readily than the austere mob epics of Coppola. Grasping cribs from Forrest Gump (1994) and Jurassic Park (1993) suggest Abrahams was struggling for material to pad out the relatively modest eighty odd minute running time. The diminishing returns are finally retired with a successful finale mirroring that of the much maligned Godfather Part III (1990).Mafia! is a middling entry in a sub-genre that reached it's zenith with the sublime six half hours of Police Squad! (1982). Abrahams benefits greatly from his choice of such classic, strongly iconic films to make fun of. It's this that puts even the mediocre Mafia! way ahead of the facile ilk of Scary Movie (2000) and it's increasingly vulgar sequels. It's difficult to find humour in lampooning material that's already too lame to be taken seriously. Mafia! is a fairly safe bet to raise a chuckle or two from mob and spoof fans alike, but it's not up to the standard of either Hot Shots! instalment. "},{"Title":"Side splittingly funny in places","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mafia! (much like Hotshots and Airplane) is very very funny..... The pacing of the film is such that you never wait too long for the next big laugh to come along. Lloyd Bridges is excellent again (as he was in Hotshots) play Vincenzo Cortino, head of the mafia, whose two sons, Joey and Anthoney are vying for control of the mob now that their father is getting old. Joey is hilarious! There are a few scenes from this movie I just have to think of to burst out laughing (the funeral Scene is the funniest thing EVER on film). I'm actually laughing hard as I type this.......Anyway, anyone who is a fan of Hot shots, Airplane and Naked Gun will enjoy this movie immensely. "}{"Title":"If you DO find this funny, you must have a mental block.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  God, this is so pathetic. They should have labeled it as drama, because I was crying at the end. It's all unrealistic and stupid. I mean, when young Vincenzo comes out of the donkey's...er...bottom, he's completely clean. Nothing! And the mere fact that they could hide him in there! And even if they could wouldn't he die from the smell?!See BASEketball instead.  "},{"Title":"Mostly unfunny","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought most of the jokes were recycled from previous efforts, and only a few of the new ones were worth putting in the final cut.  But the cast gives it their all and they are mostly successful, but what was Olympia Dukakis supposed to be?  The great talent of Jay Mohr could have been better utilized also. "},{"Title":"Avoid this like the plague!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is garbage.  I really really hate spoofs and this one took the cake for me.  Spoofs are comedies made by people who can't write good jokes and just bank on the success of other usually better movies.  There are a ton of gimmicks and ideas are just forced onto the screen creating a choppy flow and horrible plot.  Mafia! is no exception.  Oh it also has Jay Mohr, who seems to have followed up his success with at least 3 cancelled TV shows in the very short years since then.  I wonder why people would cancel is stuff, afterall he was SOOOOOO Good in Mafia.  Anyways, people do me a favor vote this movie a 1.  Thanks.Zoopansick "},{"Title":"Really, Really, Bad","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The second this movie started I knew that I did not like it . The only reason I kept watching it was because I was on a bus ride to Washington D.C., and their was nothing better to do. Mafia does have it's occasional good jokes, but besides that it is a pointless story. The movie spends 20-30 minutes in Italy back in the early 1900's that has nothing to do with the story. I just hated this movie it had no plot,  moral, or meaning. "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  WARNING includes info about a scene in the movie.  Do not read if you don't want to know what happens.I thought this movie was incredibly funny, especially the Run, Florist, Run! bit.  When we saw that bit, everyone in the room burst out laughing and couldn't stop for about 5 minutes.  I also loved the beginning explosion scene when the opening credits are appearing.  Great movie. "},{"Title":"worst movie i've ever seen","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie is so full of worthless, painfully unfunny jokes, it made me stop watching it when i rented it. Now don't take this wrongly, i usually like this kind of ones which spoof other movies and have the silliest jokes. Good spoofing movies are Airplane, the Naked Gun movies, Wrongfully Accused. Now i didn't expect all new jokes in this movie, but this was worse, much worse. Most of the laughs were new, but all very very sad, and there were more flashbacks than jokes. Don't see this movie, it's much worse than the awful Spy Hard, which seems like a masterpiece compared to this crap. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorites !","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"     I've said it before, I'll say it again, I love parodies. Whether they're done by Mel Brooks, the Abrahams or even Enzio Greggio, it is always interesting to see how many movie references are tagged on. Mafia though does have more than its fair share of bad jokes, but it does have several very funny scenes such as the boy's wish on the falling star (stolen from Repossessed who stole it from Benny Hill), a take on Riverdance and the Lou Ferrigno hand dryer. While Jay Mohr is not among my favorite actors, heck, he ruined The Jeff Foxworthy Show,  he does have numerous funny lines. It is also a thrill to see Christina Applegate playing someone other than Kelly Bundy. It is though hard to watch Lloyd Bridges take a role more meant for Leslie Nielsen; he was just too old for that much physical humor. Two things do work against this movie, the shifting between past and present which is too disorienting, and the tacking on of too many movie references. Shriek If You Know with Tiffani Thiessen ran smoother. Despite a few flaws in its pace, the movie is an uproarious laughfest and deserves its place in the limelight.  "},{"Title":"Stupid &#150; makes you want to watch the real gangster films","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mixing the plots of Godfather with Casino, Goodfellas etc this follows the story of Tony Cortino who returns home as a war hero who is forced into the leadership of the Mafia following the attempted assassination of his father.What does the plot matter - it is broadly a copy of the first two Godfathers but ropes in plenty of spoofs of gangster movies as well as others (eg Forrest Gump), however it's main success (if it has one) is that it reminds you how good those films are.  When I finished watching this I wanted to watch all the real films to wash this nasty thing out of my mind.The spoof scenes are lazy and not inspired at all - they are really easy and obvious, totally lacking any intelligence or effort.  I actually enjoy spoofs - Blazing Saddles, Airplane, Naked Gun - I enjoy them all, so it's not like I feel they're beneath me or anything.  However the jokes here are stupid, I actually chuckled twice in 90 minutes (not laughed but chuckled), and both of these were at stupid jokes.The cast are OK but deserve better - when I see Vincent Pastore in this after being so good in Sopranos it makes me sad.  Fair enough, Jay Mohr probably doesn't deserve any better but the rest do.  The saddest sight is Bridges - so funny in Airplane and Hotshots, but here his clowning is rubbish.  What makes it worse is that before the end credits the film is dedicated to his memory!  Surely a more fitting tribute would have been to reshoot all his scenes and prevent this from being one of the last things he did.Overall this is terrible - I'm a fan of spoofs and this barely made me laugh once or twice.  This only success in reminding you how good the original films were.  A mess! "},{"Title":"Has some good moments, but not a lot of them.","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This send-up of mafia movies ranging from the Godfather series to GoodFellas and Casino and their ilk is mildly funny. It might have been better, but too many of the gags are surprisingly silly and immature. You expect more from co-writer / director Jim Abrahams, who'd done better work with the Zucker brothers (Airplane!) and even on his own (Hot Shots! 1 and 2). There are some decent gags here and there, but on the whole the movie fails to really catch fire. They are to be commended, though, for trying so hard to get the right *look* for various locations at various points in time.Also working in references to Jaws, the Child's Play series, The Lost World Jurassic Park, and Forrest Gump, the story tells of the Michael Corleone-like character Anthony Cortino (ever likable Jay Mohr), son of prominent mafia Don Vincenzo Cortino (Lloyd Bridges, typically amusing). Anthony returns home after military service, soon getting drawn into the world of organized crime.A ready and willing cast of familiar faces gives the so-so material some entertainment value Christina Applegate, Billy Burke, Pamela Gidley, Olympia Dukakis, Joe Viterelli, Tony Lo Bianco, Vincent Pastore, Carol Ann Susi, Gregory Sierra, Louis Mandylor, and Andreas Katsulas. Sadly, this was Bridges's last movie, and it's dedicated to him; his scenes tend to be the better ones. Unfortunately, Dukakis is given almost nothing to do.Complete with an expected raft of uncredited cameo appearances, Jane Austen's Mafia! is passable, but it's absolutely no Airplane!.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Even the Mafia Would Hate It.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mafia (1998) Dir Jim Abrahams / Cast Jay Mohr, Christina Applegate, Lloyd Bridges, Olympia Dukakis, Billy Burke Slapstick comedies are suppose to be funny yet I doubt I laughed ten times during this stupid charade. It is sad to see talent deteriorate the way it does here. Directed by Jim Abrahams who has directed superior and funnier comedies such as Top Secret and Airplane. He even joined them in creating two of the hilarious Naked Gun comedies. The only joke that really works is an inspired scene that parodies Jaws. Asides from that this film is dead in the water. Final film for Lloyd Bridges who plays a mob boss who receives several gun shot wounds in a joke that dragged on way too long. His son will take over who is set to marry the lady President who strives for peace. Jay Mohr has his moments as he becomes the next target. Christina Applegate as the female President is total cardboard in a predictable role. She will be opposed to all things Mohr stands for but ultimately they will bang each other. Bridges as his father is inspired but he was so much more funnier in Airplane. It is unfortunate that this is his final film but at least he seems to be going out laughing. It satires gangster films but there are too many unnecessary subplots. Perhaps Abrahams should reunite with the Zucker boys and recreate the hilarity they're famous for. Score 5 ½ / 10 "}{"Title":"rips off the Godfather so much it's not even funny","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is not a parody, it's a rip-off! This movie doesn't spoof the godfather, it rips it off! every scene is carried out just like in the origional movie the killing spree during a church ceromony (except that it's a wedding instead of a baptizmal), the murder at the restaurant, the family reunion, the did you kill those men? No., the kiss of death, and what isn't ripped off from the godfather is ripped off from other movies The exploading car and the casino scenes(casino), and Charles Dickens probably turned over in his grave at the oh-so-painfully-obvious Christmas Carol rip-off. This entire movie was a sloppy conglomeration of other movies. The only barely funny spoof that WASN'T a rip-off was run, florest, run!   "},{"Title":"Mafia's not funny","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm someone who really loves all kinds of movies, including comedies, and don't expect them to be always intelligent and brilliant, as long as they are, at least, funny. This wasn't the case of this Jane Austen's Mafia. Actually, I think it matches There's something about Mary Both of them are gross, ridiculous and not funny at all.Jim Abraham has taken a nonsense kind of humour to the max  with his great Airplane and after that, Top Secret ! was still nice, although I felt a little like laughing at the same jokes. But, now, it seems like he's lost direction or maybe I just got tired of it.Well, there are two or three scenes that can make you smile (smile, I said) but nothing that justifies the money and the time spent.Now the worse How sad it is to see Olympia Dukakis in a role like that! "},{"Title":"Enough is enough","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The AIRPLANE movies were hilarious.  The original 'POLICE SQUAD'' movies were very funny.  However, all the cheap imitations that have followed are a waste of money.  The sight gags are not funny, the jokes are not funny, and the casts all seem to be LOVE BOAT rejects.  This movie was the worst of them all. "},{"Title":"Always the same...","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, the first thing I gotta say about this comedy, is that the formula is already corrupted... Films like this we see all the time, but coincidentally the director is the same...In one hand, we have the same jokes, we've already seen in a lot of pictures before... in the other hand, we have the fact that people still laugh at the same kind of funny scenes... They're all there... pieces of bodies, farts, etc.Thing's have to change in this kindda comedy... "},{"Title":"Lighten Up and See the Movie","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought Mafia! was full of belly laughs.  Most of the jokes are true groaners, but heck, that's the beauty of a Jim Abrahams' film.  There was almost too much to assimilate.  Whenever I started to concentrate on the myriad of sight gags, I missed some of the funny one-liners (and vice-versa).  Highbrow comedy it is not, but it deserved better from the critics.  In addition, I felt it necessary to see Lloyd Bridges' final film. He was a good man.   "},{"Title":"Lighten Up and See the Movie","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought Mafia! was full of belly laughs.  Most of the jokes are true groaners, but heck, that's the beauty of a Jim Abrahams' film.  There was almost too much to assimilate.  Whenever I started to concentrate on the myriad of sight gags, I missed some of the funny one-liners (and vice-versa).  Highbrow comedy it is not, but it deserved better from the critics.  In addition, I felt it necessary to see Lloyd Bridges' final film. He was a good man.   "},{"Title":"Great Comedy with a Terrible Ending","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mafia is a great comedy with a terrible ending. The movie has a  totally unexpected ending that spoils the entire picture. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy with a Terrible Ending","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mafia is a great comedy with a terrible ending. The movie has a  totally unexpected ending that spoils the entire picture. "},{"Title":"Left me in stitches","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After seeing movies like High School High, I was so glad to see this movie because it reminded me of just how much talent Jim Abrahams can display when given the right material. This movie had me laughing all the way through, and made a fitting exit for Lloyd Bridges.  The final scene, especially, left me howling. I recommend this movie to anyone with a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"A worthless piece of rubbish that does not honor lloyd bridges very well","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It has been an old tradition that many of comedians last films are stupid lame flops ( ex. Chris Farley in Almost Heroes, John Candy in Wagons East), but I never expected Lloyd Bridges to take that demise as well. He was great in Airpane and Hot Shots, but this movie is just simply one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I didn't even laugh once. I won't even mention the ridiculous Barney scene. This is not a very good year for comedies with terrible flops like Almost Heroes, Dirty Work, and Baseketball. But there still is hope with the Farelly bros. delivering another smash hit which is the best comedy since Austin Powers. So if you want to laugh your ass off then go see There's Something about Mary, or even rent some of Jim Abrams material that is much better like Airplane or the Naked Gun series. "}{"Title":"Mafia! was horrible!","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As an average movie-goer i can honestly say that Mafia! was one of the worst  movies ever made..No i was not expecting Academy Award material here...But  it should have at least somewhat of a plot(including many more laughs)...  The years keep changing and i couldn't tell if it was 1960,1990,1930 or  whatever! The only real laughs (The two times that i did laugh) were  brought out by The very cute and funny Christina Applegate! Other then that  Mafia! was a complete waste of time. I should of gone to Halloween instead  because Mafia! was scary enough. "},{"Title":"Sooooo disappointed","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was so disappointed, I was hoping to see a movie that was as good as the previews. But all I got was a story around those jokes already seen on TV. If you want a really good movie, go see Something about Mary or Baseketball (a must for SouthPark fans!!!) "},{"Title":"See the trailer, skip the movie.","Date":"27 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" All the good jokes were in the trailer.  This movie had a couple of good ideas, but the sustained parody of Casino gets in the way of the jokes. "},{"Title":"very funny!","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mafia stars Jay Mohr as Anthony Cortino, son of mafia Don Vincenzo Cortino played by Lloyd Bridges. It also features famous actors like Christina Applegate, Billy Burke, and Joe Viterelli.This movie primary spoof targets seem to be The Godfather and Casino. But have no fear, many non-mafia related movies are used for material as well, they even found a way to mix in E.T. There's a Jaws inspired water scene, and a Forest Gump reference that's quite hilarious, and many more of course.Overall, the story is a basic mafia style movie, but with big ladle of simple minded comedy served over the top of it. Lloyd Bridges is awesome and very funny. Jay Mohr (a comedian in his own right) is also very funny. Over all, if you enjoy slap stick type humor this movie should provide a few hearty laughs, and every actor in the movie has a chance to deliver laughs.Currently this movie is a little under rated, possibly due to misplaced expectations. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable enough.","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The 4.7 rating here on IMDb makes it look like this movie is dull, unfunny and just stupid. This is not the case, I can guarantee that you'll not be bored while watching this and that some scene's will make you laugh out loud.Probably the best thing about Jane Austen's Mafia! is the visual atmosphere it knows to create. At times it really is the same as in The Godfather movies.Unfortunately there are more misses than hits in this movie. Some of the jokes don't really work and problem is that the movie takes itself too serious at times with as a result that it at times takes awhile before something funny happens again. But as a fan of gangster movies you'll have to appreciate some of the jokes and most certainly the atmosphere of the movie. Perhaps to fully appreciate this movie you'll first at least have to watch The Godfather trilogy. The scene in which Lloyd Bridges character dies while he's having a melon in his mouth is absolutely brilliant and hilarious. I haven't laughed that hard during a movie in ages.Also problem is that the story feels just like a lame excuse to spoof scene's from The Godfather movies. It feels very incoherent all and why they also decide to spoof Forrest Gump in this movie puzzles me to be honest. Pretty pointless and it seemed out of place.Still there is a lot to enjoy in this movie, especially for those who are familiar with the classic gangster movies.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Sidesplitting!","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really can't fathom people who complain about comedies having plot holes, unrealistic action or underdeveloped characters. They're probably the sort of people who go on Jamaican holidays and complain about the heat, or whine that children's funerals aren't funny. This movie consistently delivers sidesplitting belly laughs all the way through, and is right up there with the official ZAZ films. I wish humourless critics would just go off and write their term papers instead of wasting their time criticising what they don't understand. It was indeed a fitting tribute to Lloyd Bridges. Just see it! "},{"Title":"Hilariously Stupid","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mafia! was a hilarious movie! But it had no point. And that's not just something some stuck up smart - noting - is - funny - everything - is - pointless person would say. I was on a bus with 43 other people, and they all said the same thing. It was a funny movie, but it was too confusing. It had no point and no problem. They kept talking about different times and different people, and then someone dies, and that's it. But I say you should watch it anyways, because it's so funny. "},{"Title":"I could only stand so much!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love these type of movies,( All the Naked Guns, Airplane!, Hot Shots!, etc. ), But this one had one problem. IT WASN'T FUNNY! I couldn't even watch the whole thing, I was falling asleep! It's a shame Lloyd Bridges had to end his movie career on such a lame note. Watch BASEketball if you want to laugh out loud!   "},{"Title":"Very nice!!","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although it is not the best comic movie, But I have really enjoyed the jokes and funny scenes in this movie. If u wanna have some good time after bad work week, book a seat and watch it. The movie is very active, moving u from old ages to 60's then present times in a very fast and funny way to make ur eyes stick to the screen all the time. Not all jokes are new, but for sure they were interesting! Thanks for everyone made me laugh from my heart tonight!  "},{"Title":"One word blah","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Substandard take on mafia films that  misses more than it hits.  Only rent if  you're in desperate need for a laugh.      "}{"Title":"is it over yet?","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Next to Spy Hard, this was the stupidest spoof movie I have seen in a long time. I miss the days of watching a comedy that is actually funny. To this day, Ace Ventura, The Naked Gun, and Hot Shots have failed to amuse me. I beg Hollywood to stop making spoofs that are nothing but the same spoofs made from other spoofs that had already been remade ten times. I paid $1 and I deeply regret it.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Dull","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw the trailer to this film while watching another video, and the shot of Jay Mohr pathetically diving into a swimming pool while he's supposed to be sexy and suave had me and my girlfriend literally in tears laughing. We rented the movie the next night and then sat waiting and waiting and waiting for the laughs to kick in as with Airplane or Naked Gun but they just were not there! The opening credits were somewhat funny, but after that, zero. Not even the previously mentioned diving scene managed to spark a laugh as by that point we'd felt as though we'd been had. And if memory serves well, there were many shots of the elegant and classy Olympia Dukakis farting. I was embarrassed for her.I heard the talented and very funny Jay Mohr on the radio sometime in 2000 and the DJ asked him about this film, insinuating that it was less than wonderful, and all Jay could say was, Funniest script I ever read -- period. With that cast and that sentiment, it makes you wonder what went wrong. One commenter here mentioned that the film seemed to take itself seriously at times and I recall that to be the case too -- perhaps they just couldn't decide what it was. Too bad, it could have been very funny. "},{"Title":"Sad End to Lloyd Bridges' Career.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The only thing this film will be remembered for will be the swan song of great character actor Lloyd Bridges. Bridges ended his career in silly parodies that never did show the talent that he displayed in his earlier works like High Noon. This film is not terrible, but it is close as The Godfather series is the primary target this time. Jay Mohr and Christina Applegate are also along for the ride, but in the end the film is little more than a silly mess. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Give it a break","Date":"27 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok.  Call me crazy, but I liked it.  I think that the other people who rated this movie were crazy because they expected some kind of wonderful award winning movie.  There was no seriousness in it, and I say it was great for what it was supposed to be! "},{"Title":"Avoid this like the plague!","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is garbage.  I really really hate spoofs and this one took the cake for me.  Spoofs are comedies made by people who can't write good jokes and just bank on the success of other usually better movies.  There are a ton of gimmicks and ideas are just forced onto the screen creating a choppy flow and horrible plot.  Mafia! is no exception.  Oh it also has Jay Mohr, who seems to have followed up his success with at least 3 cancelled TV shows in the very short years since then.  I wonder why people would cancel is stuff, afterall he was SOOOOOO Good in Mafia.  Anyways, people do me a favor vote this movie a 1.  Thanks.Zoopansick "},{"Title":"Out-Nielsens Nielsen....","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woohoo! This movie is H-I-L-A-R-I-O-U-S !!! Prepare to laugh, and then laugh some more, and leave some room for a double portion of laughter with added laughs! Lloyd Bridges out-Nielsens Nielsen - even better than the classic Spy Hard!Then again, you might hate this kind of thing, but what do I care about you? "},{"Title":"The 100th Review","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have seen this title around for years but I think I was a little burned out on the spoof comedy so I never got around to it. Actually, I think it was Charlie Sheen in Hot Shots that was the straw that broke the .... Anyway, I cruise by it on Showtime and see Jay Mohr. I have really become a big fan of Jay over the last year from listening to his pod-cast. He is a very funny guy and has an amazing honest and entertaining show twice a week with great guests and a lot of laughs. So I wanted to watch this movie solely to watch Jay in his younger years.This was a good spoof comedy. Jay Mohr was great as was the beautiful Christina Applegate. Great one liners throughout the entire film. I enjoyed it. I would say in summary, Put your name on it!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Delivers expectations for goof heads and fans of crime cinema... who can take a joke.","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I remember when this came out in theaters... I went with my sister and cousins and NOBODY wanted to see this one. I can't remember how I convinced them to waste their money and time on this but at the end, it was a very funny experience.The movie is a delightful parody of crime movies in the likes of The Godfather and Goodfellas mainly. It parodies with black humor the distinctive situations of Italian mafia, their modus of operandi, clichés, and even makes fun of almighty mafia movies.The humor relies on scatological jokes and situations (everything about the opening puking at the funeral scene).Then it gets support from well written dialogs and very clever in-jokes. The acting is really good and funny. Christina Applegate demonstrates she's a fine actress. I haven't seen this movie in 11 years but I remember it as a very funny experience. Underrated unfairly. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected.","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Obviously you can't expect much from a parody of the Godfather, but this had a surprising amount of good sight gags and jokes. Most of the parodies fit it well and the characters even managed to be somewhat likable.Mafia is mainly a parody of the Godfather. It's about Vincenzo Cortini (Lloyd Bridges in his final role) and how he grew up to be the Godfather. The scenes of him as a kid were surprisingly sweet, and worked very well, even with the sex and drug jokes thrown in. The writing is pretty good for a spoof film, too. The film itself looks really good, with some authentic looking Italian sets. I disliked the Where are they now? at the end, but other than that, this was a pretty decent parody.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 80 mins. PG-13 for drug, sex, crude jokes. "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was channel surfing when purely be accident I came across this movie being televised on a local channel. Well, what a surprise! This is one of the better movie satires. Goofy scenes, great one-liners, great comic acting, all combined to make this movie an amusing and enjoyable entertainment experience. It's surprising that this movie is not better known because it deserves more recognition. The movie is funny without being pretentious and pokes fun at gangster films without being nasty or cruel. The characters are endearing and the actors perform their roles with great comedic skill. The humor is lowbrow, but that's good because lowbrow humor can be funny. "}{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is a wonderful compendium of spoofs on the entire gangster genre.  Especially look out for the true emotion seen in the face of ATM Man with Double Chin!The only part I couldn't really buy was a little boy swimming all the way to America from Sicily!! I mean that's not possible!! "},{"Title":"Nice, and somnetimes funny, but far from brilliant.","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is kinda the sort of movie you choose to see when your main choice isn't in at the video-rental store. But it is not a bad movie...Far from it, cause it has certain moments where you'll be laughing out loud. But still, there are numerous clichés, allready seen in films like Hotshots I and II, and on an average basis, it never gets to be brilliant. So, it's a film you will probably enjoy while watching it, but it'll (most likely) be forgotten once you've rewinded the tape.  "},{"Title":"Funny and Entertaining","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought Mafia! was a good funny comedy, However I thought they showed too much of the movie in the previews like other movies, but I still thought Jay Mohr was good and very funny, so I can't complain.I can easily see why he is getting so much work because he is a very talented and funny actor.  "},{"Title":"No.","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was just terrible, anyone could have made a better movie. Great concept, but they didn't even try. It's too bad that this is talented Lloyd Bridge's last movie, he deserves better (though he tries very hard, it's not his fault). Jay Mohr isn't exactly a funny guy. Just DUMB, which is fine if the movie is actually amusing, but i swear to God I only cracked a smile (not even really a smile--a smirk) once during the whole movie, when there was a parade with The Pope on stilts. And I was -drunk- when I saw it and in a very easily amused mood, too. I've seen Goodfellas and Casino probably 50 times, so I at least had hopes there'd be some funny in jokes for fans of these movies. The funniest parts are in the trailer, and the trailer is only mildly amusing. Don't rent it even if you think it's gonna be Airplane meets The Godfather. Even if you have no expectations whatsoever you will be dissapointed. Rent this, and you'll hate yourself afterwards for doing it. Trust me.  "},{"Title":"Best Abrahams/Zucker-type film since Top Secret","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Look, you either laugh at the kind of humor in Airplane! or you don't. Mafia won't overcome the immunity of much of the population to this kind of humor. BUT if you like this kind of film, Mafia is very very good...the best work any of the Airplane team have done since Top Secret (well over 10 years ago). Mafia doesn't seem as forced -- it unself-consciously cranks out 8-12 jokes a minute and a lot of them are laugh aloud quality. Many of the films in this genre labor to fill 90 minutes -- they run out of ideas. But Mafia makes fun of enough different films to sustain its demented energy for the full monty. If you ever thought all those good guys films were flatulent with pretention, you'll get a big kick out of this one. "},{"Title":"Sorry, its crap!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm sorry to say that its rubbish. It doesn't have the glimpse in the eye, like Hot Shots or Naked Gun series. It just feels unnecessary. I'm a great fan of these kinds of movies, but this one was just boring and tedious. There has been a shortage of good crazy comedies for some years now, and this movie is an example of why.1 of 5.Lloyd Bridges who i really like ( hot shots ), participated in this flick, and I'm sorry that it was the second last movie he ever did.  "},{"Title":"Funny - by the definition!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now, I might be tired and maybe everything is funny for me right now, but I think this movie was a great one! There are many really good jokes, that maybe can remain hidden for those, who just watch the movie without paying much attention to the references in the gags. Although I am not a native english speaker nor do I know all the american inside jokes, I'd say this movie - not least for the great performance of Lloyd Bridges (r.i.p) - has achieved its purpose of being nothing more than entertaining waste of time. "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard that I fell off my chair","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I first saw this on TV and in the opening few minutes was already in stitches.  After getting it on DVD I have watched it several times and think it is one of the most amusing films I have seen in the last year.As with everything Abrahams is involved in, there are lots of 'very' funny little gags going on, some fairly understated.  The whole tree incident near the beginning still has me smiling now.It was never going to win an award for the best story or other such highbrow things, but I thought is was painfully funny.Well worth an hour and a half of the life of anyone who thought Airplane or Hotshots was great "},{"Title":"One Funny Spoof!!!!!!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is another spoof which cracked my the heck up. Im sure nobody else would really enjoy the movie as much as i did. Especially if youre a diehardcore fan of the godfather series and every mobster movie ever made. This movie totally make fun of every one of those movies. I think spoofs are really funny. I guess i like thos stupid movies but i thought this one was one of the best unfortunetly nobody else really did. It doesnt really matter a long as i liked it. I wouldnt recommend this movie to any mobster movie fans unless youre really in the mood for a funny mobster movie. If youre a Lloyd Bridges fan i would definitetly rent this one for it was his last film. "},{"Title":"sophomoric, tasteless humor - I LOVED IT!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great movie! Each time I see it, I pick up on new things. It gets funnier and funnier each time. Great performances by the whole cast, you won't regret renting Mafia! If not for the humor, see it because it's Lloyd Bridges's last movie "}{"Title":"One of the best spoofs ever!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When one thinks of truly great cinema, they think of Casablanca, Lawrence of Arabia, The Ten Commandments, Star Wars, Titanic, Jane Austen's Mafia!. This movie not only acheives greatness, but it is one of the best films ever...filmed. I'm just kidding. This movie is one of the best spoofs ever! It would have been THE best spoof of the '90's but Spy Hard has that honor. The movie is a great last movie for Lloyd Bridges, who died after making this movie. There are also pretty good performances like Jay Mohr, and Christina Applegate. The movie is one of those gross-out comedies (Especially the projectile vomiting scene) and it is a great spoof of the Godfather. Kudos to the ZAZ team! **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Decent at best, not particularly funny spoof of gangster films","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When this movie started, I thought I was going to see a good, intelligent spoof of mafia films. When the main theme played, and I immediately recognized it as a spoof of the main theme to the great gangster film, Once Upon A Time in America. Then it continued, and got increasingly stupid. Every single shot was packed with gags that only a child would find funny. There are occasionally gags and jokes that are actually funny, but the majority of them are just childish. The plot is ridiculous, and rips off(I would say spoofed, but that would mean it would have to have been funny) most major mafia/crime/gangster films. The pacing is horrible. I only found about ten jokes funny, and there were probably several hundred in total. The acting was pretty bad, but Jay Mohr was cool and Applegate was acceptable. The characters are all clichés and stereotypes(which they are supposed to be, of course) but they aren't funny. The only quality this had that made it tolerable was Jay Mohr. He manages to make even the most childish gag funny, and boosts the fun factor in every scene he's in. I suppose I shouldn't have expected a higher quality film from the people behind similar stupidity like Hot Shots!, but this was such a good opportunity... there are so many scenes in big mafia films that could easily be made fun of, in good taste, instead of this crap. All in all, a pretty dull film with a very childish sense of humor. I recommend this only to fans of the Zucker style of humor. Everyone else should probably avoid this. 3/10 "},{"Title":"The Godfather, Part Due","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Las Vegas casino owner Jay Mohr (as Anthony Tony Cortino) starts his car and it explodes. He miraculously survives, and continues to narrate the story of his family. We flashback&#x85; to see how Mr. Mohr's father became involved with organized crime. The klutzy boy Jason Fuchs (as Little Vincenzo Cortino) causes accidents everywhere he goes. Volunteering to deliver a package for his dimwit dad, young Fuchs trips and dumps the white powdery contents for sheep to eat and become intoxicated. Fuchs is targeted for death, but escapes to America, where he eventually becomes an unlikely mob boss...This is mainly a spoof of The Godfather films. Mohr plays the Michael (Al Pacino) role and his father grows up to be Lloyd Bridges (as Vincenzo Cortino) in The Godfather (Marlon Brando) role...The opening and first flashback are funny, with some nice art/set direction and stunts. Alas, the story quickly gets bogged down with anal jokes. It's also sad to see Mr. Bridges, in his 80s and near death, given such stupid character to work with. His stunt double is painfully obvious. There is good work from brother Billy Burke (as Joey Cortino), pretty Christina Applegate (as Diane Keaton, oops, Steen) and sexy Pamela Gidley (as Pepper Gianini). At least, they get some interesting material to work with. Grand-motherly Olympia Dukakis (as Sophia) is made to wash down broccoli with prune juice.*** Mafia! (7/24/98) Jim Abrahams ~ Jay Mohr, Billy Burke, Christina Applegate, Lloyd Bridges "},{"Title":"Funny, despite obligatory flatulence.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  MAFIA!RATING *** (OUT OF ****)An Airplane!-style take on the Godfather movies, Mafia! is funny, despite the obligatory fart jokes that were sometimes overused for cheap laughs (c'mon guys, fart jokes went out in 1993).  My favorite bits are the tree getting shot and falling over, the casino games (You Absolutely Can't Win), the Don Quixote joke at the funeral, the pool scene where Jay Mohr dives onto his stomach, and more.  There are enough jokes here to take up several movies, and while many of them don't work, enough of them do to make for an enjoyable time. "},{"Title":"comedy","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I did laugh at this movie but I have seen better and I have seen worse. Its all up to you if you want to see this. There are the moments of  laughter within this movie but did the Greatest movie ever made need to be done in a comedic style?  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've not seen The Godfather or that Casino show whatever it is but this movie is Hilarious with a big H. There's this particular scene with Jay Mohr that's absolutely priceless, and that's the pool scene. If you've seen it, hopefully you'll know what scene I'm referring to, because when I think of this film, that scene automatically pops into my head. Jay Mohr is hilarious, and it's unfortunate that I can't remember anyone else's name but they were hilarious as well, and this little Godfather spoof had me in fits. Very nice!  "},{"Title":"This is the dumbest, and probably funniest movie I've ever seen.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When we were told that we would be watching a video in metalwork class because we would be having a relief teacher, one of the boys brought this movie. I recognised some of the names in the opening credits and thought, yeah, ok... Then the movie started and the whole class starting wetting themselves laughing. It was the dumbest, but most hilarious movie I've seen in a long time. You know how teachers always pretend they don't think jokes in movies like that aren't funny? Well, the two teachers we had (it was a double period) couldn't hold it in. If you want something totally brainless, but hilarious, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Godfather Spoof","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I first went to see this movie I didn't know what to expect. I went with a friend to see it and I didn't hear anything about it. This is a hilarious spoof off of the movie The Godfather. Jay Mohr isn't my favorite person, but he was great in this movie. The actors did very well in trying to make serious characters look ridiculous. This movie doesn't exactly tell you that drugs and alcohol are a bad example, however it makes fun of a serious well known movie. I could see it again and every other red blooded American should too. From the car bombs to the insane casino games it's an hour and a half of non stop laughs. "},{"Title":"Wonderful...","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie, not merely for the quality of it, but for the bizarre twist of parallels there were to my own family. I just have to find some way of finding out who developed the characters and where they pulled the family name of Cortino from... Yes, I am a Cortino... "},{"Title":"fun spoof of the godfather movies!!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a spoof of the Godfather movies. It is a cute, very funny spoof of the Godfather saga. This movie is from the same people who gave the world Hot Shots and the Airplane  movies. Even if do not like the stars, you will still get quite a good laugh of this spoof!!!!!It has a lot going for it in such a short time!! "}{"Title":"The Funniest Movie Of All Time!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I cannot believe that most people are saying this film is terrible. I was unfortunate to miss Mafia at the cinema, but when I hired it out, I had tears coming out of my eyes with laughter. And I haven't done that for a long time. Mafia is hilarious. My favourite scenes are when everyone is throwing up, the scene where Lloyd Bridges starts dancing, and many more. A fantastic way for Lloyd Bridges to finish off his career. It's sad that he has passed away, but good that this hilarious movie was dedicated to him. Do not miss this movie. It's my favourite of all time. It's a lot better than crappy comedies like There's Something About Mary or The Full Monty. 11/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of 1998!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is very funny. It's a bit funnier than There's Something About Mary. I give Mafia *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this was one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  It was non-stop from beginning to end. True, the ending did go on a little too long, but I have never laughed this hard at anything.  I think this is an excellent tribute to one of my favorite actors, LLoyd Bridges, whom I used to watch on Sea Hunt reruns when I was 4 or 5 years old. I always wanted to become a diver because of that.  Another excellent Lloyd Bridges movie is Home of the Brave from 1951, a WWII movie which dealt with racism.  Check it out.  He was good in Tucker also.  "},{"Title":"it makes u an offer u might not be able to refuse","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like the Godfather movies and Casino you well get the jokes better. If u like these kind of movies its a fun little movie If your a Lloyd Bridges fan its nice to see him one last time. If has some really funny scenes in it (look for the Jeffersons) and some that don't work like any of these moviesi give it a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"O.K.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was definetely not as funny as it could of been. For a satire about Mob movies it was extremely mediocre.There are some funny moments (like when Christina Applegate finds out she has a baby) but these moments are too few and far between.The actors all played their parts fine, but it's a waste when the best part of a movie is the closing credits (even if they were very imaginative)! "},{"Title":"freakin' hilarious!!!!!","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" i remember when this movie was coming out in theaters a long time ago and i wanted to see it because it looked funny but i'm glad i didn't see it until tonight because it wouldn't have been nearly as entertaining because i hadn't seen any of the movies it was spoofing. mafia movies are my favorite kind of movie and i've seen all of them and i love them and tonight i saw mafia! on TV and i thought it was the funniest movie i've ever seen. i laughed harder at this movie than any other movie that i can remember. if you are a mafia movie lover and you haven't seen this movie i very strongly suggest it. freakin' hilarious! please pardon any spelling errors as frankly i don't give a f*** enough to check my spelling.Don't worry...you'll cum...one day...you'll see. "},{"Title":"fun spoof of the godfather movies!!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a spoof of the Godfather movies. It is a cute, very funny spoof of the Godfather saga. This movie is from the same people who gave the world Hot Shots and the Airplane  movies. Even if do not like the stars, you will still get quite a good laugh of this spoof!!!!!It has a lot going for it in such a short time!! "},{"Title":"Mama Mia! Let's Laugh!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I stumbled upon this movie a couple weeks ago & thought it was so funny! You have to be mafia-conscious to know what's going on & what films these spoofs are taken from in order to get the gist. The Godfather films, Casino, Goodfellas (even Jurassic Park & Forrest Gump are thrown in as a bit of a surprise!) There's a 'Ginger-type' girl from Casino paroding Sharon Stone & so many more people playing people from those famous films! See if you can pick out who's playing who & that's the fun of it! And the scenes have been re-created so exact, it's eerie! Sometimes you forget you're NOT watching The Godfather until you see white-haired Lloyd Bridges in that dark 'business office' of his naming people & events that are non-existent! See it for laughs! (Ladies, see Louis Mandylor as the middle-aged Vincenzo! That's what caught MY eye!) "},{"Title":"I did not have sex with that woman, but I am wearing her underwear.","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" My 10/10 rating assumes that you're not actually going to bother looking at this page unless you've decided that you like Jane Austen's Mafia! before you've seen it (I found it pretty funny). For anyone else, it's the sort of spoof that - as many reviews said at the time - is destined to sleep with the fishes. A gag-a-minute send-up of history's most famous mafia movies, there's clearly nothing sacred to the people behind this flick; the whole Sicily sequence makes that clear (well, what can you expect from the director of Airplane!?). Where Leslie Nielsen seemingly would be is Lloyd Bridges (in his final role) as the aging, clumsy don.So, in conclusion, you'll only take interest in this if you accept any kind of humor, no matter how low. But you may be hungry for Italian food after watching it. Also starring Jay Mohr, Billy Burke, Christina Applegate, Olympia Dukakis and Vincent Pastore.And remember soup is good! "},{"Title":"Filled with Negative Italian American Stereotypes","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was offensive to Italians and Italian-Americans everywhere, using stereotypes in a cheap attempt at lowbrow humor. At least a show like The Sopranos (which trades in the same negative stereotyping) attempts to make social commentary about the human condition. This movie is not smart, not funny, and not classy.Clearly, all ethnic groups are stereotyped in the popular media. It's an unfortunate fact of life in Hollywood that writers use easy stereotypes as a way to quickly tell a story.The fact is that FBI statistics show that less than 1/10 of 1 percent of the approximately 25 million Italian-Americans in this country are involved in organized crime. These statistics also show that Italian-Americans are one of the least-arrested ethnic groups in this country for any sort of crime. Yet, the mafia and criminal stereotype of Italians still thrives.Respected columnist Jack Newfield once wrote that, Prejudice against Italian-Americans is the most tolerated intolerance... (There is a) long tradition of Italian bashing. And Hollywood screenwriter and Broadway playwright John Patrick Shanley said in a Time Magazine interview that Italian-Americans are the last ethnic group America can comfortably mock. Please don't waste your time with this movies. "}{"Title":"Too Silly To Be Funny","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can take or leave this type of comedy ( I can take or leave the comedy genre in general ) but I continually laughed at YOUNG FRANKENSTIEN and THE NAKED GUN movies so I don't have a pathological hatred of slapstick or spoof humour . The problem is that this movie lacks the comic genius of classic Mel Brooks and lacks the on screen presence of Leslie Nielson but when you stop to consider that both were associated with the pile of crap titled Dracula DEAD AND LOVING IT maybe it's no bad thing that neither featured in MAFIA The movie gets off to a not very good start with someone getting blown up in a car just like in CASINO and we then see a spoof of the CASINO credit sequence . Unfortunately the credits last far longer than the joke which starts off less than amusing before becoming more and more unfunny and eventually irritating . The joke probably wasn't all funny on paper and is much less funny on screen . The story then takes us through a rerun of THE GODFATHER but again for the jokes to work they must be funny and the humour is silly rather than funny like a cat's tail for a cigar ! we see other movies spoofed including the scene from CASINO where the cattle prod is put to bad use but once again the joke is still used after it has stopped being funny . It's very predictable humour too , so MAFIA didn't raise too many laughs from me . "},{"Title":"Hey, think of it this way It's nowhere near as bad as The Godson!","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mafia! a.k.a. Jane Austen's Mafia! is a funny movie, but you have to expect minimum laughs when you see it. Too many people expect maximum laughs when they start watching for a few reasons1. This is from the guy who helped bring us The Naked Gun From the Files of the Police Squad! and Airplane! I guess an exclamation mark after the titles of his films are mandatory nowadays. Anyway, his name is Jim Abraham, and he made up the middle of the ZAZ group Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker (yes, Z & Z are brothers). In recent years they have gone their ways, each making their own. One Zucker (David) made Baseketball (which competed against Mafia! at the box office), another Zucker (Jerry) made the 2001 release Rat Race, and the A-in-the-middle (Jim) made this Mafia!. So when you watch it, you immediately expect a ton of laughs, when, in fact, this is more of a lesser comedy. Even though he's not in this flick, I'll compare it to lesser Leslie Nielsen movies. For example, remember Dracula Dead and Loving It! compared to The Naked Gun!? That's what Mafia! is--the lesser brother. It's not quite as witty or humorous, but it still delivers laughs that never exactly amount to someone saying, That was great!2. It offers a fairly ensemble cast, and the ads make it look pretty funny, especially after seeing Jim Abraham attached to it.3. You've got to expect the most from anything with an exclamation mark at the end of the title.But while it's funny, it is, like I said, the lesser brother of a film like Airplane! or The Naked Gun!.The plot is a loose spoof on The Godfather Trilogy, with jokes ranging from gags about a small boy emigrating to America (see Don Corleone) and a man having to kill someone in a restaurant, where he looks for the gun in a bathroom (see Michael Corleone). The actual plot, if there is one, is about a man who grows up in a Mafia family, and must come to facts regarding his heritage and what he must do to carry the family legacy after his father dies. The whole thing is a setup for lots of Godfather gags, which see a young Mafia-Boss-to-be causing trouble in Italy and moving to America, where he sets up a family of organized crime. (Which I kind of already told you before, but I'm laying the plot down a bit thicker here.)I've said it before and I'll say it again The funny thing about slapstick is that even if the film is lousy, you're guaranteed to get more laughs evoked out of you than most subtle comedies will generate. For example, you watch a subtle comedy, and you really enjoy it. But you just didn't laugh very much while you were watching it. You watch Mafia! and it generates dozens of chuckles at least, but somehow it's still not as good as the subtle comedy you watched before which generated about five laughs. Why is this? The only reason I can think of is because in failed slapstick while there are many laughs, not many of them are as great as they could be. Slapstick (also) doesn't usually have great plots. Subtle comedies usually build up deeper characters, emotions and plots, making them better. So really, slapstick and comedy are on two very different levels. I can laugh a hundred times more watching slapstick and still say I liked the regular five-laughs-an-hour comedy better. I just thought that was interesting to point out.In the end, I wasn't exactly disappointed in Mafia! but it could have been a lot better consider what it was spoofing. I mean, it set out to spoof one of the most fondly remembered film legacies in recent years, and it came back a bit crippled, if somewhat humorous. There's no excuse for why it didn't live out to its full potential It had a great director, a great cast, and like I said before It sets out to spoof one of the best film trilogies of all time and comes back a bit crippled, if humorous.It could've been better, but I still had a good time watching it.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i loved it. Really witty. My kind of movie. Baboons bums- comedy central. Donkey's bum bit was also good.How much better was this than the godfather, and pink floyd's 'the wall', and the pirate movie. They were all bad. But this was really good. Really really. "}]