[{"Title":"surprisingly entertaining dumb action","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am no fan of the stars of this movie or a truckdriving buff or interested in country music (not that that's overly relevant.)  I borrowed this tape with low expectations but was happily surprised by how entertaining it was.  What has happened to Patrick Swayze?  I thought he did a good job acting in both Donnie Darko and now this.  THIS film is what goofy, illogical action flicks are supposed to be.  This isn't simply a music video stretched out to an hour-and-a-half.  This director actually knows how to make a movie.  The plot ain't deep but there IS a plot, which is important.  The ideas are dopey but the actors aren't simply laughing their way through but rather they treated this like a serious work.  The actress who plays Swayze's wife has a style which usually annoys me but she, too, was ok in this thing.  Even the little bits of country music didn't bother me.  A stupid finale?  Sure, but even that was fun.  Wow. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully cheesy popcorn flick","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie came out, the usual  pooh-poohers whined and complained about how it had a dumb script, a paper-thin plot, and cardboard characters. I wanted to smack them all upside the head for stating the obvious. Duh! That's the whole point! Patrick Swayze has made some very good dramas (Ghost, City of Joy), and some very cheesy ones (To Wong Foo) and he knows the difference. Anyone who tries to take this movie seriously is missing the point. This one is a terrific guilty pleasure, with over-the-top performances by Swayze and his musician co-stars (Meat Loaf, Randy Travis), and some spectacular chase scenes complete with some truly cheesy touches (every automobile that crashes explodes, regardless of whether the gas tank is actually damaged or not). Trust me, this one's worth checking out, as long as you check your brain at the door. "},{"Title":"Swayzerific! Two appendages upward!","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Patrick Swayze shines in one of the best films in the truck-driving genre. The main character Jack Crews (Swayze) plays an ex-con/truck driver/plaid shirt enthusiast who gets more than he bargained for! Literally. In effort to make some much-needed money for his poor family, Crews bargains with a small arms dealer, played by Meat Loaf. Crews agrees to deliver the shipment for Meat Loaf in exchange for some cool cash. As you may have figured out by looking at the movie cover, Crews encounters hordes of inept henchmen along the way. Fortunately for Jack Crews, their vehicles explode easily. Still, Crews n' Company face many action-packed twist and turns on their journey. Swayze gives a spectacular performance; deserving of the either an academy award or employee of the month. I would recommend this film to anyone with eyes. "},{"Title":"Meatloaf, burning diesel and one angry black dog!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" No truer words, Swayze looked weathered. But I guess some truckers just do. I sort of enjoyed the story, the beginning definitely ignites the rest of the action. This has some 'skill' linked-up in the driving, I learned a couple cool things about Big Rigs, that I didn't realize before however, I haven't seen diesels doing stuff like that since, 'Breakdown' 'CONVOY' or 'Duel'. Patrick is pretty much always fun to see act in any movie that he is in, other than the banter back and forth from the Evil-Graeme Beckel's character, who had taken his wife (played by Brenda Strong, the woman walking down the street only in a 'bra' that caused 'Kramer' from Seinfeld to crash his car T.V.s Seinfeld) and daughter, then making it through that Hellish chase situation and accident, only to lose a new found friend 'Sonny' the F.B.I. man, suddenly being sideswiped by The heavier-weight-coupon clipping-Jimmy Swaggart-wannabe-evil boss Singer rock star/actor Meatloaf at the end of this flick, Jack (Swayze) can't get an even break. However this is how most big budget Studio production houses usually take it into their hands to change a movie script until the believable is now ridiculous, usually at the end of a movie. Kind of like when Sidney J Furie made Superman IV and the Studio execs slashed his budget in half...this time however at pretty much the last minute, before scene shooting got started. But Blackdog is entertaining and fun,the cast is a great cast. Heck with a good beer it gets even better. But please if you must drink, stay at home and be nice to those around you. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on cable and never saw it in theaters but it was on at 200 am and I had a test in my Philosophy class. I said screw the test and watched this movie.I have never been a fan of Mr. Swayze. Didn't see Dirty Dancing or that movie where he plays a tough bouncer. Didn't want to. But this movie is very good for what it is worth. First of all, I compare the storyline to Smokey and the Bandit....except minus the humor and lamentably the actors. The movie is about a ex-con trying to save his house by driving a truck full of illegal weapons across the eastern seaboard. You've got some great people in this movie +Patrick Swayze he looks like he could be a truck driver +Randy Travis who I admit I didn't recognize with the beard. I have no idea why he grew it +Possibly 50 Cent's brother. No doubt..when you see this man (who isn't related) you'll hear Wanksta begin playing +And the best Bloated Bible Thumping Meat Old Ass Bat Out Of Hell Loaf..who I cant believe actually CHOSE that name. This movie is not geared towards film buffs nor does it pretend to do so. This movie is for those who love the road and Cannonball Run (the first one only, jeez) or Smokey and The Bandit(Numbers 1 and 3..Dom Deluise and that retarded elephant killed number 2) The rest of the characters are a joke (especially the FBI agents...ever seen Pardon The Interruption?) but this movie is nothing more than an exciting and hard to stop watching road classic. Plus I live near where they drive the truck through (how about some love for South Carolina and N. Carolina looks amazing in the movie) So In conclusion, don't put down your Dead Poets Society or your Good Will Hunting for this, but sit back with a beer and enjoy this modern classic. "},{"Title":"Funny action film.","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Black Dog starts as just out on parole truck mechanic Jack Crews (Patrick Swayze) is called into the office by his boss Cutler (Graham Beckel), he tells Jack he's got a job for him to drive a truck from Atlanta to new Jersey & he'll get paid $10,000 for it. Jack isn't keen on the idea since he has no license & wants to stay out of trouble for his families sake, at home that night Jack finds a foreclosure letter hidden by his wife from the bank who are going to repossess his families house. Amazingly they owe the bank $9,000 so that $10,000 he was offered just hours before suddenly looks very tempting. Jack accepts the job but soon finds himself hauling a lorry of guns which are being tracked by the FBI & local redneck scumbag Red (Meat Loaf) wants to hijack the truck & steal them for himself, I guess Jack is just having one of those days...Directed Kevin Hooks Black Dog is a cheesy but sort of fun action flick that could have been better but also could have been worse. The somewhat predictable script by William Mickelberry & Dan Vining doesn't take itself too seriously & feels like an extended version of the final climatic truck chase from Mad Max 2 (1981) in the sense Jack has to protect his truck from all sorts of marauding bad guy's, obviously Swayze is no Mel Gibson & the two don't compare in terms of excitement or quality but that's what I kept think while I was watching it. The character's are clichéd & one dimensional but they serve their purpose well enough, there's some alright one-liners including a funny one where a bad guy ends up splattered on the road & Swayze says 'Eeww, roadkill'! That line alone is almost worth watching this for. It certainly moves along at a brisk enough pace, you've got your bad guy's & you've got your good guy's as well as those caught up in the middle & you know what I actually thought Black Dog was pretty fun, it's not art but it's entertaining & how can you not like a film in which the main villain is Meat Loaf & the main hero is Patrick Swayze? You can't & it's as simple & straight forward as that.Director Hooks does alright, some of the truck crashes are impressive although the actual chase scenes lack a little spark, they are OK but not quite as exciting as I'd have liked. There's not much violence apart from a few shoot-outs & a fight at the end. Talking of the end even though Swayze has been hauling a lorry of guns & making lots of things blow up the FBI give him back his license, they let him go scott free, they take care of his $9,000 debt & let him drive the truck to the police pound. Isn't that a bit, well, generous? I mean he beat Cutler up didn't he? That in itself is assault & it doesn't matter if the guy he beat up is a scumbag either, also what about all the destruction he caused? Surely he broke the terms of his parole somewhere along the way, didn't he?Technically the film is fine, it looks like it had some money spent on it although it doesn't quite look like a mega budget affair. The acting is OK, Swayze looks bored & embarrassed, Meat Loaf is Meat Loaf while Charles S. Dutton puts in a funny performance as FBI agent Alan Ford (Ford? Trucks? Is that meant to be an in-joke because I ain't laughing guy's!).Black Dog is a silly, cheesy & amusing way to pass 90 odd minutes, it's a light hearted action flick using big trucks. It's watchable enough for sure. "},{"Title":"Road rage with Patrick Swayze and Meat Loaf.","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For the genre movie that this is, it's a pretty enjoyable movie to watch. It's definitely no worse or better than any other similar simple straight-forward action flick from the '90's.Of course the movie is suffering from more than 1 problem though. One obviously is its story. It's simple and actually doesn't make a lot of sense and is a real unlikely one. I mean, why did Red ever let the truck drive off from his place, only to dangerously attempt to hijack it later, on the very same day. But oh well, without this story we wouldn't had all those exploding trucks and action scenes within this movie.Well, it's not like the action is much spectacular though. Funny enough there are lots of exploding trucks and cars but they already seem to blow up when one of the passengers farts. Action-wise this movie just isn't good or spectacular enough to watch.Another problem with the movie is that it has far too many villains in it. It's like the main characters against the rest of the world. The movie also doesn't seem to be able to make a choice who to make the main and most important villain of the movie, with as a result that all of the villainous characters aren't really anything memorable or evil enough, since the movie spends to much time on showing the many different villainous characters of the movie.The movie is from the period when Patrick Swayze's career of course already was more or less on a death end. Nevertheless he's always good and serious with every role that he plays. He's also credible in this role, despite his already showing age. He was perhaps a tad bit too old at the time of this movie to play the main lead in an action movie. Meat Loaf mostly seemed to have had fun with playing his role, which shows on the screen. But like I said before, since he plays a villain, he didn't get the screen time he deserved. There are parts in the movie were he completely disappears, only to show up 20 minutes later again.But despite this all, the movie is good and entertaining enough to watch. It's current rating on here would suggest that this is one of the worst action flicks of the '90's but it hardly is. It's also no better than some action flicks but also definitely no worse than some others.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Very unrealistic, but action-packed","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I do prefer intelligent thrillers, but I don't mind unrealistic stuff if it's good. It was surprising to see Patrick Swayze was in this movie, seeing that it's so unrealistic and it's what would seem like a fool's errand in the eyes of the critics, but I credit his performance. It is about a truckie who is driving a truck filled with firearms, while guys come along, try to kill them, and get the guns. Meat Loaf's acting performance wasn't great, he should have just made a contribution to the soundtrack, and I thought he was over-the-top at the end, racing a truck, wildly raving and chanting bible verses. But the action scenes are good, despite the unrealism. Explosions happen when they wouldn't normally, and shooting people doesn't seem to do anything but make them wince. At one stage, Patrick Swayze is beating a guy up on the truck, and Meat Loaf comes along in his ute-type vehicle, and shoots him in his arm. He winces, but he keeps punching with the same vengeance and strength as before. Despite lack of credibility, it was an exciting adventure and was a film about truck-driving, which I have never actually seen in a movie before. Overall, it was great and the chase scenes are very well-done sometimes. If you aren't expecting too much and don't mind unrealistic things, and you like action movies, see this. "},{"Title":"A Fun, Fast Little Action Film","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An ex-con (Patrick Swayze) takes a job driving a truck cross country. What he does not know is that the truck is filled with illegal weapons and now he must fight to survive and save his family.This film is given low ratings, and I suspect the reason is that people wanted it to be more than it is. This is the story of a man who has one chance to make a big score, and he is followed by trouble -- explosions and car crashes ensue. If you wanted more than a nice popcorn-munching film, you put the wrong DVD in, my friend.I enjoyed this one. I did have a question or two about the plot that I think was never fully answered, but then I had to refer myself to the previous paragraph I was expecting too much and should just relax. After that change of perspective, it is a joy. "},{"Title":"I like this movie, and I ain't afraid to say so.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, it has many a plot hole. Yes, the acting isn't Oscar worthy. And yes, it's a cheesy B-grade movie. But guess what? I like it. Black Dog is a silly trucker action/thriller topped off with comedy, both intentional and unintentional, and a really, really cool country music score. The reason why so many people don't like it is simply 'cause they are taking it far too seriously. If you're like me and have had plenty of warning NOT to take Black Dog so seriously (thanks to the other IMDb members), then you'll like Black Dog. In short, DO NOT expect Black Dog to be something like Donnie Darko and/or Fight Club. Don't take it seriously and you may just have a rollicking good time, especially if you are a fan of anyone who stars in it. "}{"Title":"Great Action, Great Thrills!","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most people look at Black Dog as a over the top, blow en action flick but this film is fun and had pretty good action. The film is about Jack Crews (Patrick Swayze) an ex con that's trying to find a new life after prison life. His boss offers him a job driving a load across the country, he refuses. After a finding a legal document in his kitchen draw, his wife hid it from him. He agrees to do the job so he can save his house and life hood.Not known to Jack, his load contains illegal weapons that his boss is selling to gangs in the country. Jack gets to the truck stop when meets the boss Red (Meatloaf). Jack chooses the truck he wants to use to pull the load. Jack finally gets on the road with a guy named Earl (Randy Travis) in the passenger seat and two another guys named Sonny and Wes following at the rear in Sonny's car.Soon the trip gets rough and deadly, Red is working for Jack's boss and wants the load. But Jack doesn't give up and wants to put on a fight, soon its a dangerous game of cat and mouse across the country. To make matters worse the FBI and ATF are also on Jacks tale trying to stop him, to grab the illegal load.This is a very fun movie, Kevin Hooks keeps the action non stop as Jack is trying to get the load home. The special effects are fantastic and they really destroyed a number of semi trucks for the movie. The only downfall is the ending, the ending is pretty basic and sometimes even disappoints but apart from that the movie is pretty fun and very underrated. The soundtrack is also a great one. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Overall this movie was very good in my opinion. The only thing I saw wrong with it was the scene where the camero went over the hill and had a damaged front fender then when the scene cuts back to it when it lands it has a perfectly fine front end. Other than that I thought the movie was good. I watch it every day but that also is because I like the thought of a movie on Tractor Trailers. Overall good move, good acting, Bible basing quotes not my favorite but a good movie. I give it 10 stars.P.S. That quote on there One fart Wess and you're walking is not by Jack Crews, but by Earl (Randy Travis) when driving the damaged camero up the hill. "},{"Title":"Lean action picture made more entertaining by over-the-top performances","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I honestly wasn't expecting too much from this movie, but for what I got I was entertained and never bored. BLACK DOG is a fairly standard late-90's B-grade action movie, but its colorful characters help it to transcend the genre clichés and make it somewhat memorable. The basic plot is that Jack Crews (Patrick Swayze) is in need of some extra money and agrees to take a truck-driving job transporting some goods. Little does he know that it's some illegal guns, and soon he has people on his trail as he tries to make the delivery.I've never been too much of a Patrick Swayze fan, mostly because I don't think he can act that well. He has some charisma, for sure, but the only movie I've really enjoyed him in prior to this was ROAD HOUSE. Here, he doesn't get that kind of a role to play, but thankfully the supporting players pick up the slack and make the movie worth watching. Of those cast members, the most entertaining were Meat Loaf as a Bible-quoting madman, and Charles Dutton and Stephen Tobolowsky as a bickering FBI and ATF agent, respectively. Their short scene that opens the film is, in my opinion, the best part and sort of sets the tone for what follows, at least when they're on screen. Randy Travis also has a supporting role, but all they can do with him is make jokes and references to his real-life career as a country singer.In general, the acting was decent for this type of movie. The action, of course, was well-done. By virtue of being produced before Hollywood became obsessed with CGI and shaky-cam, this film features real stunts, real explosions and crisp, clean action sequences done with some flair. Yes, having cars and trucks explode on impact in a collision is ridiculous, but it's also ridiculously entertaining to watch. Most importantly, the truck-driving sequences were filmed in an interesting way, and actually on the highway. Other positives I can think of are a suitably bombastic score and some gentle soundtrack cuts courtesy of Randy Travis. I don't really care for country music, but he's one person I can tolerate.The negative aspects I can mention are all fairly standard for the genre. There's a lot of plot holes, story threads that aren't followed up on (or at least satisfactorily), and of course the premise. Part of this can be chalked up to the run time. At 89 minutes, it is a little light on story and character development, but then again it didn't exactly need to be complex. Overall, this was much more fun than I was anticipating. It's by no means a good movie, but it's pretty entertaining for what it is. When all is said and done, there's a lot worse ways to spend your time. Also, they do explain what the title means, in case you were wondering. "},{"Title":"I'm just here to drive.","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You get plenty bang for your buck in the on-the-road action joint Black Dog. Ex-con Jack Crews unwillingly agrees to drive a semi-trailer loaded with illegal weapons from Georgia to New Jersey in order to save his family. While it might be a one-idea action fling, it's got enough gusto and energy making it predictably routine, but still rousing Mack truck ride packed with smashing stunt work that's nothing short than spectacular. Total destruction follows. It's dangerous and it shows (look at the chase through the hills), as the imagery is important due to its simplicity. The script is thick with drama, but this never takes away from the thrills or the build of them. Even though the ending was overly cheery for my liking. Patrick Swayze emit's a natural coolness to his laid-back ex-con character that sure knows how to handle a rig. Then chuck in the villains (hit-men, bikers and FBI) who hound Swayze, where you have the larger-than-life Meat Loaf and the usual twists and turns. Distinguishable, but competently done and very exciting as we get the screeching guitar riffs to remind us that. That son of a b!tch can drive "},{"Title":"The best of the worst","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This, although not entirely intended to be that funny, is one of the most humorous films I've ever seen. Wes's constant pleading to visit the jon, Red's quoting of Bible verses, and Earl's horrible singing all intertwine into a story originally intended to be very serious. However, the great acting of Randy Travis and Meat Loaf give the viewer a pleasant and hilarious surprise. The car chase scene is wonderfully made as is a crafty semi truck rampage up a steep hill and along jagged cliffs. A unique blend of good and bad acting along with good scenes and bad scenes make Black Dog one of the best bad movies you'll ever see. "},{"Title":"A movie so good you don't want it to end...and it doesn't","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's see, let's make a movie about truckers.  Who can we get? How about Patrick Swayze? Yeah, that's good. Now for the villain- Meat Loaf? No, you're insane. Randy Travis as the sidekick? Wait a durned minute here! It's 'BLACK DOG'.Poor Mr Swayze, if he drives a truck again, he'll go to jail...again! But honey, we're losing the house! Suddenly (deus ex machina), a deal he can't refuse comes his way, and after all, he is the best gol'darn trucker of them all.I would have loved to be at the pitch meeting for this movie. Well, we have $14M. Why don't we just throw it..........here!The funny part is, this is so good you can't stop watching it. And boy, is Swayze looking old! Watch out for the Black Dog.  "},{"Title":"Corny and predictable, but harmless enough","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say that it's been a while since I saw a Patrick Swayze movie. He seems to have done the John Travolta disappearing act. He's not the best actor in the world, anyway, and he certainly wasn't challenged by this film. But he certainly is looking OLD!That said, the movie is entertaining enough in a See how many exploding vehicles we can cram into it kind of way.Meat Loaf, although immensely entertaining, is hopelessly miscast as the villain. It's just impossible to take him seriously. He was much better in Fight Club. Here he has about as much menace as Boss Hogg from the Dukes of Hazzard.The movie is predictable, but entertaining. It even has the two cops who start out hating each other becoming best buddies.However, they missed the obvious opportunity at the end to have The Black Dog come for Meat Loaf's character. It would have made the movie even cheesier, but more fun. The ending, as it stands, is rather dull. "},{"Title":"Excellent action","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film offered excellent action sequences, that were well spaced throughout its length. The soundtrack too was great for lovers of american country music and filled in nicely between and during some action scenes.  It is true to say that perhaps the acting took second place in this movie, but with this sort of action and pace it was hard for the actors to get a look in. "},{"Title":"Black Dog 1998","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie it was good.I think it was one of Patrick Swayze's good movies.It had action in it. "},{"Title":"Not a dog, but...","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This resembles a made-for-tv movie, though one with a slightly higher budget than usual. Not very interesting; though there's a lot of smash-n-burn, it somehow comes across as very unexciting. Swayze needs an agent who can find better scripts.  "}{"Title":"Run for your life - it's Smokey & the Bandit 4!!!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ex-con Jack Crews is offered an one-time job to drive a truck dross-country and deliver it's load of stolen guns on time.  Despite having lost his licence he takes the job for the money.  However once he starts his trip with an escort he finds that the original holder of the guns is trying to not only get paid for the weapons but also steal the load back.  Crews finds himself trying to avoid police and criminals alike to get the job done.Who said they don't make Smokey and the Bandit movies anymore?!  This mixes both elements of those movies with modern thriller strands.  The plot is therefore pretty mixed.  It starts out ignoring the fact that Crews is carrying illegal weapons and ignores the moral issues this may throw up regarding the film painting him as a good man, it then focuses on big truck action with plenty of cars, trucks, jeeps blowing up and skidding all round the place.  The second half keeps some of this action but it realises that it needs to end with Crews being a good guy and suddenly the guns issue is brought up and it looks for a happy thriller style end.  The plot is quite unlikely - Why did Red suddenly seem happy to steal this load - he'd never done it before, and the twists aren't exactly a surprise.  The action is distracting for the most part - but overblown spectacle doesn't replace genuine excitement, and, as Burt Reynolds discovered, how many times can you watch a truck crash before it gets old.The performances are not great.  Swayze is poor and just has a pained expression on his face throughout.  Meat Loaf is a not so much a meatloaf as he is a huge glazed ham - he overacts and looks bugeyed like he was in one of his videos.  Charles Dutton and Stephen Tobolowsky aren't great but their odd-couple interplay at least makes them interesting.  The rest of the cast are familiar faces (Randy Travis, Gabriel Casseus etc) but don't really have very much to do.Overall it's quite enjoyable because the action scenes are quite good.  The story is daft and the actors don't have much to do but the sheer spectacle of it covers the whole for most of the film.  Almost.  The final five minutes is dumb and typical of the film's sense of spectacle over substance. "},{"Title":"Drivin' my life away.","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Patrick Swayze stars as Jack Crews, a New Jersey dock worker in some serious financial trouble. His crooked boss, Cutler (Graham Beckel), offers Jack a sizable sum to transport some goods, despite the fact that Jack has no licence and legally is not allowed to drive. Desperate for the cash, Jack takes the job, but soon finds out that he's running guns. Together with sidekicks like aspiring country songwriter Earl (real life country star Randy Travis), he must avoid goons like the relentless Red (singer Meat Loaf), who tries to hijack the weapons for himself.Black Dog is just the kind of thing you watch when you don't want to have to think too much. The script is very unimaginative, but then the story is merely a set up for a non-stop array of extremely impressive vehicular stunts, which all seem to be done the old fashioned, practical way. As a no-brainer action movie, Black Dog *does* do its job well enough. It also helps that some of the characters are genuinely engaging. Cutler and Red are very much stock villains; it comes as no surprise when Cutler barges in on Jacks' wife (Brenda Strong) and daughter (Erin Broderick) and threatens them in order to manipulate Jack. The comedy relief doesn't particularly work, coming from characters such as Wes (Brian Vincent) and ATF Agent McClaren (Stephen Tobolowsky); McClaren has a predictably antagonistic relationship with Ford (Charles Dutton), a hot tempered FBI agent on the case.The supporting cast is fairly solid. Travis is pretty darn amusing, as is Meat Loaf, although the latters' dialogue gets to be annoying towards the end. The late Swayze never was an especially dynamic actor, but he creates a reasonably sympathetic and reasonably bad ass hero.For what this is, it's enjoyable. This viewer just wishes that it wouldn't have had two separate climaxes.Good soundtrack, too.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Messages, Good Action, Special Cast","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think the best part of this movie was the acting. We get great performances from Patrick Swayze, Randy Travis, Meatloaf, Gabriel Casseus and Graham Beckel. Also of-mention is Crews' daughter, played by 11-year-old Erin Broderick. She just had a special something and lit up every scene with her in it.Swayze plays the part to a T of a basically-decent person, just-released from a 2-year prison stint, and is obviously traumatized by both the incarceration and the knowledge that his negligence killed someone. I think his was a socially-important part, because herein, we see the effect of over-working, as one tries to create a decent life for one's family.Randy Travis plays his part well, never over-acting, and always imbuing his words and actions with the sense of calm and humor he is known for in music circles. I enjoyed him in 1997's Fire Down Below, and in The Black Dog, he gets a much more substantial role, and much more screen time. His references to song writing and singing were humorous.Meatloaf is the surprise of the movie. His role as religion-crazed black marketeer plays excellent counter-point to the other, more-reserved characters in the movie. It was great to see Gabriel Casseus (as undercover F.B.I agent). I admired his work in 2000's Bedazzled and would like to see more of his work. I was not familiar with Graham Beckel, who plays the arms-dealing mastermind in The Black Dog, but whoever did casting for the movie knew a good bad guy when they saw one. Not being a trucker, I'm not sure if some of the driving stunts Crews pulled off are possible.., or not, but the scene with him getting out of the cab and swinging outside the cab over to the fifth wheel to fight a bad guy is definitely something to see. It was definitely Swayze.., not a stunt double.I have never understood how a moving vehicle can hit a stationary object (like a mobile home) and then fly over it, spinning, but the good news is that I don't have to. The Black Dog is a good action movie with a special cast and a couple of important social messages 1.) Don't fore-close on people's house (and family), because they will do whatever it takes to keep their life. and 2.) Do not demand inhumane hours and effort from your employees, because they could pop. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some minor spoilers follow.This movie should be Exhibit A in how to make a great film. Is the acting good? Nope. Is the plot full of holes? Yup. Are there a multitude of errors? You bet. Is this a great movie? Without a doubt.I have watched this movie numerous times and forced others to watch it with me so that they too can appreciate all that it is. The ending truck battle between our hero and Meatloaf is hilariously epic and how I imagine Meatloaf lives his day-to-day life.My *only regret with this movie is that there wasn't a sequel. *This movie makes me regret not becoming a Truck Driver. "},{"Title":"Black dog, an actioner of many flat spots, marks a blacker day for it's lead","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Black dog was not any real inspiration, Swayze's career was still intact. The is an unexceptional action film, the norm, with really a simple scenario, we rely on car crashes, explosions to keep it going, which helps break the tedium of the actor's talk in between, with not the best written characters either, all though I did like the rambling Randy Travis, as the budding song writer. In Black Dog, age has worn and wearied Swayze, who plays a ex con, who did time on account of vehicular manslaughter, where his trucking days are now over. Now with his dream house in foreclosure, as he's just found out, he's trucking days have returned, when he's forced to take a 15 hour truck route offer at his work, he originally turned down, threats and all, to make the cash. This turns out to be a big mistake, as this truck, unbeknown to him, is hauling a lot of gun armor, where Meatloaf, and it's great to see him really seeing red, is ripping off the weaponry, but of course Swayze overpowers him, where now he's in over his head as breaking parole, where it just takes a call, but also his wife and cute little daughter, become hostages. There are a couple of suspense bits, one at a way station, where really they aren't impressive, but this is a standard action if bordering on commonplace movie, with some situations and very few plot points. We have two bickering cops to fill in the rest of the movie. One ATF, the other's FBI, one has a angry temperament, the other much more passive, it's a highpoint of this time passer. Oh they're the best performances in the movie, although Swayze's blonde and beautiful wife in this was good too. Even when we find out one of the trucking crew was FBI, we're not really even surprised, or don't care, which as I said before, they're the most memorably written characters. I admit, some of the action sequences were thrilling and well choreographed, but this is what this movie needed if to survive. It's mostly flat. Meatloaf, like only a couple of other actors turned in good or semi good performances. I did like the shock moment in the second ending with Meatloaf. Sadly Black dog just earns it place in the cheap, average, if B grade standard. One could say it was painfully average. The title actually refers to fatigued and worn truckers who a black dog leaping before them which instinctively has them realizing, when veered over, they're about to hit another vehicle. I'd like to hear other truckers opinions on that. "},{"Title":"Something just doesn't sound right","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Consistent readers of mine know how I love a good car/trucker movie, and Black Dog adds to the decent category of the list. It doesn't rank as high as Joy Ride or Maximum Overdrive did with me, but it proves itself worthy of recognition. It has a capable cast, a thin, yet efficient premise, but a modest level of suspense.Our main character is Jack Crews (Swayze), a man recently released from prison for vehicular manslaughter who agrees to take a job delivering toilets from Atlanta to New Jersey for $10,000. His no longer has a license, but takes the job out of desperation to prevent his house from getting repossessed. When he goes to pick up a truck to deliver the toilets, he meets Red (Loaf) a suspicious, and utterly unsettling Jesus freak who winds up being more than meets the eye.Crews' partners on the delivery are Earl (Travis), Sonny (Cassesus), and Wes (Vincent). It isn't long before the four men discover they are being hunted by Red's men who want to turn this into a deadly cat and mouse game.The film is low on substance, but manages to make up for the film in terms of action scenes. Some are coherently shown, and sometimes, others serve as just set pieces. The film lacks the suspense of films like Joy Ride and Speed, although it does bring a considerable amount of talent to the table. Black Dog isn't bad, but it's thin and ordinary. It lacks in the field of suspense, which is something that is almost required in the high speed trucker genre.Starring Patrick Swayze, Randy Travis, Meat Loaf, Graham Beckel, Brenda Strong, Charles S. Dutton, Lorraine Toussaint, and Stephen Tobolowsky. Directed by Kevin Hooks. "},{"Title":"And they don't even play Led Zepplin","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One would expect that a movie of this name would actually play the Led Zepplin song of the same name somewhere. They don't, though they do mention it. Maybe they just couldn't get the rights to the song. That doesn't matter because it is a pretty decent film anyway and they don't need one Led Zepplin song to make it any better.The movie is based around a truck driver that has had his license suspended for life for culpable driving (vehicular manslaughter in the US). He has just been released and is given a job repairing trucks. His boss is a crook though and wants him to run a shipment of guns from Atlanta to New Jersey, something which he does not want to do. When he discovers that his house is about to be repossessed by the bank, he changes his mind and takes the job.The movie thus becomes a road movie in a very big truck. But there are numerous other aspects, like the theme of appearance and reality and trust. There are numerous people in the movie that have many different motives and we are never sure who is on the truckies side. The only people we know are who they claim to be are the driver and his family. Everybody else seem to have other things on their mind, and even more, they may seem bad and turn out to be good.One may be interested in why the movie is called Black Dog. Decent name, but there is a reason behind it. It seems at first that it may have something to do with the black pitbull in the back of the truck, but this is not the case. It is actually a truckie legend, that before the truckie falls, they will see the black dog. It is a harbinger of doom and a humbler of proud souls. The black dog is only added as character background and there is never any appearance of it during the journey.Black Dog is an action movie with big trucks. If you like trucks, then Black Dog is a good movie. If you like seeing trucks get smashed up and destroyed, then you will seriously like Black Dog. It has a simple plot with a fair bit of action. There is time where is focuses on character development, but it is seeing the truck scenes that captures your minds with this movie rather than the interaction. "},{"Title":"Road House Hits The Road . . .","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One Actor, Two Musicians & One Black Dog! And more wrecked cars and trucks than you'd want to count. Swazye must run a load of illegal gunsto New Jersey in order to save his home and his family. But he's caught between the gangsters and the FBI. I came in in the middle of this on HBO. It was so cheesy I couldn't stop watching it. If you're in the mood for a trucking flick that is a bit more serious than Smokey & The Bandit or Convoy, this is the picture for you. If you can call this serious, and you can call this Made-For-TV (with extra added violence) type movie a motion picture. Worth a gander is you come in past the exposition. Doesn't really need any. Spoilers? pbbt... It's pre-spoiled. Cheese-O-Licious! "},{"Title":"Unstopped action movie with trucks, guns and violence","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie talks upon an ex-con named Jack(Patrick Swayze), he's working as mechanic in New Jersey, the bank is about to evict his house and he has no other choice taking a job for Red(Meat Loaf), driving a large truck in a long ride cross county, all the way from Atlanta . The truck is filled with illegal arms and he must to fight for saving his spouse(Brenda Strong) and daughter. Meanwhile the ATF and Feds (Stephen Tobolowski, Charles S Dutton, Lorraine Toussaint)are after from him.The motion picture packs noisy action, race trucks, exciting thriller and is quite amusing, furthermore contains an eerie twist plot with the legend of apparition an ominous black dog. It's entertaining because from the beginning to the end the action packed and suspense is nonstop. Patrick Swayze( unforgettable in Dirty dancing) as a two-fisted action man saving his family is cool though a little wizened.Colorful cinematography and catching musical score by George S Clinton. The picture is professionally directed by Kevin Hooks( son of actor Robert Hooks).He's an action movies expert (Passenger 57 , Fled, among others), though he usually works for television , filming known and famous series( Prison break, 24, Lost, Cold case, NYPD Blue..). Rating  Acceptable and passable and it will like to action movies buffs and Patrick Swayze fans. "},{"Title":"DVD'd this off TV as the guy who made cabin fever was going on about it in the Cabin Fever extras","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a no-brainer, but in a good way. The plot is simple to the point of seeming like a cartoon, or a story made up by an infant, however the film is executed in such a way that it isn't really a drawback. Acting, is pretty cheesy, and the characters are really black and white i.e. either completely good or evil, the dialogue is pretty tongue in cheek though and the direction seems to be deliberately 80's which is quite fun. I actually thought it was filmed in the late 80's or very early nineties, but then I realised MEATLOAF was too skinny.The ending is total wish fulfilment, with Patrick Swayze who has seriously violated his parole and committed a number of felonies, let off Scot free. He is even given back his license, and allowed to take the truck to an impound lot unescorted despite it being a crime scene on wheels. They don't even take him in for questioning! Good bless America.In conclusion, it is a film of contrasts.your host Colin J McSloy "}{"Title":"funniest movie ever","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If youre ever in the mood for a laugh out load comedy, don't bother with Bringing Down the House, Analyze That or any other pathetically boring movie. Rent this and laugh the whole way through. That's exactly what me and my friend did last week and I have to admit I was laughing so hard I would have to pause the movie until the laughing fit ended. This really is one of the best comedies of the last few years. Highly reccomended. "},{"Title":"Unique!","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really loved this movie. Number 1, I am a Swayze fan and number 2 it was original in its format. Like someone else said, most often you see car chases, these are semi-chases. It was pretty neat how so many musical artists were used in its cast. Meatloaf was fantastic. He even looks fantastic and I am sure anyone who has seen him before(1974)would agree with me. He must have lost at least 200 lbs. His character was kind of comical in a way and he did a great job. Of course Patrick Swayze always does! "},{"Title":"Lots of action, No Thinking","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you want an Action Thriller where you also have to use your brain, then look elsewhere, otherwise read on. Although there is no thought process to this film, there is plenty of Action to make up for it.  This is a great movie to take home after that rough day at the office/school when you just don't want to pick your brain, but enjoy the movie anyway. Directed by Kevin Hooks (Passenger 57), and starring MeatLoaf, and Patrick Swayze.A Truck Driver who is the major bread winner for his family was trying to provide just that little bit more by taking on extra work.  Extra work means extra hours, and less sleep.  For Jack Cruise that spelled disaster when he fell asleep at the wheel of his truck.  As a result of his truck going out of control, he killed a motorist, had his CDL revoked, and was sent to jail for 3 years.  After getting out of jail, he finds out just how hard things have been for his wife and daughter.  Their house is about to be repossessed since little payment has been made on it, and the mountain load of other bills that didn't stop while Cruise was in jail. Cruise is offered a driving job that pays a lot of cash.  It would be enough to pay off his overdue debt.  But what to do?  He doesn't have a license, so he could go back to jail if he is caught.......just one shipment, the cops won't be anywhere around right? It is obvious from the beginning that this is no ordinary load, as a chaperone is sent along with the truck, and all kinds of strange things are happening along the way. While not as far fetched as the Simpson's episode where Homer drives a rig a finds out about the box that takes over control of the Truck, if you think about anything, it can seem rather far fetched. Great Action, Bad plot, good actors, not too bad overall.  "},{"Title":"A triumph in movie making","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What can one say about Black Dog that has not already been said.  I found this movie to be a very exciting thrill ride.  I was glued to my seat through the whole thing.  Patrick Swayze did easy one of his best (and overlooked) performances of his career.  I was shocked at the gritty realism that Randy Travis and Meatloaf brought to this movie.  I found Meatloaf's acting job breath taking,  he was a bad dude but he kept quoting bible verses, so one was inclined to think that maybe he isn't that bad.  But don't be fooled, he was one bad man.  I only wish they focused more on his character.  He was like Darth Maul in Star Wars where you knew he was a bad guy, but you really were hopping he would tear more things up.  I also like Randy Travis he made feel like he had been traveling the road for many years and had been there, done that.  I look forward many more wonderful performances by him in the up coming future. Patrick Swayze also did a great job.  He had the presence of a man who has spent some time in jail.  You could see it in his face, he knew when to fight and when to run.  He also did a great job in the exciting driving sequences.  Who knew driving semi's is such an art? All in all I give this movie a big thumbs up.  From the great acting to the perfectly choreographed action sequences this is a movie that gets you up and never lets you down. "},{"Title":"Good chase movie- with trucks!!","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just plain cool. Its a chase movie with a difference- it uses trucks!! The chase scenes are filmed excellently and the big budget shows. The plot may be flawed, but you don't watch movies like this for the plot. You watch it for the action. And there's lots of it in this movie. From fistfights to gunfights to car and truck chases this movie has it all. Patrick Swazye's character is all too human and his plight is believable. Overall a good movie. Snap it up next time you're at your local video store. Its worth the rental price. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Typical simple formula, but there is still a bright side and less bumpy road","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The film is not really bad, the screen play is typical and sometimes a bit stupid and unbelievable, but not boring, the chase is awesome and surprisingly quite clever and acting is pretty good. This film is fairly good entertainment for those people who love some chase.  "},{"Title":"It's about trucks being blown up, bashed, smashed and trashed and nothing more.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jack Crews (Swayze) is an ex-con. A husband and father who finds out he is going to lose his house, that is unless he comes up with the cash to save it. Luckily for him he gets an offer to drive a rig for 10 000. Problem, Crews lost his truckers license a few years earlier. But the thought of losing is house outweighs getting arrested for committing another crime and he takes the job.This is where the problems for Crew's start.The movie is basically about trucks being blown up, bashed smashed and trashed and nothing more. If that is what you go into the movie expecting, you'll probably still be disappointed, but less so than if you expected a good plot. There are a couple of good crashes (I can't believe I'm saying that) but not enough to warrant me recommending the film. If you are a fan of Swayze you've probably already seen it.If you've never heard of Swayze don't let this be your introduction to his work. Anyone else still avoid.4/10 "},{"Title":"just plain cool!","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Black Dog as some amazing stunts involving semi-trucks, which is basically on the movie is about. This is the only Patrick Swayze movie I've ever enjoyed. My favorite sequence is the (one of many) chase down the mountain road involving Swayze's truck and three other semis, the last of which (after losing it's trailer) takes part in the type of automobile crash I like the most hitting another obstacle and flipping up through the air, spinning side-over-side, before landing in a twisted wreck.Now, if only I could find a copy of George S. Clinton's unreleased score . ..BLACK DOG 5/5 "},{"Title":"I loved this film from start to finish","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Black Dog is one of Patrick Swayze's best films to date, I must compliment as to how well Meat Loaf and Randy Travis pulled off two excellent performances. Meat Loaf and Randy Travis are newcomers to film by way of the music industry. Meat Loaf needs no training because he is a natural and Randy Travis fits right in like a perfect puzzle piece to each role he choose to take.I enjoyed how the plot surrounded one set almost throughout the film, which were the trucks. The story revolved around one man trying to hijack his own load before it got to the final destination. Midway through the trip, he finds that he must save his family from a vindictive boss.The action was non-stop, the dramatic effect that was thrown in was superb. With this combination, it made me sit down in my chair and watch this movie without getting up. A heart-pounding, suspense filled, unpredictable thrill ride makes Black Dog a must see film.  "},{"Title":"Best road rage scenes in years","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  story and acting so so but the truck chase and car driving were best viewed in years.Equal to the TV  movie  DUEL  and although not as long as the final chase scene in ROAD WARRIOR, just as good. The  ending can be overlooked but the driving was superb.    "}{"Title":"Action packed thriller that sinks its teeth into you.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Black Dog was a great movie, the premise seems cut and dry and almost cliche but then it takes that and rips it to shreds, Patrick Swayze is great and acts very realisticly and believable, he isn't superhuman, or in any way unbelievable. From the little tricks of driving, to the 1 liners, it gives new meaning to the phrase Wham Bam, Thank you Ma'am . And the trucker myth of the Black Dog is so creepy that you might not want to drive anywhere at night for a while... So stay up late, get some buddies together and watch this movie! (You have to have the buddies and it is much more awesome after dark) "},{"Title":"B-Action with a budget.","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is pretty good, if you like action movies. The action sequences where good, the acting so-so, the story well... it is an action movie. The only thing you keep wondering is What the hell has Patrick Swayze done with his face?. So, if it´s a rainy day and you´ve seen all the good big-budget action movies at your local videostore then rent this one. It´s far better than the average b-action movie. "},{"Title":"Typical B movie","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What else can I say about a movie like this? I have seen millions of variations of movies with numerous car chases, crash scenes, villians who, for some pointless reason, are all religious, ex-cons just trying to make it good, people who you can't trust, etc. All of this and not much more are in Black Dog. The movie stars Patrick Swayze as the ex-con(who was convicted of something that really wasn't his fault), who, since his release, has gone on to maintain a fairly successful life in New Jersey with his wife and their teenage daughter. Unfortunately, the husband and wife are short of money, and the only way they can keep their house is if Patrick goes to work. Luckily, he has found a job driving trucks in Georgia. This is pretty much where the movie begins to get confusing, as he unknowingly becomes a part of some gun-smuggling ring, is pursued by a bunch of cars that are much smaller than his truck(nevertheless, they like to bump into it and bug him), and basically, he and his fellow drivers become on the run from some bad guy. Of course, his fellow drivers aren't so good themselves, and now he can trust nobody. To top everything off, the FBI somehow gets on his tail, and they begin to target his wife and daughter at home, which bugs him even more. What's a guy to do? Well, like most B-movie heroes, Patrick keeps a clear head. Of course he is a good fighter and a quick thinker, and this proves him well. There are numerous deaths and car crashes that don't add to the drama, and everybody's personalities get worse and worse, until there are only a couple of good guys left. But we don't really get to know much about how good they are. Black Dog relies so heavily on action and car chases that it tends to forget that there are people that drive these cars. Well, even the worst of movies usually have some bright spots, and Black Dog has a few, such as a rather good performance by the lad who played Sonny. Patrick Swayze is alright as the action hero, and he even has a couple of good scenes when he is talking with Sonny and one with Randy Travis. Nevertheless, it's really not much of a movie.I expect to see it air in the late night showings of HBO, but I am not sure if I would want to watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Go in without high hopes, and you may like it coming out","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lots of action, little acting. Meat Loaf is laughable, but Swayze really needs a better career move. It's just getting sad. "},{"Title":"Hideous","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was absolutely terrible.  The acting was atrocious, especially Meat Loaf's, and the plot was completely non-existent.  They were carrying a few boxes of guns - surely they could have put these in a car boot or two? Why did they have to send them in a truck?  And if Red wanted the guns so badly, why didn't he just keep them, rather than giving them to Jack Crews and then trying to hijack the truck? A wasted 2 hours of my life I will never get back.  Avoid at all costs - surely the end of Swayze's career. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this film","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Black Dog is one of Patrick Swayze's best films to date, I must compliment as to how well Meat Loaf and Randy Travis pulled off two excellent performances. Meat Loaf and Randy Travis are newcomers to film industry and were welcome surprises. Meat Loaf needed no training in the art of acting because he is a natural and Randy Travis fits in like a perfect puzzle piece to each role he choose to take.I enjoyed how the writers created the plot as it surrounded one man trying to hijack his own load before it gets to its final destination. Midway through the trip, he finds that he must save his family from a vindictive boss.The action was non-stop, and the story was written with dramatic effect. With this combination, it made me sit down in my chair and watch this movie without getting up. A heart-pounding, suspense filled, unpredictable thrill ride makes Black Dog a must see film.  "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT MOVIE!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie came out it got horrible reviews and did lousy at the theatres. I was told by a few people it was lousy. So I never went to see it and never rented it. I love Patrick Swayze and Randy Travis, so the other nite when it came on one of our movie channels (uncut) my hubby and I decided to watch it. We were very surprised! We both loved it! Lots of action! Swayze and Travis were great! I am not a fan of Meatloaf's music, but I thought he was very funny in this movie! This movie had action, comedy and suspense! And a great Country Soundtrack!We will be buying the DVD and Soundtrack CD soon! It is a movie we will definately watch again! "},{"Title":"Man oh man.  Where do I start with this one?","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, it is very easy for one to hate this movie.  Not because Swayze does a bad job (he does what he can with the shoddy writing and he looks deeply embarassed, even during the action scenes), not because it is funny in ALL the wrong places, but because the writers just seem to be half-assing it.  Let's hope that's what they're doing, because if they actually TRIED on this script, then I'm moving out West and becoming a screenwriter.  To try and figure out the plot, would cause permanant damage to one's mind.  I'm serious.  The dialogue that we're given makes Showgirls sound like it was written by Tarantino, and the humor (when it's intentional) is almost as insulting.There are many, MANY things wrong with this movie.  I mentioned the plot earlier, so lets back it up a second and talk about that.  Okay, things start off semi-promisingly (I'm talking about the opening credit sequence) with some rockin' fiddle music and a decent car chase.  We meet our hero, do-gooder, all-around goody-two-shoe, Jack Crews (original huh?) and we soon learn that he's a recently paroled convict who mowed down a family in his big-rig after falling asleep at the wheel.  He's currently grunting it out as a mechanic while barely making ends meet at home.  Unbeknownst to him, his wife almost lost it all while he was in the clinker and they're about to lose the  house.   This means that they'll have to go back to Newark and live in an apartment while his daughter will have to go back to a school with metal-detectors in the halls!! (I'm not making this up).  So, when Jack is hit up by his boss, to drive a load for ten-thousand dollars, he reluctantly accepts. There ya have it.  Our hero gets duped into running a load of illegal weapons.  Now, here's what boggles my mind  Okay, Red (played to over-the-top perfection by Meatloaf) is the guy who gives Jack the load and the rig.  Later on, he's trying his best to hi-jack the load(!)  Now, if he already had the guns in his possession, why is going tooth and nail, trying to get them back? WHAT THE HELL???  I don't get it.   Oh, and get this, if Jack didn't already have enough to worry about, his wife and daughter get kidnapped and he's got the ATF on his case for good measure.  He's also got Randy Travis in the rig with him to belt out some of the most god-awful country lyrics you've ever heard in your life (I think that was intentional humor).  Anyway, in a movie like this, you can almost always bank on there being a happy, sappy ending and you need not worry because everything is going to be A-Okay.  Now, on the upside, the action scenes are pretty decent and I was glad to see Patrick Swayze again after his accident.  The movie, as preposterous as it may be, does keep our attention and I doubt that anyone will get bored.  It was also kind of nice to see a throw-back to the days of Convoy and Smokey and the Bandit.  If you enjoyed either of these, you may want to check out Black Dog.  Just don't strain your brain trying to figure out the mess of a plot.    "},{"Title":"Good luck and good truckin' tonight!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Speedis the yardstick against which the vehicular pursuit movie is always going to be judged,and quite right too as it is a cracking action movie.Black Dogis not in the same class but it is a perfectly good B-movie that works well as an after the pub no-brainer,accompanied by a takeaway and a couple of tinniesPatrick Swayze plays Jackan ex-con,now on parole having served time for vehicular manslaughter,the result of too many long trucking runs ,trying to keep it together financially.He is forced,by threats and financial crisis,to undertake an illegal driving job,ferrying what turns out to be an illegal arms cargo from Georgia to New Jersey.Problems lie in wait ,as the authorities are aware of what is going on and there is a bad guy(Meatloaf)out to get his grimy hands on the cargo.As if this was not bad enough for Swayze his wife and daughter are being held as hostages pending the safe delivery of the merchandise.Cue multiple chases and smash ups involving trucks and assorted vehicles,lots of gunfire,a vigorous fist fight and pyrotechnics galore,culminating in the final shoot out on the Jersey waterfront.It is not an actors' movie and performances are no more than functional,inevitable when the dialogue is not merely sparse but crass,and characterisation is perfunctory.Randy Travis takes the eye however,as Swayze's wannabee country singer sidekick.(O K as a country music fan and Travis fan as well,I own up to being partial)Brisk direction,lots of testosterone,and a great soundtrack do not make a masterpiece but it is a lean,88 minutes of low budget thrills. "},{"Title":"Average action B-movie","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Average action B-movie with Swayze looking like he lost a lot of his natural screen aura for some reason (age and/or health?).Still,Swayze fans will be glad just to see him again in this average action vehicle that caters mostly to road chase/country atmosphere type action formulas.No deep intelligence needed here.Just take the movie for what it is,don't expect too much, and you will be ok.At least the movie does not pretend to be what it is not.Only for road action fans and fans of the lead actors.......  "}{"Title":"Rough & Tumble bit of fun.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't generally go in for this type of film - you know, where there's more slobber-knocking and high speed chases than dialog and actual meaning.  But I did find a lot to like in this film in spite of it all. Patrick Swayze carries this film for the most part - the rest of the actors did give it their best and generally held their ends up respectably. Randy Travis, bless his heart.  He's one of my all time favorite singers, and I've (gulp) watched just about every piece of acting he's done so far.  I will say that in each film I've seen him in he gets a little better, and he managed to pull off several comedic scenes very believably in this movie.  (the 'no fart zone' warning was the best.)There's lots of high energy action here, and if you like that kind of thing you'll probably really enjoy this film.  I like Patrick Swayze and Randy Travis in general, so it was easy to overlook the little flaws in the slaw and just have a good time with it.   "},{"Title":"Big Dawgs","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Patrick Swayze is one of those actors that has fallen off the radar for some reason or another. The average person might remember Dirty Dancing and/or Ghost, but everything else he has done has a way of being forgotten. So imagine the surprise when he pops back into view in a theater bound popcorn flick that while it won't make heads turn does mildly entertain.Black Dog is another action road movie complete with chases. The hook is of course now it's with really big trucks. You could say it's all rather recycled and fairly predictable, but like most action pixs, the story is not what you tune in for anyhow. Swayze is a man trying to put his life and the life of his family back on track after a stint in prison. All he has to do is carry out this last job ... the last big score and we all know how well those go. Like I said, recycled, but Swayze works and the unique cast of faces including Meat Loaf and Randy Travis kicking up the supporting cast help somewhat. The director Kevin Hooks also notably helmed Passenger 57 starring Wesley Snipes some time ago. So he's moved on from airplanes to big rigs. One can only guess where you go from here as a director. Black Dog pulls no surprises, but it's not an eyesore either. Think Point Break. Just sit back, turn off the brain and enjoy. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is my 2nd favorite movie with Patrick Swayze. it was filled with action an suspence. it had a great cast line up an brings rock singers an country singers together.i stayed on the edge of my seat through out the whole movie.the visuals were done great for the movie. it was like you were there on the site where they were filming it.i think they picked a good person to play the part of Red when they chose Meatloaf. he really fit the part. "},{"Title":"Cheap thrills...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay first off a warning, if you don't like no brainer action films then don't go anywhere near Black Dog, because that is exactly what it is, and it doesn't pretend to be anything else. While this film won't win any awards for originality it is still a reasonably enjoyable big dumb action flick, with plenty of stunts and thrills crammed into it's (thankfully) short running time.Performance wise Patrick Swayze has his good 'ole boy act down to an art by now and slips into it once again easily here, and it serves him well, while Randy Travis and Gabriel Casseus are both quite enjoyable as two of his travelling companions. However the rest of the performances for the most part range from acceptable to overplayed, with Meat Loaf completely over the top (in a bad, not fun way) as the bible quoting bad guy, and Stephen Tobolowsky and Charles S. Dutton somewhat irritating as the two cops on the case.Helmer Kevin Hooks' direction here is pretty well handled but somewhat lacking in terms of spark or impact, while the script is pretty much paper thin in terms of any real plot development even for an action film.So it's a bad film then? Well no, not exactly. Somehow despite it's obvious flaws Black Dog still manages to be a short, fun, pacey ride that works more often than not while never pretending to be anything more that what it is, and manages to be quite watchable because of it (especially for the action junkies). For those simply seeking a solidly entertaining, if undemanding action flick then you could do much worse than check this one out.One man's opinion. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The only way to stay safe is to avoid this film","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is quite the worst excuse for a film I have seen for some time. Absolutely contemptible. You can tell Swayze doesn't want to be there.The title should just be Dog. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great action packed movie, with great actors and actresses. A nice to see a movie with out smut, and a good music. The villain did his job well. I was actually surprised to see who he was. He was a mean machine. The good guy was great, nice to see some teamwork. Also the title of the Movie was well chosen too.It is nice to see the Title and Movie have meaning. Some movies and the title don't even match. You wonder why they call it that. I would recommend this to my family and friends. Actually I already told some of my family and friends an they too are going to rent it. Thanks to AMC for putting this movie on TV, because I would not have even known it was there. "},{"Title":"This movie was so bad.","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so bad.  I started watching it on cable, and much like a train wreck I couldn't look away.  I sat in amazement as the acting went from bad to worse, and the plot followed.  I can't believe someone got paid to write this.  Just an awful, awful, awful movie.  Patrick Swayze was terrible.  The fight scenes looked like they were choreographed by a high school drama teacher.  The ending was just silly beyond belief.  An ex-con is involved in a gun-running scheme, and just because he turns in some of the bad guys, it's like the FBI is his own personal fairy godmother.  What else would you wish little Cinderella?  The dialogue was bad.  Meatloaf was ridiculous.  This movie had absolutely nothing redeeming about it.  Save yourself the anguish I'm experiencing.  Never see this movie. "},{"Title":"a great action film","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Black Dog is one of Patrick Swayze's best films to date, I must compliment as to how well Meat Loaf and Randy Travis pulled off two excellent performances. Meat Loaf and Randy Travis are newcomers to film industry and were welcome surprises. Meat Loaf needed no training in the art of acting because he is a natural and Randy Travis fits in like a perfect puzzle piece to each role he choose to take.I enjoyed how the writers created the plot as it surrounded one man trying to hijack his own load before it gets to its final destination. Midway through the trip, he finds that he must save his family from a vindictive boss.The action was non-stop, and the story was written with dramatic effect. With this combination, it made me sit down in my chair and watch this movie without getting up. A heart-pounding, suspense filled, unpredictable thrill ride makes Black Dog a must see film.  "},{"Title":"Mock gravitas and laughable dialogue","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  HAHAHAHAHAOh, that amused me!I'm not quite sure which bit was the funniest Being chased through a house and trying to hold up the pursuit by throwing a plastic laundry basket, the 'urban myth' style story of the eponymous Black Dog told with an attempt at gravitas, or Meat Loaf's bizarre performance quoting random sections of bible-speak not even relevant to his situation.Oh, the fight between the two figures of authority was risible too.  Ooh get me, I'll snatch that piece of paper from your hands.  How butch.Dreadful dialogue and endless shots of gear changes do not a good movie make.  The action is laughable and predictable with villains' vehicles exploding on contact and the good guy's rig indestructible.Don't quite know what made me watch it till the end, but I did.Very poor and not quite funny enough to make it watchable (again) "},{"Title":"Awful writing, but good action sequences","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Black Dog features the WORST writing out of any film EVER (Except, maybe, Plan 9 From Outer Space), but the acting was good and a big budget does have an effect. The camera angles were well done and made the semis look SOOOOOOO BBBBBBBBBBIIIIIIIIIIIIGGGGGGGGGGGG!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The road leading up to the climax was action-packed that it made the actual climax look like another regular action sequence.Charles S. Dutton looks like he has sunk to a new low with Black Dog, he has the worst written and more poorly developed character in the whole film. Patrick Swayze fit his role perfectly, despite the writing. The plot line, though seeming recycled, was fairly original, and the opening credits were superior to almost any other movie.+ (GOOD THINGS) 1.) Camera angles and panning 2.) Music 3.) The 'Black Dog' flashbacks 4.) The car and truck chases 5.) The opening credits- (BAD THINGS) 1.) The writing 2.) The fact that NO news crews or TV stations were in the movieTotal 5.5/10 "}{"Title":"A Real Dog Show.","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Black Dog (1998) Dir Kevin Hooks / Cast Patrick Swayze, Randy Travis, Meatloaf, Charles S. Dutton, Brenda Strong Nauseating chunk of dirt with lame dialogue such as, You're finished Crews! Title refers to long-distance truckers who believe that a black dog is charging for the windshield. Smart people call it drunk driving and accept responsibility as oppose to blaming it all on man's best friend. It bares little to the plot but that is Patrick Swayze's excuse when he swerves and kills two people resulting in a two year prison stay. Patrick Swayze reluctantly accepts a job of illegal transporting of weapons. He cannot trust his companions, bullets are flying, and trucks flip over and explode. And if that isn't enough, he will be met with the reality that this film sucks. Director Kevin Hooks handles the action well but the screen writing is a problem all its own. Swayze is cardboard while Randy Travis plays an embarrassing country singing trucker. Meatloaf plays a villain that is about as threatening as Ronald McDonald. He shouts threats over the phone that are unfortunately not aimed at whoever talked him into signing on to this film to begin with. Brenda Strong plays Swayze's wife who likely suspects his bullshit and just plays good wife because that is all the screenplay can summon her to do. The film is about as exciting as a kick in the crotch. A suggestion would be to use one of those trucks to run this film over. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bad idea with bad ending","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The scenario- of transporting guns during daytime along major routes to the same guys who sent you send the guns- is ridiculous. I thought some of the shooting stuff was forgive-able because its a truck- its has many wheels so its hard to stop by shooting at the wheels and the weapons weren't very accurate and the bad guys want the truck to able to transport all the loot away- they think its a lot of guns.But the ending and coda are absurd. The worst organized police sting ever. They get to choose the location and the time and they are actually at the site which is a government site. The good guys isn't wired with a recording device. And then they come with lights and sirens. The bad guy could have ditched their guns and then police would have very little evidence- certainly nothing attaching them to illegal guns. The coda is crap with a irrelevant chase- the good guys and family would be in police custody until the whole mess is sorted out- this is the FBI and ATF they are very bureaucratic. "},{"Title":"The Truth about Black Dog","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" IF you have read the current comment on the film black dog and not yet seen it let me apologise. Black dog, whose title is explained in the most brief of ways in no way ties into the plot of the film although you keep expecting it too, it seems to me a more suitable title would have been Gone in 60 years or too slow to boring. This film is quite frankly a joke, from the shoddy acting with such gems as Its getting cold (then dies) to the infamously hilarious quote Crews Your ass is MINE. On a more serious note the acting in this movie is absolutely appalling and the only reason i would recommend seeing this is if you would want a laugh, i will watch this movie again and again purely for the spoof factor of it, if you are fan of awkward humour and telly bluffs like Garth Marenghis dark place, The IT crowd and other genre related shows and moves you will love this.. the action is spaced out only by terrible dialogue and a over presumptuous pyrotechnics team. Watch out for exploding cars, gun fights out of windows and meatloaf....every word he says is gold.I hope this will give you a more realistic view of black Dog. "},{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I must have watched this movie dozens of times and each time I find something I never noticed before or wasn't paying attention too, During the whole gun running trip Patrick is driving a Peterbilt with what looked like a standard 48 foot dry box. They show an action scene driving down a state highway. When it is reported to the FBI and DEA it is stated that they were wrecking on an Interstate Highway. The closest scene I have noticed that looked anywhere like or near NJ was just before the show down and the truck was driving up the helix coming out of the Lincoln Tunnel. For that to happen they would have had to be coming out of NYC. Last but not least when the exchange is being made and Travis is up in the crane the load is no longer in the over the road trailer and in a shipping container. Considering that they were supposed to do that in about 2 hours there was no way they could have off loaded the load off the trailer and placed it in to a shipping container.Overall I still love this movie and tend to watch it when ever it is on TV. "},{"Title":"To me, the worst movie I've seen so far","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Patrick Swayze plays Jack Crews. The man needs 9 grand in order to keep his house from being taken away from him. He just spent 2 years in prison after killing people with his truck due to him falling asleep at the wheel and he's being offered a 10-grand illegal driving job that just might help him keep a roof over his family's head. He accepts the job against his wife's disapproval. On the way, he's being attacked from people who try to keep him from doing that job.To me, this movie is too shallow on the right things and too thorough in the wrong ones.First of all, here's a man who, supposedly, has been living for 2 years with guilt for having killed a whole family on the side of the road while he was falling asleep driving, and he's smiling almost every time his pursuers go up in flames. Now, I'd love to see what he'll be telling his kid about that. It would have been good to see Swayze showing some doubts upon whether he's doing the right, but no, the man just keeps going, knowing he could go to prison, risk his family's life, and make them lose their house anyway. Second of all, his load is being attacked by successively, cars, trucks and motorbikes all shooting at it and not one is thinking about aiming for the tires... Randy Travis is bringing a country element to the movie but that's all he's doing.If you're into big trucks, country music, and explosions, and if you're not too demanding on the performances or on story logic, this is right up your street... "},{"Title":"Truckin' Movie","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ah, a good trucking movie. Yuck yuck. With a good soundtrack. Yuck. And with both kinds of music too - country and western. You gotta have that, Jim Bob! Good trucking movies have to have great backlit dramatic shots of the eighteen wheelers truckers see as their alternative sexual objects. Something like watching James Bond cruise around the Cote d'Azur except 007 is dressed in jeans and isn't driving a classy sports car and he spits juice from his chewing tobacco all over the inside of the windscreen. Oh you get it.And pyrotechnics good pyrotechnics have to be big and destructive and go boom real good and fill up the entire 1.851 screen. Boom boom boom. The best pyrotechnics involve real people getting smashed in crashes that leave quiet deep south burbs in ruins. That's the way we like 'em.Dirty dancer Swayze gets to sit this one out - literally. Imagine how long it took to make this movie - then figure out how many days Swayze literally sat on his butt in a fake lorry cabin on a sound stage while they filmed it. Great fun for him to be sure.Tobolowsky does a sort of reprise of his role in Thelma & Louise and is totally wasted. Toussaint from almost everything and the US Luc Besson Nikita makeover is wasted even more. The story makes no sense - or just enough sense to keep the beef jerky crowd pleased.There's a bit of plot and mystery but not too much. Probably no actor in this one does a poor job. Even the production and writing are OK, given the objective. All one can complain about is that the world has so devolved that commercial interests know they have to make ridiculous things like this to stay afloat financially. "},{"Title":"BLACK DOG (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Number 109854 in the list of useless actionmovies is here! All you are going to see during 90 minutes are racing trucks and that's perhaps not bad but we saw it too many times before  from Convoy till Cannonball Run. The story is so stupid you even don't have to worry about  a trucker (Patrick Swayze) has lost his drivers license and after spending two years in jail after having seen the black dog (a term for truckers when they fall asleep during riding) he killed someone on the road, his boss offers him 10000 dollar to drive a truck to some place. Swayze needs the money to save his family from bankruptness but soon discover he has to transport illegal weapons and of course everyone wants the cargo  from the FBI till laughable vilains like Meat Loaf. It's all filmed in a professional way but hey...the average episode from The Dukes Of Hazard is exactly the same plus you see a huge lists of actors who cant act (Meat Loaf is even not the worst, so imagine) and Swayze not only seems very old, but also bored and that while having been on the chase for 90 minutes....huuuh..... "},{"Title":"good action","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know Black Dog isn't a masterpiece, but still had some pretty good action though. Swayze was a tolerable in this, I also enjoyed Randy Travis in this movie. Black Dog is middle of the road as ratings go, it isn't awesome, but if you like big rigs and some decent action scenes Black Dog is for you. "},{"Title":"pretty good, mostly action","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not a bad action movie featuring a just-paroled Patrick Swayze hired to ship a load of ammunition via truck to help pay for his family. He later finds out that his load was stolen and is soon in the run for his life. If you like Patrick Swayze, you might like this one. The action and road sequences are first-rate.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A brainless but entertaining experience","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I caught Black Dog when it came out on video. It's one of those films where you just have to sit back and watch the action because you don't need to worry about the story. I especially liked the chase scene early in the film. Meatloaf's constant quoting of bible verses is highly irritating and I just couldn't take him seriously as a villain.  Oh yeah, Swayze plays the role of the ex-con forced to do a job against his will in order to save his house and family. Unoriginal? You bet, but the action scenes are exciting and well executed.  "}{"Title":"Black Dog!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Black Dog is a great film that has a good cast which includes Patrick Swayze, Meat Loaf, Randy Travis, Gabriel Casseus, Brian Vincent, Graham Beckel, Brenda Strong, Charles S. Dutton, and Stephen Tobolowsky! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Swayze is really excellent in this film. I thought that he performed good. Meat Loaf, Travis, Beckel, Dutton, and Tobolowsky were all very good! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Patrick Swayze, Meat Loaf, Randy Travis, Graham Beckel, Brenda Strong, Charles S. Dutton, Stephen Tobolowsky, the rest of the cast in the film, Action, Thrillers, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"One fart and you're walking! Awful in every sense of the word, and a waste of Swayze's talents","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jack Crews (Patrick Swayze) is a con man, recently released from Prison, is offered a substantial amount of money for one more job. Jack and his wife receive a notice that their house is under foreclosure. This job will free Jack from his predicament. Jack doesn't realize that illegal weapons have been secretly stored in the back of the truck. Jack is in the fight of his life, not only to get paid, but to save his family as wellPatrick Swayze is a man I greatly admire. I always felt he was a very solid actor, but his star power had begun to really fizzle out at this juncture. Black Dog looks and feels like a STD film, but it actually got a theatrical release (!) While there have been bigger bombs than this one at the box office, this one was pretty much a bomb, by making only 12 million. Black Dog cares more about truck carnage, than story coherency. It has plenty of crashes, chases, but I didn't care about any of it, because the story was so poor. We get mystical mumbo-jumbo involving The Black Dog, and it's filled with awful country music, and predictable twists. Be prepared for many jokes when it comes to Randy Travis's character. At one point, Patrick Swayze says to him You should be a professional singer How lame can you get? Not only do we have to endure Randy Travis's horrific acting skills, but an unbearably hammy Meat Loaf, who is so OTT, he should be ashamed of himself. I cringed whenever he was on screen. Patrick Swayze does what he can, but he has crappy material to work with. He is watchable as he always is, but this is one of his forgettable performances. It's not his fault, though. His character is written horribly, and he just looks ashamed to be in this film, not that I blame him. We also get one of those annoying false endings. I was relieved this movie was over, and to get a false ending, with a film that wasn't exactly asking for it. It annoyed meFinal Thoughts Do yourself a favor and skip it. Not even die hard Swayze fans can get much out of this one. I love cheesy movies, but this has no entertainment value. It's a really bad movie, and one I'd suggest you stay away from3.6/10 "},{"Title":"Truckers Story","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Patrick Swayze,(Jack Crews) plays an ex-con who gets out of prison and joins his wife and child and finds out he is very deep in debt and will also lose his home. Jack is offered to drive a truck which was his profession before he visited jail and is offered ten-thousand dollars for the delivery. You can see that anyone offering that kind of money for a delivery of merchandise is a bit nuts or the entire matter is very fishy and stinks. Well, Jack decides to take this job and at the same time save the foreclosure of his home. Meat Loaf,(Red) joins Jack on this trip along with Randy Travis,(Earl) in order to make certain the goods are delivered safe and sound at their destination. There are plenty of wild scenes dealing with trucks playing all kinds of stunt tricks on the road and more action than you can handle. This is a very entertaining film, although, some of the acting and the story line go down the drain. "},{"Title":"Dear oh dear... where to start","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was watching something on terrestrial TV the other day, and this came on after it...i decided to give it a chance, but now i wish i hadnt. From the awful acting of patrick swayze as Jack Crews (original!) and the horribly miscast meat loaf as the head villain, Red (right...), this film slowly deteriorates as it goes on.the story hinges loosely on an ex-con reluctantly driving a truck somewhere for quick cash he needs to support his family (woah, family guy is he). unfortunately, the story gets worse as his family are kidnapped for some reason (i wasn't paying much attention, but you can hardly blame me). a few slow paced car/truck chases later, the 2 stars have a final showdown (the good guy wins, obviously). seriously, if this film could get any worse, it would have a token black guy saying day-mn! every 5 seconds... no wait, it did, along with an array of clichéd supporting characters.Stay away at ALL costs  "},{"Title":"If this is the only film available to hire at your favorite video store - I'd think twice before renting it!","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How desperate must Swayze have been to do this one?  Sure he IS the best thing in it...though Meat Loaf runs a close second with his gloriously hammy turn as psychotic Red.Has anyone actually HEARD of this ludicrous Black Dog theory? I'm guessing it must be steeped in some reality, its just so damned idiotic.....why not a feral jackrabbit?  Whatever, Swayze plays the licenceless driver (poor sap saw the dreaded 'black dog' and killed some unfortunate in a head-on!) coerced to drive a truckload of naughty stuff for Red with the promise of a big pay-day!  Don't do it wisely protests pretty wife Melanie.  I gotta do it- just one last run honey! coos our Pat, hoisting himself up into the big rig (cutesie daughter hugs mum!)Sheesh! cliche heaped on cliche and if this isn't the most underwhelming of truck-wrecking movies, I don't know what it is! Obviously you can fool some of the people ALL of the time as several viewers appear to think they have witnessed greatness here! Scripted obviously by a first year drama student, this is as bad as it gets in the mouthing-off department. A trite, corny, uninvolving, juvenile loser of a movie! (and I love 4-wheeled mayhem on the highway!) Wanna see what I call a truck?  watch BATTLETRUCK!Oh, and anyone care to tell me how Meat Loaf returns at the very end, jousting for one last duel with the Swayze and his wide-eyed family? Not three minutes earlier, we saw him punched out and being bundled into a police car by two strapping cops?  This is bull---- !Hey Patrick, aim a bit higher next time wouldja? "},{"Title":"Cliched But Fun","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I`ve got to agree with the contributers who think BLACK DOG is extremely cliched and dumb , however for those people who describe it as a SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT sequel I`ve got to disagree . Gawd SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 3 has got to be the worst film I`ve ever seen , at least in the comedy genre . BLACK DOG is a very entertaining road movie with Patrick Swayze playing the role of a reluctant criminal very well , his character and his sidekicks are all very likeable and there`s lots of good stunts and explosions . Yeah I know juggernauts crashing and bursting into flames never seems to come to the attention of the highway patrol but like I said it`s a dumb movie . I was firmly on the side of the heroes and that`s all that matters    "}]