[{"Title":"Smart black comedy with Ben Stiller's best performance to date.","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Ben Stiller is one of the most talented comic actors currently working, even though he is often in awful movies (e.g. 'Zoolander', 'The Suburbans'). 'Permanent Midnight' is one of the best movies he has been involved with and features what is arguably his single finest performance. Based on the autobiography of TV hack writer Jerry Stahl, this is a smart, fresh and blackly humorous look at addiction and Hollywood. Stiller has a fine supporting cast here, especially his buddies and frequent co-stars Owen Wilson ('Bottle Rocket') and Janeane Garofolo ('Reality Bites'), the amazingly charismatic star-in-the-making Peter Greene ('Laws Of Gravity'), and comedy veteran Fred Willard ('Best In Show'), who all have small but memorable roles. Hell, even Liz Hurley and Cheryl Ladd are good in this, believe it or not. 'Permanent Midnight' was, like so many other good movies that don't pander to a mass audience, a box office flop, but will hopefully find a larger audience in years to come via video and DVD. I think it is one of the most underrated movies of the last ten years, and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"There's Something about Jerry (Stahl)","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, let me apologize for the easy joke in the one line summary. It was simply too easy to pass up. And sometimes writers fall back on easy cliches, especially in headlines.Actually, make that especially in headlines and in movies about substance abuse. Simply put, Permanent Midnight fails. And it doesn't fail because of the direction, or the writing, or the performances (thought there are certainly serious flaws with each), but because it doesn't have anything new to the discussion. Permanent Midnight on one hand is about the depths to which drugs can drive a man, but it's also about the superficiality of Hollywood. The problem is that neither angle has anything remotely original in it and so barring something remarkable in the execution, there's really no point in making the movie. Permanent Midnight, though, features many good things, but nothing remarkable enough to justify the been there/ done that feeling that remains when the narrative is finished.Permanent Midnight features a framing story that feels made up. Since I haven't read Jerry Stahl's book of the same name, I cannot speak to the truth of the framing sequences which feature Maria Bello as an ex-drug addict named Kitty. I can only say how painfully convenient it is for recovering Jerry (Ben Stiller) to have this blond angel more than willing to hear his story of degradation. Not a moment between Jerry and Kitty rings true emotionally, but at least it gives writer/director David Veloz and entre into the story, not that the story actually goes anywhere. You see, when Jerry arrives in LA he's already a junkie, living with his friend Nickie (Owen Wilson), who's also already a junkie. He marries a British TV producer so that she can get her green card and she helps him get a television writing job. As shown in the film, there's nothing about his life that leads the the progression of his drug addiction. He just gets deeper and deeper and befriends shadier and shadier characters.There's an arbitrary point at which he obviously decided to quit (since he's clean in the frame story), but by the time we get there, it seems so obvious and so unsatisfying as to make the journey feel wasted. No matter how bad things seems to get, the audience knows it could always be worse, because we've seen worse drug addictions in a dozen movies of varying qualities. Throughout the flashback, Jerry makes no real attempts at recovery and yet only falls to a certain level. He never makes it to hell. Nothing in the film has a payoff.Much of the problem, then, is in Veloz's episodic screenplay. Characters wander in and out and nothing really comes together. Jerry seems strung-out, but he never seems horrible, so we can't really pity the people who trust him and love him because he doesn't really do any serious damage to them. Everything just comes and goes. The film is filled with tiny star cameos which meet with only occasional success. Owen Wilson and Janeane Garofalo are always good to have around, as is the perpetually psychotic Peter Greene. Cheryl Ladd, Fred Willard, Andy Dick, and Connie Nielsen, though, provide uninteresting one shot encounters.Veloz perhaps wisely avoids drug movie hallucination clichés. Aware that he lacks the visual sensibility to rival Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas or Trainspotting, he restricts his flourishes to a single drug nightmare and to boring New Wave-y jump cuts and the like. Veloz clearly sets the film up as Ben Stiller's show.As Jerry Stahl, Stiller is never less than solid. He makes it clear why people would continue to trust Jerry even with all of his problems. The script, however, gives no indication of the genius that everybody attributed to Stahl, making it difficult to feel that the character is wasting his talent. Stiller, then, is fleetingly amusing, fleetingly harrowing, and always acting. When the character, in a moment of true desperation turns to his neck for an uncollapsed vein, it's Ben Stiller shooting up into his neck, not the character. It's tough to watch, but you feel for an actor on the edge, rather than a character. So people in Hollywood are so self-absorbed that they don't notice what's going on around them. OK. I've seen that before.  And amidst all that egomania, people with problems are allowed to fall through the cracks. And I've seen that before. And recovery is possible? In a one-day-at-a-time way? I've seen that before as well. I kept waiting for Permanent Midnight to offer me something new and different. But it was only more of the same. There's enough good there for a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Well-done for what it is","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of the drug-use scenes were fairly realistic. Been there and back myself, so to tell you the truth, nothing I saw in the movie made me wince, although there was a lot to relate to. There's a scene where - this really isn't a spoiler, given the context of the movie - where Jerry dumps some pills out of a prescription bottle, and they look exactly like the kind of pills they're supposed to be. Nice attention to detail. One thing that movies never quite get right or, perhaps like this one, simply choose to ignore, are the details of how one actually turns one's life around from being addicted to recovering, and this movie was no exception. We know in the beginning that Jerry has been through rehab, but that process itself, which may I say ain't exactly a cakewalk - and I mean you have to be clean before you can go through it, remains rather mysterious. Oh well, whatever, an interesting, entertaining movie that held my interest for its running time. Some usage scenes might be a bit upsetting to the non-anointed, although probably nothing quite so hard to take as in Requiem For A Dream. "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller Takes a Good Dramatic Turn","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Poor little rich kid, Jerry Stahl, an actual TV screenwriter in 1980s Hollywood, p***es all his good fortune away through a hefty heroin habit. Jerry then hits bottom, recovers, and writes his autobiography. Permanent Midnight chronicles Jerry's fall from Hollywood hotshot to junkie bum. Besides such an unpleasant subject, and an equally unsympathetic main character, Permanent Midnight still entertains, in a morbid sort of way. It's told in flashback (at the beginning of the movie Jerry's just finished rehab and is about to return to his old LA haunts), so we kind of know where the movie will take us. There's no mystery, we're going to watch Jerry's self-destructive crash and burn in close-up. We're a little in the dark about what will happen after the movie catches up with itself, but there's really not a lot of tension. It's like watching a car wreck in very slow motion.Ben Stiller does an excellent job portraying Jerry, with his craving for the drug rising above, and then destroying, all that's good in his life. It's quite a frightening portrayal. Elizabeth Hurley, as his girlfriend, is a bit of a stretch for both her acting talent and in the casting. But the rest of the cast does fine work. I think the major detriment to this movie is that the audience knows beforehand how it will all end. This is a very dramatic subject, but with no drama in the screenplay. And that is a drag.  "},{"Title":"My 2 hits... I mean cents","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably one of the best movies about drugs that I've ever seen. An excellent performance by Ben Stiller in one of his most serious roles. If you want to see a movie that portrays the life-style associated with drugs accurately, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"A different type of film that I found to be interesting","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Permanent Midnight is the autobiographical story of the life and times of Jerry Stahl. This was a movie that tested the boundaries of what could be shown on the movie screen. Ben Stiller's performance as Jerry Stahl was dramatic to say the least. Stiller's performance was excellent and really showed me the flipside of what could happen to somebody when they get hooked on drugs. The whole cast from Maria Bello to Elizabeth Hurley were solid support for the main character, Jerry Stahl. The real Jerry Stahl actually had a role, which surprised me, as Dr. Murphy from the drug rehabilitation clinic. Stahl recounts his life from a hotel room while having a sexual encounter he met while he was working at a restaurant drive-thru. The way that the director lays out the film is perfect; it is different than what I have seen before. The way Jerry Stahl recounts his life the way he did pleasantly surprised me. I warn anyone who wants to watch Permanent Midnight to brace themselves for extreme drug use by sticking needles in arms and sensual love scenes. I recommend this film for its stars' performances. "},{"Title":"Underrated Film, Fantastic Performance","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Permanent Midnight, while certainly not the best film ever made about heroin addiction, is a very solid film that was largely over looked by both critics and the public. The brightest jewel in this film's crown is Ben Stiller's performance as Jerry Stahl. I found it interesting that while Stiller got loads of attention for getting his package caught in his zipper in There's Something About Mary (which is a very funny moive) hardly an eye was blinked when he gave the performance of his career in Midnight. I think this film proves the theory that often comedic actors give the best dramatic performances. Do yourself a favor and rent it. "},{"Title":"Amazing performance by Stiller","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the movie is uneven in both some performances and situations, it's worth watching Ben Stiller powerful characterization of Jerry Stahl. There are scenes very difficult to watch due to extreme use of drugs. It's not for the average audiences. If you like to see good acting this one is for you to watch  "},{"Title":"For Any Fan of Drug Films, Fast-Paced Stylized Biographies, and Ben Stiller","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Permanent Midnight seems at first like another film you will love. It's the story of a drug- addicted real-life semi-celebrity, it's directed with slick style and a fast pace, and it provokes emotion with its increasingly gloomy atmosphere and R-rated subject matter. The but or the however is hard to place, because there is no real reason why it can't live up to the expectations based on what I just described. The only real way to say why it isn't the contemporary classic or young moviegoer's classic that it should be is to say that it doesn't have as much intensity that one would expect from it. It allows itself to indulge in the formula elements of a movie like this.There are formula elements to every genre and subgenre, even the fast-paced stylized biopic and the drug film, even though they don't seem like they would. Why would they? They're usually based on true stories and real lives, or they go in directions most other films don't take. Still, a real life and a true story can still either turn out the way so many similar ones do, or their adaptations do. Permanent Midnight is a formula film of its subgenre.That doesn't stop it from being enjoyable and powerful on a substantial level. It's directed well and Stiller's performance is fantastic. It's loaded with dark humor, Scorsesian music placement and jump cuts disguised as techno music and fade outs, and attention-grabbing supporting players like Owen Wilson and Maria Bello. If only its storytelling took another avenue, or if only it were tighter and more extensive. "},{"Title":"Engaging performances a privilege to watch","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw it once before, years ago, and it left an indelible impression on me. I watched it again just ten minutes ago, and I am confirmed in my praise.The performances are tops, the story dark but very funny - and factual - based on Jerry Stahl's book of the same name. Jerry Stahl is played by Ben Stiller in his most challenging yet most convincing role to date. It's a real privilege to watch such a performance.Mind you, I'm not exactly Ben Stiller's biggest fan (to be fair, I have enjoyed a few of his films), and Jerry Stahl was the writer of the TV show ALF; while that could have been a turn-off for me, it wasn't. Sure, there have been some moralizing, vanilla critics who couldn't stomach the overabundance of drug abuse depicted, but I really think too many of them found it hard to rate the film objectively due to what they took as an affront to their precious sensitivities. Which is not to say this film didn't get its share of raving reviews. It's a black comedy, an incomprehensibly strange creature for some, but a true friend to others.If you're smarter than most people, and you can take your entertainment black, see this one. "}{"Title":"Probably the most inaccurate depiction of a heroin addiction ever.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was recommended this film by a friend, and after going through it and reviewing each particular scene...I'm not so sure that the actors or directors have done their research properly. This is a pretty poor depiction of heroin addiction and withdrawal.Right when he uses in the first scene, he appears to have the symptoms of using meth. He's anxious, he's looking around nervously, etc. Not once did he fall out of consciousness or nod off. These are the symptoms of methamphetamine usage. During another scene, his bedside companion uses a substance on a vein in her inner thigh and immediately starts going into an orgasm. Also, a symptom of a methamphetamine induced meth-gasm.During the scenes that he's using, he consistently goes into sweats and even one time at a party enters some kind of psychosis where he's hallucinating. Sweats occur during the withdrawal stage of addiction and hallucination does not ever occur unless mixed with another upper of some kind. Is he really using heroin? Until he starts using crack cocaine which can actually induce these symptoms that are depicted, each frame of mind that is displayed is the polar opposite of opiate-abuse.Heroin induces involuntary dreaming, even happening mid-conversation where a user will nod-off in the middle of it. The case of _not_ having opiates in your bloodstream will actually give you flu-like symptoms. Instead, this film depicts the flu-like symptoms occurring during the time of the main character's usage of the substance which is terribly inaccurate.Movies that depict opiate addiction and withdrawal accurately would be something such as BlackBird, Jesus' Son, or The Panic in Needle Park. This film unfortunately falls incredibly short of these other films in terms of accuracy. Other than these inaccuracies, the film is a fairly generic story of an addict losing control of his life. I probably wouldn't recommend this film to anybody. "},{"Title":"If I were Percodan, where would I be?","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a true story, Permanent Midnight stars Ben Stiller as a Jerry Stahl, a successful television writer whose life is wrecked by a severe drug addiction. Despite a good performance by Stiller, Permanent Midnight is a thin film. The life of a writer and the world of an addict are superficially skimmed over, and the factors which lead to Stahl's compulsions are all but ignored. History is filled with writers (Bukowski, Burroughs, Kerouac etc) suffering from addictions, but director David Veloz never cares to ask why?. Too in love with style and surfaces, Permanent Midnight only dives into the head of its protagonist in its last act, when a now clean Stahl attempts to forge relationships with both a fellow detox survivor (Maria Bello) and his young daughter. Owen Wilson co-stars.7/10 &#x96; See instead In A Lonely Place, Half Nelson, Henry Fool, Auto Focus, Mishima and Contempt. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast and writing","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is such a well blended project, i seriously liked it. Ben Stiller was perfect for this role! Just the right type of personality, definitely not exactly a light hearted movie, just as Jerry Stahl's true life however, he wrote it so well those of us who understand his point can appreciate his story. I did, and i wouldn't change one word. Ben is seen in such a way here i believe he hasn't played anything similar since. I was surprised with certain scenes but happily! I am thankful to share insight into the personal life of this deep intelligent man who was behind the scenes in my youth per say. They even resemble each other so much. Mr. Veloz struck gold here, Elizabeth is a delight, i love her. It was fun to watch for me! I agree so underrated shame. I plan to read the books, and also the Beautiful lil girl playing Nina at the end was so adorable WOW! She reminded me of a cherub .. I couldn't locate her name, ethereal how she behaved , what a fantastic cast, she deserves recognition awe. Everyone involved did fabulous! It should be re-released ??? Needs awards !! BRAVO "},{"Title":"The Ben Stiller Show?","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Permanent Midnight is a good film all things considered. Though when watching Stiller as the Stahl character one may regret that this movie isn't incredible. Ben Stiller has proven himself to be one of the top comedic actors in the game (zoolander, meet the parents) but according to Permanent Midnight Stiller's weakness may be the people that he works with. David Veloz let a brilliant and emotional performance and auto-biography do way less than it should've. Throughout the film Stiller's performance gets more and more intense but the direction goes nowhere. The cinematography is flat and the editing is dull and inconsistent. It's a classic case of an actor being more involved in a film than his director. Would i recommend this movie? If you like Stiller you need to see it but just keep in mind that once the end credits roll and a song by none other than Everclear wraps up what's a nice little emotional ending it's time to press mute and put on ANY OTHER BAND. I'll tell ya there's nothing quite like the belting emotional vocal stylings of Art Alexakis to ruin a nice little film about heroin addiction. Yeah-ah! No-oh! Everything is wonderful now!!! .....kill me  "},{"Title":"Good, Not Great","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story seems to start in midway, and it seems like the movie is over before you really know about the characters other than Stillers' drug addiction. Love, hate, rage, and fear seem to arise from the characters without enough background on why they feel that way. It wasn't bad, and the acting was pretty good (Stiller was quite good as the drug addicted T.V. writer). Good to take a look at, but not something you'll want to see more than once, "},{"Title":"Based on an allegedly true story of TV writer Jerry Stahl with a $5000 a week job and a $6000 a week cocaine habit.","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS - Even thought this is a pseudo-autobiography, in the movie it is presented as the story of Jerry (Ben Stiller) in recovery, meeting a girl (Maria Bello) in recovery, and the two of them trying to figure out if they can make a go of it, initially meeting at a cheap motel for casual sex, and by the end of the movie realizing they love each other.  Their conversations result in a number of Jerry's memories which are shown in flashback form.Whether this is a good movie depends on what one expects to get out of it. Permanent Midnight tries to be entertaining in spots. To wit, Jerry picks up a German girl, they have meaningless sex, and at climax she yells, My God, my God, I'm being f**ked by a Jew! Very marginal humor. This is not a very entertaining film, but it is gripping simply for the realization that some people actually try to navigate their lives that way. During this period, the real Jerry Stahl was writing for popular 1980s series like Moonlighting, Alph, and Northern Exposure. Anyway, during his addiction phase Stahl represents himself as a person with little self-control, lying, needing drugs to get through any stressful situation. Then, when he first tries to rehabilitate, bad friends drag him down.  I am glad I saw this film, however I cannot recommend it strongly. However, I now realize that thirty-something Maria Bello might be my new favorite female actress, after seeing her here, in Coyote Ugly and in Duets.  She is uniquely attractive and a very natural actress, I think I could enjoy watching her in anything! "},{"Title":"Junkie LA screenwriter screws up and Hurley, hits bottom, rehab, finds love, looses and writes book..","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stiller is excellent and Hurley looks good. Writing is fabulous. Topic a bit of a downer, and quite a bit of shooting up scenes Not as good as High Art; more LA v. NY. Same message Love good, junk bad. Life can be very phony.  "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When this was released in the States there was a huge fuss over Ben Stiller not getting an Oscar nomination.  I've waited two years to see what the fuss was about and although Stiller is very good, the film as a whole is pretty mediocre.  A fine supporting cast is mostly wasted. Which in the cases of Owen Wilson & Janeane Garofalo is a crime.  Stahl is not a very sympathetic character and any depth of motivation is merely hinted at and throughout the film you get the feeling you're in real life TV movie-land.  "},{"Title":"If you want a easy quote, you would have liked the last one","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In David Veloz's adaption of Jerry Stahl's autobiography, he examines the pattern of addiction, and how a junkie evolves from a person getting high, to a person who needs it to keep from getting sick. Drugs are the problem and the solution to everything in his life.Ben Stiller gives a insightful performance of a man who is making his own choices, but is still a observer, like the people he hurts. Stiller makes him a likeable person, because no matter what he does, we've been with him on this journey, and despite everything, he is still like a little boy who knows he will eventully be punished, but is having too much fun to stop.He also manages to avoid the opportunity that most actors sieze in over-acting just because they are an addict. It overshadowes their performance and makes them a cartoon.If drugs are the problem and the answer in his life, his imagination and memories are his salvation and his nightmare, because he has to live with the memory of what he has done to the people who loved him, a life that seemed like it was being lived to the fullest,(but is over) and the knowledge that he may have survived something is more interesting that anything he could have ever written.If at our travel's end we know the place we started out better, I hope he has learned something about himself. "},{"Title":"Stiller","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember about a half hour into the movie realising that I was watching Ben Stiller. I mean, I knew it was him when I rented the movie, but I was so impressed with his performance. The man can act. I feel that Permanent Midnight and Your Friends and Neighbors are his finest movies.I found the film to be as much about Los Angeles as it was about the pitfalls of junkiedom. Two scenes in particular stand out in my mind. The first being when we see Stahl jogging five miles a day. The second being when he refuses to eat the fruit because of where it comes from, but then his friend tells himm that the heroin he just shot was smuggled into the country in somebodie's a**. I found the movie very beautifully made and a real pleasure to watch. "}{"Title":"Stiller- Excellent... Film- Dull","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ben Stiller was extremely convincing.  His portrayal of man who is distracted by his addiction at all times is excellent.Unfortunately, that's the only redeeming thing about this film (aside from the chance to stare at Elizabeth Hurley, of course.)I read in an above commentary that the viewer is never shown that Jerry is brilliant.  I couldn't agree more.  I want to think of him as a tortured genius, but it's tough to do when I'm given no reason to believe that he's anything more than a lowlife junkhead.One thing I was impressed with was the scene in which Jerry and Redfoot (whatever his name is in this thing) are bouncing off of the windows, several stories above the street.  Impressive filmwork, good use of Prodigy, etc.Disappointing, to say the least.  "},{"Title":"not very interesting","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of Ben Stiller, and the previews for this film looked promising.  I was very disappointed.  A herion addict screws up his life - what's interesting about that?  That story is as old as time.  I think Jerry Stahler is so obsessed with himself, he doesn't realize that what he went through was not unique or interesting to anyone but himself.  The one redeeming quality this film has is Ben Stiller's performance - brilliant.  Five out of Ten. "},{"Title":"something went very wrong","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was so looking forward to seeing this film. And I was so disappointed. The script seemed two re-writes away from good. Would it have been such a chore to give these characters something interesting to say? I was never convinced that the Stiller character could actually write. All the other  characters said he was brilliant but it was never shown.   Stiller disappointed but I'm not sure it was his fault. Maria Bello was the more interesting character and gave the best performance. When is Jeneane Garafalo going to write and direct her own film? I really want to see that movie!I haven't read the book and yet I am certain that the movie failed because it tried to be too faithful to it.Something is always preferable to something based on something. This film never got around to becoming its own something. "},{"Title":"Heroin un-chic","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once again, I'm reminded of the fact that Ben Stiller is one of the most promising actors of our day.  He has been honing his skills for the last 5 years and I think this movie began to show us what time will eventually reveal...he's a gamer.  Throughout this movie I found myself hoping he'd make it through meetings with T.V. execs, meetings with agents, and meetings with his wife, unscathed and with his dignity intact.  When I actually felt embarrassed for Mr. Stiller's character in his state is when the reality of this role hit me.  Hopefully, Hollywood will continue to see his potential for greatness (shown in this film) rather than his potential to become the next Chevy Chase doing penis-zipper jokes for the rest of his career.  As a sidenote, the direction in this movie, although surprisingly calm for a heroin/crack movie, was sublime and went perfectly with Stiller's understated performance.   "},{"Title":"Decently good Ben Stiller on crack flick","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This little indi flick is in many ways a very Ben Stiller movie, but it's like watching Ben Stiller with a needle in his arm. From the autobiography of writer Jerry Stahl, Stiller plays the part of a drug addicted L.A. TV writer very cool, and trashed looking. It's fun to see Alf disguised as a television show in which Stiller writes for. There are some intense drug use moments and the film had a good flow- some good humorous bits from Stiller's pals Garofalo and Andy Dick.  "},{"Title":"Worth it for Ben Stiller","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not bad, though not particularly memorable or resonant. So-so script with terse, witty dialogue - David Veloz never wants for a good one-liner. I was never bored, but it would be an overstatement to say I cared about the character Jerry Stahl, either. It's hard to imagine, though, anyone bringing him to life more fully or entertainingly than Ben Stiller. He is compulsively watchable, and without him I think this one might've been DOA. I guess it boils down to this Is it just me, or is a guy who scores prime writing jobs and prime women while he's a hopeless smack addict inherently unsympathetic? (And the impression I get from the writing and casting is that we are very much meant to feel in some way for Jerry.) "},{"Title":"Stiller and Bello are fantastic","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best thing about this believable, and interesting, bio of a drug addicted TV writer is the supporting performance of Maria Bello.  She's destined to be quite a movie star.  The screen lit up whenever she showed up. "},{"Title":"A recovering heroin addict remembers his past.","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ben Stiller captivates as drug addict Jerry Stahl.  He pursues his habit verociously without concern for anyone around him.  Despite the following facts  1) Jerry's arranged marriage to Sandra (Elizabeth Hurley) provides a stable backdrop for his addiction, 2) Jerry's friends fade from his life without major conflicts, and 3) the job offers abound throughout Jerry's dead-man-walking behavior, Stiller manages to salvage the role and make it believable.  In his directorial debut, David Veloz, the writer of Natural Born Killers, appears to hesitate.  He tells a one sided, egocentric tale that revolves around Jerry Stahl.  Anyone who has lost a friend to drugs knows the pain an addict carelessly inflicts.  Perhaps Mr. Stahl's presence on the set (he appears as the doctor at the Methadone clinic and he coached Ben Stiller's performance) unfairly influenced Mr. Veloz's storytelling.I recommend the film based on Ben Stiller's performance.  However, be prepared for graphic needle use and extended sex scenes. "},{"Title":"Stiller can Lead / Act","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Funny man Ben Stiller is more than just a comedian. Comedy is at many times, harder to capture than drama. American knows him as the funny and over the top actor who has made his mark in movies like There's Something About Mary and Meet the Parents. In Permanent Midnight, Still is still funny but also convincingly dramatic. Having to play the role of the Hollywood writer who is without passion, except for his drug habit, Stiller is amazing from beginning to end. Many of the Ben Stiller Show alumni return to do cameos including long time friend Owen Wilson. A great cast and a great story, the movie is enjoyable because there is no lying. This is an In you face true story. Stiller has no need to have to prove himself to Hollywood that he is a great actor who has faith in his craft. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, Not Good, Not Really Anything...","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Ben Stiller is typecast; I've only seen him play quirky Jewish guys in comedies.  He's quite good at that (because that's basically what he is), but I was very interested to see him in a serious role, so I rented this film.  Unfortunately, the film is unevenly paced and rather humdrum.The film's pace is really off, because it tries to cram at least a year and a half's worth of events into 80 minutes.  The story is told in segments, meaning the film jumps around a lot; Jerry (Stiller) switches dealers and loses friends out of the blue, but more importantly, the entire period between when he is in rehab and when the film begins is alluded to but is noticeably absent (how and why DID he come to that fateful fast food job?).  The film focuses mainly on the beginning of Jerry's downfall due to addiction, but never tells the whole story (he never seems to hit addiction's true rock bottom).  The segway between these sequences - Jerry telling another ex-addict more of his story, should've been done away with; its totally unnecessary and serves only to lead to an ending that makes little sense, even within the context of the segways.Besides all the missing sequences leaving gaping and occasionally confusing holes in the story, the story left isn't terribly interesting.  The drugs cause successful man to become a desperate shadow of his former self plot is second only to the Hollywood doesn't give a damn about anyone subplot in its simplicity.  It's been done before, and if it hasn't, it sure seems like it has, including the telling the story to another sympathetic ex-addict aspect.  Perhaps including some of the aforementioned missing segments would have given the story the extra kick it needed.The story is the only problem with the film, the performances are excellent.  Stiller is just as good in a dramatic role (although, somewhat ironically, his character is a quirky Jewish addict), and Elizabeth Hurley gives an excellent supporting performance as Jerry's marriage-of-convenience-wife who actually cares about him, but gets the fall-back from his addiction instead (her response to these incidents is only hinted at, and should have been extended on).  Janeane Garofalo is another great supporting character (Jerry's agent) that deserved more screen time.  Besides sporting great performances, there are a few inspired scenes, though due to the story's disjointed order, they feel just as dropped in as the rest of the story's major developments.There's nothing outright wrong with the film, it's just missing too much.  If the film had run for the length of a regular film it probably would've filled in enough of the holes that it'd work better. "}{"Title":"well-meaning, but truly awful *vanity project*. . .","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know Ben Stiller was trying to do the right thing here - his performance shows it. He plays a great junkie, and it's very convincing.UNFORTUNATELY, the rest of the film is PURE garbage. Period. Maria Bello is a fine actress - but her part is ALL WRONG. Allow me to wonder out loud - ANYONE READ THE G**DAMN BOOK? Jerry Stahl led a pitiful existence - both as a junkie and a TV writer (the joke is, of course, which is worse?)- but his book was totally BUTCHERED.Which, going back to Stiller, is a shame; Ben put a lot into the acting - but who was asleep at the wheel on the REST of the production? Stiller meant well by getting the project off the ground, but it's a TERRIBLE shame that the book will have to battle and outlive this pile of rubbish.  "},{"Title":"Jerry's Angels","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is in fact the women who abet Jerry Stahl's journey through the veins of the strung-out Hollywood myth, ushering him deeper, further into the darkest, pulsing recesses . . . and out the other end.Ben Stiller's Stahl is utterly believable, cetainly his best work to date as an actor. David Veloz shows off deft knowingness in his economicly dense script & directorial choices.Maria Bello is a revelation as an impromptu motel bedmate, a twinkle-eyed ex-junkie angel of a tourguide in Stahl's desert of recovery. Elizabeth Hurley displays subtle complexities as the sleek industry Brit who marries Jerry for a green card while attempting to wrangle Stahl's fierce oscillations during the worst of his slide downward. Liz Torres, playing the Boyle Heights surrogate mom (and stalwart resource) to what her adoptive/addicted son, Jerry needs most, is seen far too seldom (in any medium). And just when you haven't had enough, along comes Janeane Garofalo hittin' all the marks of the new breed literary agent, at once attracted and repelled by Stahl's battered talents. The kicker is the 80's comeback television star, determined to reel in Jerry for a much needed resuscitation to her wheezing No Such Luck series, as impeccably embodied by Cheryl Ladd.All this for a fraction of what it cost Albert Brooks's paunchy Brentwood screenscribe to keep Sharon Stone in baubles, health food & dry cleanable silks in the best suite at the Four Seasons in THE MUSE.Pick your poison.   "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know that it is not always possible for Hollywood to make a faithful adaptation of a book, because of time restraints, budgets, etc., but David Veloz's version of Jerry Stahl's autobiography is a major disappointment. Veloz changes and/or leaves out so many interesting aspects of the book. For instance, Veloz fails to capture Stahl's wit and sense of humor, the cop DID NOT arrest Stahl when he pulled him over (Cop where you're at right now is worse than any place I can put you), the fact that Stahl wrote for Moonlighting, Playboy, his interview with director David Lynch for the chance to write for Twin Peaks, etc, etc, etc,.  I don't want to sound too cliched, but the book is much more interesting. "},{"Title":"Good solid drama","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been made and remade so often, but Ben Stiller is believable  enough to make this one of the better ones.  Who knew he could act? He can  act.  Nice supporting work from Liz Torres and Peter Greene.   "},{"Title":"First rate movie about drug addiction","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I disagree with the previous comment.  This is a very good movie about the horrors of drug addiction.  It would be of particular interest to Ben Stillere fans interested in seeing him in a straight drama (as opposed to comedy)...  "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. I've probably seen it at least 10 times. The last time I saw it, I was at the Red Cross donating platelets. The process takes up to 2 hours, and they let you bring in a movie to watch while you lie motionless in the donor chair. Imagine watching this film with fat needles stuck in BOTH of your arms . . . Yes, this movie is choppy. Yes, this movie is uneven. But it all seems completely appropriate. None of that interfered with my total immersion into this gritty, stylish, and dark tale. Ben Stiller is absolutely fantastic. I found his performance very convincing. I think the best dramatic actors are those who came up through the avenues of comedy (funny comes from a sad place). Jim Carrey and Robin Williams are further proof of this -- no one can cry on cue like these guys.Add in other terrific performances by Owen Wilson, Janeane Garofalo, Fred Willard, Peter Greene, Sheryl Ladd, Andy Dick, Charlie Fleischer, and even Jerry Stahl. There were some really shocking scenes in this film, especially the crack smoking scene where they jumped against the plate glass windows. Great film. "},{"Title":"Ben and Janine, but Mostly Janine","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Just another story, but not very interesting. Good performances wasted.Comparing this to `Hurlyburly,' it seems really trivial.The best part of the film was Janine Garofalo. Tiny role. Big space she occupies, just near the beginning. She controls the space around her. The others here only control themselves. When its just yourself, it can't matter so much. "},{"Title":"overlooked film","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" for years a VHS copy of one movie or another that i owned featured a preview of this, and finally i happened upon it at the video store. why not? i have to say that while it lacks the flash of trainspotting this is indeed a very good movie. i don't think anyone i know has seen it. it features ben stiller in a strong dramatic performance. (which sounds rather improbable in a post zoolander landscape) and has a round cast with decent performances. parts of the movie seem rushed at times and background characters don't get fleshed out as much as needed, they almost seem like the corners and contours of the machine pinballing the main character from point to point, but maybe that's the point. even janeane garofalo manages to be in this movie and not come off right away as playing herself, which is fortunate because she could be a great actress. the portrayal of addiction mentality is somewhat realistic with what i've seen in others (though economically more outlandish) i'm going to be kind and give it an 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What happened to Owen?","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just caught up with this movie on DVD. Stunning performance from Ben Stiller, but who decided to waste Owen Wilson ? The DVD Director's commentary indicates that he had specifically cast Wilson on the basis of his 'Bottle Rocket' performance, but then he seems to have had the better part of his performance cut. The DVD shows several extra schemes which include him and Stiller - all of which are great and really add to the story...in fact, without them, you get no feeling for their differing approach to the taking of drugs, how their friendship crashed and burned, nor how this further isolated the Stiller character. I particularly liked the (deleted) schemes where they bumbled into the party set up to be met by Elizabeth Hurley at her most glacial - acting like a couple of scolded kids- and the later one where Stiller is thrown out of Wilson's house for hitting on his girlfriend whilst under the influence. Adding in these scenes I would give it an overall 6 - without them, down to a 4... "},{"Title":"Decent First Effort from a New Director","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With a cast that includes Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson and Janeane Garofalo, many people probably came into expecting a comedy. The trailer also sort of implied this. While Permanent Midnight has its funny moments, it's basically a drama.While this is based on the true story of TV writer Jerry Stahl, it fictionalized a bit. The shows Jerry works on in the movie are stand-ins for the ones he worked on in real life, for instance. Probably to avoid licensing issues.This was David Veloz's first (and to date, only) directorial job and it shows. It's not the direction is bad, but it's certainly nothing special and there are a few places where it's a little hard to follow.This doesn't drag the movie too far down though as it rests largely on the actors, specifically Ben Stiller, who shows any naysayers here that he can do drama. He does a great job portraying someone who's a likable guy with a pretty decent life who just keeps using more and more drugs until he starts freaking out in public, shooting up into his jugular and generally wrecking everything and losing whatever self-respect he had.Despite the subject matter, Permanent Midnight avoids becoming too depressing through bits of humor, a short (88 min) running time and an optimistic perspective.I doubt this is the best movie for scaring your kids off drugs, but recommended for people who like stories about overcoming or are fans of Jerry Stahl or any of the actors.  "}{"Title":"Interesting, but not very appealing","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Permanent Midnight,First-Viewing, owned pirated DVD,(David Veloz)- Ben Stiller, Elizabeth Hurley, Maria Bello, Janeane Garafalo, Owen WilsonAn interesting true story of a TV writer (Stiller) who's heroin addiction causes him to go from a successful TV writer to working at McDonald's. This is David Veloz's directorial debut, and only film for that matter (watch this film and you will know why). The directing is not professional, and the transition between past and present is almost impossible to recognize, (is he telling us its not important?). Stiller gives a relatively good performance, didn't think he could handle a serious role like this, he wasn't bad, atlhough not great, as the script was pretty boring. The rest of the cast are OK, Owen Wilson is probably the stand-out, as Stiller's best friend. Overall, the screenplay was boring, the direction was not good, and the cast was convincing but not that great since the roles were pretty dull. It could have been much better, had someone like Charlie Kaufman wrote it (he wrote the amazing script for the story of Chuck Barris, a game show host in George Clooney's 'Confessions of a Dangerous Mind'. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrifyng slope on the hell of a lost soul in his pain","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie narrate the true story of Jerry Stahl,a Hollywood tv writer slave of heroin,but not because he would unpack,but for stop to feeling bad.At first sight Jerry Stahl seems a normal gay guy ,but if you looking better you can see a dark shadow in his personality , a dark shadow where grow up his ghost's pain,that it change in destruction of himself.A pain in appearence inexplicable,but always present.Ben Stiller is very good in the character of Jerry Stahl,and his decline phisical and psychic is worthy to biggest drama hollywood actors.I admite Stiller,but he is remember from a pubblic only for less movie,as There's something about Mary,that it's not a bad movie,but neither a deeply movie as Permanent Midnight.This story may report to the story of John Belushi,but the movie that it narrateWired not is very succesful.My rate is 7.     "},{"Title":"No sympathy","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How many times can you watch a drug addict lapse back into his old ways. Stiller tries to make us like his character but it is impossible.  The movie couldn't hold my interest at all. Elizabeth Hurley tries but just doesn't make the grade. All in all a pititful look at Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Even 88 minutes was too long","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall, this movie was very successful in telling the gritty tale of drug addiction and its degrading effect on the addict, his self respect and the impact on the lives he touched.  It made me literally squirm in the reality of its many sequences of shooting up.  However, the point of a life spiralling down into new depths until the personal bottom is found which enables the hope of turning a life of self abuse around is made many times.  I would have preferred to have seen fewer scenes shooting up and more of the potentially healing relationship that followed.  By far his personal growth and challenge in learning to live without drugs would had much more depth and discovery than finding out how he got there in such tedious detail. The last love scene between the main characters conveyed a much more genuine feeling of connection and caring that comes from having lost in life, from forgiveness, from life experiences that hinted at the true potential of this movie and the heights of expression it could have achieved.Surely, it's a different screenplay, but is one that tells a whole story that is worthy of a feature-length film. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised at how interesting the story of a junkie loser can be. Ben Stiller does a great job as the main character and Peter Greene is a pleasure to watch as usual. Funny and tragic at the same time. I give this one seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"been there done that","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a few addict movies.  At the top of the list of the really good ones are Trainspotting and Basketball Diaries.  Permanent Midnight really tries to be as good as these, but it only ends up with about half the effect and resonance that Trainspotting and Basketball Diaries had.  Ben Stiller isn't bad at all.  In fact, it's the best work I have ever seen him do.  He's a believable addict and an obviously intelligent actor but he doesn't inspire or even shock you the way Leonardo DiCaprio and Ewan McGregor did.  Why?  Because the story is tired.  I realize that it sounds callous to say a drug-addict's story is overdone, but it is no matter how true the tale being told.  Along with that this story is far too one sided.  The only character we ever get to know is Stiller, everyone else appears to be an accessory to his lifestyle.  Therefore, actresses like Maria Bello and Elizabeth Hurley go to complete waste despite they're good performances.  I would guess that most of their roles ended up on the cutting room floor.  One actress does manage to put a little life into a nothing role though.  Janeane Garofalo's character is barely mentionable as far as the plot of the story goes, but her performance found depth in ten lines.  She doesn't save the movie from mediocrity, but she could have.  Basically this is a C+ film.  Rent it.  It's worth two hours, but don't expect anything profound.  I understand that the book is much better. "},{"Title":"Same old, same old","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How many times can Hollywood make the same movie? The basics Stiller's performance is good, Maria Bello gets naked, Elizabeth Hurley doesn't, and the drug use is very graphic.Frankly, I liked this movie better when it was called The Boost. "},{"Title":"Methadone pretty (8/10)","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely one that should be on your viewing list but it's enough to wait for it to get off the new release racks (save that extra 2 bucks for some camels maybe). A good movie, not for the easily disturbed/depressed/illegal substances-inclined. "},{"Title":"No new ground broken here...","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We've seen this formula before  talented person has drug/drinking habit, gets addicted, ruins what he or she has, loses it all, goes even more over the edge, realizes problem, gets help, then struggles to stay clean.  There are so many films like this, it should become a sub-genre.  PERMANENT MIDNIGHT is not a bad film, however, we have seen it in films like TRAINSPOTTING, BASKETBALL DIARIES, WHEN A MAN LOVES A WOMAN, etc.  Whether it's drinking or hard-core drugs, the pictures are essentially the same, with varying degrees of success.  MIDNIGHT lies in the middle.  It is slick, graphic, and forgettable.Ben Stiller leaps into dramatic mode, and portrays real-life TV writer Jerry Stahl.  Stahl may have had talent, but he sure was unappealing.  Stiller looks the part of a paranoid drug addict, but there are never any moments where we can really embrace his character and care about his problems.  He's married to Elizabeth Hurley, in a staged relationship that turns real in the blink of an eye.  No development or chemistry whatsoever exists between Hurley and Stiller.  Why are they together?  It just doesn't gel in such an underwritten marriage.  She can only put up with his smack-shooting so long, and the inevitable happens.The drug usage is hard and heavy.  A scene where Stiller shoots up in front of his baby daughter in a car is pretty disturbing.  Another tricky scene has Ben and his crack buddy, inhaling, then jumping into the windows of a high-rise building, risking death if they go through.  The fly-by shot is done well.  The whole movie is shot and edited in whatever frenetic state the main character is in.  Heroin scenes are slow and more hallucinogenic. Crack scenes are dizzying.  Again, you've probably seen this all before.  If going on Maury is the thing Stahl regrets the most about going straight, I guess he learned his lesson.  "},{"Title":"Requiem for a Dream this is not!","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you don't have a main character the audience can sympathize with, if you handle the photography as if you were rushing through a cheap television show, then having a great cast is irrelevant. About three quarters of the way through, I lost interest and turned it off. Requiem for a Dream this is not. Requiem, though very painful to watch, was quite creatively put together, with gut wrenching performances, and characters we could hope for, even though we knew all too well just where they were going. Permanent Midnight is boring and flat, more from technique than material. Too bad. I really like Ben Stiller but a good performance on his part just wasn't enough. "}{"Title":"Pretentious Oh woe is me junkie trash","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Man, Ben Stiller blew it on this one. He usually has fairly good taste when it comes to choosing projects (well, there is Cable Guy....) But, he is so good in Flirting With Disaster and his comedic work on his own Fox TV show was stupendous, but I guess he saw it as a chance to ACT. But the screenplay and direction are so heavy-handed and choppy that the movie leaves you cold. ooooh, look at me - I was such a junkie I shot up in the Maternity Ward. I took my baby on a drug buy!!! Wow - Jerry Springer fodder, but it does not make for an involving movie. Jerry Stahl actually HELPED his damaged career by admitting what a terrible drug addict he was. ONLY in Hollywood. Now that's his gimmick - I was really screwed up on drugs. Hire me. Completely overrated and from what I hear, NOT sober anymore anyway. Plus the film's decision to wrap around the story with Stiller meeting the crazy and wild sober chick is like a bad one-act with two people stuck in a motel room. Want to be devastated by addiction??? Watch Leaving Las Vegas or Trainspotting. This movie is awful. "},{"Title":"drug addiction","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There have been many drug addiction movies A Panic in Needle Park, Scarface, Drugstore Cowboy, Naked Lunch, The Basketball Diaries, Trainspotting, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and now Permanent Midnight. This last one features Ben Stiller as writer Jerry Stahl, who is battling heroin addiction. Throughout the movie, we follow Jerry around and see how the addiction is affecting his life and relationships. It was certainly worth seeing, but it didn't really show anything that we haven't seen before (granted, it wasn't weird like Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas). It's sort of weird to think that Ben Stiller in the same year went from a totally silly role in There's Something About Mary to this grim role. Oh well... "},{"Title":"Just another junkie flick","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Permanent Midnight is a just another junkie flick (like we need another junkie flick) and not a very good one at that. Character development is superficial at best and the storyline goes something like connect, shoot up, act stupid, sober up, doing something normal over and over again. Meanwhile beautiful babes are all trying to jump in the sack with the poorly developed Stiller character for which we're given no reason to care but plenty of reason to suspect writer/director Veloz thinks we're really gullible. Passable, forgettable stuff and another good cast wasted. "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller playing a womanizer? Did I dream it?","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The trials and tribulations of a junkie TV writer but who cares? And Ben Stiller in sex scenes with attractive women? I don't think so. Well, Bello and Hurley aren't exactly prime beauties, but for Stiller they're goddesses. This ugly little runt, though not a bad actor, should play nothing else but ugly little runts. Logical. The movie has some of that casual-flow dialogue but it comes off all wrong and too forced; a shtick used much better by its more-or-less inventors, Altman and Allen. There isn't really that much going on in this mediocre, forgettable movie; certainly some humour could have done it some good. The movie ultimately has a very tired point to make just say no. I have a better one just say no to Stiller in a sex scene. "}]