[{"Title":"nasty. twisted. violent. Excellent.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"112 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How much is $70,000 worth to you? I'm sure that right now 70 grand would come in real handy. But is it worth numerous beatings, getting shot, being run over and having your toes mashed by a hammer? It is to Porter.I'm sure you're aware of the plot to this film (vengence, old flames and mucho violence) but that barely scratches the surface of this brilliant little noir. Whilst the story is basic the nuts and bolts used to make it are complex, twisting and not quite what you expect. For a start there are the characters. No good guys. Not one. Porter is a criminal. He's not even a particularly nice one. He's a killer, a thief, a thug, a gambler, a cheater, a liar and I bet he doesn't even pay his taxes. Likewise everybody else. Sadists, murderers, corrupt cops, drug dealers, gang members, mobsters, hookers. They're all here in their various shades of bad.The success of this film relies on two people Gibson and screenwriter/director Brian Helgeland. With the lead gleefully playing against his nice guy image Porter is as nasty as they come but still retains such charm and Gibsons trademark grin that not for one moment do you dislike him. He's cool in a way that Bruce Willis' Jackal never was. He quietly slipped across continents with hi-tech equipment in various guises waiting for his moment. Porter just walks into the hoods house with nothing but a revolver and asks for his money back. A lot of the comments I've read say that Porter is mean. He isn't. He'll just do what it takes to get his money back. He has nothing to loose so why not do it anyway. Porter is who Riggs would be if he'd never met Murtaugh. Out of control, against massive odds but just crazy enough not to give a damn.Helgeland shows real talent as a director in his first time outing. As a scriptwriter he's always been in the upper classes with a talent for mixing unrepentant violence with uneasy humour. Here he shows he can tell a damn good story along with writing it. Nothing happens the way it's supposed to. We're used to good guys threatening to kill but always really bluffing. Porter isn't. He'll ask for what he wants, he doesn't get it, BANG, you're dead. People die at the wrong time too. Characters that are supposed to last until the end die in the middle while minors that only just arrive survive only to get whacked by the finish anyway. The motivation is all wrong as well. 70,000 is chump change to these people. The mobsters are wearing suits worth more than that. But Porter wants that and nothing more. He spends most of the film correcting people who think he's after more.While based on the same source material as Point Blank, Payback is nothing like it stylistically. The first used understated violence. Payback goes for the jugular and rips it out with copious amounts of rheseus negative. It's hard to see this film working without this combo of star and director. If you had, say Sylvester Stallone or Nicolas Cage and Richard Donner or Joel Schumacher in charge you'd just have a bunch of nasty people doing nasty things with none of the ghoulishly comic touches that make Porter cool. Be thankful it's the combination it is and then go and see it. If you like thrillers you'll love this. "},{"Title":"It's just plain mean!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"75 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback, while admittedly one of the more violent movies out this year, was definitely an entertaining flick.Like the promo catch phrase says, this time you'll root for the bad guy.  If Gibson's character has any redeeming qualities, they are on a very short list.  Porter (Gibson) is violent, at times even cruel and the other characters aren't much better; some are worse.  Every character is from the wrong side of the tracks, even the cops are on the take and there are no punches pulled.  The only character you can really feel is a good guy is Rose, the stereotypical Callgirl with a heart of gold (although it's maybe only 10 karat, not a real 24 karat heart).Nevertheless, you will root for Porter.  Frankly, I don't think anyone else could have pulled off this role and still kept the support of the audience like Gibson did, but then he generally always plays the good guy with a twist.  This time, the twist is a little more savage than usual.All in all, if you enjoy the occasional violent romp on the big screen and you're a fan of Mel Gibson; Payback is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Point Blank Great!","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"71 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you don't like violence, then don't watch this movie. If you are open to great storytelling and gritty dialogue, this is the movie for you. In some ways superior to the remake and just as gripping. Some have hated this film just because of what it was, and that's a shame for them that they can't enjoy a film that neither glorifies nor trashes the underside of life. In a weird way, the main character Porter (who was Walker in the Lee Marvin film, played this time by Mel Gibson who is almost as good as Lee Marvin. Nobody could be better than Marvin in this kind of role) has a kind of decency code of his own even though it is more than a bit twisted. After all, in a world inhabited by criminals, the rules change significantly and so once has to either adapt or find a way out. Porter does both in both versions.No sense in rehashing the plot. Suffice it to say that it is about a crook who got burned and wants what is coming to him and gets even along the way. Besides, the plot has been recounted by so many better reviewers than myself. I can only say that in Point Blank the ending is a bit more ambiguous. A precursor to the films of the 1970s.It's always hard for me to rate one film version over another. It is almost impossible to not want to (in my mind at least) mix and match actors in roles. James Coburn played the same part as did Carroll O'Connor in the original and they are both perfect while being so different. After all, they were both accomplished actors. And maybe I could have done without a lot of the S&M and B&D scenes in the newer version but I chalk that up to the changes in the world since the 1960s.Long before there was a Quentin Tarrantino, there were great directors like Don Siegel, Sam Peckinpah and Sam Fuller who were as tough as nails and not just some fan who knew how to use the best of all of these guys brilliant touches, and add some sick jokes. But director/writer Brain Helgeland does spectacularly well with the material, while the new cast shines in their roles almost as though they weren't acting, but living the parts. And that goes right down to the underrated David Paymer as a pathetic hustler (who could easily have been played in earlier times by an Elisha Cook Jr. as he did with the Wilmer role from The Maltese Falcon yet Paymer does so with more humor.) It is hard to make one root for people so lacking in morals but director, writer and actors manage amazingly well.Both Payback and Point Blank are instant classics that should be considered as such. And God bless the memories of Lee Marvin and John Vernon (both in the original Point Blank version.) Such fine thespians will be sorely missed. Fortunately, their memories are on celluloid and other mediums to be enjoyed by many more audiences.You might have guessed I really love these two movies. "},{"Title":"A very fun 100 minutes!","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"47 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback is one of those highly entertaining movies that make you forget your sorrows for a moment and entertains you right till the end. Difference with most other entertaining movies is that this movie also has a great story!The movie is completely driven by the main character played by Mel Gibson. He plays a great and fun criminal who is an anti-hero and a total bad guy but still someone for who you can feel and cheer about. The movie also features lot's of other great actors including James Coburn in a very fun role, Kris Kristofferson, Lucy Liu, Bill Duke and David Paymer. The movie is filled with great and entertaining characters.The story is just great and has quite some nice twists and moments. The movie is comedy like but it also has a wonderful film-noir feeling with a typical atmosphere. There are also some nice action sequences in which Mel Gibson's character might be featured a bit too much as an hero.Nothing about this movie indicates that there were troubles on the set during filming with the director Brian Helgeland, on the contrary! Everything about the movie feels very fun like.Solid entertainment!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Payback - Great movie in the film noir genre","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"52 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback directed by Brian Helgeland is a classic film noir following the tradition of urban gangster movies and Mel Gibson is giving an outstanding performance as Porter - the bad guy who is only slightly better than the rest of the gangsters, hoodlums, crooks and scoundrels to be met in the film.Payback is a great movie in this genre. Donald E. Westlake, who has written the novel on which the film is based, has picked up the thread of Raymond Chandler and Dashiel Hammett to create an authentic universe with real characters, and Brian Helgeland has succeeded to bring this universe to the screen.Everything about this movie is great - the storyboard, the cast, the direction and the soundtrack. This film bears resemblance to Sergio Leone's The Good, the Bad & the Ugly and if you have seen the Maltese Falcon starring Bogart, you should definitely see Payback. "},{"Title":"Top-notch","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Easily one of Gibson's best, and one of the best of it's kind you will ever see. Homage to film noir, combined with usual Gibson tongue-in-cheekness, and some fabulous supporting roles from the likes of Coburn, Kristofferson, Liu, and Devane. Henry does a stirling job here opposite Gibson. Liu is simply wonderful in a role that - worryingly perhaps - looks like it was made for her! Porter's single-minded, no-nonsense determination to get what he sees as justice for himself strikes a chord, and has you rooting for him right to the end. This film rarely lets up on the intensity, and gets better as it goes along. It will make you laugh and cringe at the same time, but you won't want to take your eyes off the screen for a second. It looks good, feels good, and oozes class. Definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"Payback & Point Blank","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes - Payback & Point Blank (1967) are very similar. But there is a very good reason for that. Both films are based on the novel 'The Hunter' by Richard Stark, a pseudonym for Donald E Westlake.The films share several character names such as Brewster, Carter, Stegman and Fairfax and similar plots. In both cases the anti-hero Porter (or Walker) is trying to recover a sum of money after being double-crossed.Now, I am a huge fan of Point Blank. It takes a relatively simple plot and makes a bit of cinematic poetry out of it. And if I was forced to compare Lee Marvin and Mel Gibson's performances, then I'm sorry but Gibson would lose big time. However, Payback is a much better film than I thought it would be. There are sufficient differences to make the story interesting and though it is told in a much more straightforward and, dare I say, 'safe' way than Point Blank, it is a very well made film and tells a compelling story well. And it's nice to see Gibson return to a somewhat morally ambiguous character a la Mad Max.  "},{"Title":"Wow, This Is A Rough, Tough Movie!","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"31 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A modern-day film noir, this is about as tough as it gets. Rough characters, rough violence and rough language all comprise this re-make of the 1967 film Point Blank, which starred Lee Marvin.Mel Gibson is the good guy here, taking Marvin's role, but I put that in quotes because he's not really good, just a thief attempting to get his $70,000 back which was stolen from him by his partner and ex-wife in a former heist. He goes up the ladder, little guy to the top boss, to finally get his money.Gibson gets beaten up several times and even gets tortured in one toes- crunching scene. The women are tough-looking, coarse and unappealing. I did like the metallic-blue hues in here, making this an interesting visual film. However, the city scenes are bleak, a la Batman.Despite the above, I still found the movie good enough to watch several times. Most people like a simple, revenge story which this really is, and there is dark humor in here, too. The other characters are interesting, particularly the one played by William Devane. I also liked the narration by Gibson, done in 1940s film noir style. The worst person in here was the sadistic Val Resnick (Gregg Henry). He was so bad, he was cartoon-ish, someone so bad he belonged in one of those Batman or Hellboy or Spiderman flicks. "},{"Title":"A Superb thriller.","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"24 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'ts not often a film comes along that has a great script , great acting and good soundtrack but Payback has all these.Mel Gibson plays a guy who has been ripped of by the tune of $70,000 and this is the violent story of how he get round to getting it back.The film takes you on a journey where you ride many twists and turns and you meet lots of great personalities  on the way , most of which end up dead. Mel Gibson try's his best to be nasty but you cant help but like him. He could play Jack the ripper and you would still end up liking him! Anyway catch this movie asap. 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"I'm in town,stay out of my way","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mel (as Parker aka Porter) is a bad guy who comes across as a good guy because everyone else in this flic is even more nasty than he is. It's a simple play on perspective not often utilized in the movies. Usually, the hero is A HERO, white hat and all, even with a few quirks or deficiencies to his character. Not so, here. And the key to the whole picture is buying into Mel as a bad man, all despite his many years in heroic roles beforehand. It works very well, especially in the beginning, where it really needed to. There's an early scene during the credits where Mel forces himself to smile in a mirror, as preparation for putting forth his 'best face' to a teller at a bank. One gets the impression this really is a man unaccustomed to smiling, a sour, angry man. The early scenes also recall the beginning of Miami Blues, that being a criminal swooping into town and wasting no time in bringing a little terror & hardship on certain select bystanders. There's a danger, in a film sense, of satirizing such moments too much, to the point of slapstick comedy - rather than dark comedy, which it really is. But Mel doesn't mess around here he means business, bashing scum left & right, and blowing 'em away as he moves up the ladder of an organized crime organization. The rest of the cast is top-notch, by the way. The casting directors must have had a field day on this one. Then Mel himself is beaten; the whole theme of the movie seems to be about pain how much one can stand; how much one can dish out. It ends up being very cathartic. The cinematography also helps this picture the photography is quite stark,ultra-crisp, adding to the 'punch' of the whole show. The lines on Mel's face are deeper than ever; he seems to carry years of pain there. And years of guilt, maybe. "}{"Title":"You Gotta Be Kidding Me!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 3 only because the acting was good considering the plot and script stink.  Okay, Lucy Liu as S&M mistress was pretty much hubba, hubba.  This story has got more holes in it that Lucy's fishnets.  Sorry but other than a mindless 2 hour shoot 'em up, there's not much to the story.By the way, wreaking that much havoc and mayhem and subjecting oneself to the harm that Mel took for $70,000 in this day and age just doesn't pass the 'suspend reality' test.  "},{"Title":"Rambo Version of Point Blank","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here is another action hero who single-handedly dispatches swarms of bad guys from various factions and just like his counterpart Sly gets bruised in the process. He is the urban version of the jungle/desert warrior Rambo. Point Blank is masterful, serious film-making unlike this excuse of a flick. In it Lee Marvin's character never thinks for a moment that he can take on a big, mysterious organization by himself. This movie is so full of crap that I wished it exploded like the big explosion towards the end of it. Don't watch Bruce Willis' cheesy character ruin the exceptional Day of the Jackal of the 70's, and don't watch Alec Baldwin and wife at the time try to ruin Sam Peckinpah's The Getaway. Just how many of these ridiculous, stupid Hollywoodian legend of one-man-against-an-army are they willing to make? Another example of an unnecessary remake that tries hard to cheapen the original. Who are these idiots that pick the best movies of the past to remake? At least pick something badly made so you could say you improved upon the source material. My advice is pick the very worst films so that there wouldn't be any possibility of screwing it up. "},{"Title":"Not The Finest Moment Of Mel Gibson's Acting Career","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Admittedly, Mel Gibson has had a lot of low points in his personal life that don't need to be recounted here. At the same time, whatever you may think of him or his ideas personally, you have to admit that, generally speaking, the man manages to put out some pretty good movies. But, as we know, every rule has to have an exception. For Mel Gibson, as far as I'm concerned Payback has to be that exception.Payback tries so hard - it tries so very hard. The effort that everybody seems to put into making this an exciting crime and revenge story is so hard that, to be honest, it's almost embarrassing at times. Everything you could possibly think of that could be thrown into a movie like this is thrown into this movie - drugs, gun fights, beatings, torture, murder, prostitution, sadism, masochism, Chinese gangs, organized crime, corrupt cops. Think of anything that could be included in this kind of movie and you'll probably find that it's here somewhere. Often in abundance. Thrown together without any real concern over whether it makes any sense.In the movie, Gibson plays a vicious con man named Porter. He's been betrayed by his wife and ex-partner and left for dead, while they get to keep all $130000 of a heist they pulled off. But somehow Porter survived, and he's out for revenge, assisted by an ex-girlfriend prostitute of his (played by Maria Bello.) The entire opening sequence struck me as absolutely ludicrous. Without giving too much away, I'd love to know (since Porter apparently was left in pretty desperate circumstances) how he managed to connect with the guy who was doing the surgery to remove the bullets. And, although he's a vicious con, we're apparently to believe that he's also rather honest because once he gets started on his quest for revenge, everybody keeps offering him the whole $130000 and he keeps insisting that he only wants the $70000 that was actually his share of the original heist.It has some comedy value. It really does. A sort of tongue in cheek quality that - in the midst of all the violence and ugliness on the screen - actually has the ability to bring a smile to your face on occasion. But that doesn't save it. Not even close. (2/10) "},{"Title":"The Return of Grand Guignol","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  PAYBACK  The only good quality of this film is when it is finished and one can get out of the theater and into the fresh air.  That is unless one lives in NYC or Los Angeles, then one is out of luck altogether.The film's only saving grace is the wondrous performance of Gregg Henry, an unheralded and grossly underrated actor who was launched at the same time and place as Nick Nolte, in the 1976 TV mini-series, RICH MAN POOR MAN and unlike Nolte, for reasons that defy logic, rather disappeared from the scene. Here, Henry delivers an extraordinary performance as a human ode to Marquis deSade who kicks off the plot by giving the Gibson character's wife a photograph which appears to indicate betrayal.   Ok, so this seems an unlikely reason to cajole her into shooting her husband the back but shoot  she does.  This unremitting, dark film strives for sadism  over logic in every instance.From there on in it is all absolute Grand Guignol,  where one is supposed to squeeze entertainment values from an invidious, fetid mound of unalloyed brutality. If you have more or less sold your soul and worn out your nerve endings, this film is definitely for you.  "},{"Title":"Why am I wasting my time by reviewing this rubbish?","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hate this movie, directed and written by otherwise talented film maker Brian Helgeland (writer of L.A. Confidential). Payback is full of cliches and it is calculated to appeal to male audience and so is very brainless and irritating piece of cinema, and I hate these commercial crap films. This is practically a remake of John Boorman's hardboiled classic Point Blank (1967), which stars Lee Marvin. Porter is shot down and betrayed by his partners. He recovers and starts his vengeance and quest for the money that was stole from him..I found only one remarkably positive thing about this film and it's the lightning and many flavors of blue and black that create very moody atmosphere that lasts throughout the film. It becomes very gritty and dirty movie as it was intended, and cameraman and Helgeland did great job by creating this color world the film lives in. Of course Mel Gibson is charismatic as Porter and acts perfectly, but those are the only positive things and things I somewhat appreciate about this film. I'm sure mainstream fans love this film as this offers exactly what they want entertainment and an excuse to munch pop corn and have fun watching a movie.The film is full of usual cliches and irritating characters that act so calculatingly as possible. The Gibson character is not any cleaner than the real criminals here and the film is full of despisable, selfish, greedy and disgusting characters that only waste their acting talent in this stupid film. Even policemen are as loathsome as possible. The s/m female played by Lucy Liu is also pretty memorable freak in this film, but doesn't raise the film as a whole any higher.Overall, as I definitely don't like calculating mainstream cinema, I cannot give this more than 3/10 and that is due to the visuality I told about. If you love films like Air Force One, Star Wars Episode One or other similar non-sence entertainment, then you'll probably love Payback as well as this is just the kind of film that should appeal to mainstream audience, especially when it consists of young males. "},{"Title":"Insipid and dull.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It takes a special movie to get a comment out of me, and this definitely qualifies.  I've only been tempted to leave a theater a few times in my life, and this was one of them.  The story lags and drones along to Gibson's unusually bad character development, complete with weak one-liners and phlegm-filled voice.  The odd bluish tint of the whole film also worked to annoy me.  A total worthles waste of time. "},{"Title":"Not A Good Movie","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. What was the point to it all? It came across as being dramatic one moment and key-stone cop the next. Couldn't believe the insanity of the plot. I also felt the movie knocked people of color, but is this new? The premise was totally , preposterous. It would have been a good movie had it stuck with revenge the whole way through, but it kept detouring into stupidity. The bleached 'bluish' color was the only saving attribute to this horrible film. It gave it a great texture that you don't see in films these days. To spend even $4.75 to rent this is outrageous. They should have money-back guarantees on movies these days. Do not waste your time on this awful film. "},{"Title":"A no-brainer","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Zero out of ten -- strictly for the brainless. But here's a joke for you in an interview just broadcast on French radio (France Culture), John Boorman, whose seminal classic Point Blank was dropped into the liquidiser by Gibson and Helgeland, recalls his first meeting with Lee Marvin to discuss the movie. The studio's script was so bad that Marvin hurled it out of the window of the London house where they both were. Subsequently the idea was re-crafted into a new script -- which became the masterwork Point Blank is. Boorman imagines that Mel Gibson may have been passing in the street and picked the original script out of the gutter where Marvin had thrown it -- and subsequently filmed it as Payback.Boorman says he went around various film festivals telling this story, until, in the run-up to the release of Payback, Gibson rang him and asked him to stop telling it, as it was having a bad effect on Payback's chances! As if Payback didn't do a good enough job all on its own of persuading people it was trash...Payback is utterly worthless; those with no sense for film may enjoy it as mindless pulp but anyone with any feeling for film will find it wildly uneven, graceless and crude. It flails around between clumsily derivative writing and acting, characters with no credible humanity, gratuitous sadism and unfunny slapstick. Some critics here have describes it as uncivilised, and I know what they mean - a film as stupid as this can only come about as a result of pure cynicism. Or... could it be that the rumours are right, and that the dead hand of Mr Gibson, currently in the news for his charming comments about blacks, Jews and gays, can be felt in the script and tone? "},{"Title":"Exceedingly violent,excessively obnoxious, totally useless movie...","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     This is, to my mind, about the least edifying film I have ever seen. Mel Gibson plays a nasty, murderous thief who goes on the rampage, and kills anybody who gets in his way , for a million bucks he percieves to be his. But it doesn't matter that he is such an unedifying and horrible fellow because the people he comes up against are even worse. So that is alright then. And it is okay he gets away with killing about fifty people, gets the money and gets the girl and gets away. He is the hero, right ?  As a film this is obnoxious and perverted. As a remake of the superb Point Blank it is a travesty.   "},{"Title":"Sadistic and shallow","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Up for some pointless violence and sadomasochism? Is your idea of a good time watching someone slapping women around or seeing a famous actor having his feet smashed with a hammer? How about a series of devastating explosions and machine gun bullets across someone's back? A heroin overdose your cup of tea? Then, line up and rent this one, right now! This is a very bad movie, and not because all of the characters are bad guys. They are a bunch of cardboard clowns led by the clown prince Mel Gibson and broken down has-beens such as Kris Kristofferson (I thought he was a singer) and William Devane. If this movie had a plot, it might be entertaining. If this movie relied less on pointless violence and sadism to win its fans, it might be of some interest.  The only puzzlement is whether Mel Gibson's contract requires that his character be abused to the extreme by the bad guys in all of his movies. (Lethal Weapon(s), Conspiracy Theory, Braveheart to identify some other examples.)  It's amazing what can result from artistic creativity. Pornography by violence just about summarizes this trash.      "}{"Title":"Boring","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you're looking for a movie with a minimal plot with plenty of killing, this movie is for you! If, on the other hand, you like something resembling a plot in your movies, if you like movies that actually make you care why the main character is going through hell I suggest you keep looking. "},{"Title":" When they kill you, you learn what your life is worth, mine was Seventy grand ","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the annals of cinematic crime, it is rare a Hollywood movie is created which allows the criminal to be the hero. That is not the way in this fast and violent film called  Payback.  I believe the reason is, because like in the novel, almost everyone else, including the police Detectives are portrayed as criminals. The movie story is of a thief called Porter (Mel Gibson). He planned and participated in a street heist which netted his partners Rosie (Maria Bello) and Val Resnick (Gregg Henry) $130,000.00 which they were suppose to split with him. Instead they kept the entire amount, shot him in the back and left him for dead. Unfortunately for them, he survived and decides to have his revenge. The story follows him as he seeks his share of the heist which leads him to associates of Resnick like Arthur Stegman (David Paymer) who is a low level drug boss but has police protection. Det. Leary (Jack Conley) and Det. Hicks (Bill Duke). Other hurtles to his money include 'The Outfit' run by a man named Carter (William Devane) who despite his own hit men in turn answers to Justin Fairfax (James Colburn) and eventually Bronson (Kris Kristofferson) who tests Porter's resolve to disastrous ends for nearly everyone involve. Porter may be a criminal but with enough moxie to challenge even the Asian triad. This film has all the star power to make it exciting, dramatic and at times even comical. Yet the end result is nothing short of becoming a Classic. **** "},{"Title":"A vicarious experience","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What can I say. This movie is the one to watch when you are angry with someone. Through Mel Gibson, you can experience your anger and frustration and get that vicarious revenge.Gibson's character just wanted what was due; nothing more or less. He methodically went up the line to get it. He was clever and ruthless. In the end...well, I won't tell you that. I have to say that I got the best of all those who wronged me through Porter.With the possible exception of Braveheart, this is Gibson's best. He makes Richard Stark's book come to life on the big screen in a way that it is a pleasure to watch again and again. And, hey, it has Maria Bello, and that gives it an additional star.Besides, it's cheap therapy. "},{"Title":"Movie that goes straight to the point","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was great. Normally when you get an action movie, the heroes are just too wimpy. You don't really get satisfaction out of the violence, you don't get to see bad guys dealt with in a satisfying way.Well, this guy dives to the point. He has a pretty good reason to be p****d off, and he's no angel himself. He just kills and hurts a bunch of people with little or no remorse. No questioning of right or wrong or such things, just pull the trigger and carry on. But of course he's a good bad guy so it's hard to hate him. Seen before a thousand times, but still effective.The plot, it isn't a great story with several mind-boggling twists, it just does what it's meant to do - gives a reason for what is happening.I do have some problems with the last act. It's not bad, but it did feel like it was pleasing a whole another crowd. And that's exactly what happened in the production. Helgeland's original vision wasn't respected, and we got a more Hollywood-like last act. You're in luck, because there is a director's cut, which is almost a different movie at the end. I like that one better and love my two movies in one blu-ray of this film, but I happen to like this theatrical cut too. Imagine that. The direct approach to the action in this movie was a bit of a surprise. It really was fun to watch. Don't take me wrong, I am not a guy who cries happy tears when seeing violence, but this was just pure, good, straight to the point - entertainment. "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Aristotle once that good theater evokes catharsis in its audience.  Catharsis meant the creation of characters whose fear, torment or happiness the audience could identify with.  I disliked PAYBACK because I couldn't identify with any of the characters, and the thing that really scares me is to see how many people did identify with the brutish, nasty little thief who stars in this movie.Porter (Gibson) is a professional criminal who plans a brutal robbery, but finds himself cheated out of his own share of the loot.  Now Porter will very unsubtly go about getting his share of the loot back. Not the whole haul, mind you, but only his own share, the share that he stole fair and square.Don't you know somebody like Porter? Haven't you always wanted to do something like what Porter's doing?  Aren't you itching to find out whether Porter outdoes all his fellow bad guys and gets away with his money?  I don't know about you, but for me the answer is no to all three questions. If Porter were at least intelligent about how he goes about his scheme, he might be worthwhile watching, but in fact his tactics are incredibly dumb and succeed only by fiat of screenwriter and director.  For one example, Porter stupidly gives away his greatest advantage, the fact that his adversaries don't know he's alive.  In another scene, Porter asks a Hulking Tough Dude to show him to his criminal boss.  The Hulking Tough Dude refuses, so Porter rips the HTD's earring out.  The HTD immediately whips out a gun and shoots Porter dead.  No, wait, that's what would really happen.  Because we are living in Hayes/Abascal/Helgeland Land, the HTD meekly leads Porter in to see the criminal boss.I have difficulty believing that anything of Brian Helgeland, the screenwriter of the excellent L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, survives in this film, since he was sacked before it was done.  It is much easier for me to blame Terry Hayes, co-writer and author of such stupidity as MAD MAX BEYOND THUNDERDOME, and Paul Abascal who was final director.  Whoever may be to blame obviously wanted to take his source material (a Donald Westlake story variously alleged to be either POINT BLANK or THE HUNTER) and turn it into just what we all needed, another take on PULP FICTION.  He got all the bad parts of Tarantino's hit right the mindless, senseless, bloody, and sadistic violence, the characters with no appeal or redeeming features whatsoever, and the darker-than-black humor that generally hurts too much to laugh at.  However, while the dialogue in both films is mostly meaningless, Tarantino's had a spontaneous, natural sound to it; it may have been empty, but it was at least realistic.  Here, the lines sound contrived as well as empty.  Gibson's voice-over narration is omnipresent and irritating, especially when used to reveal points about his character that are already intensely obvious, since there is only one point to his character that he is an unmitigated S.O.B.It takes a lot to earn this disgusting film its one lonely star.  The dark cinematography by Ericson Core conveys the amoral world of Porter convincingly.  Gibson is always watchable, though it's sad to see him play such a one-note role.  (There is a second note, Gibson's romance with Bello, but it's so tacked-on and reeking of cliche that it doesn't count).  Gregg Henry's Val Resnick, the anti-antihero, is appropriately slimy.  Kris Kristofferson plays a character named Bronson who, probably by design, resembles the Bronson we all know and who is vastly more sympathetic than Gibson.  James Coburn reprises his dapper villain role from MAVERICK, which is always fun.  But best of all is Lucy Alexis Liu as Pearl, the sadomasochist to whom all the violence is just a game.These few bright spots failed to distract me from the underlying fact that PAYBACK is a lousy film with a lousy script and at times is damn near unbearable to watch.  The one thing it taught me is a valuable but very disturbing lesson the viewing public has enough sadists who think that screaming, bloody agony is laugh-out-loud hilarious to make dreck like PAYBACK commercially successful.  It's scary.Rating * out of ****. "},{"Title":"I promise you won't have to find out what your left ball tastes like... A personal favourite of mine.","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback starts as hard as nails thief Porter (Mel Gibson) arrives back in town after 5 months recovering from being shot by his double crossing friend Val Resnick (Greg henry) & wife Lynn (Deborah Kara Unger) who stole his $70,000 cut from a robbery & left him for dead. Porter heads for his wife to find out where Val is, he quickly learns that Val is now working for the the 'Outfit' a criminal organisation which controls crime in the city & used his money to pay them. As Porter travels across town hurting people & leaving a trail of bodies he not only has Val to deal with but the might of the Outfit, crooked cops & Chinese triads who all either want money or him dead...Payback is one of those films with a troubled production history, maybe we'll never know the full truth but it appears after negative initial test screenings original writer & director Brian Helgeland was fired (apparently just two days after he had won an Oscar for L.A. Confidential (1997)), some say by star Gibson, & replaced by production designer John Myhre who re-shot up to thirty per cent of the film including a drastically different ending which included Kris Kristofferson & the torture scenes none of which are present in the director's cut & as a result the film was delayed by over a year because as soon as the original production on Payback finished Gibson did Lethal Weapon 4 (1998) before doing the re-shoots for this, got that? Good. It's perhaps surprising then that Payback is such a good film, in fact I think it's a brilliant dark noir thriller that is a personal favourite of mine & has been ever since I originally saw it at the cinema all those years ago. The script by Helgeland & Terry Hayes (who is credited with the Theatrical Cut here on the IMDb) was based on the novel 'The Hunter' by Richard Stark & is a deliciously dark tale of revenge, it's told from the perspective of Porter who is a pretty nasty piece of work himself like during the opening sequence when he steals from a homeless beggar for instance which sets the character up perfectly & I just love the the fact that Gibson's character is a bad guy & you end up wanting him to win, it's something very different that I just think works brilliantly. The rest of the larger than life over the top character's are fantastic too, from the criminally underused dominatrix played by Lucy Liu to the funny Fairfax played by James Coburn to the menacing Bronson played by Kristofferson. It moves along at a nice pace, it has a pretty clever & absorbing plot with some cool twists & turns along with a great ending. I just think it's a brilliant film & it's as simple & straight forward as that.This version of the film has a really muted colour scheme with a blue tint, in fact it's not far from being black and white. It's a colour scheme which suits it down to the ground though & is very stylish, the recent director's cut is not tinted in this way & the colour is more vibrant. The violence isn't that excessive but it is fairly brutal at times, Gibson putting a cushion over someones face & shooting them in the head at point bland range for instance & there's a scene where Gibson is tortured which has a bit with a hammer which will make the squeamish amongst you wince. I didn't like the fact that the dog survived being shot in this version though & more realistically it dies in the director's cut. There are some good action scenes & set-pieces as well including some cool sequences with Pearl the dominatrix.With an estimated budget of about $50,000,000 this is very stylishly made, the production design is great & it's a cool film visually. The acting is great as well from a good cast, I've always liked Gibson who is apparently the richest actor in the world... maybe I don't like him so much now! Everyone else puts in really good performances too.Payback is, in my opinion, a brilliant ultra dark thriller with a really cool edge to it. I loved it & thats all there is to it. Director Helgeland & original editor Kevin Stitt got the opportunity in 2005 to compile a 'director's cut' released straight-to-video/DVD in 2006 as Payback Straight Up - The Director's Cut reinstating the original ending & a completely new musical score as well as removing the blue tint from the picture as well as other changes, this 'new' version actually runs 10 minutes shorter than the theatrical cut. "},{"Title":"Complete Rubbish","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I avoid bad movies so was expecting at least an ok, entertaining couple of violent hours but this was almost unwatchable.I sat through it all just so i could comment on the whole film in case it got any better- it didn't.So this in summary is the worst big budget film of the nineties and maybe ever. "},{"Title":"A stupid movie for stupid people","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback was one of the worst films I have ever seen.  There is extremely gratuitous violence throughout the film, the plot is stupid, and the acting is terrible.  This movie tries to be what Pulp Fiction was, but goes nowhere.  It is just not funny enough or hip enough to get close to Pulp Fiction.  Mel Gibson is horrible in his part.  I can't begin to tell you what a horrible movie this is.  Please, don't encourage Hollywood to make rotten films like these.  DON'T see this "},{"Title":"A truly terrible movie, Mel Gibson reaches a new low point","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dear lord, this movie is terrible.  It consists of Mel Gibson running around bashing peoples heads in because they stole his money or something, I got about an hour into it, and I just had to turn it off, that's how awful it was.  How could you people rate this a 6.8!!!, I would be surprised if it had a 5!!, Roger Ebert should get the crapp kicked out of him for giving this 3 stars.  This movie should be avoided at all costs, I hated it. Turkey out of *****. "},{"Title":"Payback by name, payback by narrative but brilliance by opinion.","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film begins with a series of gross close ups some nasty looking surgical tools; a grubby glass having a drink being poured into it before being gulped down by a sleazy looking man, as a spread chart makes itself apparent on the wall behind him complete with pictures of a fetal nature complete with unborn babies &#x96; maybe a sign that this guy does cheap, back alley abortions as well. As it happens he's removing a bullet or two from our anti-hero of the hour, someone who lays everything out for us as he lies there on the slab, informing us of what was taken from him and what he's going to get back. The item in question is $70,000; a score he inherited from robbing the aforementioned Chinese gangsters with partner Val Resnick (Henry). The location is an unnamed city, a place we first see by way of an extreme long shot as the lead makes his way over a bridge - the city has that appearance of being cut off from the mainland, as if this scuzzy, hostile, crime infused dystopia is somehow disconnected from the normal world.The stark differences between both Val and Porter is highlighted in this one scene they share, in which either hostilities are at a minimum or they aren't frantically moving around the screen for whatever reason. They stand, street side and watch the Chinese go about their routine. Val is frisky; nervous and energetic &#x96; his blonde hair and effeminate clothing is in stark contrast to Porter's jacket; darkly hued hair and gruff, unemotional tone is the polar opposite to that of Val's appearance. Whilst swiping the case, Val's sadism becomes first apparent in his beating of the Chinese driver. He utters a line along the lines of The trouble is with kickn' a Chow's ass, half an hour later, you want to do it again!, which foreshadows both a violent and sadistic driven relationship with Pearl (Lui), a Chinese mistress. This, as his foil Val sports a name ambiguous in terms of gender; already adding to his dress sense and hair style, somewhat out of sorts for a piece of this genre. Later on, ideas as to how Val strives to survive in this hostile world arise when certain parallels can be drawn between characters.Payback is quintessential noir; a film that ought to be a vital part of any noir cannon, despite all the problems; disagreements and issues that threatened to run it aground prior to release. The film is a smart, highly intelligent and highly enjoyable romp through an unspecified, unhinged city in America in which thieves; back-stabbers; liars; traitors; crooks and criminals rule the majority of the roost. To see it is to experience one of the great films of recent times, and one of the more under appreciated films of our time. It is essentially a blending of generic codes and conventions of hard-boiled noir from Hollywood of the 1940s mixed in with more action orientated American crime pictures about men, their guns and masculinity from the 1970s &#x96; think a Dirty Harry sequel but ten times better.The film's noir archetypes complete with voice-overs blend nicely with the lead's persistent flitting between lonely, down-trodden noir infused lead and gun's-blazing action hero, as he takes on a variety of shady and unlikeable villains out to do more harm than our lead is. The use of specific cars of 'an era' with the sparseness of cellular phones are all obvious ideas employed by the makers of the piece that have been brought to attention before in regards to the inconclusive year in which the film is set, although my favourite tactic applied to the piece which renders the setting ambiguous is the instance in which Porter, having stolen a guy's wallet, looks at the I.D. and reads his date of birth to have been the year 1940 &#x96; the fact the victim looks to be in his thirties suggests a 1970s setting.There have been many writings on the character of the successful gangster being a living embodiment of the 'amoral' American dream; exemplified over the years in many films such as the original Scarface. The high-rise buildings the mafia of this film inhabit during working hours dominate the skyline of an equally shady and sinister city, with the high-rise offices coming to represent the very core of Capitalism iconography. Outside, the American flags are left to fly beside the entrance - they hang, loosely and limply, almost ashamed to fly high and proud because of what lies inside and how it is the inhabitants came to be as rich and successful as they have done by way of the amoral American dream of a gangster lifestyle.The film is full of people chasing a similarly ill-advised and immoral dream, that longing for money that they have not earned cleanly and honestly a corrupt policeman wanting a boat without having to life a finger; a wormy cab dispenser willing to just waltz someone into The Mob for a large bounty; a two-timing thief willing to grass up an old friend. Lead Porter and his plight are consistently made to look a lot more favourable than they actually are. By the end of the film, our lead will have waged a war against police corruption and individuals whom engage in violence against women. The film is one of those minor-masterpieces that feels shunned on release, when in actuality, maintains a promise of delivering an experience of a genre which carries nessesary weight. The film is engageing and smart, while it does not contain thirty seconds that aren't uninteresting. Whilst the majority are incorrectly dismissive, Payback is a fascinating and gripping exercise in a blending of genres with film theory and character. "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  good campy flick, a bit too much blood","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback is a movie that doesn't take itself too seriously. In fact, the movie is really an action / comedy rather than a pure action film.There is a little too much blood, but not excessive and no gore, so not too bad from the mindset of an action film buff like me. The plot has a few neat twists, and in general is a lot like the awful Raw Deal (w/Arnold Schwartzenegger) would have been if it had been well-acted, hadn't taken itself too seriously, and had an intelligent plot.Plenty of stuff blows up and I recommend the film. If you are looking for another nobody-really-seen-hurt comedy / action like Lethal Weapon, this is not your film, however.Who should see this film-- Action film buffs who won't mind a bit overaverage violence(more than Ransom)-- Mel Gibson fans (but see everything else first)Like most raters, I'll give Payback a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Point Blank & Payback","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After hearing so much about the original filming of The Hunter, a novel by Richard Stark (Donald Westlake)- Point Blank starring Lee Marvin - I was pleased to discover a DVD of this recently. Now I can put into focus why the two versions (the other being the present film, Payback)have often been compared.First, the two versions are very different. While Payback is informed by the first film's interpretation of the novel, most of it builds a whole new interpretation from the ground up.Point Blank is a very odd film, attempting to interject avant-garde film ideas into a straight mainstream gangster film. It is entirely about the ethics of the central character (Walker in that film, Porter in this, Stark's Parker), a professional criminal bent on revenge. This professionalism - the heart of the Stark novel, by the way - is rather underscored in Point Blank, yet it is essential. Marvin's Walker is, specifically, a professional THIEF; thus the task of the storyteller is to let him get his revenge without actually killing anybody (since that would take him beyond his profession, into the role of murderer, with all sorts of worries attached to it that Walker doesn't really want).Both Payback's director, Helgeland, and star Gibson have missed this entirely. Instead, they are more interested in seeing the character get his revenge in as violent a manner as possible, and still get away with it at the end. Thus, although Gibson's Porter is more clearly a career criminal, he is just not as professional as Walker (or original Parker).This comes out in an oddly romantic way. In Point Blank, after sleeping with him, Walker's sister-in-law thinks she has found her way into his heart; What's my first name? he demands - a question she can't answer since he never bothered to tell her. This relationship isn't going to last very long.Gibson's Porter, on the other hand, finds in the prostitute Rosie the one good thing in life that hasn't been taken away. So Payback will need to find a way of resolving this new, exciting - and very UNprofessional - relationship by the end of the film (and I won't say how).Does this make Gibson's Porter more human than Marvin's Walker? Oddly, no. One reason we're fascinated with Walker is because he is intentionally keeping his real personality hidden from the world. Gibson's Porter, on the other hand, is an open book - he's out for revenge, and we're along for the ride. The multi-dimensionality of the personality melts into the conventions of the genre. Thus despite his being a cold-blooded killer, Porter is really just another variant on the suicidal Vet-cum-Cop Gibson plays in Leathal Weapon. The flatness of the characters in Payback is to some extent relieved by the excellent performances of the cast, all of which make these stereotypical genre figures seem believable - but it's all Hollywood, in the last analysis.One more comparison between the two films is worthwhile here. Point Blank appears to have been made fairly rapidly, but director Boorman's strategic decisions concerning imagery and editing necessitated a remarkable precision in the making of the film.By contrast, and despite delays, Payback looks hurried and sloppy. For one thing, the soundtrack wants to remind us that all this action is taking place around 1970. But since making this film a period-piece would have required much more expense and effort than is visible on screen, we are left with a film about 1990s gangsters who just never grew up.Well, it sounds like I didn't care for Payback very much, but this is not true. Actually, I think Payback is a lot of fun, and I see it at least once a year; Now that I've seen Point Blank, I don't expect to see it again, because its so downbeat. Point Blank is a better film than Payback, but it's really a different film.But films are not (contrary to Hollywood propaganda) just for fun. They can be that, but they can also be something else.personally, I'm now looking forward to somebody savvy enough to make a version of The Hunter as complex as Point Blank and yet also as much fun as Payback. Now THAT would be a movie. "},{"Title":"Short-changed - 59%","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In preparation for the forthcoming festive period and the vast number of movies I imagine will be recorded, I guess that some hard disc space will need to be freed up. Of course, this means ploughing my way through a large number of movies in a short space of time so I started with this - a dirty and gritty crime film where Mel Gibson started to shed his carefully cultivated 'good guy' image. Seems like a long time ago since he enjoyed such a reputation but the problem I have with this movie is that it's trying too hard to be a neo-noir thriller when all it actually is is a depressing flick where bad people do bad things to worse people.Gibson plays Porter, a professional career criminal with a talent for inflicting pain and a certified mean streak. But when he's betrayed by his old partner Val Resnick (Gregg Henry) and his wife Lynn (Deborah Unger) for the relatively modest sum of $70'000 and left for dead, Porter begins the long road back to recovery and revenge. But once he starts asking questions, Porter quickly finds that getting his money back is a little harder than he first supposed. First of all, he has a couple of crooked cops on his tail (Bill Duke and Jack Conley) plus Val's twisted mistress Pearl (Lucy Liu) and her goons as well. But Porter's biggest problem is that Val is a small cog in a big machine and Porter doesn't have many friends...Essentially a retread of Point Blank (1967), Payback offers viewers a simple story attempting to be a classic film noir - faded palette, lots of cigarette smoke hanging in the air, a vast collection of low-lifes and scumbags and a narration from a world-weary protagonist. I can't call Porter a 'hero' because he's not - he's just as nasty and vicious as the criminals he's going after. Ultimately, I didn't care whether he got his money back or not and this is only part of the problem. The action took a bloody age to arrive and even then, only in fits and starts which left me feeling short-changed as did the film's short duration, despite the dumb-as-hammers plot. Performances are much better than the material deserved but Gibson is the only one to get any significant screen time. Henry probably has the second-most amount of screen time alongside his Ballistic Ecks Vs Sever co-star Liu and trust me, the bullets act better than they did in that.I should have enjoyed this more because it's right up my street and yet, Payback is missing the magic spark. It feels too grimy, gritty and seedy for its own good as if it will compensate for the lack of interest in proceedings. Like a pig rolling around in the proverbial, Payback is resolutely old-school without having any of the drama, appeal or excitement of proper crime thrillers like... hmmm, let me think Point Blank. If you want a simple and short crime flick that's as grim as a cancer patient's chances then this will do the trick. However, if you're looking for a properly noirish thriller then I reckon you're better off looking elsewhere. "},{"Title":"The Nastiest Hero You'd Never Want to Know","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback, like John Boorman's Point Blank from 1967, is based on Donald E. Westlake's novel The Hunter, although I will not attempt a direct comparison of the two films as it is a long time since I last saw Point Blank. Westlake's work has also served as the basis for a number of other crime thrillers, including The Outfit from 1973.The main character is a gangster named Porter; we never learn his Christian name. (The equivalent character was named Walker in Point Blank and Parker in the original novel). The film tells the story of his search for revenge against his ex-wife Lynn and her lover, his former partner Resnick. Porter and Resnick carried out a successful robbery, netting them $140,000, but Resnick and Lynn betrayed Porter in order to cheat him of his share of the proceeds, shooting him in the back and leaving him for dead. To get his revenge, and to reclaim his $70,000 cut, Porter is forced to take on not only Resnick and Lynn but also the Chinese Triads (the victims of the original robbery), the Outfit, a powerful criminal organisation of which Resnick is a member, and two corrupt cops. His only ally is a prostitute named Rosie. The Outfit also featured in the film of that name; the name is probably code for the Mafia, a word which does not actually appear in either film.The film was the directorial debut of Brian Helgeland, previously better-known as a scriptwriter, and is made in the same neo-noir style as his best-known film as a writer, L.A. Confidential. Mel Gibson, who plays Porter, had also made an earlier excursion into neo-noir with Tequila Sunrise. That film was also made by a director, in that case Robert Towne, who had previously been better known as a screenwriter. One of the faults of Tequila Sunrise was that it was too much of a writer's film and not enough of a director's one, being dominated by too much talk and too little action. Helgeland here handles his material much better than Towne did in the earlier film. As a piece of film-making Payback is a grimly efficient piece of work, with a fast-moving storyline, well-handled action sequences and stark, gritty photography of the seedier parts of New York.The main problem is that Payback lacks any sort of heart. The classic films noirs softened the stark good-versus-evil morality of many earlier crime films, bringing a note of moral ambiguity to the crime drama, and this note was repeated in neo-noirs such as L.A. Confidential. Payback does not merely abandon a strict black-and-white notion of morality; it abandons the whole concept of morality altogether. It was advertised under the slogan Get Ready to Root for the Bad Guy, and although Porter is ostensibly the film's hero there is little difference in moral terms between him and his enemies. He sets out to reclaim what he believes is rightfully his, ignoring the fact that because the money is stolen neither he nor Resnick can claim to have any right to it.Gibson is better here than he was in Tequila Sunrise, where he did not bring much menace to his character, Mac McKussic, or suggest his criminal background. Roger Ebert called him the nicest drug dealer you'd ever want to know. Here his Porter is certainly menacing. The trouble is he's the nastiest hero you'd never want to know, prepared to carry out any crime up to kidnapping and murder for the sake of $70,000. The result is that, whereas Payback is a film one can occasionally admire, it is impossible to love or even to like very much. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The top is no longer what it used to be in gangsterland","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Strangely enough it is a gangster film full of faithlessness and hypocrisy, hatred and greed and yet the good guys turn out to be a gangster and a prostitute. A hold up turns too small for one of the two gangsters who wants to get rid of the other and uses this other's girlfriend to do the bad work in his own back. But in this world there is always a comeback and then a payback and the payback is always proportional to the distance to catch up on the comeback journey, and when it is near death that was the starting point of this comeback you can be sure the payback will implicate a lot of money and a lot of metal. And it does and it is not that easy to go to the top of the drug dealing business, and that sure is not easy and there are many hurdles. We wonder why he got down in front of the last one, or is it a way to really trap the boss. But he is also a very creative hit man in his come back and he pays back a lot with the metal, explosive and guns of those he shot down or he wants to bring down. He is flexible, adaptable, opportunistic and his principle is not to hit higher than the top but to hit the top just to get his due and he gets it and he does not have to share in the end. That's what is good in this gangster film. The gangster really gets our hearts in his hands because he is just asking for justice from his fellow gangsters who don't seem to have any sense of justice, nor the few cops he comes across either. New York always looks good under this light with whizzing bullets in the sky.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Crteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"A stylish and entertaining nod to film noir with a charismatic star turn from Gibson...","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" PAYBACK is wonderfully entertaining nod to the film noir drama that puts a great star smack dab in the middle of a great story and he totally runs with it. This dark and delicious film stars Mel Gibson as Porter, a former Mafioso who was left for dead by a former running partner and robbed of his half of a heist ($70,000.00)and Porter's single-minded quest to get his money back, not concerned with what he has to do or who has to kill to get it. The funny thing about the story is that all the people who stand in his way can't believe Porter is going to all this trouble for only $70,000.00...which is chump change where mob money is concerned, but this doesn't concern Porter, who just wants it back, no more, no less. Gibson appears to be thoroughly enjoying himself here, in one of his most off-beat and engaging characterizations. Effective support is provided by Maria Bello, James Coburn, Kris Kristofferson, Gregg Henry, David Paymer, William Devane, John Glover, and a brief but memorable turn from Lucy Lieu. The cinematography is dark and dreary(it almost looks like it's in B&W, but's it not)but it fits the style of the film perfectly. The story is simple and straightforward and will keep you engrossed until the final credits roll...an under-appreciated sleeper that got by a lot of people. "},{"Title":"A Good Watch","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I got caught up in this movie one night just flipping channels and next thing I know, I've watched the whole movie. Mel Gibson plays a thug, Porter, who is out for some payback against a friend who screwed him over in a, lets just say, financial matter. While instant payback would have made for a very short movie, there are some nice twists and turns that make for an entertaining movie. Although a thug and most likely a menace to any society, you start to sympathize with Porter throughout the movie. As deadpan as Porter is, he becomes a somewhat likable thug. By the end of the movie, you're on his side and hoping he can get himself out of some tricky situations. Or could it just be the end of the line for him? "},{"Title":"A very good re-make of Point Blank","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this is a very good remake of Point Blank with Lee Marvin, Angie Dickenson, Lloyd Bochner and Carrol O'Conner. The Lee Marvin version was very good but had a film noir atmosphere to it. Point Blank has recently appeared on DVD and is worth watching. For its day it was a brutal film. The violence in Payback is more graphic but the story is still a solid one. A key element (and a source of humour) is Porter's insistence on retrieving his $75,000 though the mob thinks it is more because the heist was double (Porter doesn't want his partner's share though he was betrayed by him). A previous reviewer said Payback seemed like a film written for the 1970's. Point Blank was made around 1967. "},{"Title":"The short life of crime","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson has been playing the cop in movies for so many years he finally plays the robber. In this movie, Mel plays a stone cold thief named Porter and when his best friend and his drugged up wife stab him in the back to get the friend back into the syndicate....Porter strikes back.I like this movie because it flowed from one extreme to the next, Porter goes after the lower level Resnick before going after left hand man Carter before going after head honcho Bronson. The one liners and an incredible Lucy Liu performance made it watchable from beginning to end.The funniest part was Mr Fairfax played by the uncredited James Coburn. Just watching him act like a peacemaker almost made me forget the fact he was a mob boss' right hand guy. All this over 70 grand?? My suits are worth more than that! Great movie with a great cast and very enjoyable.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Spin off of Lee's 60's caper?","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Upon reading other users' comments, no one seems to have drawn the parallel between Lee Marvin's Point Blank and this film. Different geographical settings, West Coast Walker vs. East Coast Porter, but both Porter/Walker want just their money ($70,000?), nothing more, nothing less. Both Porter/Walker work their way from the bottom lackeys to the top man to exact their revenge. The respective films use different color hues, Point Blank using standard Technicolor hues but Payback is filmed with predominantly blue hues, giving it a colder and grittier New York edge.Donald E. Westlake's nom de plume must be Richard Stark or vice-versa or someone is plagiarizing. Be that as it may, both films are well scripted especially for each leading man, where each uses terse, punctuated lines to deliver his message. Mel Gibson has had a plethora of good roles, but for some reason, I enjoy him in this role better than all the rest.This is one spinoff that matched up fairly close to its predecessor. "}{"Title":"Great movie... let me tell you why.","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this movie has been getting comments about the poor script and such, I think the script and storyline are fantastic.  The best part of the movie is that he (Gibson) doesn't play around with the other characters.  If he wants to kill them, he kills them.  It's as simple as that.  No drawn out sequences where you wonder how the other guy will get a gun and spark a gunfight... no. Just POP and one less bad guy.10/10 ... so refreshing. "},{"Title":"Impressive images, memorable dialogue","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's not an easy film to like - at first. But the package - the bluish images, the noir circumstances and the tough-guy dialogue (which, believe me, will stick with you) - WORKS! And as you watch, you realize there's a (twisted) humour at work too - there are several 3 Stooges moments, intentionally. Watch it again and it gets funnier still. I defy anyone to say, What good are you? ever again without remembering the scene. Altogether a great noir film, easily re-watchable. And Mel... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is a stark and gloomy darkly comic slow-paced action movie. Mel Gibson plays a clever yet stubborn man who gets beaten up troughout the movie by his former corhorts in crime who took the money they stole together. He gets beaten up because he takes things from them that are very valuable and uses them as ransom for his money. I found Payback to be somewhat enjoyable to a degree, but at times, I noticed I was suprisingly bored. The film had a great soundtrack featuring Frank Sinatra. The soundtrack oddly fit in with the movie's dark humor and copius violence commited on the unstoppable Gibson and the fight he put up against them fore a mere amount of money.  "},{"Title":"This movie defines the word, 'Mean'","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like this movie a lot, because it combines everything that you would want in a good movie, great acting, great characters, a good soundtrack, exciting action, cool cinematography and a good story.  Most of all, this film is mean.  Absolutely brutal!  People beat the living crap out of each other, and everyone is out for themselves...well, almost everyone.  The film's lighting is very dark and everyone wears dark clothing, it really creates the right atmosphere throughout.  Mel Gibson plays Porter, a guy who will stop at nothing for his payback...how he gets it and why he's out for revenge I'll let you find out yourself if you haven't seen this one.  I love how you see his determination, his cunning, his ruthlessness and his vulnerability in his eyes.  Mel is such a good actor, and you can tell he really enjoyed this role.  Unrealistic as hell, but incredibly exciting and very cool, I give this one a 9/10.   "},{"Title":"Gritty, intense and tough","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot.  A sharp paced, brutal movie with enough bad attitude to make a tough day better. Strong plot, good action and a likable character in Mel Gibson.  Gibson clearly had a fun time playing the character he did, though at times, he struggled to refrain from slipping into his goofy persona from the Lethal Weapon series. All in all a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"perfect movie","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" from the cool lighting to the rotary dial phones...this movie is a piece of art in which all details big and small have been handled with grace and style.if you like film noir and classics like Diva you will enjoy every minute of this movie "},{"Title":"Excellent, superb...A must see","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have watched it 2 times in a movie theater and few times in home. I just can't get enough. This is my Top 1 movie. It's full extremely funny scenes, which lasts until the movie ends. It shows how tough can one man be. Plot Porter (another excellent acting of Mel Gibson) is a professional thief, who is is betrayed by a friend, who needs his share ($70000), so he could stay on The Outfit and by Porters wife, who found out, that Porter had a lover. So Porter gets a few bullets from his friends but survived. Then he gets some starting money (believe me, the fun is only beginning) and goes after his 70000 dollars. His ex-friend, who took his share is only the beginning... "},{"Title":"gratuitous and vapid","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, let's get something straight.  Mel Gibson is the MAN.  He is this generation's Steve McQueen, as in cool personified.  But this movie is a letdown.  There is more than a little violence.  Heck, there is more than a LOT of violence.  There is so much gruesome mayhem that there is very little room for anything else, like say, oh, a plot.  The movie feels generic, trying hard to be gritty and funny, like a hardcore Get Shorty, but it fails to muster more than an occasional chuckle.  And Gibson's character is flat.  Yeah, he's a bad guy, but that's not the problem.  He's a BORING bad guy.  He's done similar roles in the past, only much better.  It still amazes me that Gibson's best work since Braveheart (in Conspiracy Theory) is for the most part overlooked.   Watch this if you like violence and mayhem and not much else.   "},{"Title":"Carter yes! Porter well ...","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow, Mel 'Porter' Gibson is bad! No too bad, though, that would hurt his image. Instead of playing a mean low-range criminal throughout the film, he mixes parts of his Lethal Weapon persona into it. I could have done without that. Still, the film is fun to watch, though extremely violent at times. (I sound like a parental advisory sticker here.) If you really want to see how mean Gibson can be, go see the first Mad Max (not the other two, though).Here, I found the supporting cast to have more credibility than Porter, notably Deborah Unger as Porter's heroin-addicted wife. Sadly, she only makes it to a third of the picture. And I loved 'Carter', one of the Outfit's bosses, brilliantly played by William Devane. This guy has no illusions on what he does. He takes his business seriously and even shows some esteem for his enemies, while Kris 'Bronson' Kristofferson and James 'Fairfax' Coburn seem more interested in lifestyle issues.  "},{"Title":"An interesting idea, but....","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This action-packed, dark comedy/adventure starts out with a bang and ends with a whimper.  When we are first introduced to Porter (Mel Gibson), we are told in voice over that basically, he's a bad man.  Not only are we told, he shows us exactly how bad he is.  This bit was done brilliantly, however, don't let it mislead you--the rest of the film is not exactly like the beginning. The reason why Porter is so annoyed is because he was double-crossed by a business partner of his a while back and had $70,000 stolen from him. He's back now, and he wants what belongs to him.  A good set up. Everything about the film is still dandy until it falls into typical Mel Gibson, Lethal Weapon conventions with the introduction of Kris Kristopherson's character (though Kris is always a great bad guy).  Even the once brilliant writing at this point turns into complete cheese.  What happened?  Well, for those of you that keep up with the gossip surrounding film productions, you know that the studio and Gibson clashed with the writer/director and ended up reshooting a third of the film.  The reasoning? Gibson and the studio felt that the film was too dark.  Well, congratulations Mel, you've turned what could have been a very original and respectable film into a cliche copy of your Lethal Weapon films. My opinion is, see the original film (yes, this is a remake) _Point Blank_ with Lee Marvin. "}{"Title":"Great stylizing and a welcome campy mix of violence and charm","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback (1999)On the surface this seems like a boilerplate crime movie, and with Mel Gibson giving it his trademark flavor. But it surprised me--it has levity, style, and punch. It's a smart movie. It has some creaks, a couple of moments of excessive violence, some humor that may or may not strike you--in other words, it might not be perfect. But it's really good.There are few films since 1960 that are true film noirs in character, and this one is genuine in terms of style. That alone makes it worth watching. The color throughout is a cool, drained palette. Camera angles are dramatic, there is a voice-over (Gibson) that approaches the classic style, and the core idea of the lone guy against the world is at play. Compared to post-War noirs this one is a selfish, violent binge--it's not trying to be about some soldier returning to a changed country. If anything, the plot is where we go contemporary--borrowing an awful lot from the classic (and also brilliantly filmed) Point Blank, the one with Lee Marvin.There are some other nice surprises here. For one, an Asian s&m hooker is a total campy comic relief (and her badass caricatured comrades in their SUV). Another is the avoidance of mob clichs (the ones cemented by the Godfather movies more than anything)--it plays against them as much as with them. The cars are great, the city is gloomy without rain. It's a kind of dystopian near-past with modern attitudes. Strange stuff that might wear well with the decades.I'm glad I didn't see it in 1999 because it would have probably just seemed thin and full of itself. Now it has the makings of originality and style.But get this--this is the original version of the release, and the director Brian Helgeland went back to the original footage in 2006 to re-work, re-edit, and re-release the same movie. Guess what he took out? All the things I liked here--the cool tonality, the noir sensibility, the humor. I haven't seen the new one so won't compare or judge, but the director felt that the original release (which luckily they can't take away from us) wasn't what he had envisioned. The new one, which is apparently more cruel and violent, is called Payback Straight Up and it might be worth checking out.But I wouldn't hesitate to see this one, straight up. I liked it! "},{"Title":"The film that got style!","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback, has a very simple story - payback. Porter (Mel Gibson) left to die by his wife and crime partner Val Resnick (Gregg Henry) who shot Porter in back and robbed Porter's half from heist money. Porter survived and starting his revenge mission. And mixing it with syndicate that everyone's calling Firm, Yakuza, corrupted cops and old lover, you can get quite a compote. But still it doesn't make the film mess. The story stays simple and this isn't the weakness of this film. Actually it lets you to enjoy the visual style of this film. Greay tones everywhere that makes you feel that the whole city is dump hole filtered with criminals.Payback is a bit underrated first film from talented director Brian Helgeland. It's real old-school style gangster film with real tough guys.P.S. You might find the directors cut more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Don't steal money from a guy named Porter","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Porter, shot for dead and his 70 grand taken from him, goes up against an entire crime syndicate in order to retrieve what's rightfully his.An awesome retrospective noir crime film that's violent as hell but hugely entertaining. Porter's character is essentially a bad guy and probably worse than some of the people he dispatches of but nevertheless you root for him and take great enjoyment in watching him at work. Mel Gibson fits the role perfectly and never does the story try to give him more of a sympathetic plight although it's established that he has some human tendencies. He's simply bent on revenge and everything that comes between him and his money is fair game.The soft/dim look of the film richly sets the tone and the music is great, together creating a retro look that harks back to the old noirs of the day. The level of excessive violence and Porter's lack of compassion set the film further apart from the usual revenge scenarios found in most crime films today.The script does take a few convenient turns, making Payback not all that believable in parts, but honestly, I can't say that a few implausibilities here and there deter from the overall enjoyment.Supporting cast is right on the money, with old vets like Kris Kristoffersen, William Devane and James Coburn turning in terrific performances. Maria Bello makes for a very likable love interest and Gregg Henry finds new lows for one of Porter's main villains.I can't wait for the revised Director's Cut. Advanced word says it's even better and it's an entirely different cut of the film. Rumour has it that Payback suffered multiple studio tinkering, but at least this time it didn't result in a bad film. Quite the contrary, Payback is a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Revenge is sweet","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After being betrayed, shot and left for dead by his best friend and his wife, Porter (Mel Gibson) survives and is out for revenge.He puts his life back on the line and will stop at nothing to get back at those responsible, and he ends up fighting a little more than he bargained for. Caught between crooked cops, A Chinese Gang and the syndicate (Mob if you like) Porter has to battle against the odds, and get back, what's rightfully his. $70,000 that's all he wants.Action Packed, with some very strong violence, this movie delivers, humour, thrills and suspense.However nasty Gibson's character is, by the end you'll be routing for him, I Guarantee it.8/10 "},{"Title":"a big mess","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Repellent story about a tough, despicable lowlife (Gibson) who's robbed of his loot and left for dead. He's determined to get it back by any means necessary, and goes on a violent mission encountering brutal thugs, scheming henchmen, and corrupt cops along the way. A seemingly clever idea&#x97;seeing as the film requires you to root for a bad guy&#x97;but the film is loud, ugly, senselessly violent, and only gets worse as it goes along. Gibson is in good form, but he's stuck in a bleak world filled with ugly, off-putting characters, graphic violence, and an overall air of unpleasantness. Like Pulp Fiction, but without any brains. * "},{"Title":"Want to establish order in your own town? Don't miss this movie!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, Mel Gibson is an excellent actor and one of my favorite actors, but he should choose the roles of 'bad guys' more carefully. I'm used to his movies' slogans'one against all' and 'think and shoot'. Now it's 'one against all that comes or sits' and 'shoot and shoot once more'.The movie is blase of needless violence and violent people. The amazing Brave Heart with the same Mel Gibson recounts about 13th century events but it seems after watching 'Payback' that people in the 13th age were more humane than now.Gibson does his best but I don't think that even he can save this movie. The plot is trite and looks like the retelling of old mob movies of the 30th-50th years. As for gangsters they seem the foolish parodies on themselves. In some episodes you start expecting to hear from them'Dude, where's my car ?' and so on.That's why I gave '4' vote. "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled by the this movie is one step from art reviews...","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen enough films in my life to know noir, and to paraphrase Lloyd BentsenI know film noir. Film noir is a friend of mine. This film is no film noir.It's an exercise in turning all the footage some shade of blue in order to put on an affectation of being film noir. It's an attempt by having all bad characters (plus the hooker with a heart of gold) to affect to being film noir. By the end of the film it is beginning to plod heavily and tread plenty of well worn ground with the hero/anti-hero as unstoppable avenger.Please, for your own sake, skip it. "},{"Title":"The WORST Mel Gibson movie I've ever seen!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must be missing something. This movie got good reviews here, but I barely made it through this depressing piece of trash. I didn't like any of the characters (except maybe the dog that got shot). Pow, there goes William Devane, Boom, there goes Kris Kristofferson. And smashing a person's toes one by one? Now THAT'S entertainment.   And what's with the blue tint to everything? The whole move seemed washed out and grey. I would have rather sat through Lethal Weapon 4 than watch this piece of garbage! "},{"Title":"A mad-slasher filmed tricked out as a tough gangster movie.","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In slasher films, a nameless killer wearing a mask uses an improbable series of coincidences to kill victims with increasingly cruel and sadistic methods. The difference between slasher flicks and Payback is (1) the killer has a name, (2) the killer doesn't wear a mask, (3) the killer dispatches hoods instead of sexy teenagers. That's it. Deadly dull unless you're entertained by cruelty and theatrical blood. Avoid this alleged enterta "},{"Title":"Been down this road before...","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is a mess. I really thought I was gonna like this film, it's not everyday Mel Gibson goes against type in a film. I didn't want to root for the bad guy, as a matter of fact, I didn't want to root for anybody. All the characters in this film are one-dimensional. Helgeland tries to make them interesting but fails. The best line in the film is uttered by James Coburn in a confrontation between him and Gibson. I read in many magazines that Gibson didn't like the final cut that Helgeland showed him and that Gibson himself went back and made some changes. I don't think there was enough here to go back and save, Gibson gave it a shot. The film has style, the voice over narration is silly with a bunch of bad lines spoken by Gibson's character. I've been down this road too many times before and I've enjoyed the ride alot more on other films. "}{"Title":"Attempt at modern-day noir is stilted by self-consciousness","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Essentially this is a fifties-style noir film ala The Killing or Criss Cross in which viewers are expected to identify with the tough-but-good-hearted criminal with his own moral code. Mel Gibson is good in his role, and the voice-over narration adds a touch of nostalgia to a film that seems to skirt on the edge of several decades, located in Anymetropolis, USA. But, in attempting to out-cynical the (already very cynical) models upon which it is based, the movie becomes spoofish and self-conscious, falling short of the mark and making it impossible to really root for the bad guy. Ironically, this film also fails by pasting a happy-ending on to a genre that traditionally ends with the hero dead or in jail, usually after being betrayed by the love interest (Mel gets the girl, of course). This is especially silly after making so much effort at being a nastier-than-nasty movie, hard-edged and tough for the 90's. This film is entertaining and well-made, it simply fails to deliver what it promises. In short, don't go in expecting too much.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant on Its Own","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd go further than the rest of the posts and say two things This is a brilliant story, full stop; and it may be one of the cinema's precursors to another brilliant new bit of thug caper genre, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. This film stands on its own against Point Blank, a delightful film in its own right. You do not need to know any of the previous film references to make this story work and it stands up just fine on its own, thank you very much.Others have commented on Gibson's portrayal versus Marvin's, but consider the context in which each film was made Without taking anything away from Marvin's performance I would argue that Gibson delivers the goods in just as satisfying a manner. Gibson's portrait is more of a twenty-first century graphic novel's character approach to justice than Marvin's 1967 nod to cool spy culture and a bad-ass anti-hero's approach to injustice.The author/director clearly worked this story until it was a lean, mean fighting machine, ruthlessly taking out what didn't serve the story so that the overall effect is amazing pacing and audience satisfaction by turns of curiosity and empathy with this anti-hero. You cannot make this stuff up from brilliant inspiration, only very hard work can make a story this simple and elegant hang together with such artful complexity.I admit I am a fan of Gibson's work, but not all of his oeuvre is worth watching. This one definitely is, no matter what you think about his personal biases, love life, etc.And although this film is not outwardly credited (as far as I can tell) with having inspired Guy Richie, you can clearly see that this film and Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels are part and parcel of a similar vision of late nineties' heroism, combined with very clever cinematography, excellent direction and muscular storytelling. "},{"Title":"Anti-Heroism","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those terrific movies that offers refreshing defiance of the film morality that has pervaded mainstream film-making since forever. And I must confess it's nice to see crime pay every so often.Mel Gibson plays Porter, (another screen incarnation of Richard Stark's Parker), a professional heister whose wife and best friend have connived to double cross and leave him for dead. After managing to survive, Porter starts a single-minded pursuit of the 70K (out of which he got gypped) and a little revenge along the way. As Porter shoots and hacks his way to claim what's rightfully his, director Brian Helgeland seems to be doing the same to a lot of the banal paradigms set up by lots of the crime films, (with the exception of a brief interlude during the late 60's and 70's), that have come before it. After all, just once wouldn't it have been great to see Cagney treading over the corpses of his enemies, a satchel of dough in one fist, a rod in the other and a healthy looking broad waiting for him behind the wheel of a getaway car? Helgeland hedges his bets a bit with a little cartoonishness, but mostly it's played pretty straight with a smattering of sardonic fun. Mel Gibson at his best (when he's not taking himself too seriously), serious talent in the supporting cast, smart directing and crackling dialogue makes Payback a solid yarn. "},{"Title":"Too contrived to recommend...","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's easy to root for Mel Gibson, even as a supposed villain, but the movie is too contrived to recommend.  The assortment of colorful characters helps, but I couldn't get over the feeling that this movie was playing connect the dots...and that torture scene towards the end was tough to sit through. Ouch! "},{"Title":"Below average action movie","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Below average action movie with below average production and average directing.The cast however was very good though but they all were sleep walking through this.I'ts a wannabee PULP FICTION anti-hero movie that failes due to bad screenplay/script/action choreography.Only for big action-B movie fans and big fans of the lead actors.....  "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I watched this movie because the trailer was attractive, but ,finally, it wasn't anything special. It was a common adventure in which Mel Gibson is trying to get his money back from his friend who tricked him. The funny thing in this movie is that there aren't bad and good guys, there are bad and worse guys. It has some good scenes but it lacks a solid plot. If you don't have to do anything better...go rent the movie from a local video club. I put 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Even Mel Gibson can't save this movie","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I understand Mel Gibson (in his producer capacity) went back and reshot some scenes from this film.  He should have reshot the whole thing.  The voiceover is annoying and unnecessary, the love story doesn't work, but worst of all Gibson's Porter character comes off looking like an idiot.  And I don't root for idiots (Forrest Gump included).  This movie could have been good.  Revenge is a great motivator, yet Gibson doesn;t capitalize. Instead, he overplays the narrowmindedness of Porter and fails to make the audience cheer for his bragadicio. "},{"Title":"Could have been better...","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected more humor than what the movie actually had.  Mel Gibson did a great job, as usual, of playing somebody who's not completely there. Although, in the end, the film was very predictable.  The most redeeming quality was seeing Maria Bello. "},{"Title":"pornography disguised as a crime comedy","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who has doubts about seeing the Passion of Christ should preview this movie first.  That will give you insight into the kind of thinking that produces such gratuitous violence, torture and pain on the big screen.A disgusting movie.  It's redeeming social value is it does give you a clear eyed look at Mel Gibson's proclivity for hate, revenge and blood. Not convinced?  Look at how he turned The Patriot into basically a revenge movie.   We would not recommend this movie to anyone, except for the reasons mentioned above.  Braveheart was a bit different.  The setting, history and story came a bit closer to justifying the violence in that picture. "},{"Title":"Too violent (coming from a Tarantino fan)","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found that the movie was too violent and was appalled at the amount of violence directed at women. The story line was weak, as if the action of the movie were to compensate for lack of a decent plot.  As I said earlier, I am not some anti-violence fanatic, but if this is what's to come, I'll rather stay at home.  "}{"Title":"Gibson's getting worse and worse by each movie.","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Definetly not worth watching.  Acting is dreadfully bad and the storyline is the worst in years and the directing is all for the money.  Can a man get any dumber than Gibson?  He does the worst movies.  There is no acting.  Just trying to get more money.  If you feel as if you have to see the movie, don't.  I'm gonna say it only once and don't watch it.   "},{"Title":"This is bad","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps you have to be a real Mel Gibson fan to watch this, but thank goodness I did not pay money to watch it in a movie house. As it was, I waited through the first 30 minutes for something to happen, then the next 30 for something to happen and nothing did. As a result, I hit the old rewind button and yanked it out of the VCR. All of the reviewers talk about action and excitement. Must be in the last half, because it sure isn't in the first half. "},{"Title":"Entertaining.","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the previews for Payback, I thought it looked pretty good.  I just never got around to seeing it in the theater.  Now, many months later, I finally get around to watching it at home.  I must say, it was pretty entertaining.  Mel Gibson was good as a not to nice guy.  He steals, he shoots, and he beats up people.  But who can blame him?  He gets shot and cut out of his cut of money that was owed to him.  Throughout the rest of the movie, Mel has to dodge crooked cops, Chinese gangs, and mobsters to get back the 70, 000 that's rightfully his.  Like the tag line says, you start liking Mel's character and you want to see him succeed in his quest.  I especially liked the scene between him and James Coburn.  Of course, at the end, Mel's character does seem on the path to redemption.  He got his 70 grand and he got out alive.  "},{"Title":"Even worse than I expected it.","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the Payback last Friday...I didn't expect that it's very good but I expected a solid, fast and funny movie. I thought Mel Gibson can't make a complete s**t movie (even though he already proofed that he IS able to...for example Forever Young) because he still has lots of credits for Braveheart from me. So I went to see it with a friend and in the break (we have that here in Europe I don't know if you have it too in the States) we went home and I don't do that very often (did it about twice till now).So, the story is slow, boring and there's nothing new in it. Mel Gibson acts as usual puppy-face and hard guy. One of the most boring movies I've ever seen.Don't go to see it. It's not worth tho money and the time.Sorry for my English, probably not perfect, I hope you got it anyway.  "},{"Title":"Awful waste of celluloid","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, I didn't think I would come across a film worse than `Ronin', `Rounders', and `Snake Eyes' combined, but I did. `Payback', starring Mel Gibson is about the worst film I  have laid my senses on.Bad does not even begin to describe this mish-mash of blood, guts, crappy language, perverted sex and stupidity.  In fact, this film is SO bad, that I am not going to waste my time, or your's dear reader, with my usual overview of a film.DON'T GO. This film deserves to lose money and die a quick death at the box office. "},{"Title":"character build","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i like this movie mostly for one reason. that reason is because of the way it turns on it's head the normal way in which a character is made into a badass. generally speaking i've noticed in movies that a character can be built up as a badass in a number of ways. most of these include either not showing the character at all (The Usual Suspects, Boba Fett, Hannibal in Silence of The Lambs) or showing them in light that doesn't particularly lend itself to inspiring badass-ness (Clint eastwood in Unforgiven) or minimizing the character's screen bad ass time (Darth Vader, terminator 1,) meanwhile other characters in the periphery will expound on the alleged badness of the character... this is a great strategy for making a character quite memorable. anthony perkin's psycho is still considered a bad dude because so little is known about him until the end. and this technique of leaving it up to the viewer's imagination works well for other things too, such as implied violence, in reservoir dogs, and implied intelligence (any morgan freeman character)but here in Payback mel Gibson just does exactly the opposite, the movie acts as a kind of two hour buildup of the his character's factor of badass-ness, with little plot, or development, or nuance along the way. meanwhile instead of verbally building himself up on screen ala Keyser Soze, the character instead undercuts his character's bad ass-ness by slyly poking fun at himself, and allowing a bit of abuse to come his way. By the end of the film the Mel Gibson has established a classic movie badass.it works!8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Payback is much less thrilling than it should be","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For most of his career, Melt Gibson has taken flight with mainly dramatic roles and has gone on to stir up a few Oscar nominated roles but at the same time made a name for himself as an action hero beginning in the late 70s starring in the titular role in 'Mad Max'. Following the sequels, Gibson made a highly praised debut in 'Lethal Weapon' franchise starring opposite Danny Glover. Fresh out of his wonder years as the gun-totting L.A police detective, Gibson makes once again another appearance as a trigger happy protagonist in this revenge thriller directed by Brian Helgeland. Gibson plays Porter, a merciless, bad-to- the-bone thief who makes no way to make a living than to rob and pick-pocket innocent neighbors of their money and worse of all, the criminals in his neighborhood that surround are certainly no better. After a half-successful robbery from an Asian street gang known as The Outfit, Porter is betrayed by his partner Val Resnick (played by Gregg Henry) and wife Lynn Porter (played by Deborah Kara Unger) who shoot in cold blood and leave him for dead. However, when Porter miraculously survives he seeks assistance from his ex- lover and former partner Rosie (played by Maria Bello) to deliver vengeance and claim back his money while making his way through a world of vicious drug dealers, prostitutes, and corrupt law officials. Mel Gibson has sported many clever and memorable during his year, arguably his most memorable in 'Lethal Weapon' series or as the British warrior in war epic 'Braveheart'. His role as the protagonist in this film is certainly not as memorable and definitely not as appealing as many of the heroic characters he's known for. While he gives a performance that allows him to suit well in this role, he doesn't quite bring the same sort of charisma he had in his role in Lethal Weapon. Fortunately, he still manages to entertain during gunfight sequences. Watching Gibson mow down the bad guys in a bloody, bullet-blazing frenzy is fun to watch, at least for a little while. But the rest of the time, the film is a bit tedious. From the opening scene, the plot starts off with a promise and progresses into something bigger, and it works at least the first hour. But towards the final stretch, the story falls a bit clumsy and becomes less engaging. On the bright side, the supporting cast does manage to spit out some entertaining performances along the way packing in some dark humor that works at least part of the time, particularly Gregg Henry as Mel Gibson's partner with a hidden agenda on his hands. His performance isn't quite strong, but it holds up. One of the biggest surprises comes Lucy Liu who plays a prostitute of the Asian street gang, quite a questionable role for her.Payback is not your average Mel Gibson actioner and probably sits the lower ladder of Gibson's filmopgraphy. Nonetheless, it is still entertaining on some level and has its moments of spectacle in the midst of its subpar script and plot. This revenge flick is one that will please some but definitely not all, particularly those who go in expecting something on the level of Lethal Weapon. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson's performance is really the only noteworthy thing here.","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think if it wasn't for Mel Gibson's performance I might've not watched the whole thing. It just confused me at times, and failed to entertain me for most of the film. The one thing I was anticipating was Porter (Mel Gibson) to get his revenge on Val Resnick (Gregg Henry) and I got that, but it happened halfway through the movie which came completely unexpected for me and was kind of a disappointment. I thought he was going to be the film's main antagonist for Porter, but before Val Resnick is killed by Porter were introduced to a higher-up in The Outfit that Resnick owed money to.So now I'm to assume he is going to be Porter's main antagonist, but when Porter confronts him about getting his $70,000 he informs Porter that he can't give him the money, but only his boss can. So now were introduced to Bronson (Kris Kristofferson) Porter's primary antagonist now, and by far the most compelling. Sadly, he's not given much to do before he is blown up in the apartment where the phone was rigged with a bomb from earlier in the movie. I think I was mostly able to piece this movie together after I finished it, but when I did I really didn't care. "},{"Title":"A Very Worthwhile Remake of Point Blank (1967)","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's natural to have low expectations when watching a remake of a top class movie but in this update of John Boorman's Point Blank (1967), sufficient changes have been made to give Payback its own distinctive style whilst still retaining the toughness and coldness of the original. Right from the start, its washed-out colour palette effectively evokes the classic film noir look and the addition of a world-weary narration also contributes to the rather ominous atmosphere of the piece.Predictably, for a revenge thriller, there's plenty of action, violence and explosions and a whole gallery of colourful characters that include gangsters, prostitutes and crooked cops. The dialogue is also brilliant throughout and ranges from a typically hardboiled voice-over to some darkly humorous one-liners.Following a heist in which some Chinese gangsters were relieved of $140,000, Porter (Mel Gibson) is betrayed by his two accomplices when his wife Lynn (Deborah Kara Unger) shoots him in the back, leaves him for dead and takes off with his partner Val Resnick (Gregg Henry) and all the loot. After having bullets removed from his back by a whisky-drinking doctor and taking five months to recuperate, Porter sets out for revenge and to recover his cut from the heist which amounts to $70,000. His mission is complicated however, because soon after he traces his drug-addicted wife, she dies from a heroin overdose and then he learns that Resnick is unable to pay up because he'd needed $130,000 to repay a debt he owed to a crime syndicate known as the outfit.With the help of Rosie (Maria Bello), an outfit-connected call girl for whom he used to act as a driver and bodyguard, Porter then pursues the repayment of his money with incredible determination and despite being beaten up and tortured at different stages, remains totally single-minded as he confronts a whole series of the outfit's mobsters. Inevitably, his endeavours eventually bring him into a confrontation with the outfit's top man who's the only one who actually has the authority to repay him but, of course, has no intention of doing so, especially after Porter kidnaps his son.Porter, who's only known by his surname throughout the whole movie, is introduced as a despicable anti-hero who steals money from a street beggar, picks the pocket of a random man in the street and steals cigarettes from a woman who works in a diner. He's regarded as insane by all the mobsters who think that the risks he takes in pursuit of a mere $70,000 are absurd. He obviously sees things differently though because, in his mind, what he's doing involves a matter of principle and this provides the movie with a running joke as, at various times, members of the outfit talk about making higher payments only for Porter to reiterate that the sum he's pursuing is just the $70,000.Mel Gibson is well-suited to his role as he's convincingly tough and violent but also adds a certain tongue-in-cheek quality which distinguishes his performance from that of Lee Marvin's in Point Blank. The rest of the cast is also very good with Kris Kristofferson, James Coburn and William Devane all standing out and Lucy Lui absolutely sensational as a highly-enthusiastic, leather-clad dominatrix whose sudden outbursts of violence are both physically impressive and comical at the same time.Payback is visually strong, nicely paced and features some well-executed action sequences. It's thoroughly entertaining from start to finish and despite not reaching the standards set in John Boorman's original, is enjoyable, full of atmosphere and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"didn't really root for the Bad Guy","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Porter (Mel Gibson) is a bad, bad man and he's looking for revenge on all those who backstabbed him. First he finds his druggie wife (Deborah Kara Unger). In flashbacks, he, his wife and Val Resnick (Gregg Henry) steal money from an Asian gang but his wife shoots him in the back. Val had shown her a picture of Porter with Rosie (Maria Bello). Now Porter is looking to collect his $70k share of the take from Val. Val had used the money to get back into the good graces of the underworld syndicate.The tagline is Get Ready to Root for the Bad Guy but I never did. It's dour and dark. It may need more action violence because it doesn't have the realism to be taken seriously. Lucy Liu has a nice role before she got big and this is also early Maria Bello. It has some dark humor but it needs to be funnier. It's an interesting attempt at a dark anti-hero but I can't completely buy it. "}{"Title":"My favourite Mel Gibson film","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback, my favourite Mel Gibson film, is ol' Mel at his down and dirtiest, in a lovely lowbrow, hard boiled neo noir that kicks you in the nuts and laughs in your face. Gibson plays Porter, a nasty, violent criminal who's betrayed by his strung out whore bag wife (Deborah Kara Unger), and volatile nutbar of a partner (Gregg Henry, coked up and starting fights with anything that has a pulse), following a heist. They shoot him up real good, and take his share of the payout. This pisses Porter off well and good. After recovering, he climbs his way up the corporate ladder of crime, one bullet, punch, kick and slice at a time, to get his 24,000$ bucks. He's not looking for a million, or to take over anyone's organization, just his cut, which becomes a running joke, and a nice character nuance for Gibson to play on. He's a scrappy mess as the ultimate spit on antihero, and it's a blast to watch him maul anyone in his path in a reckless spree of delightful wanton violence to get what's his. Gibsons is at his best when he's playing bad, and here's he's the worst apple of the bunch, a burnt out scumbag on a one way road to self destruction, but thanks to his skills and natural charm, we just can't help but root for the guy. Kris Kristofferson icily plays a crime syndicate honcho, Maria Bello is the hooker with a heart of gold, James Coburn provides comic relief as a hysterical mob boss (Thats just mean, man!!), Bill Duke and Jack Conley leave a trail of slime as corrupt cops, and there's great stuff from William Devane, David Paymer, and a startingly young Lucy Liu as an enthusiastic Triad S&M hooker. It's a happily nihilistic, slash and burn ode to noir, with a snappy, black comedy screenplay and every actor willing to take a bite. "},{"Title":"A Good Ride","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by this film. I wasn't expecting much but the story was good and the acting was very good. Gibson's character was interesting, brash, opinionated, and violent - a good combination, haha. Everyone likes the underdog who just bulls his way around and gets away with it. The cast was very good, they worked well with each other. I just loved seeing James Coburn and Kris Kristofferson again on the screen. One surprise was Lucy Liu - I didn't even realize it was really her until her second scene - I have never seen her in a part like that and she was actually pretty funny.Rated 8/10 for good action and the right amount of violence. "},{"Title":"Dark, entertaining Mel Gibsony, late ninetiesy revenge-flick","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't help it, I really like Mel Gibson. He might be an asshole (or maybe just have some anger issues), but damn it, he has a screen presence that I enjoy.Mel Gibsons character in Payback doesn't beat around the bush. He gets stuff done, he doesn't just talk-talk-talk, he acts. Violently. That's kind of refreshing. Payback is pretty brutal at times, but doesn't make a huge point out of it, either.Another thing with Payback, is the acting. I enjoy the acting of several of the characters here. Greg Henry stands out, especially in some scenes. He is just so believable, at the same time sort of a caricature. I like that. Seems like Brian Helgeland knows what he wants from his actors.There's some stuff about the plot here that might be hard to swallow for some people, some coincidences you kind of have to suspend your disbelief to accept, but I usually don't care much about stuff like that. There is a lot of smoking in this movie, and that's good to see! I miss the days where pretty much every protagonist and antagonist smoked their ass off in almost every scene. Haha. Interestingly, even with the brutality of this movie, it also has quite a lot of humor mixed in. Some of it I don't know if was meant to be humor, but I found it to be a nice touch anyhow. A couple of humorous things are just plain weird, too. Anyhow, Payback is an entertaining, rather dark revenge-flick. I likey. "},{"Title":"Mel being Mel.","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson is at the top of his form playing a nasty, sociopathic, violent, but exceptionally witty career criminal. Disturbingly, I am pretty certain that this role isn't much of a stretch for him, which is why he so easily wears it like a second skin. You know how you always think of the perfect thing to say ten minutes too late, well, in this flick Mel never misses a beat, and it's quite entertaining. The violence is pretty much non-stop from beginning to end, but it is non-stop with very high production values and mostly not excessively graphic, much of it actually played for sick humor. There's a complete lack of characters with any redeeming traits at all in this movie. There is not one single person that you would like to have anything to do with in real life. It is just degrees from really, really bad to completely, utterly horrible, which is why you wind up rooting for Mel--he's just the best looking and least reprehensible out of a despicable line-up. With all that said, this film grabs your attention at the beginning and never lets go. The script is particularly clever, and there are no bad performances (although, obviously, Kris Kristofferson's serious acting career is more expired than year-old warm milk). Therefore, I must do two things. First, I have to give this film full marks, because it perfectly accomplished everything it set out to do. Second, I have to take a shower, because I feel kind of dirty. "},{"Title":"Payback With a Negative Review.","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback (1999) Dir Brian Helgeland / Cast Mel Gibson, Greg Henry, Maria Bello, Deborah Kara Unger, Lucy Liu Revenge action thriller regarding a $70, 000 payoff. Unfortunately the film chooses to shock viewers with brutality as oppose to suspense. Mel Gibson plays Porter, a successful street hustler who is double-crossed and shot repeatedly by his wife and partner. Once out of jail he searches for the cash his partner stole from him. His wife overdoses on drugs so he seeks out a past girlfriend. Many violent encounters follow, which deflate any message intended. Directed by Brian Helgeland who tries to make the film clever but unfortunately the screenplay goes for the expected violent solution. Gibson holds strong as someone wronged and intends to even the odds. Unfortunately he does so through applauded revenge. Greg Henry as his former partner never rises above conventions and basically becomes a target. Maria Bello as a past girlfriend serves only as a love interest. Deborah Kara Unger is the only supporting role of any interest. She is very good as his wife who betrayed him and has reduced herself to drug addiction before it catches up to her. Lucy Liu does her best to appeal a comic appearance as a dominatrix beating up Henry but the role is a distraction. The film is a failure that surrenders to violence that seems to be the only way it can payoff. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Numbs the mind","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dumb beyond belief. The characters and dialogue are so simple-minded that it's insulting. Add to that a plot that's so unfeasible, action sequences so impossible, and a preening Mel Gibson, and you have.....well, another Mel Gibson movie.I'm obviously not a Gibson fan. I find that his movies (at least since he's become a star and has more choice and control) to be intellectually void, until I'm forced to wonder if the man himself is just not particularly bright, and maybe that's why every movie of his ends up a dull-witted exercise that never exceeds a sixth-grade level of maturity. I understand that he's a Three Stooges fan and that's just about the height of the mental bar in a Gibson film (and, yes, I'm including The Passion of the Christ, which I thought was a joke). Sorry, I just can't stand the man. One positive note, or actually two, are the female leads, the beautiful Deborah Kara Unger and Maria Bello. Not only are they a comfort for the eyes but both give performances that belong in a film more worthy. "},{"Title":"Payback is an exciting thriller.","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just another Mel Gibson thriller, but it is still exciting to watch. And Payback is now available on NetFlix Instant Download Streaming. The director is Brian Helgeland. The writer of the novel is Donald E. Westlake, and the writer of the screenplay is Brian Helgeland. The actors include Mel Gibson, Gregg Henry, Maria Bello, David Paymer, Bill Duke, Deborah Kara Unger, John Glover, William Devane, Lucy Liu, Jack Conley, Kris Kristofferson, Mark Alfa, Kwame Amoaku, Justin Ashforth, Len Bajenski, Kate Buddeke, Price Carson, Roddy Chiong, Art Cohan, Andrew Cooper, James Deuter, Doc Duhame, David Dunard, Nathan Effron, Tom Equin and Brian Heinberg. The story of a bank robber and his encounters with the law as well a gangland. There are many twists and turns and there is also much comic relief. I gave it 8 stars. Dale Haufrect "},{"Title":"Director's Cut - like Banchee","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From what I have heard the general release cut some of the best stuff (as being to violent towards a woman (she deserved it), and added a third act and narrator, that it did not need. The director was forces out, in a way, because he did not cave in. I am glad to see his original work. It was excellent. And I am a women. This sight lol sight is telling me I have not written enough lines which is ironic, because the Director's cut was though to be to short. What else can I say? There was a lot of smoking which is always fun. Yes, I just added in the tile that Banchee owes a lot to this cut, as does Cable TV in general. When the studios released this, Cable TV had not made the great influence that we have now. And FX of course. "},{"Title":"Now HERE'S an anti-hero you can cheer for","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Under normal circumstances, you would have a hard time respecting, never mind caring about a thug who steals, kidnaps and murders anyone that gets in his way to get his fair share of a robbery but in Payback you will more than care about the anti-hero, you'll cheer him on. The story begins with a man named Porter (Mel Gibson). He's been double-crossed and left for dead. He was supposed to get $70,000 from a buddy of his after the two of them pulled off a daring robbery but his cash was taken from him and now, he wants it back. Trouble is that the man he's after, Val Rescnick (Gregg Henry) has been busy while he was recuperating. Now to get his money, which has been completely spent, he's going to have to go higher up than his former friend, he's going to have to tear down one mob higher-up after another. As you can imagine, the Mafiosos do not take kindly to his request.What works with the film is that while the story isn't necessarily all that revolutionary, there are some good twists throughout and the characters are memorable. I mean it in a good way when I say that the characters here are very broad and cartoonish, because every single character is that way. Porter is stubborn to the point of being psychotic. He insists on getting his money, no matter the cost. Personal loss? Injury? Who cares. It's all about getting his $70,000. No more, no less because that's what he is owed. It's the natural order of things for people to get what's coming to them, so if anyone gets in his way, then what they had coming to them was a bullet to the head. What I liked with our protagonist was that the movie doesn't wimp out and make him a thief that plays nice with children or has a soft spot and refuses to hit women or anything like that. The character is a real dirt bag. He's not above stealing from criminals or innocent people as long as it means getting closer to his goal. This is where the movie gets good because there are a ton of obstacles in Porter's way and each detour or change of plans brings in a new character that's a ton of fun to follow. Most of the guys we see Porter go up against are even more despicable than he is so you cheer for him when he blows them away or finds a way to get them out of his hair.In terms of secondary characters we've Porter's former partner Val. You don't like him because he's a fool and everyone around him knows it. Betraying your best friend to pay back a mob debt, just so you could get yourself into an even bigger mess? Not cool. Next we have some amateur gangsters that figure because everybody else is going after Porter, they're going to sneak in and nab 'em to make a good impression. David Paymer plays Arthur Stegman, a bottom-feeder who you enjoy seeing because you know he's in way over his head and eventually, he's going to realize it too... the hard way. Next are two corrupt cops, one of the biggest thorns in Porter's side. Their interactions with our hero prove that he is able to think quickly on his feet and these guys are so slimy they're a joy to watch. Finally we've got two fun female characters as well. A call girl named Rosie (Maria Bello) who proves to be one of the few allies Porter can find in this crazy story (but even then, can she really be trusted?) and we've got Lucy Liu as Pearl, a dominatrix that ends up getting the hots for our protagonist. The film is often very funny because everyone is so outlandish and you can never predict what kind of new and colorful thug is going to show up next to ruin Porter's day.Part of the fun of seeing Payback is getting this glimpse at a most seedy underground, but a lot of it is simply seeing a guy so determined to get what's his that he is willing to do anything. There are a lot of moments of tension as your mind races, wondering how our hero is going to get himself out of a jam and you even sweat for some of the bag guys, who are too taken aback by Porter's black-and-white view of the. My understanding is that the VHS version of the film is significantly different from the one that is available on Blu-ray and DVD but that just makes me excited to watch this film again and compare the two. If you happen to find this one at a garage sale or you have an old dusty box of tapes in your attic, dig it out and give it a shot. Once in a while you want a hero that isn't squeaky clean. A guy that it turns out, did commit the murder he was thrown in jail for, but is the best man for the job so you're forced to go along with his adventures. When that's what you want, check out Payback because it delivers. (Original Theatrical version on VHS, May 21, 2014) "},{"Title":"Gibson at the top of his game","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After being reminded how good an actor Mel Gibson is in Expendables 3, I have decided to revisit some of his earlier work. I started with 1999's Payback. And I chose to watch the theatrical release, rather than the directors cut.When Porter (Mel Gibson) is doubled crossed and left for dead by his wife Rosie (Deborah Kara Unger) and partner in crime Val (Gregg Henry) he does not take it to well, and is after revenge.It opens like a Clint Eastwood cop movie of the late 70's or early 80's, as red credits appear to a jazz score as we see a view of the City from a helicopter. Mel Gibson was riding high at the Box Office in 1999, Lethal Weapon 4 and Conspiracy Theory both opened at No 1, and made over $100 million World Wide, while Ransom was the 5th highest-grossing film of 1996 in the United States, and he picked up the Oscar for Best Director and Best Movie for 1995's Braveheart. Henry is well cast as the sleazy, slimy, bully Val, David Paymer, Bill Duke, James Coburn and Kris Kristopherson all have good supporting roles, but it is Lucy Lui (appearing as Lucy Alexis Liu) that steals the movie as the violent dominatrix Pearl. Then there is Mel Gibson, he is the star and simply the core of the movie. The movie simply would not work with a lesser actor as the anti hero Porter. He would only act for a few more years as the lead in movies after this one, before a seven year beak between 2003-2010. One can't help but wonder what other wonderful films we may have missed out on. Gibson is truly a great actor, and hopefully he can sort his personal problems and demons out, because as we all know Hollywood loves comebacks.A solid movie with Gibson bringing his A game. "}{"Title":"Dull Cartoonish Gratuitous Violence---Avoid","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Slow, tedious, clichd, not believable, not engaging, and not interesting. Doesn't that about cover a bad movie? This movie is so bad its hard to know where to start.As it opens for about the first 10 minutes you have hope for this thing the cinematography is great...but about the time Gibson tears the earring off the heroin delivery boy it heads into a steep dive. It just gets worse and worse until you can't take it any more. I lasted an hour only because I wasn't able to see the reviews on IMDb.Dumb dumb and dumber I just don't know what to say.Gratuitous endless sadistic violence Gibson walking around like it might be a comedy he is in. But mostly the thing seems a mime of reality filmed in dark blue color cartoonish villains uggh! Avoid this semi psychotic boring thing! DO NOT RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"No more Mr Nice Guy","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mr Porter (we do not know his first name) is a nice guy, but he has had $70,000 stolen from him by his partner in crime. He was shot and left for dead, but now he has returned to New York and he is a little upset that his money has been stolen from him and he wants it back. Now it is no more Mr Nice Guy as Mr Porter starts to track down those who stole his money from him.Payback is a gangster movie with numerous people all trying to kill Mr Porter. There is the syndicate, which has become the organisation, which has Mr Porter's money which it has no intention of returning; also there are the Yakuza, whom Mr Porter originally stole the money off. Val is the guy who turned on Porter, but he dies quickly because he is stupid and Mr Porter is really smart. When Val does not return Porter's money, Porter decides to go after the Syndicate's bosses, Carter and Ferguson, and the big boss, Bronson. Along with all of this are two crooked cops and a small time drug dealer who wants to get in on the Syndicate's action.Mr Porter is a really smart guy, one has to be to go from near death to crawl one's way up to enact revenge. He knows how to get things and how to use them to the best of his advantage. He also knows how to get into people's minds and to think the way they do. As such Mr Porter is the type of character I like because they are smart and are always out-thinking their opponents. It is something that I could never become, but I do admire people with that ability. I guess the catch is that either Mr Porter is really smart, or those who he is dealing with are really dumb.The thing that is cool about this movie is that it is funny. It is the type of movie with a lot of wit and the occasional clever one liner. I simply liked the way Porter conducted himself, and how he was never concerned with those blackmailing him because he is able to handle himself. If he wasn't then he would not be alive. The previews suggest that he is a good guy, but he is really not - Porter is a crook who is dealing with crooks.This movie seems to borrow things from gangster movies, and the scenes are all dark and dirty. We are not looking at a good against bad, we are looking at gangsters fighting gangsters, and as such the scenes reflect that. Even the very wealthy scenes have the feeling of a dark and dirty reality. This movie is cool, and one of Mel Gibson's better ones. "},{"Title":"A Hellaciously Entertaining Remake of Point Blank","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson is as bad to bone in Payback as Lee Marvin was in Point Blank, the original film that this Paramount release remakes. Gibson played a guy named Porter. We never learn his Christian name and the villains have a tough time remembering not only his name but also the amount of money that he demands. You see, our career criminal protagonist accompanied another hoodlum on a robbery. They steal $140 thousand from three Chinese gangsters who are on their way to launder their loot. Our heroes collide with them in a back alley. Literally, Porter crashes head-on into these guys who aren't wearing their seat belts. No sooner have Val (Gregg Henry) and Porter stolen the money from them than Val engineers a double-cross using Porter's own wife to kill him. The problem is that Lynn doesn't put nearly enough slugs into her husband to keep him down for the count. The film opens with Gibson explaining in a voice-over about his predicament. Since he is a criminal, he cannot walk or stumble into a hospital emergency room with two bullets embedded in his back and expect to leave with the doctors filling out a report about a shooting. Five months later after our protagonist has recovered from the shooting, he goes after Val to get his money back. As it turns out, Val used the loot to payback a debt that he owed to the mob. Now, he is a mob-protected man and lives in their hotel, the Oakwood, on Union and 17th where he enjoys all the comforts of home. Porter awakens him to the reality of a new day and demands that he get his $70-thousand. Naturally, Val tries to talk his way out of it, but Porter doesn't believe a word of it. He shoots him through a pillow and then starts working on the next rung up the ladder to the mob.This Mel Gibson crime thriller is extremely violent, smartly written, and crisply staged. Our hero negotiates an obstacle to recover his dough. He is beaten up, shot at, and has two of his toes crushed during a ruthless mob interrogation. Everybody is flabbergasted that he wants only $70-thousand. One mobster (James Coburn) observes that some of the apparel in his alligator luggage costs more than Porter insists he be paid back. The thing about Payback that makes it so exciting is that Porter doesn't mince words. He says what he means and means what he says. He doesn't fear the mob. This is one of Mel's strongest films where he plays a villainous type. Although he is a bad guy, the mobsters that he tangles with are far more dastardly. "},{"Title":"Getting Revenge, Gibson-Style","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Porter (Mel Gibson) lies severely wounded with two gunshot wounds in his back. A surgeon removes the bullets and Porter spends months healing. He then begins tracking down Val Resnick (Gregg Henry), his former partner, and Lynn (Deborah Unger), his ex-wife, both of whom left him for dead following a $140,000 heist from the Chinese triads.Although this is probably one of Mel Gibson's best roles, I have to also give a shout-out to the character Bronson (Kris Kristofferson). Sure, Brian Helgeland's Bronson was not supposed to be like this, and I do love Helgeland... but how can you deny the sheer awesome of Kris Kristofferson? Truly a force of nature.This film shares the same source material as Point Blank (1967), directed by John Boorman and starring Lee Marvin. I must sadly admit I have not seen that film or read the original book. Now I feel like I should to get a better sense of comparison... "},{"Title":"true classic...hits hard like a hammer to a foot","Date":"9 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback is a true original. I say that being fully aware that it recycles old fashioned crime pieces from the 70's. But this film makes it all seem new to us, mainly because of the unusually insightful performances. Mel Gibson is colder than ice as Porter, while maintaining an undercurrent of sarcasm, that we as an audience can appreciate him for. Gregg Henry plays Res nick...Porter's partner in crime who double crosses him over 140,000 dollars. Val Resnick is one of my favorite movie characters of all time...mainly because I love to hate him. He's a true dirt bag, and the character isn't afraid to show it. Most of the film's classic lines come from val re snick...including a hilarious scene where Val and another character named Artie Stegman, get into a heated conversation in a restaurant. Artie comforts him, ...this one's on me val. Val's reply...do you see me reaching for my f****g wallet? If you don't find that funny, then you might not like a lot of Payback's mean spirited sarcasm. Lucy Alexis Lu also joins the entourage...as a sadistic s & m prostitute. She abuses Val and appears not to care about him...but that's what turns him on. She eventually comes in contact with Porter, as he is on the hunt for his stolen cash, and the two both end up beating on Val Res nick together. This all will come off very strange for viewers expecting a typical, straightforward crime saga. If that is what your looking for, look elsewhere. payback is the definition of style over substance. Towards the end, we too feel like we have been through hell in a hand basket...but in a fun, exciting kind of way. By the time we meet Fairfax, Bronson, and Bronson's kidnapped son, little Johnny, we begin to smile at the film's street smart savvy attitude. We admire the criminals for their audacity...sympathize for a gangster...fall in love with hookers...feel the pain as a hammer swings down on a bare foot. I think I have established that this film is not for everyone. It is about street smarts and dirt. It is pure earth...no lessons or fairy tales. But I personally loved it...because by the end we no longer care about the 140,000. We just want to get away with all the mayhem Scot free. Porter can vouch for that. This film is like getting beat up, punched and kicked, and thrown out of a night club. It was an assault on the senses...but damn was it fun. "},{"Title":"Classic Gibson action.","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was young and I really liked it so I decided to give it another watch and nothing has changed I still love Mel and this great action movie. Mel is great as the action hero as usual and the movie is entertaining very simple but what can you expect from an action movie.This movie is about a man named Porter(Gibson) who is a career thief. One day he his wife and his partner still 130 thousand dollars and his wife and former best friend pull a gun on him, shoot him and leave him for dead so they can steal the money for themselves. He however is not dead and swear revenge and to get his stolen money back.This movie is classic action movie fun definitely one of my favorite action films. I love Gibson and this movie is entertaining and a really fun watch if you like action movies check this one out. "},{"Title":"Point Blank remake reflects the pretension of its own times more than it does the original","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Why do remakes? I guess it's usually to make money because most remakes don't improve upon the original. Well anyway this is a remake of the 1967 Point Blank that starred Lee Marvin and John Vernon. The original broke new ground for its time, and it is a classic, and it showed just how terrific an actor Lee Marvin was. In fact the whole cast was memorable.Payback in the version I saw is the director's cut and it's a good movie, not excellent by any means, but good, watchable, and tight. Apparently an earlier version was messed up, and many reviews here are of that version.The story is simple. Gibson is betrayed by a partner in crime who takes his share of the loot (robbed from some other bad guys) and joins the Outfit. Gibson, left for dead, recovers and goes up against the Outfit and some corrupt cops to recover his loot. Since it's a case of one bad guy going up against other bad (even worse) guys, we are able to identify with Gibson. After all, he was almost killed by his partner.Now, there are some story changes that need not detain us. They do not really enhance the new version over the old. In the old one, Marvin lost his two-timing woman to his buddy, and that twist is gone.I really did not want to compare Marvin to Gibson, whose acting I respect, but I could not help but notice the vast difference in how they handled the part. Marvin did a far better job at it. Sorry, Mel. I like your work a lot, but Lee managed to convey all the emotions, from anger to steely determination to humor and more, much better. Gibson gave us a kind of stolid one-note bull-headedness.The new version injects some of the pretensions and tone of this newer age of movies, and these do not help this film or modern films in general. In particular, every so often (usually way too often) there is a kind of juvenile joking around, sometimes swearing, sometimes over the top bits of behavior or dialogue, that detract from the seriousness of the story. These alter the tone of the movie. They break the mood. They detract from the movie's realism. Too many people at too many times behave like children or make wisecracks that are childish or out of place or counter the mood. They break down the flow of tension and suspense, and they ruin any hope of presenting a story that has integrity from start to finish.It is totally unimaginable that the kinds of things I am talking about would ever appear in La Strada or The Asphalt Jungle or Flamingo Road or The Strange Love of Martha Ivers, or any number of films like these. They had humor at times, they had humanity, they had all sorts of human behavior, and it seemed more real and more grown up and more believable. The modern injections of pretensions are as if the writers are afraid to write something strong and see it through, all the way through, without interrupting it with some nonsense.Payback had mercifully few of these moments, but it had some. It did not escape this general curse that undercuts the seriousness of the story and thus its capacity to engage the viewer, or at least this viewer who is used to older movies and who is continually giving newer movies serious consideration. But I must say that even without these awkward moments, I am not seeing levels of emotion conveyed or conflicts brought out except at relatively superficial levels in many scenes. It's like seeing a cartoon substitute for a painting that has many shades. Exaggeration does not substitute well for true dramatic conflict.Overall, Payback is pretty much by the modern numbers while utilizing some of the Point Blank story. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson delivers a Superb Performance, Yet Again!","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Payback' is an interesting vendetta fare, but what works the most in this box-office hit, is it's Lead Star, The Iconic Mel Gibson, Who delivers a Superb Performance, Yet Again! The Academy-Award-Winner plays the vengeful & ruthless Hero to perfection! Payback Synopsis Porter is shot by his wife and best friend, and is left to die. When he survives he plots revenge.'Payback' works in parts. In fact, this crime-thriller is quite outdated, in terms of story. But, the execution as well as the writing, are a notch above it's beaten-to-death concept. However, I'd like to add, that, this film is not meant for the faint-hearted. The overdose of gruesome violence, will definitely not work for that section of people. Brian Helgeland's Screenplay & Direction, are truly impressive. Cinematography is proper. Editing is fair. Performance-Wise As told, Gibson rules the show, with a performance, that is truly amongst his finest works to date. He carries the film on his shoulders from start to end. Maria Bello does well. David Paymer is superb, while Gregg Henry & James Coburn are noticeable. On the whole, Despite it's outdated storyline, 'Payback' is an interesting watch, with Gibson delivering a superb performance. "},{"Title":"Not so bad","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Root for the bad guy? Not really. Porter may be a gangster, but he is a saint compared  with the other guys he fights against. Corrupt cops, illoyal partners, brutal gangster  bosses ... Porter got at least a sense of honor and only wants his money back (well, in  a way, he worked for it and it was dirty money anyway) - so, Mel Gibson plays a  character who is not so bad but pretty different from his usual characters. It's fun to  watch him play a gangster who will stop for nothing until he got his money and who  uses con tricks and brute force to get started and on his way. (9/10) "},{"Title":"why it's great...","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Brian Helgeland - style of his film was wonderful and appropriate, the blue tones of the visuals, the complex jazz rhythms by Chris Boardman. Casting was right on, (except for Kristofferson...ugh..)Some audience and critics evidently left their S&M sense of humour at home, or couldn't get cozy with Mel Gibson playing a grey character, which he was great at.The story was interesting, great combo of action and humour.  The violence was ahead of it's time so-to-speak and may have left others BEhind.  I'm sure the genre has caught up to the director and writer by now.Story was great, told well and the payoffs solid.  Great job by all involved, especially Brian Helgeland. "}{"Title":"Sometimes PAYBACK is essential- as this bad-guy narration depicts.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Revenge meets stoicism The WHOLE movie has the feel a well done detective crime novel/comic. ...Only now, it is the bad guy that comes out on top.  What more can I say? !-This is a must see.-!The creators make use of various elements to realy do the plot justice.  It is not another movie where it would be better if only __ was different.  The creators did a good job, and ended up with a great movie. "},{"Title":"Payback is a good action movie but that's about all.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson has been so heavily typecast as the good guy that even in a movie for which the tagline is `Get ready to root for the bad guy,' he's not the bad guy. Quite the contrary, a premise like this is little more than a way to get people to expect a heightened level of blood and violence in the movie, it gives the special effects people an excuse to do creative things with ball hammers and to make the audience find even the most brutal murders to be `quite fun and funny,' as one IMDb reviewer put it.For some reason, however, I wasn't entirely amused to see a guy get shot in the shoulder and then the knee, and when he fails to produce a lighter when asked for a light, he gets a pillow pressed over his face and gets shot in the forehead. Granted, this was a very bad guy and had double crossed Porter (Mel Gibson, the GOOD guy) in one of the worst ways imaginable, and there is nothing that you want more than to see this guy fall, but that certainly doesn't make it amusing or even cheerful. I weep for the obvious descent of mankind into barbarism if people laughed at this. Let's consider the plot here. Mel Gibson is a criminal, and a good one at that. He and his wife are involved in crime that involves high risk and massive payoffs, and when one score results in the acquisition of $130,000, he and she and their partner, Val (Gregg Henry) begin discussing the splitting of the money. Porter calmly says that they will split it like they agreed in the first place, even though it turned out to be less than they expected, and Val and Lynn (Porter's wife) turn on Porter, shooting him in the back, taking all the money for themselves to run away together, and leaving him for dead. Five months later, Porter is recovered again and is out to get his money by whatever means necessary. The important thing here is that he is obviously so disappointed when he is forced to use violence that his shoulders droop to let us know that it's the last thing in the world that he wants, and on top of that, he wants $70,000, not $130,000. All he wants is his share, even after all he's been through. So how's he the bad guy again?Under the circumstances, it's amazing how obvious it is that presenting Porter as the bad guy is a weak ploy to get more violence into the movie, and it is a terrible sign of the state of our society that people enjoyed this. Try watching a movie like Payback and then watch Michael Moore's brilliant documentary Bowling for Columbine, you won't be so eager to root for the `bad guy' after all. On the one hand, Payback is a quality action film with plenty of car crashes and guns and killing and death, all the necessary ingredients for an action film these days, but the premise is such a weak scheme that it drastically lowers the rest of the movie. Lucy Liu, however, can be seen in a relatively early role looking sexier than anyone should really be allowed to look in a movie. I was almost depressed when it was over, she looked so good.I do not want to give the impression that Payback was a bad film or that I completely condemn it for it's ploy to get as much violence as possible into it, I just think that it could have been a much better movie if they hadn't laid so much emphasis on its violent content. Even the obligatory action movie hottie only added to the enjoyment of it all (I'm sure female viewers felt the same, of course), so it is certainly a movie that is likely to be enjoyed by action fans. The rest of you, however, may want to be a little more careful. The violence, at least at one point, is literally stomach-turning. "},{"Title":"Paybacks a B*T*H......... in a good way","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is a very good movie, enjoyable and fun to watch.  It's a root for the bad guy film starring Mel Gibson in an Excellent performance as the guy who doesnt hesitate to get what he wants and lost.  I love the how the movie was shot in a dark tone and how Porter always knew what was going on.  Very good supporting performances, but nothing stand out.  This film is a must see for most.  8/10 "},{"Title":"I had high hopes when I watched Payback. And for the most part, the movie lived up to expectations.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gibson plays Porter, a good old fashioned criminal. One day while pulling a robbery, he's double crossed by his wife and his best friend. Shot in the back, he's left for dead in a parking garage. Of course if he was dead, there would be no movie. So, five months later, he's back on his feet and out for revenge. His wife has turned into an addict, and his best friend Val (Gregg Henry) has joined a group that's known as The Syndicate (or The Outfit depending on who you're talking to.) So in order to get back his $70,000 (his half of the robbery money) Porter is forced to track down Val, and at the same time, knock off The Syndicate. I've been reading that people said this film is too violent. Shocking brutality and all that stuff. But I didn't think it was any more violent that any other action movie out there. The difference is the good guy is actually a bad guy. Porter is a criminal who enjoys what he does. If it involves shooting someone, he'll do it. If he has to frame some cops along the way, he'll do it. I don't think people are used to the hero of a movie killing people without reason. But I found it quite fun and funny. Not that I'm for random acts of violence or anything. But on a movie screen it's enjoyable. And Porter does have his redeeming qualities. When he looks up an old girlfriend (Maria Bello), you see that he does have a heart. Also, they never really explain who The Syndicate is, but it seems to be a Mafia type organization. Either way, when you get William Devane, James Coburn, and Kris Kristofferson as the main guys in The Syndicate, you know you're in for a good time.  The one thing about this movie I really enjoyed was the look.Everything was blue and grey, with splashes of color thrown in. It had a killer soundtrack.  I enjoyed Payback. I suppose it helps to be a Mel Gibson fan, but if you're just a fan of action and things blowing up, I think you'll like it too.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing...Boring...rent any Mad Max instead.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was anxious to see this flick...until I actually saw it. Waste of time, no thrills, no action and it must have been a waste of money too. "},{"Title":"I gave it a second chance and found it was good!!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a different movie for me, at first I thought it was more stupid than good, and I just plain hated it.. But like I always do, I gave it a second chance, and I found that I liked it after all.. Great point, great acting by Gibson, and good action.. Another movie one might like is Comeback, similar names (that is why I thought of it), Comeback was a little different, it was about a star doing a movie for the first time in 5 years, That movie was staring Christy Canyon, and Jenteal, but as you can see, they are different movies all together.. I enjoyed both, and I think if you give it a try so won't you!! 7 out of 10 stars for Payback.. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson is HARD!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie much like Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs with bad guys in the roles, bad guys with no marks of goodness or sympathy in them. This movie feels a bit more like film noir with it's dark and moody tune.Mel Gibson is Hard. That is the basic plot. He's been robbed and shot by his former wife and best friend and was left for dead. Well, he survived two bullets in the back and he's back, p***ed like a mad killerdog.Things never goes as you belive it should. Bad guys get nicked off at wrong occasions and small characters survives longer than most of the stars. Lucy Liu is a hoot as a sadist who in a very funny scene beats up her boyfriend FOR Mel Gibson. And the torturescene at the end is one of the creepiest scenes I have ever witnessed. True Pain.But the ending is cool just as the movie and the grade stop's at a welldeserved 8. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like plot and human nature you'll like this movie. It's subtly humorous and dramatic and somehow I find myself putting the DVD in the player about once a month.  My guess is Mel did this for the role and not money.  I doubt there was much. It's very unlike any other Gibson movie I've seen.  "},{"Title":"There is no such thing as Mr. Nice Guy.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson plays the character Porter who was betrayed by his friend Val and wife Lynn who took his share of the money and then was left for dead.  Now Porter wants his money and getting even along the way.  This is your revenge movie. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable violence by straight bad guy","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Even for someone who does not particularly like violence this film is thoroughly enjoyable for it sets a justice-seeking bad guy (who was double-crossed by wife and best friend) against the arrogant bosses of The Outfit. The plot is full of surprises, some painful ones, and some rather... rewarding. Nice bad guy Mel Gibson is quite likeable and hooker girls friend Maria Bello displays redeeming softness.Manlyn, Switzerland, Europe "}{"Title":"'Not Many Men Know What Their Life's Worth. I Do. 70 Grand. That's What They Took From Me, And That's What I Was Gonna Get Back!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a gritty, ultra violent, gangster action movie. It's got all the qualities you'll want for a good shoot em' up Mel Gibson (one of my favorite actors), a bloody double crossing, explosions, big guns, a sexy, tough talking girlfriend, and the seedy underbelly of a big city (Chicago, my favorite city). This movie is also good because Mel plays a bad guy (though of course, he;s going up against 'badder' bad guys). He plays is a real creep, and it's fun to watch him diversify his characters a little.Mel Gibson plays Porter (no first name, just Porter), a payroll thief who is double crossed by his wife and his best friend. He takes off five months to lick his wounds, and when he returns to the world it is almost as if he has fallen off the face of the earth. Everyone thinks he's dead, and he went from being a good thief with a high salary to a  dead nobody.Throughout half the movie, Porter is conscienceless, and will do what ever he has to and rub out any one who gets in his way to claim 70 grand, which is just his share of his last payroll job he got ripped off on. But alas, Porter finds light in his dark, sultry little world when he reunites with his girlfriend (when he was still married), Maria Bello. She is a high class working girl who falls head over heels when Porter comes back just to make sure he hasn't died and gone to hell.Porter starts wacking gangsters left and right to get to his money and to payback his gun happy, double crossing best friend, to whom his whole existence revolves around, until he finds Rosie (Bello), who is incredibly beautiful. This is a great action with a few good twists and turns here and there. Not for the faint of heart, or most women in general; but guys, if you're in the mood for a good old fashioned shoot em' up gangster movie, watch this one, because it is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"'Not Many Men Know What Their Life's Worth. I Do. 70 Grand. That's What They Took From Me, And That's What I Was Gonna Get Back!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a gritty, ultra violent, gangster action movie. It's got all the qualities you'll want for a good shoot em' up Mel Gibson (one of my favorite actors), a bloody double crossing, explosions, big guns, a sexy, tough talking girlfriend, and the seedy underbelly of a big city (Chicago, my favorite city). This movie is also good because Mel plays a bad guy (though of course, he;s going up against 'badder' bad guys). He plays is a real creep, and it's fun to watch him diversify his characters a little.Mel Gibson plays Porter (no first name, just Porter), a payroll thief who is double crossed by his wife and his best friend. He takes off five months to lick his wounds, and when he returns to the world it is almost as if he has fallen off the face of the earth. Everyone thinks he's dead, and he went from being a good thief with a high salary to a  dead nobody.Throughout half the movie, Porter is conscienceless, and will do what ever he has to and rub out any one who gets in his way to claim 70 grand, which is just his share of his last payroll job he got ripped off on. But alas, Porter finds light in his dark, sultry little world when he reunites with his girlfriend (when he was still married), Maria Bello. She is a high class working girl who falls head over heels when Porter comes back just to make sure he hasn't died and gone to hell.Porter starts wacking gangsters left and right to get to his money and to payback his gun happy, double crossing best friend, to whom his whole existence revolves around, until he finds Rosie (Bello), who is incredibly beautiful. This is a great action with a few good twists and turns here and there. Not for the faint of heart, or most women in general; but guys, if you're in the mood for a good old fashioned shoot em' up gangster movie, watch this one, because it is fun to watch. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Common Cure for the Chick Flick Infestation","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tired of being forced to watch emotional,slow, tear jerking movies. Tired of sequels to classics that seem more for kids than to the adults who actual watched the original, ie Phantom Menace.At last finally a movie made for guys who like movies. Yes, Mel Gibson does play the bad guy, but he's totally likeable. Pretty much destroys anything politically correct.Man just gets the job done. Of course most Mel Gibson movies are pretty much worth seeing.Maria Bello isn't bad either.  She was much better in Coyote Ugly, however that's a chick flick. She's great. A tough blonde with a tender side. Not just another ditz from the factory.If the women are out some night, call up your friends, grab some wings, some brewskies, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Man, this is one heck of a movie.  I like movies where bad guys are the protagonist.  When I first got this movie, I didn't quite like it because there wasn't much of a challenge to it.  The only times I've seen Mel Gibson get it for him was when he was shot, when the Chinese thugs nearly killed him, and the beating he got at the end.  I was thinking man what a waste of money but then I felt that I should watch it again, and I liked it better that time to the time I last saw it.  Awesome movie for Mel Gibson!  Lucy Liu was pretty hot in this movie as well.  You may not like this movie at first, but if you see it again, I assure you, you'll like it the second time. "},{"Title":"Hard Edged and very Stylish...","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a great mix of very cool elements.  The Plot just seemed to get better and better with more twists as the movie progressed.  The acting was great on every level with a load of bizarre and interesting characters.  Also, the blue-ish tint the movie was made in gives it a very hard edge and original look.  All in All, and very clever, entertaining, and underrated movie. "},{"Title":"This little piggy went to market.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is just one fun movie to watch.  It is nice to see a movie that has NO good guys.  Just one guy who is LESS evil than the others.  I am a REALLY big fan of Mel Gibson, and in this one he adds his usual talent for humor and bleeding (and he does A LOT of bleeding in this one).  I am not sure if I (or most people) would go to all that trouble for just $70,000 but I have to hand it to Mel, he made me believe that Porter (the main character) would.  I was also impressed with the look.  Obviously they used a different film technique to make the movie look like an old fashioned bad guy movie, and it looks good.Overall, this is a fun and funny movie.  It is most certainly not a NICE movie.  But, that is part of its charm. "},{"Title":"Violent thriller with a touch of class!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson is cool! Women love him, guys want to be just like him (or his characters anyway!) So it comes as no surprise that of all his characters, Porter is the one all the guys will want to be. He's hard, classy and gets the girls, while he can afford also turn down a couple as well. But why do we like Porter? Cause he's the bad guy.Porter gets backstabbed by his wife and 'Buddy' when doing a basic robbery from a Chinese outfit (bad guys.) He's shot by his wife and is left for dead, but with a lovely introduction sequence, we see him getting the bullets removed from his back and set back to this world looking for revenge.No matter what anyone says, Porter is bad! He steals from beggars, uses other peoples credit cards, rips out nose-rings without hesitation, shoots fine suit-cases etc etc. But if Porter is the bad guy, then who are the 'baddies?' Well he just goes from bad to worse. Basically he climbs the table, from scum to likable crime bosses (enter James Coburn) he fights his way to the top for one thing, his share of the money that got him shot in the first place. How much you ask. $70,000.The movie is of a very old style. Blue tint throughout the film, classic soundtrack, sexy women and cool guns. Gibson's preferred choice is one that his Lethal Weapon partner would be proud of.I am one for noticing mistakes though. When you watch it, look out for the part where Porter is hit by the Chinese car in the alleyway. When they hit him, the car windscreen is smashed, but when the cops pull up and drive away, they managed to get a repair job! Pretty smart that, i should get their number!!!Mistake, who cares. Payback is one class movie and i suggest you see it, guys will thinks its cool, girls will love Gibson so all in all, it's a good all rounder.The funny thing is, no matter how this film ends, the bad guy wins, cause there aren't any 'goodies!!!'Pesty  "},{"Title":"Gibson isnt that believable in the bad guy role","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   After a score, Gibson is screwed over by his partner and shot and left for dead. He is a crook and a sinner and you are supposed to root for his bad guy role after he awakens for a coma and goes after his share of the money. my problem was that I think that whole Gibson as the anti-hero gimmick really didnt pay off. Yes there is decent shootouts and action and Lucy Lui in a dominitrax getup but the movie is pretty shallow. It adds no twists or turns that add up sure people set him up and he has to go up the gangland ladder for revenge but it runs out of breathe. ** "},{"Title":"A very underestimated film. . . .","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw Payback I was completely blown away. Obviously the expectations were there to shoot this one in the foot before it even got off the ground (adapting Westlake's book, the excellent John Boorman movie of that book, Point Blank) but Brian Helgeland's film delivers the goods in grandiose and brutal fashion. It is oddly reminiscent of the Warner Brothers thrillers of the 70's, plain red titles playing over the opening scenes, Chris Boardman's nostalgic and mean as a junk yard dog score and of course, Mel Gibson as Porter. The film, shot in what could only be described as gun metal grey, begins nasty, gets nastier and then peaks with some glorious and bone crunching violence.Gibson is no Lee Marvin, but he puts into his performance of Porter all the mean and violent characterstics of Max Rocktansky and Martin Riggs. He doesn't shy away from violence, has not scruples hitting women and shooting men in the face and seems to gleefully revel in the blooshed and mayhem he creates. The script, written by Helgeland and Terry Hayes is polished and well constructed. The sparse, mean dialogue find a perfect bedfellow in Helgeland's staging of the action, it contains one of my favourite lines. When Lucy Lui's Pearl has beaten three shades of snot out of Val Resnick, she offers Porter a sexual favour by saying I've got three minutes to which Porter replies So go boil an egg. Priceless. Although slightly shorn of some of its violence by the BBFC on tape and DVD, the film packs a mighty wallop and deserves to be treated a little more reverence as opposed to what critics thought it to be, a typical throw-away Mel Gibson action movie. Top notch. "},{"Title":"POOR MEL","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Poor Mel gets beat up so much in this exciting fun thriller that you have to feel for him. Lucy Liu as the dominatrix is just great.  Too bad that the fascinating Deborah Unger (Crash) appears in what amounts to a cameo role. "}{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Porter (Mel Gibson) is a crook who gets double crossed by an associate and his wife.  The rest of the film deals with Porter trying to get his share of the money back.  I liked this film a lot.  The author of the book, Richard Stark (aka Donald Westlake) is one of my favorite authors.  Stark writes books about a character named Parker (also without a first name) who is a brilliant crook but always seems to get tangled up with the wrong people, ie other crooks.  Mel Gibson acts very well in this film, I was also surprised by Kris Kristofferson's acting ability, and Lucy Liu is the comic relief as a dominatrix.  The plot twists are fun, and kept me on the edge of my seat, and I also liked some of the editing, which showed three scenes being played out simultaneously, like what we are led to believe is a three way phone call, but it really isn't.  A fun ride, kind of violent, brainless entertainment.  "},{"Title":"A Criminal With a One-Track Mind","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  `Payback' is a wonderfully nasty little tale about the value of money -- specifically, the value of $70,000.  To a criminal named Porter (played by Mel Gibson), it's worth everything.  The $70,000 is his share of a sweet little score, except his partners cheat him out of his share . . . and, well, try to kill him.  Unfortunately for them, they didn't succeed in killing Porter, and he wants his $70,000.  Now.`Payback' is a lot of slick, brutal action blended seamlessly with a tight, well-written script and a sense of dark, wry humor.  Porter, while not particularly a likeable character (he's about as apt to smile pleasantly at someone as he is to shoot someone in cold blood), is  certainly an interesting character.  What makes him so memorable is his single-mindedness -- he wants what he thinks he's owed (the $70,000) and he wants it from the partners who backstabbed him.  Other criminals offer Porter more money to stop his violent little manhunt for his former partners, but he doesn't want more money, he just wants HIS money, all $70,000 of it, no more, no less.  Porter's a pit bull set loose in a nursery school playground, and nobody in the world's going to stop Porter from getting what he wants.Because Porter's the `hero' of the movie -- in reality, he's just one bad guy pitted against a whole lot of other bad guys -- a lot of the typical action movie conventions are turned on their ear, making `Payback' unusual and original almost by default.  Characters that would normally be a supporting character or at least comic relief in a typical action movie are gunned down, shot, stabbed, or simply chased off at random moments during `Payback'.  Suspense builds throughout the film simply because after a while, you literally have no idea what to expect anymore.Mel Gibson is great as the ruthless Porter, but equally worthy of mention are William Devane's performance as Carter, a schmoozing two-bit crime boss, and Lucy Liu . . . yowza.  As a dominatrix named Pearl, she's hell on high heels in `Payback', and nearly as vicious as Porter.This movie definitely isn't for everyone.  The simple fact that there isn't a standard good guy does drag the film down to a certain extent.  Still, if you're in the mood for a clever, offbeat action film, then check out `Payback'.  B+ "},{"Title":"Cut the Baby Act, and Give me the Straight Poop!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is not a half-bad picture show.  This movie was exciting, see, I liked it, see!   Mel Gibson stars as a low-rent, bombastic biscuit boy of a hoodlum.  His partner, played by Gregg Henry, stabbed him in the back in a switcheroo, and now Mel wants some payback.  It's called revenge, and man does it work!  The only problem is that Mel is being followed by crooked cops, corrupt overlords, and a little pansy drug dealer (played by David Paymer) who always sings like a canary, naming names.  Mel's out to get back his chunk of a heist that him and his partner ran, in the backstory of the movie.  This all seems like a lot to go through for $70,000, but Mel has got nowhere else to turn.  He uses a lot of slang, beats some guys around, and always seems to be sold out, by someone claiming to be his friend.  Thank you, so much, pal, a shot in the face!  The problem with movies like this is that they tell you Violence and double-crossing is good for you!  Our society just loves to attribute faults to others, so this movie better watch out.  Rating 7/10 (I'm tired, I'm gonna make like I'm sawing logs.) "},{"Title":"It's got it all.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This role was almost made for Mel Gibson. Only one other person could have done it with the same style, persona, and sense of action. That man is Sylvester Stallone. But Mel did a really good job with this picture. If you like Revenge or Mob movies....this is definitely in the top 5 "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson & Film Noir Great Combo","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I avoided this movie when it was first released because the trailer looked too violent.  Recently I rented the DVD and discovered, while the violence was there, none of it was gratuitous or lingered over.  Instead I found an excellent film noir with (and this is exceptional for this genre) a plot that pretty much made sense.  Porter Mel Gibson wants to recover his $70,000. and he practically comes back from the grave to do so.  I thought the opening scene where Porter is having the bullets extracted from his back really set the tone for the whole show.  This movie does very well viewed at home where you can stop the tape or DVD when you want since there are no restroom breaks built into this movie.  It is suspenseful and exciting all the way. "},{"Title":"Dark Action in a bright film","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story is a classical one they steal money from someone, the partner is playing both sides and shoots the main character to have all the money. But he survive and want revenge and it all ends up in Payback. I like the beginning but it gets kind of mixed up i the end. But i still think this is a strong film. I like Gibsons way to act and handle with things and i also like the irony in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Brutal yet just - a film with panache.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the way to make an action film take some one-liners, add a bit of narrative in the gravelly voice of Mel Gibson; next add generous servings of violence - harsh, but generally fair; now blow up a few cars/buildings/people and sprinkle on the top. A film that although is far from deep takes hold of you and makes you say shh every time anyone in the room speaks. And the ending, well, you'll see. Just go and watch it, you won't regret it. Not the best in it's genre (the usual suspects has to win out, but this is like Sonny Corleone without his Godfather...) but not far from it. At last a film that deserves the moniker  good, modern, film noir. "},{"Title":"Great film...","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that the cast let this film down.  Although Greg Henry is great as the villain, a more well-known actor would have given this film even more publicity.  I don't think that anyone could have pulled off this role quite like Mel Gibson did, other than George Clooney.  Gibson is fantastic as the rugged underdog, as we see him in 'Maverick', 'Braveheart' and now 'The Patriot'.  'Payback' has got a slight 'American Lock Stock & Two Smokin barrels' feel about it.  various gangs are involved in various places yet we follow Porter (Gibson) throughout.  Maria Bello is quite stunning and definately one to look out for in the future, as is Ally McBeal star Lucy Liu.  Both female performances are entertaining with Bello as the beautiful, innocent female lead and Liu as a sex bondage obsessive, who loves to inflict pain on men.  To reiterate, a stronger cast would have made this film a huge hit, but in my eyes, it's still a great film and one well worth watching.  Action, drama and even comedy, don't miss it. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Gibson continues to impress","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before the new trend of George Clooney being the great character actor of our time, we had Mel Gibson.  And we still do.Gibson is superb as Porter in this brilliant action film, that is well written, superbly directed and acted, and damn funny to boot.Mel plays these characters like no-one else around these days, and his role in seeking revenge and his $70,000 that his former partner in crime stole from him was superbly done.Mel's natural humour comes through well, and as proven by his brilliant display in Conspiracy Theory, he is still as watchable as ever. "},{"Title":"Pretty much what I expected","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is pretty much what I expected it to be; a crime-thriller starring Mel Gibson and packed with bad music, a few action-scenes and nasty characters. Payback is not in the same league as Lethal Weapon, but most Mel Gibson-films are worth watching at least once, and this is no exception.  It isn`t as action-packed as you might have expected, and the characters are very one-dimensional(all of them are bad-guys), but Payback is still something you`d like to rent. 7/10 "}{"Title":"No more Mr. nice-guy?","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson is Porter. He and his partner Val steal 140.000 $ from a chinese syndicate. But Val cheats Porter, takes the money and Porters wife. So far so good. But better watch it by yourself...Payback is a remake of John Boormans Point Blank, directed by Brian Helgeland, who wrote  the scripts for Conspiracy theory and L.A.  confidential. In the original, Lee Marvin played Mel Gibsons character, the story about a guy  whos out for revenge. Mel Gibson as the bad guy? Yes, indeed! But somehow he was sympathetic to me. Porters love to Rosie gave the movie a little bit of emotion. I have heard, that Brian Helgeland had some complications with Mel Gibson  about the script. There was a rumour going around,  that Gibson finished Payback together with  Lethal weapon director Richard Donner. But  luckily you dont notice that, when you watch  the movie. A cynical, twisted film-noir thriller.  "},{"Title":"Far better than Braveheart","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Move over Eastwood; move over Bronson, here comes Mel! This is a good, entertaining flick. The only thing I didn't like about this film was Porter's motivation - a mere 70K - hardly worth the pain he embraces just for that little cash; esp. when compared to the millions of bucks the crime bosses have who ultimately fall victim to Porter. However, Mel's character makes up for it 100%, and Payback's well worth the time spent watching, other than that. This neo-noir film is definitely reminiscent of such macho films like Dirty Hair, the Mechanic, The Professional and others.  "},{"Title":"great, great and GREAT!!!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is one hell of a film - Mel Gibson is Porter, a guy who was double crossed by his partner and his wife in a robbery - after recovering from a gun shot wound he goes after his share of the money (70 thou)But his ex partner has bought his way into a group known as the syndicate and Porter now has to take them all on, you'll have to watch it to find out what happens but its explosive, funny and action packed. Mel Gibson is great - his character is well played and does come off as a bad guy with few gentle feelings. With some great scenes and 1 liners this is a blockbuster of a movie and one you should really get (or at least see again). "},{"Title":"Mel as a bad guy?????","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson as the bad guy.  Well there you go, I have seen everything.  I can see Mel as an uncaring guy (Max Max) a psychotic guy (Max Max), even a misunderstood guy (Max Max), but an out and out bad guy .. Give me a break.  The film is pretty good in that I enjoyed watching it.  But totally forgettable in that I only watched it last night and already I am forgetting the plot.   Not that there was much of a plot.  I seem to recall something about $70000 and his obsession in getting back this money, which he insists throughout the movie belongs to him.  Now I was under the impression that it belonged to the Chinese whom he stole it from????.Perhaps Mel forgot the plot too.  Ant that for me is where this movie falls down. Its is very enjoyable but if you are looking for something that is meaningful and may change your life.  This movie is not it.Watch it on cable or wait for it to be shown on TV "},{"Title":"The foundation is a major disappointment","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A rocky foundation here is the screenplay and it's a major disappointment, spoilt the entire picture.The problem is that the writer didn't add enough meat and explore any of the villains. Even Mel Gibson didn't have enough to do except the violence. The film has no set-up which fuelled the revenge. Okay, there is some fuel but not enough to hint Gibson's rampage.The screenplay didn't have the lines to give the villains to get their teeth into. At times, the film felt messy and just skimmed over some characters.Fortuantley, the technical standards save this picture from being a total disaster, beautifully shot. The blueish tone was spot-on. The director really needed to work out the character motivations, get beyond the violence. We never got into the head of these characters.The original picture, Point Blank was much more character driven, albeit a bit too arty for its own good, but a much better picture.Overall, a disappointing screenplay, but technically good. "},{"Title":"Slyly entertaining","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie we were forced to leave the theater 20 minutes before the ending because of a power outage. I finally saw it in its entirety recently on The Movie Channel. It's thouroughly entertaining, and the dry humor that lingers during the whole film is a plus. I liked how it's all a bunch of villains. Everyone we meet is a bad guy! From a multimillionaire corporate mobster to the cops down to a Vietnam vet who needs change so he can walk again. Okay, the female heroin is a hooker, but maybe she's not considered bad, because like every hooker in the movies, she's one with a heart of gold. I enjoyed Porter having to deal with so many of his adversaries. He claimed that he didn't just have a monkey on his back, instead he had three. Shoot, seemed more like a dozen to me. Every time he was finished taking care of one guy who got on his nerves, in came more guys to tick him off. I found it neat in the way the cinematographer gave Chicago a hazy, bluish tone. Chicago always appears dreary and overcast in films anyway, so he just went went along with that common method and gave it an added twist. I just wish one day that Chicago will appear in a movie as great looking as the city usually looks.  "},{"Title":"Revenge is beautiful","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best action movie i have ever seen. The leading character played by Gibson is trying to get what supposed to be his share of money when he as his friend rob money from gang members.Although there are lots of actions and interesting sequence, the movie seems very blue in term of colour. I do thought the producers might using different camera or colour setting and it looks like the setting is always blue.A must see movie. "},{"Title":"Paybacks a bitch! And messy to boot!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Damn, what a movie. Mel Gibson leaves behind a trail of bodies to get back $70,000 stolen from him by his ex-wife and his partner, which they stole from a Asian gang. A whole host of characters come and go (usually in a bloody way). He goes up against The Syndicate, corrupt cops and the Asians he stole the money from. There is a nice undercurrent of black humour, which both lightens the mood and sharpens the movie. "},{"Title":"The tag line sais it all.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what more you could ask for in a movie.  Lots of blood and guts if you are into that.  A love story or two (albeit twisted a bit), action, suspense, and lots of light and dark comedy.  Maybe it is just me, but I really don't see what more you could want. "},{"Title":"Does this remind anyone else of their philandering HS Economics teachers?","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  wonderful film. Usually movies like this with Mel Gibson and such are so god-awful bloody and full of useless violence. But in this movie the more the violence the better and you crave more violence.  that's what makes it so good.  Actually, it's not an action flick, it's a comedy.  That's what's so great about it. James Coburn is wonderful. "}{"Title":"Gibson gets lethal... this time with a vengeance!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson is at his dirtiest, most cynical performance yet asthe remorseless gangster Porter in Payback. In this movie, itseemed easy for Porter, along with his wife Lynn (Deborah Unger)and his partner-in-crime Val Resnick (a delightfully sleazyGregg Henry), to rip off an extremely large sum of money fromChinese hoods. But when Val and Lynn betray Porter and literallyriddle him with lead, it's hell to pay against Porter's formeracquaintences. So, arming himself with a piece, plus with hismagic to pickpocket, Porter goes on a rampage against the scumwho shot him and stole his end of the ripped-off bargain, a mere80,000 greenbacks.First time director Brian Helgaland (writer of L.A.  Confidential) uses a lot of elements to make the perfect crimedrama. First of all, the use of plenty of gunplay, plus the everpainful torture scene is pretty much Tarantinoesque. Plus, the atmosphere of the movie is quite dark and grim, too, consistingof mostly nightfall or cloudy, rainy days. That elementpractically gives a good reflection to a gritty crime picturelike Payback. Gibson is awesome as always, getting the upperhand whenever a bad situation rea "},{"Title":"Awesome, just awesome!!!!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  GREAT GREAT GREAT!!!I loved this movie! What a great role by Mel Gibson! The plot was great, the atmosphere was great, the music was great, the acting was great...When I put this one in my DVD drive I was prepared for yet another plain action movie.....But I must say I have been sitting on the edge of my seat from beginning to end. Also great acting by the girl we know from Ally McBeal, Ling. She's hot!!!Although the movie was tough, the humor was great as well. Smart lines from Mel like we're used to from his Lethal Weapon movies. As I read on IMDb this was a remake of an older movie. Well I haven't seen the older movie and after seeing this one I am sure it will just be a disappointment. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Was so MUCH BETTER better in its original form, too bad....","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A double crossed bad-good guy (Mel Gibson) returns back to the city to collect his part of the money and no one will stop him this time! Well as you all probably know by now know that Mel Gibson changed half of the latter of the film to make himself looking better in the audiences eyes, but the fact still remains that people who saw the first version of Payback liked it much more than Mels final cut a lot more, too bad that Mel never heard nor saw Clint Eastwoods The unforgiven! As you know in real life the meanest people win. Good guys dont stand a chance.   "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  **SPOILER WARNING**This isn't really a typical Gibson film, but that just goes to prove he is a versatile actor, even if he doesn't quite live up to his performances in Mad Max, and The River.Fairly grim from the outset, this isn't for the squeamish but there is far more to it than just another excuse for guns and bloodshed. Gibson plays a professional thief back from the dead, betrayed by partner and wife and left with nothing but a clear idea as to where his life is to go next. Some seem to miss the point that Gibson's character Porter, doesn't really have a lot of choice in his life from this point on, there is more to him than a masochist simply bent on revenge. The film continues with Porter rebuilding his life, sorting out his friends and enemies and trying to take his money back, trying to start again.Porter is an excellent anti-hero, a well constructed character that is a fair rendition of the Richard Stark character, Parker, that he is based upon. Everything nasty from a chain smoking pickpocket and petty thief to essentially a murderer, we forgive him his sins because his behaviour is a matter of necessity, not choice, and because Porter demands a sense of sympathy due to his hard life. Gibson excels in this role, I would never have thought to cast him for this part, but watching the scene where he rescues Rosie from Val, we see he subtly displays Porter as something more than a man with a gun.For me the scenes around Porter and Rosie are some of the best of the film. The sub-plot around Porter's love life and relationships bring the film to more than just a thriller, although I am glad it was toned down and not over done. If you watch carefully, the scenes with Porter and Rosie are very different from the rest of the film, the style changes from tough, gritty thriller, with elements of black humour to something on a more complex and romantic level. I have heard that the performance by Maria Bello as the hooker with a heart is derivative and cliched, personally I don't think this is a bad thing. A cliche can be perfectly acceptable as long as it is carried off well, Maria is excellent in this role, but it is the seamless transition of mood and quality direction generally by Brian Helgeland, that sets these scenes apart.Humour features throughout in the corrupt detectives Hicks and Leary, a fetishist played by Lucy Liu (although I thought she was slightly mis-cast), the cleverly slimy but cowardly Val Resnick and wannabe crook, Stegman. Again this adds another welcome element to the film.On the whole in almost every aspect this film is well made, and I believe it is very much underrated as just another thriller. Strong themes and acting by Gibson, with excellent support from Maria Bello, make this one to look at again, even if Porter/Parker would never have got both the money, and the girl. "},{"Title":"** 1/2 stars Violent but as always Mel is great","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is a movie full of unneeded violence and the plot does not make sense but Mel Gibson even as the one doing the pain is great. He is a bad guy in this movie but you are rooting for him because he was wronged by his wife and his friend. By the end you wonder why all that has happened was worth it just for some money.PLOT Mel Gibson is shot and left for dead by his wife and friend because they wanted his half of the money after a job is done. He decides to get revenge on the people that wronged him and also get the money he deserves.VIEWS The only reason to watch this movie is for Mel Gibson. Even when he is in the most danger, he still acts cool and jokes. Otherwise beware because the violence will get to you and you will wonder if it was all worth it for a little sum of money.SCENES TO WATCH FOR Lucy Liu meets Mel. "},{"Title":"not my favorite","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I find a movie hard to follow when I can't get into it.  That's exactly what happened with this movie.  I'm not a big fan of action movies.  I saw it because a group of friends and I were planning to see a different movie, but it wasn't playing, so we saw Payback instead.  The only thing I really liked about this movie was Mel Gibson's bad-guy role. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson at his best A ruthless killer","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie contained sadism, kidnap, murder, robbery, drugs, sex, and basically everything else.  Mel Gibson plays  Porter, one unfortunate mercenary who just wants his $70,000 back.  His wife betrays him, shoots him in the back twice, steals his cut from the robbery, and leaves him for dead.  He survives and does whatever it takes to get what's coming to him his 70 grand.  Some of the violence was completely unnecessary and the whole sadistic prostitute thing was downright sickening.  Despite some bad writing and macho-man violence, Payback makes you root for the bad guy, and never leaves you bored.  I'd recommend it, but not to anyone under 14.  "},{"Title":"Classic exploitation","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have a newfound respect for Mel Gibson after seeing his latest film, Payback.  I've always liked him, but at this point in his career, this is a risky role to take.  The movie is pure 70's exploitation, right down to the blue filters and gruff looking characters(not to mention the extreme violence).  If Mel wasn't in this I couldn't see it grossing more than $2 million dollars.  This isn't to say I don't like it(polar opposite of that, this movie kills), it's just that it's far from mainstream Hollywood cinema.This movie has it all  Great one liners, graphic violence, corrupt cops, S&M, prostitutes, etc., all standards in 70's exploitation.  All of the actors are great, geared up in scumbag mode.The only quip I have is the romantic subplot.  It seems a little forced, and really has no place in this movie.  It's barely touched upon, and not overly sappy, so it's minor.  I also heard that Mel Gibson actually toned some of this down.  I'd love to see what was originally planned. "},{"Title":"Delightfully nasty","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback delights in its own wickedness -- but with a sly wink at the audience. Wonderfully over-the-top, the film both parodies and pays homage the classic, tough-guy noir thrillers of yesteryear. The whole film is just plain mean. But it's all in good, evil fun. Those willing to dabble in truly black humor will find Payback delightful; others of a more conservative nature will leave aghast and offended. Particularly worth noting is the film's cinematography and pacing. The seedy side of life has never looked so good. "},{"Title":"Just turn off your morals for 1.5 hours...","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm an Eagle Scout, a weekly churchgoer, and a resident of a town called Friendswood.And I loved this movie from the surgery scene to the last line.This movie proves that any character can appear heroic; it just depends on the film's point of view.  Sure, no one in this movie should be allowed to exist in the real world, but as for fiction, this is action-violence at it' s finest.Only Mel Gibson could take a despicable character like Porter and make us root for him, although a great supporting cast (playing characters even more despicable) certainly doesn't hurt.This movie has enough violence to make the Gestapo wince, so die-hard pacifists should beware.  Go rent a Disney movie.  As for us armchair action-junkies, however, this is one of the best.  (Just get rid of any kids.  Letting them stay even within hearing range should entitle a call from social services.)That done, get your other usually-good-natured friends together and pretend, for just an hour and a half, that right and wrong have absolutely no effect on you.Just don't kill anyone.My rating 8  "}{"Title":"That's just plain mean!","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ya know, I truly hate action films. I also hate movies with violence. So how come I LOVED this film?Everything was perfect! The musical score set the right mood. Gibson's Porter was utterly convincing. The Organization was professionally sinister. The protagonist's noiresque narration conjures up memories of earlier times.For those who condemn this excellent film I say, relax. You're taking this way too literally. The whole movie is laced with tongue-in-cheek humor, it's not meant to be taken seriously. It's just a very cool flick. Save your venom for Natural Born Killers or that Tarrentino dreck, Pulp Fiction.To summarize Payback is great fun. Rent it tonight! (And don't forget to smoke 2 packs of cigarettes while you watch it.) "},{"Title":"This is what it is all about!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is brilliant!  It is dark and twisted and beautiful all at the same time!  If they were more like this I might actually see some newer movies!  Mel Gibson shows his craft playing the best character I've seen in a while!  What a delightful and perverse experience!  "},{"Title":"Oh just give him the damn money, already!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson is true to form in his latest action flick, even though his character lacks the goofy charm of all of his previous characters.  Gibson's character, and in fact all of the characters in Payback, lack any redeeming qualities, and the film does not apologize for that.Gibson is Porter, a tough talking thug who, with the help of his drug addicted wife and his creepy friend, hijacks $140 000 from a band of mafia jockeys.  Later he is screwed out of his share when his wife and friend try to kill him.  Of course the plan is foiled and Porter is out for revenge. There isn't much I want to say about this movie, except that I found it rather dull.  The action moved along all right, but I cared so little for the characters (especially Gibson's) that kept losing interest.  There is lots of violence in this film, but none of it shocking and certainly none of it necessary.  I hate to say it but it seemed to me that the film makers were trying too hard.  For those who like nonsensical action pictures, this movie might prove satisfying, otherwise, don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"Violent but a Great Movie","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is a very violent movie more violent than it needs to be, but the outcome is a clever, funny, action-packed movie. I particularly liked what the director did with Gibson's character, he is one mean S.O.B. but at the end of the movie you end up rooting for the guy. (I guess thats why the poster says Get ready to root for the bad guy). "},{"Title":"Cool characters and a nobody's good story make for an enjoyable thriller.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson plays a very dark character compared to his previous movies, this time he's out for revenge and what, he feels, rightfully belongs to him, and he'll get it by whatever means necessary. The characters he encounters on his journey are intriguing, with a plethora of cracking actors lining up against him, and falling one by one. Lucy Liu, from Ally McBeal, is brilliant as an S&M prostitute and Kris Kristofferson is strong and imposing as the Mafia boss who'll stop at nothing for his own revenge. It's enjoyable and quite stylish, although it still seems to lack something to make it a blockbuster.  "},{"Title":"Wanna see a GOOD action movie? Watch Payback!","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are not lots of good action movies. Payback is an exception. Payback was not very violent (some people don't say so and I don't understand why) and the film was a huge focus on its extremely cool and various characters most of them played by BIG Hollywood names. The tagline says''Get ready to root for the bad guy''. I don't think it's right. Mel Gibson is playing a professional robber, but not really a bad and cruel guy. I guess they say bad guy because he's a robber...but he has feelings and he is funny. The story is EXTREMELY SIMPLE; a guy steals 14000 dollars and his associate(allied with Porter's wife) and the associate(which is one ofTHE BAD GUYS of the film)shoots Porter and thinks he is dead. And later, Porter steals a guy's wallet, buys a gun and goes back in town to get his money back(and kill his associate by the way). Like I said, Payback's good point is the characters, not the story. The scenario is cool and funny, and the atmosphere is creepy. I think this is a remake of the movie Point Blank, that was great too. Mel Gibson is'nt made to play a bad guy and it's pretty easy to see that. But, he is still a hero like another, but he has problems with police...a good movie, very entertaining. I give it 83%. "},{"Title":"No more mr. nice guy","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Payback Mel Gibson plays this bad guy Porter, who does everything to get 70 grand back from the criminals.It's not so easy job, so he needs the prostitute Rosie (Maria Bello) to help him. Payback is a dark movie filled with violence.Mel Gibson is great as Porter.He is an excellent actor in an excellent movie.  "},{"Title":"Mad Mel Murders Malicious Mobsters!","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess Mel Gibson was going for an image change in this one. In Payback he plays an anti-hero character with few if any redeeming qualities. He starts out by robbing a helpless beggar, pick pockets a passerby and runs up a stolen credit card. He then goes on to cold-bloodedly murder an assortment of Syndicate mobsters. Is this our Mel? Say it isn't so.Mean Mel aside, Payback is not a bad action movie. The plot is basically the Gibson character's (Porter) quest to recover the $70,000 that he feels the Syndicate has stolen from him. It matters little that HE stole it in the first place. Incredible as the plot may be, the action scenes are very well done.(I mean. how does a solitary figure get to all of these well fortified and protected mobsters.) It is a very dark movie with no real sympathetic characters. You really have to be in the mood for this one.Aside from Gibson, the supporting cast is quite good. Gregg Henry (reminding one of a younger James Caan) plays Gibson's double crossing partner. Maria Bello as a heart of gold prostitute, is the only real friend that the Gibson character has (any wonder). David Paymer is good as a sleazy drug dealer looking to move up in the Syndicate. William Devane, James Coburn (appearing unbilled) and Kris Kristofferson play mobsters at the various level of the Syndicate organization chart that Gibson encounters along the way. Bill Duke and Jack Conley appear as a couple of crooked cops.Don't look for a hero in this movie. It never rises from the gutter. Even though you expect Gibson to suddenly become a good guy, he never does. It's hard to believe that Gibson could cause all of the explosions and damage and commit all of these murders with nary an honest cop in sight.Okay now that you've had your fun, give us our old Mel back. "},{"Title":"A Good 'Black' Gangster Film","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson does 'Payback' after 'Ransom' and proves to be not only a good looking Hollywood star but a good actor as well. The plot is clear, there is a feeling of authenticity in the whole setting and some good humor too, much above the usual big studio movie. Good acting from the whole team. I liked the movie and I think you will like it too if you come with the right expectations. "},{"Title":"Much better than I had anticipated","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some friends showed up with a copy of this from the video store, and it turned out to be very good! The 1970's details are very thorough. Mel Gibson was good as a not very nice guy. Lucy Liu was hilarious. Hubba hubba hubba, indeed. This movie just oozes testosterone Kris Kristofferson, James Coburn, William Devane. Wow! Definitely a good rental value. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"      Any movie, where the doctor takes a huge slung of whisky before he operates is my kind of movie.  Then he pours the whisky over Porter, to clean his wounds, before he operates.  This film has style, and the casting is unbelievable, with actors asking so much money, it is hard to believe they got such a talented cast to do this movies.  Porter, Val, and the rest play such great parts, and the movies style, very 70's, is done in subtle ways. (aka roter phones) This movie could be a very routine, typical, bad guys movie, its style, wit, and intelligences makes it a strong movie.  Unlike, many action films it never insults the viewer's intelligences, and one becomes very involved in this film.  I will not ruin the story line; all I can say is rent it today.  "},{"Title":"A great throwback to the 40's","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  About the only drawback was Gibson's annoying romance with the hooker. Having her get dead by the end would've made it so much better. Then Porter could've driven off into the night with the wounded dog.Otherwise, this was a really fun noir.I give it 7.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"one viscious movie","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie you kind of get the feeling that the director was clenching his fist and grinding his teeth through the whole shoot and editing process.  Not only is this film violent (personally I've seen worse), but it's so damn... viscious! This film is supposed to have a humorous touch to lighten the pounding brutality. The humor is bleak and not very effective. The film seems like it tries to be brutal and funny at the same time. Not quite the perfect balance. Although in many scenes it is, but it's definitely more on the brutal side. Good movie though, just very brutal. It kept me interested, but definitely not the normal action fare. People compared this to Pulp Fiction except to call this the real deal, without all the witty humor. Just don't mistake this for a comedy. "},{"Title":"A depraved film","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot of people have complained that Mel Gibson was a poor casting choice for this role.  I actually think he was just right for the part, it's that no one wants to see good ol Mel portrayed this way.  The real problem is, _no_ one should have played this part.  Porter was bad.  Real bad.  Far, far worse than any of the people whom he killed, tortured, or simply put through hell.  The drug courier, for example.  Hey, delivers drugs, and he might have some useful information, so lets beat the crap out of him and rip out his nosering.  Some of the other bad guys  were more corrupt, but a couple never gave any signs of threatening Porter.  But they didn't have his money, so *Bang*.  I also think someone else had a good observation when they pointed out that there were _no_ bystanders anywhere in the movie.  I myself noticed when he blew the car up that this seemed a bit too visible.  But heck, who notices cars blowing up with the obvious perpetrator standing right next to them these days?  Realism was a bit out the window, and unfortunately, so was humanity.  A fairly well done movie that shouldn't have been made, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Great action flick...","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably Mel Gibsons best movie because of the action, the direction and the way his character goes from being a bad guy to being a semi good guy its a very nice touch to a great action movie not to mention the script was pretty well written. "},{"Title":"I was disgusted","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All in all, this film was gratuitous, and disturbing.  None of the characters are appealing, none of the plot twists are original and not a tiny bit of this film could be considered quality.  Skip this one and rent one of Mel's other films. "},{"Title":"Watch it and learn how to make film noire","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I were teaching a film-making class I would show this film several times and lecture about several facits of film-making this film does beautifully. The pace was right, not boring, not confusing.  Each scene was set up, was teased, the ending was falsely hinted, then Wham- you got your money's worth.  You were given just enough information to guess and misdirected so you guessed wrong.  But the misdirection was fair, you didn't feel cheated. Bam! Satisfaction.  Bam! Satisfaction.The framing was varied and interesting, using rear-view mirrors, overheads and (new) underneaths.  Pay attention to the very first scene great!The characters, their costume and makeup borrowed a lot from the live actor movie Dick Tracy. You won't mistake one of these for any other.  They are all charmingly bad.  We can also tell from the charms and outfits of the actresses that the director is a rear-end man, not a breast man.  The action borrowed a lot from Road Runner cartoons.Dialogue  You really appreciate the narrator.  Everyone had short, concise, snappy lines.  Good sound quality too.Oh, yeah.  I also just plain enjoyed watching it.  Fun. Wow. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good with a Dark, Film-Noir Feel","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented this movie expecting to kick myself later. I was pleasantly surprised. Mel Gibson plays a very dark, driven man seeking revenge. The characters are quirky enough to be interesting. The plot is predictable, but deep enough to hold your interest. I found myself really enjoying Gibson as a bad guy. A very bad guy. The first half of the film is wonderfully dark. Mel is crude and emotionless, a throwback to his Mad Max character. Unfortunately, the second half started to remind me of Mel in the Lethal Weapon series, as he became more personable and animated. Personally, I would like this film better if it had kept the bad Mel and dark tone for a more interesting ending.  "},{"Title":"Vengeance always tastes sweet. Just ask Porter.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everyone has revenge fantasies. But acting them out isn't very easy. I mean, would you risk death or prison sentences just to get even? But, there is one guy wouldn't give a rat's a** if he gets himself killed or imprisoned. His name is Porter (played brilliantly by Mel Lethal Weapon Gibson.) His buddy and wife back-stabbed Porter over an amount of $70,000, and our hero wants it back, no matter how big the heat is. Jeez, I wish I was that gutsy!!Payback is a great action flick. Sure, it might not have the same atmosphere as the Lethal Weapon films, but you're sure to have a good time with this one!! Gibson is delightfully rotten in a change of pace role for Mad Max himself. He beats, shoots, and swears the c**p out of his foes, leaving them with wounds they'll never forget they had. Watch for the scene how Porter physically torments a young dope-runner. You'd feel the pain, too! But don't feel sorry for him, he deserved it, messing with a brute like Porter!! "},{"Title":"Payback.. a must see!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Its a great story, theres nothing to comment on that. There is this guy(gibson) who makes a robbery with two of his friends, but they steal his part of the money and leaves him as dead...But he aint! So now its time for payback!!  Mel Gibson is sparkling as always,  A must see action movie!! "}{"Title":"A fun action pack movie","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Scarlett O'Hara once said that money was the most thing in the world; John Porter would certainly agree. John Porter goes on a violent quest for his money. His quest keeps getting him into trouble and corrupt cops want to take his money. This is the first time I have seen Mel Gibson play a criminal. John isn't like his character in the Lethal Weapon series but he does have a nasty edge. The beginning is a bit slow but once the movie gets rolling it gets rolling. A fun action pack movie with some weird characters; the Chinese lady seems to like pain a lot. The movie has many funny moments such as the part where he goes around stealing money from people.   "},{"Title":"Very realistic and cruel","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that reminds a lot the seventies classics. Mel Gibson plays the main character, a cruel thief who will do what takes to get his money. With a cast totally formed by actors who were famous in the seventies for these kinds of film (like Kris Kristofferson and James Coburn), Payback is original, and that is a lot, if we consider the trashes that Hollywood make nowadays. The cast is excellent, and Coburn is great, the scene in which Porter is tortured with a hammer, and Coburn's  character turns away his face in order to not see it is funny check it out the expression in his face!Better than Gibson's previous films, Payback is a violent and thrilling ride, shot with a dark, opressive and dirty photography (what makes it seems like a seventies crime-drama), characters that don't worth nothing (even the hero is , in fact, a Humphrey Bogart kind of anti-hero) and a sick plot. If you are looking for something interesting, this is a good option, but if you want a typical action flick, with impressive adventure scenes, stay away the action in Payback is just basic, although very cruel and realistic. "},{"Title":"Call me weird but I love films where all the characters are violent and bad people; it reminds me of my life.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great film.The last film I watched where every character was a bad guy was The Bad Leutenant (or however you Americans spell that damn word) but I didn't enjoy that really even though it was a good film; it was rather disturbing.This however was a breath of fresh air.  If I had my way, there would be plenty of movies where the bad guys win and the good dies die a horrible death because that's reality.  This is similar except there is a happy ending but hey...its a bad guy getting a happy ending so that's good enough for moi.Surprisingly, Mel Gibson is actually good in this.Mel re-cut this film from it's original and actually re-filmed parts....it would be interesting to see the Directors cut.Anyone got the phone number for the agency the Asian escort worked for in this film?  My kinda woman... "},{"Title":"Worst film I ever loved!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of course in this movie you know from the very beginning who is going to win. The only plot is a villain's achievement to get back his 70.000 Dollars. The dialogs are that cool, that they sometimes hurt your teeth. But Mel Gibson grew up. He is no longer the little boy with the sweet smile you have to love. This time he is the bad guy. That you love him nevertheless is acting at its finest. Brilliant James Coburn as gangster who can't see blood and is more interested in his crocodile-bags than in his life. Payback discovers a new kind of humor. It doesn't take itself too serious and so enables us to do so. Every detail is perfect in this movie. A masterpiece of action-entertainment. As the Times already said The worst film I ever loved.P.S. Sorry for my bad English. "},{"Title":"I like the good bad","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love Mel as the good bad. Great action with an interesting story. I find it especially interesting that there is no real good character in the whole movie. Just the life of an not so ordinary gangster. Great entertainment from the beginning to the end. "},{"Title":"Only the bad guys die.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good action flick borrowing some attitudes and styles from the 40's genre of individual tough guy films.  The premise was a bit outlandish...after all...how thick headed can a guy be?  Then again, why else choose Mel Gibson? But, if you're a sport and accept the premise, the ride is a lot of fun.  And the good guys (in this case the nicest of the bad guys and his babe) win!  Worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"An Absolute Cracker","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is an absolute cracker.  Everything about it oozes class.  From it's first rate cast (Headed by non other than Mel Gibson and the beautiful and talented Maria Bello) to it's witty dialogue and most importantly PLOT.  Even the bleached film stock adds a dark gritty edge to the movie.  Mel Gibson is absolutely flawless and pulls of the 'bad guy' image with aplomb.  It was also nice to see a movie where it just wasn't good against bad.  This was basically bad against bad, with all the characters having little or no redeeming features.  The viewer is left to root for the lesser 'bad guy' which adds to the attractiveness of this movie.  Highly recommended!!! "},{"Title":"my, my, ... what a dark movie...","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  what i mean with dark movie because this film is only containing the bad guy. and who is the good one? i don't know. porter is a robber. his wife shoot him. his friend is a jerk. porter's new girlfriend is a whore. he kill mafia etc. etc. then where is the good guy? ...mmh.. never mind. just forget about it. the important thing is this movie is nice and very, very entertaining. salute to brian helgeland.    "},{"Title":"Good movie but a copy","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this movie is a good copy of POINT BLANK, it is not as well done as the original. This movie was more comical and relies too much on the modern dependence on guns and explosions. For what it is, this is a very good movie but a copy is a copy is a copy. "},{"Title":"Typical Modern Violent Story","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My wife likes Mel Gibson, so we decided to view this picture. We both wish we hadn't.First of all, Gibson must be hurting for money to get involved in such a stupid, violent film. Very thin plot and plenty of violence. I was impressed with the lack of extras in this picture. There were car crashes, shootings, cars on fire, and buildings exploding. All this going on, and I saw NOT ONE bystander! Cameras pan back to show what's left of a burning car and there's not one person in sight. And all this noise occurs in the middle of a large city. Where is everyone?Don't waste your time or money on this. And my respect for Gibson has gone down a notch. "}{"Title":"yeah, i'm twisted.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i laughed so much in this movie, not because of the fact that it was poorly done because it was very well done, just because of the predicament of Porter. I mean, everything happened so perfectly, that it takes you along, you feel great about the movie and you laugh when he succeeds, you cringe at the pain, you feel the suspense of the final scene.. the movie envelops you, and maybe that's why i laughed so much, because it made me feel bad, so bad that i felt so good. its a great film, a feelgood comedy for the twisted, like me. =) "},{"Title":"Some shortcomings but still entertaining","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't say I didn't enjoy this movie, because I did. There are two things that bothered me, however, both having to with believability. First, it's hard for me to believe a person would go to such lengths for $140,000 (no, $70,000--good running gag).  Is he that angry? Financially desperate? Stupid? Or just has a strong set of values (in a supposedly bad guy)? Secondly, the ease with which he single-handedly infiltrates supposedly huge mob figures is hard to swallow. Exciting, yes. Plausible, no. But I suppose that's what action pictures are all about.One other note the dark cinematography was consistent and interesting, but became rather irritating over the course of the movie.Overall, interesting enough to be worth a look for most folks, especially Mel fans. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Violence, graphic, gore, blood, guts, anger, sadism, masochism, attempted rape, murder, insanity, the mob, explosions, beatings, animal attacks, revenge, lust, healing ... going back for more.Typical Mel Gibson.Take the most extreme moments from the Mad Max series and Lethal Weapon series and you have this movie. Who could ask for anything more?Well, my wife says there are no characters to like - including his, but that's the kind of thing women worry about. "},{"Title":"This what I call one of the Best.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  PAYBACK is one hell of a movie. The cast is great. The story is a bit weird ,, I mean you risk your life for only $70.000 ,,,.But it is Excellent..Mel Gibson's Best was BRAVEHEART, and this is his very best and I mean it. I truly liked this movie, and I am sure you would like it.you will remember this  Huba Huba Huba ..  "},{"Title":"Point Blank Remake?","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Am I the only one to see the resemblance? This is clearly a remake of the classic Point Blank (1967) with Lee Marvin as the Bad-Good guy.There's nothing wrong with stealing a movie, but at least be honest about it.About Mel Gibson as the Bad-Goodguy; he's done to much goody-niceguys in the past to portrait Porter in this movie. I would have love to see John Travolta as Porter.And I wonder how this movie would have been if Quinten Tarantino had directed it.In short Payback is worth the look, but what if.....Piet Walsma Holland "},{"Title":"Excellent film noir.","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you saw the trailers, you'd probably think this was some kind of Hollywood shootem- up, car chase action movie with no plot and all fluff. Wrong. Notice how they took some of the color out of the film, making it look like it was a 70's crime-drama. What was also clever is how they started it you see a guy drinking some scotch, next thing you know the rest is spilled out, more is poured in, and puts (what looks like) surgical tools in it. Bullets are about to be removed from Porter (Gibson), a guy who just wants his money back.This film relied more on smarts than action. In all, there were about three action scenes in the whole movie (without any car chases ). Eventhough everyone in the movie was bad, they focus more on Gibson, who is the lesser of two evils. His partner, Val (Gregg Henry) is a sadomasochist, and never contributed to stealing this money (when they got it from the Chinese money launderers) in the first place. Low and behold, Val has a debt to pay to the syndicate, and the money Gibson robbed will not be enough to split evenly. So, Porter's drug addicted wife (Debora Kara Unger) shoots him, and it starts right back to the begining, so he could narrow down the person who really has his money.Definitely recommended, esp. for fans of old-fashioned action/film noir. "},{"Title":"Paycheck","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oughtta call it Paycheck...cuz it appears that's what Mel cranked this one out for.Most of the reviews I've read here are from guys. Know why? That's the target audience. Young guys that don't have to think too much. Here's a film with no social redeeming values WHATSOEVER. It's a gory slugfest...and a borefest. Next time I go MYSELF to video store. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel  plays a thug who after getting two bullets in the back and having his his money wants revenge.Explosive combination of Violent action & comedy works well.A scene involving a sledge hammer is just brutal.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Plot of steel","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You won't find a tighter plot that runs at as high a pace, except maybe for Reservoir Dogs, which contained an equal of grit and blood.  Porter is a man of action, empty of morality, but mindlessly ethical in his dealings with the underworld.  Everyone in his path is given a fair chance to repay a debt, and all who resist are executed.  The storyline moves quick with fast turns, and contains all of the essential action components guns, bombs, babes, and dead people.  The beautiful thing about the movie is its complete lack of good-guys, making the violence somehow justifiable.  Every character is fantastic, owing to a great casting & direction.  It won't win any Oscars, but see it anyway. "},{"Title":"The Mel Gibson as a bad guy classic","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Congratulations to Mel Gibson for choosing such an earthy role. For those of us who are sick of his too-nice guy roles, Payback is a wake-up call. Porter is a man who does what he has to do, when he has to do it. His only flaw, weakness for a weak woman. He trusts a little too much. Still, the action is fast and the characters are heavy with real life. I especially enjoyed the tongue-cheek-humor and Gibson's almost deadpan portrayal of Porter. If Buster Keaton had been alive, this would have been his one action movie. Payback is a 10. Enjoy! "}{"Title":"excellent","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved it. There were a few deviations from the source novel, but I preferred most of the changes. The black humor of the first half was dead-on. Porter became more of a mainstream goodguy by the end (which was unnecessary) but a fine film none-the-less. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went into the film with the built up expectations that it was going to be a bad movie, but I was surprised to find out how good it was. Sure there was a lot of violence, but in the context of the movie it wasn't out of place.Mel Gibson's Porter is out to revenge himself against the man who stole his half of a robbery score, 70 thousand dollars. In order to get this he winds up having to go up against the entire Outfit. When he won't back off, they in turn go gunning for him. But Porter won't back off from the principle that they owe him the money. Nice performance by Gibson and Maria Bello, but the rest of the cast was just window dressing, wasting a lot of talent in overall meaningless roles. James Coburn, Lucy Liu, Kris Kristofferson, and John Glover are prime examples of this. "},{"Title":"A funny movie","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is a cool movie, there's nothing else to say about it.Actually, it's kinda like an action/comedy movie.  Well, it is actually what I call a relax action movie.  What I mean is that there's not like an action scene every 5 minutes.  The story is that Porter(Gibson) stole money from chinese guys with his partner and his wife, but they betray him and his wife shoots him.  A few months later, he wants his part of the money(70 000$) and is ready to do anything for it, even attacking a group of gangsters!The thing who's worth it is all the comic part.  All the characters in this movie are bad guys.  The most honest character is a prostitute who works for gangsters!  The actors are pretty funny(especially David Paymer as a little crappy drug dealer and James Coburn as a gay gangster who likes costumes).  Anyway, rent this movie for some good laughs and a good time.I give it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing. Mel kicks butt.","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So now we have Mel playing a bad guy. He really has almost no redeeming value. He's after other bad guys to get his money back but it really isn't even his money to start with. He stole it, and his partners screw him over. Now it's time for revenge and to get the money back.I was warned about this movie before I saw it. I had friends who were expecting the typical Mel Gibson Lethal Weapon type movie and were dissatisfied when they didn't see the good old happy-go-lucky guy they expected. Well I decided to watch it anyway. This is an excellent movie. I didn't have a problem with his character's impurity. Gibson's acting skills were not exactly pushed to the limit in this one, as they were in Ransom, but he did a great job anyway. The scenes with Lucy didn't hurt anything either. It was nice to see her somewhere else other than just Ali. Some of the details were a little unrealistic but hey, it's a movie.All in all this was an excellent action movie. I enjoyed it much more than LW4, except for the Jet Li parts. I gotta see more of his movies. He kicks butt. Anyway,,, if you don't live in Mr. Roger's neighborhood and can handle a little excitement, SEE THIS MOVIE&#133;  "},{"Title":"The bad guy","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  + =  Lot of violence, lot of action scenes, good story about revenge.  The hero is a bad guy.  It changes from the stereotypal good guy who always make good things.  Mel Gibson's character means of getting his money back is cool.  Also a nice sadomaso asian bitch.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"great, gritty story . . . too much violence!","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Aw, come on.  This could have been great.  Mel Gibson, William Devane, James Coburn and Kris Kristofferson in a crime thriller.  Awesome (sort of).  Mel is pretty good and the beginning of the story is excellent.  William Devane is sinister in one of his best performances (jeez, I haven't seen him around since the 70s).  But Coburn and Kristofferson (both very stylish in their roles) don't show up till the latter half of the film and only for a few scenes.  And by this time, the violence and torture and blood pools are so excessive that the film ceases to be very enjoyable.  Sure, it's funny and entertaining all the way, but Director Brian Helgeland should stick to great stories like, perhaps, the superb screenplay he adapted for LA Confidential.  Good film, but it wallows in too much violence. "},{"Title":"Ah... Okay. Mel Gibson is cool. So?","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It wasn't a bad movie, but it wasn't a good movie either. It wasn't boring, but it wasn't too exciting either.Mel Gibson is cool and he does lots of violent stuff. So this time he's not your average good-guy, he's a bad-good-guy. Some action, some suspense, a little and silly romantic sub-plot and that's it. Oh, and there's a dog in the supporting cast, which is a plus! But that's it.It's an ok popcorn movie, I guess. Lower your expectations and everything will be ok. "},{"Title":"Dark and grainy foray into the criminal underworld","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie first started out, I found myself asking, What the hell is this?'  Now, I usually know better than to expect the feeling of the trailer to be the same as the film, but Payback surprised me.  I thought that it was going to be a bit funnier, like Pulp Fiction.  It was not, but after I got used to the violence instead of comedy, I found it enjoyable.There were some funny scenes in it, especially with that Asian dominatrix (who by the way was a hottie...) Most scenes however left me with the word ouch on my lips.  Especially the part when Porter (Mel Gibson) puts a pillow over one of his many enemy's face as a silencer and shoots him.  Since I like dogs, the part where Rosie's dog gets shot made me uncomfortable.  There is also a character who gets off by beating up his women, which made me feel like jumping into the screen and killing him, but he gets his just desert.  If you can take the violence (comparable to Dirty Harry), it is a good, entertaining film.  The acting is good, especially in the quirks that Mel Gibson gives his character.  Be sure to get it on DVD, in fact, try to get most of your movies on DVD!  ***1/2 stars out of five.  "},{"Title":"Finally Gibson's a bad Guy","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have always wanted to see Mel Gibson as a bad guy, he always plays the good, noble, guy that always gets the girl and everything. But in this movie he is both. He got the girl, the money, and he wasn't the good guy. I would suggest this to all Gibson fans, if you thought his character was bad in Conspiracy theory, then rent Payback. "},{"Title":"At least I didn't have to pay $6.75 on the big screen","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At least I wanted to see it. Semi-mindless dark comedy action movie. Good to see Mel Gibson playing at least a quasi-bad guy. Still not as bad as Lethal Weapon 4 (major yawn).** of **** (5.0 of 10.0) "}{"Title":"Mel Gibson at his macheesiest","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson can take on-screen punishment.  Just watch the death scene in Braveheart and you will see what I mean.  In Payback Mel keeps getting his lumps, but nothing seems to faze him on his quest to recoup $70,000 from the outfit that stole it from him. This fact becomes a running gag in the film, because no one in it believes that he is risking his life for such a small amount of dough.  You won't either, as you will not believe a lot of what happens, but you will be entertained anyway, because Gibson himself is always fun to watch (even though he smokes WAY too many cigarettes). Far-out coincidences in the plot and the clever way that Gibson's character outthinks every adversary are what make this film worth seeing.  I gave it a rating of 7 out of 10.      "},{"Title":"Dangerously over the edge entertainment?","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really wished that I could enjoy PAYBACK even more.  While this film wants to be tough and lively, PAYBACK does not contain the competence to be considered a class thriller.  The well-meaning cast tries earnestly and several of the performers portray their characters with aplomb, but a weak script and sodden pacing spoiled what could otherwise be a splendid film.Porter (Mel Gibson) is not your average nice guy.  In fact, he is a cold-blooded soul who does not put up with anybody.  He has a proclivity towards beating up his rivals without thinking twice.  Mister Porter is a career murderer who has made a number of hits.  As a hitman though, he is ticked off at this very moment...After embezzling $140,000 from a local street gang, Porter and his partner, Val (Gregg Henry, in a wonderfully sneaky role) are in the money.  Just when Porter is about to be financially secured, he then finds himself shot and left to die by his villainous double-crossing partner.  What chicanery! Val furtively escapes trouble...but when Porter wants his 70 grand share back, he will gain his money back!  Recovering from his bullet wounds, Porter has barely any time to recuperate.  Instead, he must give his regards to Val.A bad attitude, a bad reputation...  What else does he have to lose? Well, Porter is out to make the ultimate payback.PAYBACK is not the type of movie that people would expect Mel Gibson to star in.  Porter is also not the typical Mel Gibson role that the audiences have come to expect.  With that said, Mel Gibson did a bang-up job starring as the bad guy.  Gibson seems to have the time of his life as an antagonistic hero.  He shoots first, and makes deals later.  Trust me, you do not want to cross paths with this culprit!  One fact is for sure You will be rooting for the bad guy!  Even if he breaks all of the rules...Some of the other actors and actresses were great too.  Lucy Alexis Liu gives a killer performance as a pretty sadist who delivers pain for pleasure.  You also have to adore her outfit of pure S & M style!  Gregg Henry is deviously wily as the cheating ex-friend turned worst enemy. The roster of odd characters also add spice to this movie.  There are a pair of crooked cops (Bill Duke and Jack Conley), a nervous drug-dealer (David Paymer), and a street-wise friend of Porter's, Rosie (Maria Bello).Even though several of the performances were grimly on the money, sadly, I cannot say the same praises for actors Kris Kristofferson and James Coburn. Their considerable talents are rendered pointless in their nominal roles as a millionaire and a syndicate boss, respectively.PAYBACK has more drama than the typical shoot 'em up.  One interesting point about this movie is that it avoids the clich ambivalence of a professional hitman and his self-consciousness.  Instead, this movie chooses to focus on a character who wants revenge just for two reasons the money, and to keep face.PAYBACK features lots of snappy one-liners, sassy characters, and a couple of nifty explosions.  Yet...it manages to still be kind of boring.  While PAYBACK is a nice change of pace for this actor, Mel Gibson, the film itself is not at all memorable.  PAYBACK wants to be dangerously entertaining, but it is more dangerously dull.  It is unfortunate that a slack pace can discourage viewers from maintaining interest in this movie.  PAYBACK is also not as sleek as the movie aspires to be.  This film also aspires to be a film noir type thriller, but it is neither provocative nor atmospheric. To add insult to injury, he action scenes were simply too phlegmatic.  The screenplay itself, though rife with scathing dark humor, never takes the time to fully develop its characters' personalities into entities that are even remotely captivating (save a few characters).This picture is also unrelentingly mean and dreadful at times.  PAYBACK is an immensely grim and dark movie, but it is not executed with a lot of flair.  It seems that everywhere throughout this movie, the darkest colors always have to predominate the backgrounds!  This film's prevalent gloominess is meant to give it mood, but instead of surrealism, we have tedium.  This movie is just so depressingly dark!In short, PAYBACK tries to be stylish and gritty, but there is not nearly enough insight and mood to keep this film intriguing.  It is not remarkably good I must warn you, but it is not atrociously bad either.  This film is made endurable thanks to Gibson's performance of pure callousness. Mediocre at best, let's just say that the attributes and foibles balance each other out...This film is not a disgrace.  In fact, I commend Mel Gibson for his portrayal as a criminal brute.  However, I personally do not think that this is Gibson's most suited role.  He should stick to being a fun-loving protagonist.  PAYBACK definitely was not the film that I hoped it would achieve.  The action scenes are shoddily directed and though there are a few breakthrough performances, PAYBACK is just not the prime thriller that it has so much destined to be.  If you like a morbid sense of humor, then by all means...RATING ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson a bad guy!!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie. Mel Gibson plays Porter who had 70 million until his friend shot him and now he's out for revenge on him. I loved the scene where he shoots the japanese people in the van that was a cool action scene. The poor dog he was cute and he was shot but good thing though he lived. This is a good movie especially if you are a die hard Mel Gibson fan. I give this movie 3 *** stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Dark, fun, but flawed.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the add for payback, I knew this would be a thrill ride. I was right.  Right from the beginning the movie gripped me in the dark, unforgiving mood the story was put in.  I enjoyed the fact that Porter was a merciless, cold blooded character that would stop at nothing to get his $70 grand, which was very different from most movies typical main character. The only problem with the movie I had was that Porter seemed to become a nicer guy on his path to get the money, which made his bad guy character seem like typical hollywood hero.Filled with action, humor, and a great cast like James Coburn, William Devane, and Kris Kristofferson, Payback is an ABSOLUTE rent and would make a great addition to a video collection when it comes out to buy.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Upon seeing the previews for Payback, I began watching this film with low expectations.  Although it looked intriguing, I thought it would fall flat on its face.Surprise, surprise.  Payback wasn't all that bad.  Mel Gibson plays the bad-boy thief role quite well.  There could have been a few writing decisions that would have made this remake a hell of a lot better, but all in all, it wasn't a disappointment.The action scenes were done in the spectacular Die Hard style, with car crashes and explosions that would make Bruce Willis and Sylvester Stallone proud.  Payback is a fun film.  If you're expecting Oscar-winning performances, you'll be disappointed.  If you're expecting a fun film with lots of noise and a bit of that Mel Gibson wit we have all grown to love over the years, this film is for you.There was one scene with a ton of inconsistency (I won't give anything away here, don't worry) when a gun was in someones throat, and every time the scene changed angles, the gun was raised.  When it changed angles again, the gun was back...and forth..and back...although the person's arm never moved... hmmm - strange.All in all, if you're in need to see a film this weekend, and you've already spent $50 on The Blair Witch, take a seat and see Payback.  You'll learn to love the bad guy.RATING  3.5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good Mel Gibson Entertainment","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like most Mel Gibson movies, this one is very entertaining. Despite its decidedly mean tone, it is funny and very watchable. Though Gibson fails somewhat as a the Eastwood- esque tough guy, he still has that I'm not gonna lose attitude from Lethal Weapon that, accompanied by his charm, makes for a really fun character. Other than that, the movie has little to offer, but if you're in the mood for Mel and some good butt- kicking, see this one. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some funny scenes and the sexy Lucy Liu can't save this film.  Dark and dull is the best way to describe it.  The dialogue tries to be cool, but fails miserably.  I guess Mel needed something to do between Lethal Weapons.  "},{"Title":"Most entertaining movie I have seen in years","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film.  Mel Gibson is great as the anti-hero, he's got the coolness down pat.  The dialogue is passable, and has some genuinely funny moments.  It's not for everyone, and the lack of a true-blue hero will no doubt turn some people off.  One thing is for sure It is a lot more entertaining than Titanic.  "},{"Title":"A watchable, but not too original amalgamation of anti-hero genres","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a realtively weak, although very watchable attempt to recreate a combination of the anti-hero genre; films such as the classic anti-hero films that made actors like Cagney a star; the 70's anti-hero-tough-guy-out-for-himself movies (the coa la Bronson); and the modern day, noir-ish anti-hero of Tarantino, Cohen, and Rodriguez.The plot never attempt to bring anything new to the idea of the anti-hero, nor any of the genres themselves. Furthermore, the plot and its characters seem torn between black comedy and the grit of the tough-guy action-drama.Characters played Cagney, Eastwood and Bronson were often made more appealing by inserting terse, clever lines of dialogue that managed to illicit chuckles while maintaining the character's persona. In Payback however, the humor is based around the complete buffoonery of every non-Gibson character in the movie, who follows each display of bumbling with a flat, predictable one-liner.Some of the more interesting characters in this movie such as Pearl and her asian mafia/triad/whatever group are never developed enough; other characters are developed more than necessary.And finally, Gibson himself brings nothing new to this role. Like any other film of his, he's beaten up repeatedly, yet manages to do more damage to everyone else. As a result there's little to no surprise, let a lone drama or even comedy, when Gibson gets himself into one mess after another.Gibson fans will likely enjoy this movie; undemanding viewers will find it watchable. Fans of the anti-hero, noir or tough-guy genres of movies however, will find it flat and bland.For Gibson fans, this movie may indeed be a rare  "},{"Title":"entertaining, with lots of clever twists","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why this movie didn't do well at the boxoffice; it's far better than the lame Conspiracy Theory. Mel's character in this one is a departure from his usual friendly everyday Joe.  And although the plot at first seems simple, it actually contains a number of clever plot devices that, in all, makes this an entertaining movie to see. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Action film!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the previews for Payback it didn't seem like it would be a good movie.  I was wrong!  It was wonderful.  Mel Gibson gives another wonderful performance as Porter, a bad guy who just happens to be the good guy.  Payback had some of the best characters I had ever seen from Val to the crooked cops.  The movie was really funny too, the best part was when Mel Gibson shoots James Coburn's aligator suitcase.  There's not much to the plot except for Porter getting his 70 grand back, but it's the action that makes this movie exciting.Rating ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Typical Mel","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the Mel Gibson my wife and I like.  He is more like the character from Lethal Weapon I, not the other sugar coated Weapon episodes.  Good plot and action. They need more like this one. Make another one. "},{"Title":"Mel is just plain mean!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this dark comedy. I love Mel Gibson films. He plays the part of Porter so wonderfully in this film, that I can't think of any one else playing the part. He dishes out so much pain and torture in this film, yet making the violence come off a funny.   "},{"Title":"A Great Character Action-comedy","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is another one of those movies that I think is close to a modern-day classic, but that others seem dismiss rather quickly. The film appealed to me more as a great character action-comedy as opposed to a tough revenge drama.Mel Gibson plays Porter, a quiet yet consistently MEAN crook whose after the $70,000 he would've gotten had he not been shot and left for dead by his mobster best friend and his cheating wife.I'm going to give Payback even more esteem by saying that it's one of the ten best movies of the year to date. It takes risks, has its own style (everything seems to be in either black, gray, white, or, quite often, red), and everybody in it really does a good job at becoming their character. I thought it was a great film. Rated R. 110 minutes. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"In this case, Payback is not a...","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You know what paybacks are, right?  So does anybody who stands in the way of Porter and the $70,000 that was stolen from him.Fresh off a lackluster 4th installment of the Lethal Weapon series, Mel Gibson returns in Payback as the bad guy Porter.  That's right, a bad guy. Gibson's character is a murderous thief who will do anything to get his loot back.  But considering that he's up against a double-crossing partner, crooked cops, a vicious syndicate, and every unsavory character in this film (yes, every character in this film is unsavory), one tends to side with this bad guy in his quest.Payback is often violent, yet sometimes funny.  The early scenes in the movie drag on, but the rest of the movie almost make you forget about having to sit through the beginning.  Those looking for good action won't likely find this Payback to be a...well, you know.Rating 7 "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson can do it all!!!","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a big Gibson fan and when I heard that he played a bad guy with a capitol B, I looked forward to see it, because I could imagine that he would be great in a character like that...and I was right!! He is a cold killer, with a comment for everything and he fears nothing. See the movie...you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Film Noir Revenge","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Anti hero Porter (No First Name) shows that if your wife and partner in crime shoot you in the back they should make sure that you are dead.  He cool talks and bad walks his way through a crime organization known as the outfit.  When he is through with them every one would have been happier if Porter just got left alone "},{"Title":"Is it worth $70,000?","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why would he do it? Why would Porter, Mel Gibson's character in Payback, go through all this trouble for a seemingly small amount of cash? Simple. This is fun for him. There can be no other good reason. Payback is a wonderful and stylish remake of a 1960's film called Point Blank. While Payback is the more violent of the two, it is also the more entertaining. Point Blank was a great movie, but I just can't help but like a movie that can make me cringe (This from someone who watched Dawn of the Dead and the Thing without even blinking) "},{"Title":"Surprise","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback. The definition of Action Movie. Wow, I didn't hear a thing about this movie. I got a chance to check it out at the dollar flick, well worth it. I was interested in seeing it when I saw in Imdb that Gibson was in it. I would have rated it higher if it would have been more believable. But, as I said well worth the dollar to see the flick.  "},{"Title":"Remake","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was worried about Payback, as it is a remake of a wonderful 1969 film, Point Blank (Lee Marvin). I entered the theatre with very low expectations, but was pleasantly surprised. Payback retains the feel, and dark quality of its source material, yet is less Avant Garde. It skips the montage, and endless flashbacks of the original. "}{"Title":"Why waste two toes when you knows that the bad guys will walk in to a bomb???","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was cool. It kind of woke up the spirit of the 80s guy movies with a lot of unnecessary voilence. Mel Gibson does what he usualy does. Coughs, throws up blood and keeps screaming stuff like '' Uuuuhhh '', '' Gaaaahh '' or '' ouuugghh ''. For once the bad guys really are creeps. It feels terrible to say it but you really laugh when the slimy, nasty and cocky bad guys dies. For Gibson-fans this is a must see. I am not so i give it a * * * out of * * * * *   "},{"Title":"Good guy play bad guy","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, my view to this film was that it a very good film. Mel Gibson wastes no time with the bad guy, just like Clint Eastwood in Dirty Harry. The film is just focus on Mel Gibson and how he try to get his money back. The impresion I had on to his charactor is that he is very-hard and wastes no time with chit-chat. Best bit was when he had his toes crushed by the bad guy. "},{"Title":"Hubba Hubba Hubba!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is a great movie. It's got lots of action just how I expected. Yeah it was very violent. I expected the action to be a little bit more like Lethal Weapon but I don't complain cause there was great action.Though it's stupid to mess with the mob for 70 grand. Also when he kidnapped the boss's son he could have asked for more than a million dollars. But that stubborn b*****d keeps asking for only 70 grand.I really liked this movie and I hope Mel Gibson keeps playing the tough guy cause he's got at it. I give this movie an 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Tough-guy fare","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There used to be a whole genre of movies about tough thugs who spent more time taking punishment than dealing it out.  That time is past, but if you're into that sort of thing, here's a throwback to those days.  Despite Gibson's appearance here, this is no better than any of those old B-grade flicks, but it's no worse either.  It's meat and potatoes action fare from twenty years ago. "},{"Title":"I went to this movie with bad feelings about it, but when it was over i realized this movie rocks","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really did not want to see this film in the beginning because I'm not much of a Mel Gibson fan, but my dad wanted to see it, so i did. After the movie i was so glad that i saw this film. I've seen other Mel Gibson films but this one is the best. It had the same feel as another movie i enjoyed, Out of Sight. The characters were great and the movie is action-packed and very humorous.Mel Gibson playing the anti-hero was a change. He did the part very well and you enjoy every moment he is on screen. Maria Bello was also good as his Callgirl-fling. She has great screen presence and we should see her in more films. The movie surprised me so it gets *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Well... What can I say...","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think I laughed more than I got excited about the movie... It was cool... but the overrated hero is not exactly what I expected... I think it could be more money involved; You know... 100,000 or 200,000... 70,000 were to less. Now, In the good side... The man is coolblooded, killing big gang guys with no remorse... Great... Gibson again...7/10 "},{"Title":"You really do root for the bad guy","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Performances were great, script/story was better, cinematography was excellent, and just everything about this movie seemed right.I know you've heard, but everyone is the bad guy in this flick. The closest good guy is Rosie, a call girl Gibson falls in love with before his double-cross. But the heart of the movie is mainly that fact and, of course, Gibson himself. I don't think there is another actor in the known world who could've pulled this role off as good, or better. Just the look of them film is worth a watch, and you get a good movie along with it.The scene that made me cringe was the torture scene. The sound, mixed with what was going on, gave a real evil feel to it. Gibson is a great physical actor as well as a jokester, which is where the fun comes in at. He steals from the poor and steals from the rich in a very funny way. He barely cracks a smile, but you learn to love him by the last scene. This may very well make my top ten. "},{"Title":"One hell of a movie!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although Payback has opened several weeks ago, I decided to wait until now to watch it. It was crowed in its release. Now I understand why.This is one of Mel Gibson's best movies yet. I heard a lot of americans claiming the movie to be excessive violent. I don't agree with that statement. Payback has as much violence as any Mel Gibson movie, which is very much normal.This is the first Warner Bros. movie I've seen starring Mel Gibson, which doesn't involve director Richard Donner. (all of Mel Gibson's previous Warner Bros. movies were directed by Richard Donner)The story and plot-line are excellent. This is a typical Mel Gibson movie. A mixture of action, drama, life and a lot of comedy. I laughed out loud in the movie, especially when the scene involved Val's japanese hooker getting hit by someone. The part which Mel set the Outfit's car on fire was also incredible and extremely funny.This is an excellent movie. Probably as good as any Lethal Weapon or even Conspiracy Theory. Too bad it will be forgotten when Star Wars The Phantom Menace is released. "},{"Title":"Payback puts new twists on an old theme effectively","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is Director&Screenwriter Brian Helgeland's debut film and it is a familiar story of revenge told in a new and interesting way.Payback tells the story of a man named Porter (Mel Gibson) who when stealing money from a group of men he is double crossed by his partners who leave him for dead and take his share of the money. When Porter awakes he is obviously annoyed and extremely determined to get his $70,000 back and is willing to go through extraordinary circumstances to get his money back.Payback stars Mel Gibson (who like John Travolta) is able to be a Hollywood big time face and still star in some good films in which he is very credible.Gibson had impressed me three times before this picture when he starred in 3 pretty good films Maverick,Ransom and The Man Without A Face. Not only were those suprisingly good films for Hollywood Blockbuster standards but Gibson was able to deliver three very good performances.This film's main story when you think about it is not an entirely original one as I have often seen the theme of a anti-hero looking to pay revenge to someone. This is the storyline used in a few Clint Eastwood and James Woods movies. Films like Cop are a good example of the revenge theme.But what Payback does and rather ingeniously is it is able to tell its unoriginal story in a way which to the untrained viewer seems very original and even to the suspecting viewer you are not disappointed as the new twists to an old theme are strong enough to make a good film.Payback does this by making the Gibson character the traditional anti-hero hero but only with a few new twists because this time the character is a lot more direct to the point e.g. when a gun is pointed at him because he knows this is probably just a threat he grabs it off him.There are many other great moments which reveal his character which I will not give away.The film also manages to be very humorous in a conventional way and a dark way getting most of its humour through violence.One of the films funniest character's is a Japanese hooker who is very much a sado mashocist and the way she plays the character is very amusing.The movie however does have a few problems which keep it from being a total success, such as just around the half way point there are a few cliched moments such as Gibson's relationship with an old girlfriend who happens to be a hooker with a heart of gold.Maria Bello is unable to bring any credibility to her character and because of this nearly every scene with her in it are very lame and do spoil the movie a tad.But despite a few weak scenes Payback is a very good film which succeeds through excellent humour and a fun original style which puts excellent twists to an old theme and it also features James Coburn in an amusing cameo.3/5  "},{"Title":"Another surprisingly good Mel Gibson film.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gibson has pretty much become typecast as the crazy guy who doesn't listen to authority and does things his own way. This film is little different except that he is now playing a bad guy (in that he is a robber and ex-pimp). Even batting for the other team, the style has remained the same.Fairly obvious is that this was written for Gibson, only perhaps Bruce Willis could have played the role as well.Definitely a case of style over substance, but it is an entertaining action film, and it seems that is all it was supposed to be, so in that sense, it is a good film because it acheived what it set out to do. "}{"Title":"Opinionated description & praise of a well enjoyed movie!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Fantastic! A top calibre movie. It is strange to see Mel Gibson as the 'bad guy' - but you can't help taking a liking to his 'shady' character. The film is action packed, some of it very violent and guaranteed to make you flinch. (Watch out for the 'little piggies' and a sledgehammer!)The plot is easy to follow but compelling. There are no scenes that are too far out and there's a smattering of humour too; just at the right places.One of the few films I have seen lately that seemed to pass in ten minutes. "},{"Title":"Smart, stylish, slam-bang entertainment.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Remaking Point Blank could have been an intimidating task, but the makers brought a fresh, dynamic, ultra-violent 90's feel to it.  Gibson is terrific as usual, just always watchable.  Great supporting cast.  There are some very funny scenes and the plot is cleverly drawn up with some neat twists. Solid entertainment with a smart, 60's throwback soundtrack. Good use of washed-out colours for Chicago scenery after the attack. "},{"Title":"Seventies movie in new clothes","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, here, the novelty is that the hero is a bad a**, and everybody's corrupt. What's new ? Look further than Tarantino  in Point Blank, Marvin was also a pure killing machine (with artsy seventies psychedelia thrown in) ; in the novels, Parker (not Porter, see the difference.) is a mix between James Cagney and King Kong, in one word, the worst PR nightmare before Dan Quayle. Also, see the seventies Blaxploitation movie and especially the marvelous Coffy  and you call Payback nasty ? The twist was that everything wasn't to be taken seriously (compare it to 8 mm - noir with a self-righteous approach)  the humor works at different levels, and I would in a way compare it to a noirish Get Shorty. So the violence can't really be effective and, as some other user said judiciously, is on the level of a Tom & Jerry cartoon  everybody attacks Porter at the same time - twice in the movie ! Though this movie is far from being a masterpiece or even a great film, I found it quite entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Nasty, no holds barred action","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First let me say that I like films with a good bad guy. So I was really looking forward to Payback. And I wasn't disappointed at all. Apart from a forced beginning and an ending that looked a bit out of place, it was nasty, dark and gritty dispersed with the usual Gibson humour.I honestly can't make any comments about the level of violence in the film. It's pretty high, but; a. I don't pass around in criminal circles so I can't say if it is out of proportion; b. apart from the sadism scenes, it did have a function and made sense if you look at the characters in the film.Concluding I can say that if you're into hard, in your face, nastiness you're going to like this film. Otherwise convince your friends to see something else. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly amoral, but I liked it....","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson is back in form in a movie which plays to his acting strengths (winning smile, slightly psychotic, the odd one-liner). The supporting cast is also good within the context of the movie and there are amusing(?) cameo pieces from some famous faces. On the down side the plot is pretty predictable.  "},{"Title":"Violent, humorous, no point.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  6/10. This is the style of film that I default to; action/adventure. It is on the violent side of the norm' (it is an 18) but not sickeningly so. The violence is mostly given a Hollywood glamour except where it comes from the main character. Mel manages a 'reservoir dogs' type of casualness when he pulls out his shooters.There is a large dose of farce in the script. The bad guys persist in offering 130 grand even though Porter (played by Mel) only asks for 70. The chinese mafia appear as bungling fools. The sado-masochistic prostitute is plain silly.There is no social comment, little plot or mystery, no exploration of the character's nature, ie; no point to the movie. Though most of the humour worked well this was not a sufficient counterpoint to the high level of violence. I was entertained though because Porter is a rounded character with some redeeming features that allow you to care about him. Just.Only go to this movie if you are a regular and you like the style. If you are a Gibo' fan; be careful. Porter is not a hero but a social parasite. If you go expecting Lethal Weapon you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could be better","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A standard thriller, where all the characters happen to be bad guys. What bothered me about this film is that everybody seems so smart, but they do some very stupid things, like the bombers that let Porter blow up their car, for instance. Porter too can penetrate unarmed the inner sanctum of the gang boss, but lets himself be caught several times. Not very coherent, is it. Another detail that bothered me, because it seemed completely unnecessary, is the period setting. The action seems to happen around 1970 you see dial phones, a $2.98 bill at the bar, etc. All this is unnecessary, since that period makes no difference in the film, but keeps one distracted looking for anachronisms, instead of concentrating on the plot. Also, how much would those $70000 be worth today? Seventy grand in the thirties would let one retire comfortably; today they would be nice, but you would still need a job. How about the time when the film is supposed to happen? One gets no clear feeling about how much that money is really worth. Ho hum, if you are a big Gibson fan, or if you like thrillers, go see this film, but if you won't lose too much if you don't. I give it a six out of ten. "},{"Title":"Despite the hardcore violence, amusing and entertaining.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story of Porter (Gibson) is simple. He almost gets, but he comes back to take revenge.Gibson plays a bad guy, but the audience can understand his violent actions. At some points in the movie you can compare Gibson with Philip Marlowe or other private eyes, but remember he is on the wrong side of the law. Gibson's opponents are portrayed as extreme stereotypes, which adds some humor to this grim film. I enjoyed Payback, which demonstrates that I've gotten used to extreme violence in movies. But I wouldn't recommend it to kids under 16 yrs.  "},{"Title":"Tough-as-nails masterpeice","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  70-grand is all that pours richly and menacingly from Mel Gibson's lips as he brings fire, poise, and a hell of a lot of coldness to his character Porter.  Give Gibson ANY role be-it warm and caring, to a down-right mean @^&*%!, and he will pull it off with the greatest of appeal and fierce energy.  He just has that gift of versatility and eyes that could eat through the toughest of steel.This film is in a word, mean.  Don't worry, though.  It is done with a sleek, streamlined style that you just eat-up as you go.  There are plenty of films that pretend to be mean, but take my word for it, this one kicks the hell out of the competition effortlessly.  The direction, cinematography, and writing are solid with a very good supporting cast of William Devane, Kris Kristofferson, and Maria Bello (with an especially entertaining cameo from James Coburn).  If you are ambivalent towards violence and pure meanness, this isn't for you; but if you are like the rest of us who get a kick out of Mel Gibson cracking skulls like eggs, go see it. It's definitely the first solid film of 1999.  "},{"Title":"Revenge can be a wonderful thing","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  PAYBACK **** (out of 5 Stars) Starring-Mel Gibson, Gregg Henry, Mario Bello, David Paymer, Kris Kristofferson and William Devane Director-Brian HelgelandOh, what a tangled web we weave. Small-time crook Porter (Mel Gibson) is in quite the pickle - after a heist of $140,000 from an Asian Mob, his partner Val (Gregg Henry) and wife (Deborah Kara Unger) shot him twice in the back and left him for dead. They did not plan, however, for him to recover afterward with the aid of a street corner doctor. Now, Porter is out for revenge and the sum of $70,000, his agreed payment in the robbery gone awry.Ahh, revenge can be a wonderful thing. And it is with Payback, a rather ingenious film-noir thriller that is sprinkled with tidbits of action, comedy and suspense. It's a loose remake of the 1967 movie Point Blank, starring Lee Marvin, which I have never seen. Nonetheless, I am quite sure that this updated version has more tricks up it's sleeve than it or any other thriller for quite some time.Director/co-writer Brian Helgeland has put somewhat of an Elmore Leonard-ish spin on his newest piece of work. There's hints of Reservoir Dogs, Out of Sight and other titles related to the Quentin Tarintino genre. Call it Pulp Fiction Lite -  you'll find it on the grocery shelf next to Spam. Fortunately, there are many agreeable twists that action fans are really going to enjoy, and Gibson supporters will be so utterly pleased with the film they will be calling him a saint. That is, if first they can get around the violence-level, which is rather high on the chart. But it really isn't as graphic as some critics have stated; the only real nose-turner is a torture scene involving a mini-sledgehammer that leaves most everything to your imagination.> There's  much for Porter to contend with, including the Asian mob lead by Ally McBeal's Lucy Lui, who is humorous in her black-leather role. The movie also gives Gibson his best role since Braveheart, supplying him with many funny one-liners and hinting marvelously at his suicidal Martin Riggs' character in the original Lethal Weapon. Surrounded by past stars having a lot of fun, Gibson brings some kind of endearing charm to his murderous bad guy, one that makes Payback all the more enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Payback isn't for all tastes!!!","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  PAYBACK is a dark, twisted film.  Mel Gibson plays a hoodlum who will stop at nothing to get back the $70,000 that was stolen from him.  He'll shoot and kill anyone in his way.  As such, this isn't exactly a feel good film. However, a delicious performance by Gibson, as well as others, and a simple, yet effective plot make PAYBACK a winner.  It is very violent, and this is a much darker Mel than you're used to, but I've got to give the filmmakers credit, because they didn't cave in to the audience.  In fact, I'd expect this film to offend quite a few people.  It was different(at least for Mel), and it was very well made(looking appropriately gritty). GRADE  B+ "},{"Title":"I want MY money back!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After suffering through this rage-fest which pretends to espouse the principle of justice, I felt I needed to take a shower.  The unrelenting violence in the pursuit of regaining money he had stolen in the first place, made me question what Mel Gibson was thinking.  I realize that, in our culture, violence sells, but I had thought Gibson was better than that. The complete amorality of every character in the film boggled my mind, and I did not, as they suggested, root for the bad guy.  I was, however, tempted to get a gun and go after Mel to get my $7.50 back.  After all, it's not the money, it's the principle that matters. "},{"Title":"Works as Neither Comedy Nor Thriller","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It has been reported that Mel Gibson forced the director of this utterly meaningless film to make the ending kinder. What I want to know is who forced Mel Gibson to act in this piece of trash in the first place?I know, I know, violence is hip these days, violence is cool. I'm older than the average moviegoer, and I admire Tarantino. I loved the coen Brothers Fargo. I thought Silence of the Lambs and Seven were about the two best thrillers of the 90s. I even found 8MM to be good because it raised issues about what the truth can do to people and about what happens when basically good people go where they should not.This is not the Mel Gibson of the wonderful Mad Max movies. Get real! A man battling for survival in a post-wwIII world is not to be compared to a sleazy con man who wants his frigging $70,000 back. How can one be out to right a moral wrong when one is totally corrupt morally? It makes no sense.It certainly doesn't work as comedy, except for those who are so insensitive to the feelings of others that the laugh out of some sadistic need.This movie reminded me of something out of the novel Brave New World. In one scene, the main character goes to the movies. He says he saw a newsreel in which a boatload of people trying to escape to freedom, were shot by police in helicopters. He remarked that the audience laughed loudly.I do wonder how Mr. Gibson explained his presence in this movie, which is nothing but a pricey tribute to violence, to his six children.I am in the movie business and occasionally a film comes out that makes me ashamed of this industry. This was one of them. "},{"Title":"Cool. Supercool.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The best movie so far this year. Stunning Mel Gibson who is Mr. Cool himself. A must see. Not for wimps. "},{"Title":"Great movie, great action, Mel Gibson at his best once again","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was awesome.  The action was great, the acting was  excellent (especially for an action movie), innovative plot, really funny, overall really well done.  Mel Gibson plays the  part of a tough bad ass really well.  Mel is definitely keeping his good reputation with this movie.  I highly recommend you see  it, definitely worth the money. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson is a badass","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" They're right.  You really do root for the bad guy in this movie.  Porter (Mel Gibson) is a sadistic bastard who gets screwed over by his friend and his ex-wife, and spends the rest of the movie trying to get his money back from a big-time crime family.He's ruthless.  Utterly ruthless.  He's a complete badass, and he doesn't need sinister music or big explosions to do it.  He's a badass just walking down the street.This is a real rollercoaster of a movie - full of action and an absolute blast to watch.  It barely lets you up for a breath of air.  "},{"Title":"Disgusting, gratuitous violence.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Violence for violence sake.  EVERY scene.  I couldn't stomach this movie and left after 30 minutes.  My husband was surprised I lasted that long. Reading other people's comments I'm glad we left when we did.  What really disgusted me is that parents brought little kids to this movie!  "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE OF THE 90'S","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A remake of Point Blank & the 5th Richard Stark based movie, this is the best of all of them.  The screenplay has been updated to the 90's.  Mel Gibson & the stars with cameos, do more than justice to the original novels. I wanted to see it again, immediately afterward.   "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson destroys his enemies in this shocking, violent film...","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback  is an exceptional film. Owner of an enviable rhythm, excellent actors, a precise and well-written script and a great direction, Payback  marks for showing actor Mel Gibson in a very different characterization than his fans are accustomed to see. In this film, he is Porter, a cold , cruel and bad until his medulla, a man who is not afraid of anything!however, Porter ends being deceived by his wife and his best friend, he got shot and left to die, after an assault. His wife and his friend flee with the money, and they leave him close to death. Porter escapes and begins to plan his revenge. Payback  is an extremely innovative film, and as people could conclude, it isn't nor a little similar to the series  Lethal Weapon , on the contrary, Payback  is populated by merciless and unscrupulous criminals, it has a distressing and oppressive climate, almost enhanced by the picture in black-and-white, an agile assembly and memorable scenes. Based on the book  The Hunter , that was already filmed by John Boorman, with Lee Marvin, Payback  follows the original plot with fidelity in certain moments, but when it reaches the end, it strays completely of the premise of the book.  Payback  was very criticized and it divided the opinions. I think the film is nothing else than a crime-drama that revisits the works of the seventies, that seems to really have been filmed in the past, saying in a better form, the film rescues the feeling that  Point Blank  and  The French Connection  offered us! The film is extraordinary, watch it!if you liked Sharky's Machine , with Burt Reynolds, or  liked Hard Time , you cannot lose this film! Get ready to root for the bad guy!! "},{"Title":"A Great Send-up","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure that Mel intended it, but Payback is a human version of a Tom and Jerry cartoon. It represents a send up of all the violent revenge films. In scene after scene he is demolished by some fatal attack and he bounces right back. What Bronson did with a straight face  Payback  goes a step farther and dares you to laugh. The villainy of Paymer, Christoferson, et al is delicious. The picture laughs at itself, the genre, and you have to laugh right along with it. A must see to my way of thinking.  "}{"Title":"Mel at his baddest best!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson does such a terrific job playing the bad guy Porter in 'Payback', he seriously makes the tagline 'Get ready to root for the bad guy' come true.  When I saw 'Payback', the entire audience was on Porter's side, laughing and cheering for him along the way. This movie wouldn't be half as good without Mel Gibson, which is the only thing wrong with the movie.  In any other actor's hands, the character of Porter wouldn't be believeable and the plot would seem 'B'-movie quality. However, there are some great perfomances by the other actors and actresses in the film, most noticibly by James Coburn as Fairfax and Maria Bello as Rosie, Porter's 'true love'. In conclusion, 'Payback' is a great action story, wonderfully led by Gibson and a plot seemingly made for him, 'Payback' is a great movie to watch on the weekend with a date, as long as s/he likes lots of violence, bloodshed, and great humor!   "},{"Title":"Mad Mel does the revenge thing again...","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" All right, I'm a tad bit biased.  Mel Gibson is THE man.  If you're a Mel Gibson fan then trust me, this film will not disappoint.  It's easy to hate him in this movie, as the tagline suggests Get Ready To Root For The Bad Guy. That's not an easy thing to do, but Gibson carries the role of the bad guy with such determination that you can't help but want to see him kick some tail. Lucy Liu's performance as the dominatrix from hell is a pleasure ride. And...well...okay she's also extremely hot. But moving right along... James Coburn is hilarious as a reluctant mob boss. His reaction to having one of his alligator skin suitcases ruined by Gibson will have you rolling in the aisles. Overall, a pretty good action flick.  Not one to take the kiddies to, but name ONE action movie that is. If RUSHMORE and SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE are sold out, then this is the one to see. "},{"Title":"Refreshing Grit with a 90's spin!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A refreshing throwback to the early Lethal Weapon type action but with a grittier 90's spin.  The nasty one-liner type comments spewed out by these characters could easily offend but taken within the context of the film they made for numerous hilarious moments.  Mel Gibson continues to get better with age.  I hope he has the staying power of Sean Connery because I could enjoy a movie like this every year! "},{"Title":"True Mel Gibson Fan!","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was very enjoyable, although, at times it appeared that Mel Gibson was Martin Riggs of LETHAL WEAPON fame!  I think that the action scenes were BRILLIANTLY PLACED, EXPLOSIVELY CHARGED, and at times EXTREMELY FUNNY!  The plot was simple but interesting, which goes to say that sometimes the most important thing in life is PRINCIPLE!If you are a big Mel Gibson fan, then YOU need to PAYBACK Mel for ALL of the GREAT BLOCKBUSTER FILMS that he has provided us with over the years, by going to see this movie!  Payback is a great action film!  "},{"Title":"Liked the movie, action and music","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Liked the action - it worked with the story, unlike some so-called action movies which had no story. Also like the music - sort of a Peter Gunn beat which continued throughout the movie in appropriate places. Brian is a great director.   "},{"Title":"Very entertaining if you like Mel","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This dark Action flick is both funny and entertaining.  Be careful though this movie isn't nearly as gory as Saving Private Ryan, it's not for the very squeamish.  Mel Gibson is great.  He is funny and carries the movie. If you like Mel's shtick and he cracks you up, this movie will be very fun for you.  If you're not a big Gibson fan, and don't like violence or action flicks, steer clear.  I saw it twice and enjoyed it.Good supporting performances and a great twist at the end make this a movie worth watching.  Gibson's ability to seem like he has a smile through the whole movie (even when he gets beaten up), as Roger Ebert put it, is why this dark film is good.  No one else could the unforgettable role of Porter except Mel Gibson. "},{"Title":"Sick, but still fun!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  PAYBACK is one of those movies where a guy gets shot in the foot, and you're still laughing.  Mel Gibson plays Porter (that's all the viewer knows about his name), who seeks revenge on his former partner who shot him, stole his $70 thousand dollars, and has Porter's wife shoot Porter in the back.  Now Porter is back, and he's as mad as hell. The opening scenes pretty much let the viewer know what they are going to be watching.  A very mean, and tough guy getting revenge.  Whether he's stealing from a panhandler, stealing a guy's wallet then buying suits and jewelery, then pawning the jewleery, let's the viewer know that this is not a guy to mess around with. And what's funny is that the people who do mess around with Porter (especially his ex-partner) are afraid of him, and they should be. After the disappointing LETHAL WEAPON 4, Gibson is back in top form.  I can see why he wanted to be in PAYBACK, it's becuase Porter is mean, yet you still love him.  Some of his cruel punishments are gross, but they are all funny.  And awonderful supporting cast (Gregg Henry, Maria Bello, David Paymer, Bill Duke, William Devane, Kris Kristofferson, and James Coburn) also add the fun of the movie.  It's a violent movie, but it's always entertaining!!  **** out of *****  "},{"Title":"The coolest movie I've ever seen.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie Payback because It's the coolest movie I've ever seen.  I just turned 18 when I saw the film and It was entertaining.   Unlike Casino which disgusted me because of the crude violence, blood and saying the F word a dozen times. Payback has some crude violence and blood, with a mild F words.  Mel Gibson plays a very good criminal who seeks revenge on the people who assumed that he killed him.  It seems to me that this movie entertained me and I wasn't squeamish about the violence because I saw worst violent movies than this.  If you like this film, recommend it to a friend. "},{"Title":"Just Nasty","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is just nasty. Gangsters and thugs are great subjects for movies and crime will always tend to turn a good tale, but Payback, Mel Gibson's latest movie, is only about violence for the sake of it. It's mean spirited and sickeningly pointless.What's unusual about that I  hear you say? Well, this particular mix of viciousness and disinterest seems to have gone to another level. Payback is one of those movies that has you wondering about the character with the unsavoury laugh on the other side of the cinema. You really would expect that person to take to someone with a hammer at some stage of their life!That's not to say that I didn't enjoy some of Payback. Mel Gibson gives the film plenty of interest and the tension is pretty much continuous. The supporting cast is memorable, it's just that the overall tone joins heartlessness with blood letting in a particularly jaded way.Payback is the sort of film that has you questioning the morality of the latter day American culture. There's no warmth there at all. This is no Pulp Fiction or Lethal Weapon where at least some of the characters are punks with heart. This lot have less moral strength than your average car jack.I'm no wowser I think, but Payback is particularly grey. There are some fun moments, especially when Porter, the Mel Gibson character, meets a particularly mean dog, but the humour of that situation is the comparison that's offered between Porter and the dog. And the dog is just as mean as Porter is a real scumbag. If you're worried about the way our citizens are developing then Payback won't soften your fears.We've got used to no brainer action (read violent) movies and there have been magnificent gangster films made that have been sporadically vicious (The Godfather films, Scarface, Casino etc) but at least the main characters were on some sort of quest, even if it was just to keep control. In Payback though, the violence is nearly non stop and the motive nearly meaningless.Of course you're meant to not take this sort of mayhem too seriously, but Payback passes beyond the self mocking anti-hero genre way so far into the realm of sadism and masochism that I think that you'd be better off seeing films that aren't so bleak.Mel Gibson fans will see shades of Riggs out of Lethal Weapon but I hope they won't like Porter and I hope for all of our sakes that not too many of our fellow citizens enjoy this film too much. "},{"Title":"A very entertaining movie","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has all the shootem up action of a good action movie and never leaves you uninterested. No matter how hard they would like to advertise that he is a bad guy it is not true, he is a good guy with extremely bad guy methods. He never harms an innocent, he helps an injured dog, and falls in love. The crowd always usually needs to bond to a character and no matter how mean Gibson's character seems, you still like him, he is also pretty funny. "}{"Title":"Refreshing take on seedy underworld","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback does not contain any really original material, but what it does, it does refreshingly well.  Its violence is contained within a sort of distanced restraint, almost as if Gibson's character is chuckling to himself.Mel Gibson is cast as Porter, a sort of flip side to his role as Riggs in the Lethal Weapon movies.  He is an antihero, a violent, amoral traveller in a seedy underworld of crooks and gangsters who are many times stronger and better armed than he is, but generally lack his cunning and seriously underestimate his determination to get what he feels he is owed.Most people don't know what they're worth, says Porter in a voiceover as the movie opens.  I know exactly what I'm worth.  $70,000.  That's what they took from me, and that's what I'm going to get back.Porter is hardened and bloodsoaked, and merciless in the way he deals with his enemies.  But he has an irresistable charm, a way of putting a positive spin on the fact that that bloodstain on your carpet just couldn't be avoided.The gangsters range from high-level G-men to lowly thugs and crooked cops, but all of them are colorful and interesting.  There is the love interest, named Rose, a call girl who naturally is good and kind underneath her exterior.  James Coburn and Kris Kristofferson do a nice turn as high-level members of the crime scene, and there is an Asian woman, who has some seriously twisted turn-ons.Did I enjoy it?  I did, but I admired it more for its style than its substance.  I had seen it all before, but Gibson brings a resonance to his role that few actors could have pulled off, and I have to admit that I was sucked into his character's bizarre world, and came out with a silly grin on my face. "},{"Title":"Payback is good, but not great.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The cinematography in Payback is kind of cool. The faux pas city is rad in a comic bookish kind of way. The hero, Porter is bad and the violence is original in a cartoonish way. This is a good flick, but not a great flick. "},{"Title":"Not for the faint of heart","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Went to see it with my wife. Needless to say, I loved it, she kept her eyes shut for most of the movie. If you can take movie violence stricktly as entertaiment and not seriously this movie will certainly keep you on the edge of your seat and on more than one occation you will hear yourself utter ouch. "},{"Title":"Very violent, very entertaining","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback has lots of violence, but curiously sadistic characters, smirky dialogue, and a genuine love interest make for strong entertainment.  Here is a man living by his wits and deadly skills in a seedy and occasionally dumb criminal world.  It is the bad hero's intelligence that gives him his greatest advantage over the badder guys unpredictability.There's only brief but potent character development played out between Porter and his love interest, but even the static bad guys are mostly interesting.  The mobsters are essentially played straight.  It's the betrayers, crooked cops, and dominatrix who add the spice and stir the pot.The setting appears to be 70's retro, perhaps when the novel it's based on was written or the period the screenwriters felt it could fit.  We can guess from Porter's USMC tatoo that he's perhaps a Vietnam War vet or ex-spook who's settled into a comfortable, relatively modest life of violent crime.  I know and have worked with several Vietnam vets, none criminals and all honorable, but Mel's clever character and Payback's engrossing effect had me wondering how he could have acquired his skills.Frankly I'm getting tired of most movie violence.  Even Tarantino doesn't really do it for me.  Payback has a flaw or two, but it's so well crafted that I found myself enjoying it out loud... in a sick, twisted way.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Gritty","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is perhaps the most honest film I've ever seen played in a theater. While admittedly a work of fiction, Payback shows us more of the real world than the average Hollywood flick.  In the real world, there are few instances where this guy is good, and this guy is bad.  Gibson in Payback is a villain, to be sure.  Not the first guy you'd want to send a Valentine to. But in the shades of gray painted in this gritty, underground crime world, is Mel better or worse than the Big Crime bosses he pursues?  I really don't think the question is relevant.  We root for the bad guy, Mel, because he's the guy telling the story.  It's all in the slant you view the film on. Payback is harsh, violent, and filmed in a manner that makes it feel, overall, like a noir detective movie.  But it also is a movie that is not afraid to let us know exactly what we could find in the real world, if we wanted to look.  Take, for instance, the family man/crime boss played by Kris Kristofferson.  Is his family aware of his dealings in organized crime?I don't believe Payback can be discounted as trash, or labeled as a contributing factor in the sorry state of our world.  It is not the aim of the filmmakers to corrupt moviegoers or instill the idea of a life of crime. There is no gloss or glorification of what Mel, or any of the other actors do to advance the plot.Simply put, Payback is a terrific film that isn't afraid to show the viewers everything, and to that I give it great credit.  It's not Mel Gibson or anyone else associated with this film that need to worry about corrupting young children.  It's the parents dumb enough to take their children along.***1/2  "},{"Title":"They crushed his piggies!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oh boy! My poor sweetie gets hurt really, really bad (it is good he is made of steel). Or rather his heart is in this movie. There were some good supporting characters in this movie, I haven't seen James Coburn or Chris Kristofferson in ages. This movie is a little far fetched though. Porter (Gibson) is ripped off of his half of $140,000.00, which of course, he ripped off from an Asian gang. Well everyone is out to get him but in the process of getting his money he brings down a whole syndicate for only $70,000.00, in the end he does get $130,000.00 but who is counting! I wish they could have made the story line better. Gibson plays a bad guy really well though.  "},{"Title":"By the numbers non-thrillfest","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't see how people are getting so excited about this-- it's just so routine and by-the-numbers I can't understand either loving or condemning it.Forget that crap about rooting for the bad guy. We've seen plenty of questionable heroes before, this is nothing new. I think the marketers just had to think of SOME way to distinguish this film from any other action film.It's getting to the point where we have to wonder WHY Mel Gibson still wants to do these kinds of movies, when he clearly doesn't have to. Is he REALLY that bored? At least Conspiracy Theory had some character to it. This character is the typical noir nasty but kind of noble guy. B O R I N G.If you're desperate to see some sort of guns and explosions, as I was, go see it. If not, there are tons of movies out there that are better. And there are HUNDREDS of better action films on video. Use this one ONLY as a desperation-stopper.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Root for who??????????","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mel is bad in this role.He is mean with a big M. The film is okay.Plot is fine.The violence is horrible.This is one of the most violent films in years.Gibson is at his best for this role.Film is a cross between Dirty Harry and the road warrior.Children under 17 forget taking them to this movie. "},{"Title":"What a terrible message this movie gives!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oh Mel, why did you do it?  I realize that this movie is your usual forte except you play a bad guy, but why set such a horrendous example to kids who are less discerning than someone my age?  The message this movie sent actually sickened me, as it did the people with whom we went.  Does it make a crook a GOOD guy if he goes after other BAD guys?  Over what?  Some money, STOLEN--yes, from other bad guys--but STOLEN nonetheless!  And then stolen from him because he was betrayed by his wife whom he betrayed first by being an adulterer.  The things that this bad/good? guy did to other bad guys were horrible, terrible, even worse than what they did to him.  And I think, besides the sick message the movie gave, what offended me the most was the inappropriate laughter by teenage members of the audience who ate the whole thing up.  Mel, as a family man, can't you find some other venue than violence?  "},{"Title":"In very bad taste and disappointing","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Recently I went and saw the movie Payback and I was very disappointed with it.  It is nothing like Mel Gibson's other movies such as the Lethal Weapon movies.  It is very degrading and in very bad taste.  I walked away with a bad feeling instead of the feeling that I enjoyed watching it.  They did not have to show all the disgusting low life details.  Compared to the Lethal Weapon movies and Ransom, there was no good overcoming bad, only bad against bad.  I really didn't think that Mel Gibson would play in such a movie as this.  I wouldn't recommend this to any one. "}{"Title":"On the money!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of Mel Gibson, but this movie pretty much combined the grittiness of Braveheart and the humor of the Lethal Weapon series.  Plenty of action and some beautiful girls make this one worth seeing. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  9.5 out of 10! Best of '99 so far (Star Wars Episode I, The World Is Not Enough come out May 21 and Nov. 19 respectively).  This movie was hilarious and the action was great.  Lucy Alexis Liu was one of the best parts.  Too bad she was only in about 15 minutes of it.  If you're not disgusted by the excessive violence, although I was shuddering during the toe-smashing scene That's mean man! That's just mean!, you should really enjoy this film.  I saw it twice and I'm definitely going to buy it on video. Go see it. "},{"Title":"One Thing's For Sure, Mel's Getting Old.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was expecting a funnier, more light-hearted film than the one that I got. There were some chuckles, but they were few and far between. Instead, most of the film was just Mel going from place to place, with a pretty annoying voice-over explaining everything that the visuals couldn't. I wasn't used to seeing Mel play such remorseless character who killed an unarmed man at the drop of a dime. And his face is starting to look leathery (sorry Mel). Other than that the movie was okay. Payback is the name of the movie and that's exactly what you're going to enjoy watching, Mel getting his revenge (especially against those two cops). "},{"Title":"Move over Riggs, Porter's here.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson proves once again he can play anybody and win over a crowd. This chararcter should spawn more movies - which would be great. This moviesdoes have scenes not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"Hubba Hubba?","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well done Mel!  I'd begun to lose confidence in Gibson's ability to make a credible action thriller, after the Lethal Weapon saga. But Payback was a tasty blend of action and comedy.  Its style was reminiscent of the original Lethal Weapon, plus a jigger of Pulp Fiction.  There's a lot more to this movie than the one-liners shown in the trailer.  The characters were quirky and often surly-- they included jaded cops, corrupt businessmen, pimp bartenders, dominatrixes, ex-cons, and women of the night.  The concepts of the syndicate and the outfit were particularly amusing, as was the character of Carter, the Harvard MBA managing the syndicate.My vote for quote of the movie is If she stops hooking, I'll stop shooting people.Thumbs up to Hollywood for a creative plot well executed by the acting skills of Gibson, Coburn, and Kristoffersen. "},{"Title":"Better than you think...","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From first viewing the previews of Payback in the theater, I had my doubts as to how well of a film this would turn out to be....Mel Gibson would turn out to play an excellent role as a professional thief, and is really the character that makes this movie what it is.  The rest of the cast is decent, but can't compare to Gibson's performance.  So, don't let the previews throw you off, this movie is fast paced and exciting, check it out! "},{"Title":"Gibson Gets Back to Kickin' Some A**","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson does a great job as the screwed over main character who ultimately gets his payback. This was a fun, entertaining and at times thought provoking (just kidding) movie driven by Gibson. Even though he is the bad guy, he does a great job of having the audience feal for him and his plight of retrieving the money that was stolen from him. The movie is nothing to go gaga over but it was very entertaining -- a 7. "},{"Title":"Unusual levels of violence","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The director took a real chance - casting the likeable Mel Gibson as a street tough.  And this is not the noble street tough (Clint Eastwood roles) but rather a dirtbag.  Unfortunately, it didn't work. The audience watches Gibson continuously for signs of his inherent goodness, and comes up wanting.  We never really get into his role, because we don't believe it.  Robert de Niro would have been a much better bet. The violence in this movie is breathtaking - stay away unless you are inured to it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding modern action flick...","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am surprised at some of the negative criticism this film is receiving here, if you're looking for funny smart action these days, this is it.  The entire film had the right feel... with the use of the bleached by-pass process and the dark wardrobe and city backdrop.  The plot and characters have been commented on many times, its great to see a darker hero to look up to, especially played so casually by Gibson.  I often measure films by the feeling I get while watching them, and i wore a smirk for a lot of the film, particularly during the police double-cross.  Also how well the audience and myself feel after the film helps the rating, everyone walked out loving it; the box office confirms our feelings.  SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Be Warned -- it's a COMEDY (and a clever one)!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting the usual bang-em-up explosions, good guys vs. bad guys, car chases, blood and guts, and guns everywhere.  Except with Mel Gibson this time.  Well, that's not it at all!  It does for those kinds of movies what Raiders of the Lost Ark did for old-time cliffhanger movies!I had a really great time at this film, and found it both hysterically funny and charming.  It parodies those serious organized crime type movies with a heavy dose of wit.  Pay attention to the songs playing in the background as the action unfolds -- that alone is worth the price of admission!  If you're looking for serious, look elsewhere.  If you're looking for over the top, like Top Secret or Naked Gun, look elsewhere.  But if you want to see what Indiana Jones would have done in the big city if he'd been a bad guy, this is your film!  It totally exceeded my expectations!  "}{"Title":"Excellent in all respects.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An incredible movie.  If you are not ashamed by violence, or by laughing at what you don't agree with, then this is the perfect movie.  Gibson plays a character every man wants to be, and he plays it very well.  I loved this movie.  It was funny, the plot was strong, the ladies were gorgeous, and the visual effects were great.  The characters were as original as the storyline.  I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Not up to the standards of _Point Blank_, but pretty good.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was a bit surprised to find Mel Gibson playing such a hard-edged character.  It almost seems like he won't sign up for a role anymore unless his character undergoes some sort of horrific torture.  This is a violent film, with a lot of amoral characters and amoral attitudes toward things. When people in the audience laugh at scenes of killing and sexual depravity, it sometimes bothers me, but I think the screenplay is designed to elicit these sorts of responses.This movie was based on the same crime novel that inspired John Boorman's _Point Blank_, with Lee Marvin in the role that Mel Gibson plays now. Boorman's film is much better, in so many ways, not the least the fact that the amoral violence would carry more of a kick in the late 60s.  Now, it's nothing we haven't seen before, in the latest Tarantino-wannabe's latest creation.Don't get me wrong--I'm not condemning the film.  I saw it, I liked it--I'm just a bit concerned about my motives.  When you cheer for the guy who's running around shooting people in the face or setting fire to a group of hoodlums in a car or getting his toes hammered into pulp, is it a sign of the times? "},{"Title":"Top notch Tarantino-esque crime thriller is nearly flawless.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went into Payback expecting to see a funny, violent action flick, and that is what I got, only it was not as tacky as the trailer suggests and actually a very stylish engaging movie with Gibson at his undeniable best.  He needed to make a movie like this, he fits his role like a glove and makes you feel sorry for anyone foolish enough to stand in his way, Crime Syndicate or not. Except for the half-effective, sometimes annoying Voice-Over narration, this movie has wit, style, and a fair bit of originality, with nice nods to movies such as The Maltese Falcon, Reservoir Dogs, Goldfinger, Midnight Run, and even Maverick.  Go see it.  Go love it.  "},{"Title":"One of Mel Gibson's best performances ever","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is clearly one of Mel Gibson's best performances ever. For you filmbuffs out there, Payback is a remake of John Boorman's Point Blank, this version being scripted and directed by L.A. Confidential screenwriter-wizard Brian Helgeland, who does a great job keeping the film on its tight film noir path, without ever losing the grip on a genre that has unfortunately produced very little masterpieces recently (well, L.A. Confidential being a solid exception). Payback pays great tribute to the genre, and is in no way another bland, uninspired rip-off. A must. And when was the last time you really rooted for the BAD guy?  "},{"Title":"I want those two hours of my life back!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think I've ever seen Mel Gibson in a movie I didn't like, so this was a first. I thought this was one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time. It moved slowly, characters were completely undeveloped and uninteresting. No one was especially GOOD, so it's understandable that they weren't likable, but it really was just not an interesting film overall. I was very disappointed. Mel did fine; in fact, there was nothing wrong with the acting in my opinion. It was the plot, dialogue, and gray-ness of the movie that was so bad. I couldn't wait to get outside and see the daylight. What a waste of a perfectly good afternoon! "},{"Title":"This film was almost a true Film-Noir","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this remake of the film Point Blank, It seem to almost qualify as a true Film-Noir. Not so because of any particular shadowed lighting or the composite of the sets, but more so due to the brooding strong characters of Gibson, his wife, and his lover. Each one of these characters has their own dark personality that never waivers, as the film winds through a possible emotional roller-coaster of situations. Gibson is always in control, from the moment he steps onto the screen, to the point where he is tied up to a chair. You never doubt that he is incapable of doing whatever it takes, no matter how cold blooded it may be, to get what he wants. His wife and lover both are cut from the same cloth, smooth, shiny, and hard. So hard that neither one would hesitate to climb over their past to get to their future, no matter who got in the way. Forget the the lack of backdrop lighting, and what is left is a true Film-Noir that is highly enjoyable to watch more than once. "},{"Title":"A Heck Of A Lot Of Fun For only 70 Grand","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What's $70,000 worth to you?Well for good 'ol Mel It's worth two bullets and a whole lot more to get it back. In Payback Mel Gibson plays Porter, a mean bankroll crook, who likes nice guys cause, You gotta have somebody to step on.Full on non-stop action, and dark dry humor, this is the Mel we always wanted. Although a bit predictable, the movie has its kicks and a few good twists to keep you glued. A must see! "},{"Title":"A must see! My favorite movie of 1999 so far. Rating 9","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson plays Porter. I wasn't expecting this movie to be funny but it is very funny. This movie has the perfect blend of action and humor. It also has a great supporting cast. Kris Kristofferson, James Coburn, and William Devane are great as the three guys who run the outfit. My favorite movie of 1999 so far. A must see! Rating 9  "},{"Title":"Sit Back, Relax, and Have Some Fun","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback is the kind of movie that makes me feel good that I went to the theater that night.  I came out of the place feeling like I just got off of a rollercoaster.  This is a cool movie, and there are few other words to describe it.  It won't win any Oscars or get critical acclaim, but it's the kind of movie that you'll find yourself watching on HBO when you're clicking around.  If you're betting on Academy Awards, you'd better check out Shakespeare In Love or catch the rerelease of Saving Private Ryan, but if you're out to have a good time with friends, place your money on Payback. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing despite unbelievable situations","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an entertaining film if you are able to suspend any requirement for believability.  I found myself amused by the simple, incredible confidence of Porter to handle just about any situation.  The plot elements were well connected.  "}{"Title":"Revenge is mine","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Despite the fact that this movie has lots of violence, Mel Gibson does a remarkable job of playing the wronged man- even if he is a thief. What I liked most was the subtle things. No matter there is lots of blood and mayhem- there is also lots of twists and turns.  Mel has never been better as the downtrodden man out to get back what should have been his.  Nice cameos by Kris Kristofferson and others... A satisfying movie despite the gore.  "},{"Title":"Parental  Review for Payback","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What's it about When a cityman named Porter (Mel Gibson) is shot by his best friend and his wife who then get away with 130,000 dollars, 70,000 being his Porter wants his money back, and he wants revenge.Would Kids Want to Watch it? Mel Gibson might be a yes but this movie is pretty much for adults who are into old school type movies. And the plot may sound odd to young children but it's a basic story of revenge...and just how sweet it can be.MPAA Rating RSex/Nudity A hooker in her underwear and that same hooker also beats her customers. Porters assistant Rosie (Maria Bello) goes undercover as a hooker.Drugs/Alcohol Porters wife is a heroin addict. A drug dealer makes some deals. Countless cigarettes are lighted up. Porter visits a bar for evidence.Violence/Scariness Various people are shot and they're gunshot wounds get some screen time as well. Many explosions. A car crash leaves plenty dead. Porters toes are smashed by a bad guy but only his reaction is shown. Porter is shown early in the movie getting a bullet removed from his body.Questionable Phrases About 50-60What's Good About it It shows just how sweet revenge can be.Whats Not So Good It shows just how sweet revenge can be.Appropriate Ages 18-19 and up.  "},{"Title":"Good entertainment without social significant value.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was not lectured, taught or chastised. The movie had a reasonable story, sometimes tongue in cheek, without stupid extra dialog before doing something bad - no pre-comment before shooting.Fast paced to forget politics, work, and to-do lists. Enjoyable couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"It had so much potential, but dropped the ball.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie could have been great.  We love the anti-hero type, especially if he's good looking (in a rugged manly way) and has style and has been wronged badly enough.  Mel Gibson certainly fits the bill.  His charisma in this movie is almost palpable at times.  He's outsmarted or caught off guard sometimes, but he can't be beaten.Unfortunately, the movie is simply too violent.  There's no reason for it. It's hard to say where to draw the line between too much and not enough. I'm the first to admit that I like a good violent movie, but for some reason this one just crosses that line.  That, and leave out all the S&M which had no point.The good parts in the movie are just overshadowed by the excessive violence, so that you leave the movie with a feeling of disappointment rather than visceral satisfaction. "},{"Title":"A great role change for Gibson","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a great movie.  Kinda reminds me of 'True Romance' with Christian Slater, except it doesn't end in 'Reservoir Dogs' style.  Less action and much more suspense than I expected, which was a nice turn of events.Mel Gibson has always been bad, but now he gets to be truly mean, and he plays it very well.  I think if he wants more of this style he shouldn't have trouble getting it.I can easily recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, action-packed, great escape!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A funny action adventure with the typical bones getting crushed and the heroes walking it off. It's amazing how tough these movie women are. And here I thought a pistol whip across the face would put you down for at least a minute or two...The premise -- only wanting the $70,000 back from the mob that had stolen it from him (after he had stolen it from someone else) -- was a bit lame, but what the hey! It's Mel Gibson; it's entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Really entertaining, Mel Gibson is the man","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are very few films I didn't like of Mel's, in fact I find it really hard to name one that wasn't entertaining.  Payback is a film that wouldn't be the same without Mel in it, and even though he's a killer and thief you can't help but love him in this role.  Payback's extremely violent, I think there is only about 5 characters in the movie that have speaking lines that don't get beaten once or killed through the movie but that's what makes it fun even though that may sound sick.  So it's not for everyone, but the tricks Mel plays on the other characters (favorite one would be the police detective and his badge) are well done and make this film more than worth watching.  I would get into the plot and what goes on in it but it's better to let you just find out what happens.  Hopefully the films of 99 will continue to come out as hip and feel as original as this.  "},{"Title":"70's action returns","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is defintely a great action film.  Very much like the great action films of the 1970's, but with a dark side.  Mel Gibson nails the role as a tough guy, who wants Payback.  Anyone that interfers with plans pays dearly, and you will love every minute of it.  Unlike a lot of recent action films, this one works very well.  It pays homage to Shaft and Superfly, while giving Gibson a new role to add to his gallery of angry characters. "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson plays the nicest bad-guy ever.","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Critics say this movie is too violent, but it really is no worse than a hundred other movies.  The story of Porter (Gibson) seeking revenge is easy to follow, but there are some nice twists that should keep people entertained. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Payback will inevitably be compared to the film it is a remake of, John Boorman's Point Blank.  So a point-by-point comparison is in order 1.  The plots of both films are virtually the same.  The new film adds an Asian gang but drops the Keenam Wynn character that was so essential to Point Blank. 2.  Both films make good use of character actors, but Point Blank contains a wonderful performance by a pre-Archie Bunker Carroll O'Connor that adds nuances to a syndicate leader character the new film can't even imagine.  On the other hand, Debra Karra Unger, Maria Bello, and Greg Henry are better actors than their counterparts in Point Blank. 3.  Brian Helgeland's direction of Payback is flat and uninspired.  A recent article in Premiere indicated that Mel Gibson took the film away from him and had it re-edited.  For good reason.  Boorman, on the other hand, created a truly original movie.  His movement between past and present is confusing at times, but the film always holds your attention.  And he makes the most out of the least amount of dialog. 4.  Gibson himself is the problem with the film.  He is simply no match for Lee Marvin as the loner obsessed with getting his money back.  To quote Stephen Hunter in his review of the movie in the Washington Post, Marvin had cool--a deep reserve of masculine confidence into which the camera can tap only if it's there.  Gibson?  As if. "}{"Title":"Not Mel's best movie, but definitely worth seeing..","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mad Mel Max goes crazy in the city. The story isn't very good, but Mel's acting and the camerawork make that up. Mel plays his favorite character crooks mess with him and he stays cool, but when they start messing with his friends, he gets p***** off and wastes them all the chinese mob, the syndicate and the cops. Not as good as Mad Max, but it'll do... "},{"Title":"A brilliant action-thriller !!!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was lucky being able to see this movie in Denmark even before the american release.What i saw was an intense action-movie, where Mel Gibson plays this guy Porter... - who starts his own personal war against a syndicate lead by Kris Kristofferson. All for the matter of 70.000$ !!!Mel Gibson plays his role brilliant, and for once he's this bad-guy-type we've all been waiting for...There is not much to say about this movie. You must see it yourself !!!I was surprised - You will be  ... "},{"Title":"Stupid pointless film","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Three evil scumbags are the heroes in this stupid film. In the opening scenes I was thinking it was a pity he wasn't dead to save the world a lot of trouble. The original film with Hank Marvin, Point Blank, was superior in every way. In the original, even though they were thieves, the relationships were better formulated and believable, and the sense of betrayal much stronger. In this type of film the character have to be 100% vicious, stupid and totally unsympathetic, with no human characteristics or any kind of real psychology. This is the main problem, they are all worthless. Who cares if any of them die? Why should we care? I'm guessing its emulating film noire because of the narrative voice over but it doesn't work. A really sick and pointless film. "},{"Title":"Cool and Hard Hitting. Mel Gibson is fantastic. Sit back and enjoy","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well where do I start with Payback? To say its good would be an insult but to say its Absolutely Brilliant that would be getting it right. After watching it, Payback was right up there with my favourite action thrillers. Payback follows Porter, a professional robber who is stitched up by his friend and shot by his wife after a heist and they make a big mistake. He survives and goes after his share of the money from the robbery. A simple revenge plot that goes along way and then some. With a fantastic set of characters from crooked cops to the Mafia, Payback has everything. Mel Gibson is again in top form and I feel that this is one of his best roles since the Lethal Weapon series.The overall feel of the film is quite dark with a little touch of noir to make it feel like an old 70's film which does work really well and does seem to fit with the story.Its very cool and packs a punch with a hard hitting finale. Sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Awesome!..........The Director's Cut is almost as good.","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw this at the movies, I loved the porter character that Mel Gibson plays. It was nice to see him as a bad guy for a change. However, watching the movie I saw that certain scenes seemed out of place in the film. Then, when The D.C. of the film came out, I watched it and it made more sense.First of all, there is more character development, the beginning is shorter as you don't see porter getting bullets removed from his back, other scenes were shortened to make the movie flow a little better. but the biggest change was both the ending (which is totally different) and the Bronson character who you don't see and was originally a woman (voiced by Sally Kellerman) which changes the tone of the ending as you wonder if you will ever see her or if she chooses to have faith in her people to eliminate Porter.All in all, a well-made film. Try to see both versions if you can. "},{"Title":"Finally...a movie that isn't afraid to get down and dirty","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Typically in a mainstream movie where the protagonist is supposed to be a bad guy or an anti-hero, all we get is someone who grumbles and/or shouts a lot to make them seem more intense. Or if they're feeling really reckless, have him commit some actual crime, like hit someone when he's not supposed to. But it's all token stuff that no one would really bat an eye at in a movie, so in the end it comes off as looking like a poser. That doesn't happen here.The trailers make this out to be like another Mel Gibson movie; light, jokey and harmlessly mischievous. Nothing could be further from the truth. This is a dark, brutal and violent movie. Not for the faint hearted.This is a noir/revenge movie. Porter (Mel Gibson) is a low rent criminal whose wife (Debra Kara Unger) and partner, Val (Gregg Henry) betray him and steal his 70 grand from a score that the three of them took down. But Porter isn't dead, and he wants his money.Payback is actually two movies rolled into one. The first half is a film noir, but unfortunately it's pretty bad. It's painfully slow, and the acting is embarrassing. Everyone just grumbles hammily, and no one seems comfortable in this kind of movie. The worst offenders are Gibson and William Devane, who plays one of the crime bosses. Devane is especially bad, if only because he was so creepy in Marathon Man. It's not until the second half when the film finds its groove and becomes a full blown revenge movie. That's when it really takes off. Unfortunately it takes the better part of an hour to get there, and the movie is only 100 minutes.Apart from Gibson and Devane, the acting is solid, but unspectacular. They do more or less what they are expected to. Special mention however has to go to Maria Bello and James Coburn. Bello is terrific; she's the lone ray of sunshine in the midst of crooks, psychos and endless violence. We can really feel for her, and she has great chemistry with Gibson. James Coburn is actually quite funny, something that's in very short supply in this world. Sadly he's only in three scenes. David Paymer, who is usually very reliable, is pretty annoying, and Lucy Liu is more over-the-top than she should be as a dominatrix.Oscar-winning screenwriter Brian Helgeland has a knack for atmosphere, but not pacing. The first half of the movie is so long and dull that it threatened to put me to sleep. And despite the fact that the second part of the movie watchable, it's not good enough to justify watching it.My rating Rated R for Pervasive Strong Brutal Violence and Language. "},{"Title":"A Stylish Repeat","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a reprise of Lee Marvin's 'Pointblank', we have Mel Gibson's 'Payback'.Although yet another remake, I found this to be much more stylish than the original. The slightly-unhinged character of Porter always retains a likable hint of playfulness that is something at odds to what one might expect. There are also believability problems with the logic of such a cold, hard-nosed character. After all; he was primarily a thief, not an assassin. And many of his comments both during the narration and dialogue suggest a much more pragmatic turn of thought than his nihilistic attitude towards the mob for just $70,000. A man with his common sense would surely have just bumped-off his double-crossing wife and partner and set about another heist. Crossing-up an organised crime syndicate for such a piddling sum hinted at psychosis.Nevertheless, the plot was constantly - even relentlessly - driven, with interesting and unexpected little twists along the way. You never quite knew what the outcome would be. I found that the pace of plot and severity of violence on first showing tended to mask what proved to be on second-sight, a very dark comedy. It would be better judged as the latter, after the fashion of - say - 'Fargo'.There are excellent supporting turns throughout, mixed with some rather implausible touches. James Coburn gets a look-in, and he never disappoints. The monochrome presentation lends it a film-noir style, but the lack of subtlety in lighting and camera work prevent it from making the grade. Nicely done, even so; the lack of colour doesn't detract from viewing pleasure. Quite the contrary; it makes the comedy all the more dark.Well worth a watch. Especially, watch it a second time after some weeks. "},{"Title":"Tough, gritty thriller &#150; a remake of sorts of Point Blank.","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Originally filmed in 1967 as Point Blank, with the legendary tough guy Lee Marvin in the leading role, this is another version of the Richard Stark novel The Hunter. Mel Gibson takes the main role this time around and delivers an enjoyably mean performance as a ruthlessly single-minded anti-hero. Payback had a rather chequered production history, and it is somewhat surprising that the finished article emerges as stylish and well-made as it does. Generally-speaking, though, this is a film with plenty going for it.Tough crook Porter (Mel Gibson), aided by his wife Lynn (Deborah Kara Unger) and partner Val Resnick (Gregg Henry), steals money from a Chinese Triad gang. Later, Porter is betrayed by his accomplices &#150; his wife shoots him in the back, and she and Resnick take off with the loot. Porter survives the shooting and some while later returns to the streets of Chicago to get back his money. He doesn't want revenge, he doesn't even want the entire sum from the robbery &#150; just his half of the heist, a seemingly paltry $70,000. Having tracked down Resnick, Porter learns that his former partner-in-crime has used the money to pay his way into a crime organisation called the Outfit. Resnck claims that he can't get the cash back, so with methodical ruthlessness Porter works his way up the criminal food chain in his quest to retrieve his money. First on the list is crime lord Carter (William Devane); later the urbane Fairfax (James Coburn); eventually the stakes get so high that the head honcho Bronson (Kris Kristofferson) has to get involved. Porter is hunted by enemies on all sides &#150; and can only trust his loyal hooker friend Rosie (Maria Bello) &#150; as he closes in on his seventy grand.It's wonderfully ironic how any of the crime lords that Porter comes across during the movie could pay him his money with ease. At one point, Fairfax guffaws in disbelief that Porter could possibly be going to such lengths for such a small amount of money &#150; Seventy grand! he scoffs. Hell, my suits cost more than that! The character of Porter is a thief with his own moral code &#150; what he steals becomes his, and he intends to collect whatever is due him! The film is shot through in bleached colour, giving it a grey and grainy appearance reminiscent of the hard-boiled crime capers of the 60s and 70s. It's an effective and atmospheric touch. Parts of the film are slightly too-stylized and damage the gritty tone &#150; most of the sequences featuring Lucy Liu and her Triad buddies, for example. But there are other moments that are judged very well indeed. Porter's brief and brutal meeting with Carter; the original robbery of the money from the Triad; an electrifying torture scene during which Porter has his toes mutilated by a hammer-wielding lackey; and the explosive ending during which our anti-hero turns the tables on his adversaries from a seemingly hopeless situation. While not perfect by any means, Payback is a solid thriller that delivers the goods. It also marks a welcome switch from the occasional sentimentality that can be found in some of Gibson's 90s films back to the raw, unapologetic style of his Mad Max movies. "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable scripts ever!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of movies have great scripts. But most of those films turn out to be filled with underlying meaning, deep emotional moments, and compassionate characters. Payback doesn't have any of these, but Brian Helgeland's script is so smooth and cool that it flows like poetry. Movies like Deer Hunter and A Clockwork Orange are brilliant works, but due to Payback's style alone, they are left in the dust by this seemingly simple tale of revenge.It opens with a wounded man named Porter (Mel Gibson). Like any film noir, Porter narrates throughout the journey. We later discover that in one of his heist jobs, he is betrayed by his wife and partner, Val Resnick (Gregg Henry). Resnick wanted to establish himself back in the New York, and the only way he could get the money was to betray Porter. Porter lives, and after his recovery, discovers he is truly alone in the world. He has no family, his wife's a druggy and dies of a overdose, and his partner Val has betrayed him. The only thing he has left is the $70,000 stolen by his partner, and a hooker lover named Rosie (Maria Bello).In most action movies, like this, the bad ass character is superficial, he is an unstoppable killing machine that always has some witty one liner. Payback doesn't take that route. As he tracks down members of the syndicate to get his money back, he is hit by a car, taken advantage of by crooked cops, and severely tortured. Doesn't necessarily sound like something that would happen to an unstoppable killing machine? He does have witty one liners, but they're realistic. There's one scene in particular where we see the masochist-sadist relationship of Pearl (Lucy Liu) and Val. Pearl's slamming on him in all kinds of ways while Porter is simply watching. After Val gets knocked out by all the abuse, Lucy Liu comments I have a few minutes (meaning she's willing to give some horizontal refreshment to Porter) and Porter replies, So go boil an egg! Now that's a cool line, and it comes out natural and not.... well, hollywoodized.I loved the syndicate villains as well. They were provided with the same character treatment as Porter. They're lines were a little campier (hey, they're villains, what do you expect?), but they weren't evil henchmen who went Muhaha! They were typical businessmen who didn't want to give up the $70,000 dollars. But to put you on Porter's side, Brian Helgeland puts a few undesirable traits in his villains. Val Resnick is a beater of women automatically demonizing him. Carter (William Devane), who is Val's boss, sympathizes with him, automatically making Carter just as evil. My hatred for the character of Bronson (Kris Kristofferson), the big boss, barely succeeded. He is a stubborn asshole who just doesn't want to give up $70,000 dollars to a guy that's been giving him trouble. The scene where he starts hammering on Porter's toes to get information out of him is the scene that changes your feelings toward the man. We see Porter crying out in agony and Bronson with a smug look on his face. That disturbing scene is what wins the audience over to Porter's side.The action is gripping, the pacing is fantastic, and the lines are classic. There's nothing more to be asked for an action film like this. Payback is close to being my favorite film and for good measure too. It is truly one of the best revenge films ever made, and if you have not seen it, I seriously suggest you do.A+ "},{"Title":"Payback is the ultimate action-drama movie of the year!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow, who would've thought Mel Gibson would do better in a movie than he did in Braveheart, well the fans who saw Payback would've. In Payback Mel pays back the people that basically made his life a living hell. If you've seen Mel Gibson movies in the past you know that when Mel's involved there's a whole lot of goodies and action. When I first saw this movie I was blown away, and I still am. There's a lot of good twists and turns, great story, excellent acting by Mel and his supporting cast. I got to hand it to Kris Kristofferson, he plays a really good bad guy in this movie, I have loved him in everything i've seen of his so far, and am strongly looking forward to seeing him in another hit soon. This movie has tons of action and yes you are rooting for the good guy, in a way it's kind of like Rambo, only this time it's Mel instead of Sly. Anyways, you gotta watch this movie, especially if your in the mood to payback somebody, because this movie has action, drama and is the ultimate Payback! "}{"Title":"Clever  Action!?!!!?!","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Think back to when you saw Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade for the first time. Remember the moment in the market when, after fighting a whole set of flunkies, the crowd parts for a huge black-swathed Arab who steps up and shows off his impressive sword skills. Indi is tired. The Nazis are getting away with Brodi. This looks bad. At that moment Harrison Ford, exhausted from several days of filming while battling the flu, defied the script to make movie history. In an absolutely logical move he pulled out Indi's old reliable pistol and shot his opponent. The crowd is stunned. Indi walks away triumphant. The movie audience erupts in laughter and cheers.That's what happens over and over again in Payback. Thanks to Mel Gibson's abiding fascination with pain and madness his character Porter is enormous guilty fun. Near the beginning he is appropriately betrayed as an Ex marine by a tattoo which is shown prominently but never referenced. Over and over again he lives up to this image by showing the mental patient cleverness and incredible tolerance for pain that so often marks Gibson's characters. Porter comes back from the 'mostly dead' seek a violent, life-devaluing, but very funny revenge. Stellar performances from Maria Bello (who hopefully is still alive and in the business...somewhere), Lucy Lu (I'm serious), and a host of excellent bit-villains played by great color actors make this one of the best guy flicks since the death of the '80's. "},{"Title":"It's 70K worth of fun","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, this is a simple mindless action/revenge/violent movie so don't expect and Academy award winning storyline. Porter was screwed by his friend who had his wife to kill him for his 70K share of a heist by showing a photo of him with a hooker. A jealous wife can do anything. Of course, he didn't die but he was badly injured alright and at least he looks so and not like some superman. He then set to get his share of the money and along the way, he met all sorts of thugs and bad cops. So what is worth watching then? Acting was good, really. There's humor as well as touch-guy acts. And there was some twist at the end. And the camera angle as well as the cinematography was just perfect for a mafia-like movie like this. In terms of fim-making perspective, there is nothing bad about this movie at all, bar the plot. Although trying to get yourself seriously hurt and obvious death for 70K may sound a little too stupid, that what makes it fun to watch, with Porter repeating countlessly that he IS asking for only hist 70K and nothing more. So while this is not a movie to stimulate the mind, I would mind popping it up on my DVD player and watching it again and just enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Did somebody forget to read the book?","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure that we're all aware that Hollywood never follows a book, but that doesn't mean I'm going to stop complaining.  But first, the positive sides to this film.The action scenes are good, and it has a good sense of humor.And now the bad.  This might take a while...FOLLOW THE BOOK.  That's pretty much my biggest qualm here.  When I saw this, I enjoyed it.  Then I read the book, and decided that it was much, much better than this.  In the book by Richard Stark, the main character doesn't crack jokes.  He only robs people, beats people down and shoots even more people.  And believe it or not, these books are very, VERY well written, with good plot lines.  The action scenes are amongst the best written.  If you had no Richard Stark, you would have no Elmore Leonard and no Quentin TarantinoApparently what happened here is that the director, Brian Helgeland, was actually going to follow the book.  Then he got Mel Gibson on as the lead, and it all went downhill from there.  It's not that I don't like Mel, I love the Lethal Weapon series, he just screwed this movie up too much.  Gibson, it seems, is too worried about his hollywood image as a cream puff tough guy.  So instead of actually portraying the character of the book, Gibson decides to have a romantic interlude and crack jokes.  So much for making film noir, huh?I think that Hollywood should give the Richard Stark series another chance on the silver screen.  A word of advice Don't let Mel Gibson anywhere near the project. "},{"Title":"One long Advert","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film seemed like one long advert for cigarettes. - not a scene goes by without Gibson puffing away on fags. You gotta wonder at the rate he goes through him, how many years this anti-hero would live for after he 'saves the day' and gets 'his' money back.A pity when you base a movie around a chain-smoking criminal like Porter that by the time he serves his payback you wish he'd drive off the end of a peer. This is a film about bad people, with nobody to root for...and maybe that's the point.Quite violent and uncomprimising. 3/10. "},{"Title":"disgusting","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the movie itself could be regarded as not-so-bad, but there's one thing that makes it disgusting to me it's an obvious rip-off of John Boorman's great point blank (except for the typical hollywood  ending), and it's not being mentioned ANYWHERE! not even in those pityful interviews with the cast on DVD, where Mel Gibson is talking of inspirations by noir movies of the late sixties. as a movie it could be worth watching, but as a rip-off of a great movie - that it actually is - it's a 1/10. a shame. "},{"Title":"Even Mel can't make this look good","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson is possibly the most charismatic and talented actor in the world, but even he can't save this stylish but ultimately nasty and purposeless piece of trash. I cannot understand why he agreed not only to star in it but to have his production company make it. Avoid this and see almost every other Gibson movie. "},{"Title":"Isn't the world bad enough?","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, this movie is full of violence and brutality - and though some people crave for these things in action movies, I think you can succeed in this genre without sledgehammers crushing feet. But that may be just my opinion...Anyway I think this movie is far too brutal to be good. It has some fine moments, but on the other hand it continually tries to upset the viewer with violent gore.Furthermore, the character Lucy Liu is portraying is simply ridiculous.If you really have to see Mel Gibson in a violent movie, watch Braveheart - there you at least have a fitting historical context... "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but very bad language","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot of this movie was pretty good.  I did have a problem with the amount of fowl language in the movie.  I thought it was clearly excessive for a Mel Gibson movie. I would be careful about watching it with any (even teenage) children. "},{"Title":"When Hollywood attempts noir...","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things go horribly awry. The makers of Payback seemed to be trying for a gritty, suspensful, hard-boiled flick with a few twists in the tail. It flops. Payback is predictable and boooooring. The characters were stereotypical and shallow; for example, the short, oddball loan-sharky guy, the hooker with a heart of gold, the smartass dirty cops. The pace of this movie is dreadfully slow. I basically tossed a coin at the 1/2-hour point whether to continue. The voice-overs were painful; the wannabe Chandlers who wrote this turkey try too hard.All in all, this movie turned out like you'd expect a Mel Gibson Hollywood noir film to. Explosions for all! "},{"Title":"What a silly flick...","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, the movie has good numbers good acting, good effects, some witty lines and funny situations, but what about the storyline? It could be summarized like this An idiotic professional robber battles a powerful gang and gets heavily injured, all to get back his miserable 70K dollars! What about this man, in the end? What about his motivation? Is he retarded or masochist?  "}{"Title":"Cinematic Fascism","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have no problem with movies about bad people. In fact, a good deal of my favorite movies contain nobody but bad people. I was offended though by this movie's attempts at making us like Porter. There is nothing to like about this guy. He's a bigot, and the film's expectation for us to sympathize with him makes it play like a support piece aimed at disgruntled conservatives (Gawd, I don't know about those kids these days with their lip rings.) Payback shouldn't have tried to manipulate us so much by just acknowledging that Porter was a freakin redneck. Awful. Awful. Awful. I can't believe so many people fell for this. "},{"Title":"not as good as i expected","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected this movie to be funny, and full of action. I was  wrong. This  movie had it's moments, and there were some funny lines but i didn't find it that good. The ending was really awesome, but it was so boring at most parts.  "},{"Title":"Mel Gibson is too nice for this role.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It has its moments, but it suffers from  Mel Gibson being cast as a noirish bad guy.   You like Gibson so you cut him lots of  slack, but basically it's just bad casting.   The movie's theme, if it can be said to  have one, is pain.  Lots and lots of pain.   Then more pain.  There were a couple of  scenes that had the audience cringing and  going Eeeeeuuuuwww!  If you're even a  tiny bit squeamish, avoid this one. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yawn for the Bad Guy","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Middle of the road fluff. With pro-wrestling's success, it would seem inevitable for a film with a bad guy as the protagonist. But, I got three words for youIt's been done.One need look no farther than the classic Japanese samurai films of the late 60's and early 70's to find the prototype for this type of hero, most notably the Lone Wolf and Cub series.Other than this fresh plot device, I tried to evaluate this movie on its own merits. It's ok. Overall, all of the elements were there, if not outstanding in any sense. The ending, however, is what made my vote a 5 instead of a 7. It was just too pat and tied everything up too well. Yawn.I would recommend this film, if I were ten years old. But I'm a little older, so I would have to say save your money, and wait for the pay-off instead of the payback.  "},{"Title":"Weak At Best","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was expecting a film that would deliver suspense, action and a story that was interesting. Payback did not deliver for me.I almost walked out half way through as I was quite bored. However I thought I'd give it a chance. I was disappointed.Recommendation Wait for the DVD release.  "},{"Title":"I've seen better","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie makes the source material, Point Blank, look like Gone with the Wind!!!  Too brutal to be a comedy.  "},{"Title":"give me my 7 bucks back!!! now!!!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  well, i can sum up this movie experience in just a smallstatement, it wasn't the worst movie i'd ever seen.  i'm justgetting tired of movies marketed to seem as something withredeeming qualities.  aside from MEL, this movie has very few atthat.  the plot was thin(confuse the bad guy-kill the bad guy)the cast was full of misfits and losers.  plus the one liners inthis movie become tiresome. i'm sorry this wasn't a very wellthought out movie.  From the male perspective, there are twovery fine girls (ally mcbeal girl, and wife of how. stern) andlots of stuff blowing up & crashing, so from that viewpoint itwasn't a complete let down.  Basically Mel Gibson is a bad ass,don't mess with him and you live, mess with him and you die!By the way did anyone else notice, this movie was VERY VERYVERY BLUE.  if you have nothing better to do this coming weekedgo to theater and see rushmore.  Or if you have to go ahead &see this movie with some friends, talk all the way through it, &annoy the people sitting next to you.   "},{"Title":"Hubba, hubba, hubba!","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful neo-noir. A heist movie which is mostly about the aftermath. A simple story, told in a direct, fast-paced way, with tons of mood. It opens with a presumed-to-be-dead man walking across a bridge, straight into the big, bad City. This is his Rubicon there will be no turning back.Porter (Mel Gibson) is a man who, when his wife dies, has lost everything. He has his own moral code and pursues an outstanding debt with the single-mindedness of someone with Asperger's Syndrome. He is violent in pursuit of his goal, but not gratuitously so, not within the context of this particular world, where crime and violence are everywhere and pleasure is sought in the context of deliberately inflicted pain. Body count 18. The pivotal character in Porter's life is a former employer, Rosie (Maria Bello), a prostitute. Her friendship has to be in question now, given she works for the gangsters who have Porter's money. This is a story about the unbending of a proud, stubborn man. The fact Porter is willing to ask Rosie for help represents a major change for him, and provides a basis for the eventual 'happy ending', such as it is.Meanwhile the bad guys get theirs in various and appropriate ways. Traps are circumvented, the powerful bested, the cunning wrapped up inside their own puzzles, and the corrupt caught in a web which, even if they didn't exactly weave it themselves, they have every moral right to find themselves inside.Mel Gibson's famous smile is only on view twice in the movie, first time when he struggles to mimic the smiling face of someone whose identity he is about to borrow, and once for real at the end, when he is about to sail off into the sunset with the girl and the money.The supporting actors are excellent. The double-crossing ex-partner Val Resnick (Gregg Henry), the junkie wife (Deborah Kara Unger), Rosie (Maria Bello), dominatrix Pearl (Lucy Liu), gang bosses Bronson (Kris Kristofferson) and Fairfax (James Coburn) stand out.My only quibbles about the film are (1) the way Carter dies. (I've been shot! Hold dramatic pose. Make short speech. Move into another dramatic pose. Hold.) It's not quite Peter Sellers in THE PARTY (1968), but it's a borderline pantomime performance. And (2), the almost total absence of people from the streets of what must be a very large city. At certain moments it feels like a ghost story. But not for long. There's always another bit of action coming that will distract you from these minor quibbles.An A-grade heist film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but a bit of a let down","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I heard about this movie was from my friend who was preaching on how wide the difference was between the DC and original. The unusual concept of Mel Gibson as a villain/good-guy got the movie stuck in my head. I researched into it on IMDb and added the DC version to my 'need to watch' movie list. I figured I'd be in for an experience that bends the usual revenge scenario.The movie opens at a slow pace and puts you in the middle of the story. Alright, this isn't a bad way of placing suspense with the audience. Problem is that with a plot like this, it feels way too cut/copy/paste from Reservoir Dogs. While this popped in my head it didn't take away from anything, I continued to watch. I then watch a scene where the super-cool typical 90's style character Porter has a scene with a woman that wronged him. I over exaggerate bit. I begin to notice that Porter has too many character stereotypes that make this movie feel unrealistic and take away from it's supposed gritty tone. I sometimes think I'm watching Sargeant Briggs.This is a revenge movie, and the reason for this revenge rampage is sufficient enough to make you care about Porter's forthcoming adventure. After this reason, the plot falls very hard. There are two bad guys that are overly annoying and geeky (the kind that don't actually work in the mob). I see this as a cheap was of getting the audience involved in wanting a brutal killing that does get delivered. The original bad guy is dealt with half way through the movie which leaves the second half feeling a tad unguided. This doesn't default as a bad thing but Porter's goals are no longer about revenge at this point. Porter can't be considered 100% bad-guy because he kind of deserves the money he seeks. I feel like this fact is hidden while the movie is promoted for 'rooting for the bad guy'. I do give credit for being one of the only movies like this, but there's no teeter-totter argument with Porter being good or bad. He is a criminal, but keeps earning our sympathy so his bad deeds feel justified.Interestingly, he isn't the guns blazing psycho type. He deals with the bad guys by taking advantage of every impassibly tiny vulnerability. And each big crime boss only has two dumb body guards.There is an obvious plot device that saves this movie from being complete generic trash Porter kills people in cold blood. The premise that hooked me into watching this movie was delivered successfully. This made the film entertaining in-spite of the lacking aesthetic value. Lucy Lui shows up being sexy as always, playing a sadist prostitute. While being top-notch sex appeal, she does nothing for the plot. Another scene to note is the van gun fight against the Asian gang. This was scripted well and stood out as being unique. The ending is unimportant. By the time it was over I wasn't sure what I just watched. i didn't learn anything. The movie tries to throw a fresh spin on a typical 90's crime movie. While it succeeds at some points, the lame plot ruins the idea. It feels like someone tried to cover up a cooker cutter movie with an original concept. In the end it feels like a half hearted attempt that doesn't live up to the hype and i feel let down. I now understand why this movie isn't more popular than it is. "},{"Title":"Good and Bad","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the darkest film I have seen since I watched Clint Eastwood's Sudden Impact. (in the series of Dirty Harry) After I watched Payback. I think it had both of good and bad things in the movie which I will type later. However, I accepted that I have never seen The Straight Up version which was purely directed and edited by Brian Heldgeland (I have a chance only to see the information and how the Straight Up version was different from this version in 1999), so I will comment Payback without the feeling from Straight Up's information. (Cause I didn't watch Straight Up)First thing that I have to say, Payback intruded womens right many times. I saw the scene that women was punched or slapped many times which could not see in the ordinary movie. (Usually the women in general movie was slapped for once or twice during the fight or when they try to lash into the men.) Maybe it was the intention of Brian Heldgeland to make this movie more crude and sensual; However, it was very unnecessary to use that kind of scene in the movie. OK it could be fine during Pearl and Val scene and also Val and Rosie scene because it was reasonable, but in the scene that Pearl was punched by a big fat guy. (I didn't know his name but I know he is Fairfax's henchmen) Even it looked like a joke but it looked silly and needless. Could you do in the different way? For next, even Payback trespass on the womens right like I said but the action scene and the cast is very good. You could see some satisfy action like the explosion or the cold-blooded killing which is the strength of this film. Also the cast like Mel Gibson who showed everyone that he is one of the Hollywood's legend. Gregg Henry who could made himself like the son of b*h, his villain role could be considered as the one of the most heinous villain in the world of Hollywood. Lucy Liu also great in this film, even she had this role before she got her peak in Charlie's Angel; However, she could entertain everyone with her vehement action, especially in the scene with Val. Finally, I try to conclude my comment. This film has both of good and bad things. It was very good in a very satisfy and extreme action scene also the entertaining cast. However, due to this was the film-noir style and Brian Heldgeland try to make this movie dark and crude, so many thing in the movie was very bad liked the women's beating. "}{"Title":"nothing to eat in this reheated menu","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback sadly confirms this trend scenarists don't often make worthwhile movies. I'm amazed when I see the crop of plaudits the film garnered when it opened the streets at the dawn of 1999 in France. The specialized press liked the cleansing vibe which revived this thriller as well as its stylish aesthetic side. I'm not conducive at all to these assets and it seems that we didn't watch the same movie. I only saw a derivative story that piled up well-worn ingredients revolving around a story of revenge with an obstinate, unscrupulous killer, Porter (Mel Gibson) who wants to have his cash back and is confronted to a gallery of stereotyped characters including a sadomasochistic mistress, ruthless business men, baddies and members of the underworld.Brian Helgeland searched this way and that (Quentin Tarantino's universe, the Dirty Harry saga, many gangster movies) to bestow his film with a semblance of substance. But his scenario can't hold up because it seems to have been written in a snap manner and it's too linear to be really excited about it in spite of the unexpected twists and turns to beef it up. Anyway, some of these turns aren't that much fresh. His directing also accumulates free violence with many fights, scraps, explosions thrown in for good measure and to give substance to a skimpy, ramshackle set. But beyond the endeavor to give a stylish film which makes it look like a comic strip, there's really nothing exciting.Mel Gibson acts like a dogged zombie and gets the lion's share in the cast. He was at odds with Helgeland and reorganized several moments as well as he supervised the editing. He beat a dead horse for it doesn't improve the quality of the film. "},{"Title":"Payback the money I spent on this movie","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is film noir on steroids. It has a nice look about it, and Mel Gibson carries the role rather well, but the movie is hampered by the endless stereotypes. Gregg Henry is way over the top, and well, as to Lucy Liu's performance, I'm speechless. Maria Bello handles her role well, and I found her to be convincing. But this is strictly a B movie with not much to offer. David Paymer was sufficiently oily as Stegman, but Kris Kristofferson appeared to phone in his performance, which was, of course, hampered by a lame script. William Devane appeared to relish his performance as a mob boss, but he certainly was no Tony Soprano. In other words, there was no subtlety of character. And, ultimately, that's the problem with this flick. There are some fine actors in the movie (and one wonders why, other than simply the money, they agreed to make it). However, the strength of the actors cannot overcome the weakness of this highly predictable script. "},{"Title":"Gotta get Payback","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A masterpiece of film noir.  I praise whoever did the casting for this one.  Gibson was spot on as Porter, a good thief and even better killer and he is as merciless as can be.  He is ripped off and left for dead by his wife and his partner and vows to get his revenge and his 70 grand one way or another.  Best performance from Gregg Henry I've ever seen him do and good performances from William Devane, James Coburn, Kris Kristofferson, David Paymer, and Maria Bello.  A dark comedy?  Absolutely.  A drama? Some of that too.  Action?  Certainly.  A sure fire combination for a fun yet serious in its execution type of movie.  The costumes were so 1980's which I love and I also prize the Vegas/Mafia type feel to the movie that Henry mentions in his interview even though it's set in Chicago and New York (of course).  The soundtrack is instrumental in contributing to that as well.  I recommend this one wholeheartedly it's an unguilty pleasure.   "},{"Title":"Cool, slick, stylish thriller","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie more than a dozen times. It makes you laugh and the quotes narrated by Mel Gibson in the background are too good.Story is very good and Mel Gibson is amazing as Porter.Must See. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable pulp nonsense.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mad Mel is Porter, a crafty crook out for revenge on his wife and cohorts after they betray him for a meagre amount of stolen money and leave him for dead. Five months later, a not-dead Porter returns, recuperated and motivated by pure rage. He wants his end of the stolen money ($70, 000), nothing more. And he's prepared to start killing off Syndicate Thugs one by one, working his way up the food chain until he gets to boss Kris Krisopherson. If only they would part with their petty $70, 000! Shot and narrated in a very pulpy style, Payback almost seems like a gritty 1970s revenge thriller. But it doesn't seem to go all the way and injects humor into the proceedings, which contrasts with the genre. The humor is entertaining and works as a breather between the action scenes, but it would have been a better and more original film if it was tough all the way through.I guess that the producers wanted Payback to be more of a Lethal Weapon movie rather than an homage to Point Blank or Death Wish. It can't be written-off though. For what it is, it's very entertaining, fast-moving and witty. Just not the kind of film it was aiming to be. "},{"Title":"Brutal","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't remember if I have ever commented on this film. It is brutal. I know Gibson softened up the character somewhat -- the original being a humorless, stone-cold killer -- but the film is still unremittingly brutal. I have watched it a number of times, including having seen it in the theater originally, and I always come away a bit queasy over the violence. The violence is only slightly leavened with a series of nasty one-liners and a bit of sardonic humor, which I understand Gibson imposed on the film. One messageboard poster calls the film pornography in disguise, and I must agree with him. Violence can be pornographic in its depiction. It certainly is here. If you watch it, be prepared. A stark drama, written by Richard Stark (a pseudonym of one of the best crime writers in the business). "},{"Title":"It's good but it's never as good as it wants to be as Gibson tries to have his cake and eat it","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Porter, his wife Lynn and Resnick steal $140,000 from the Chinese mob. However Porter is double crossed, shot and left for dead. He recovers to find Resnick had used the money to settle his debts and join 'the organisation'. Porter sets out to kill Resnick and retrieve his share of the money ($70,000) from the organisation.This basically wants to be a 1970's thriller. The gritty film stock with washed out colours, the jazz soundtrack, the tough anti-hero etc. It does pretty well for most of it and manages to stay interesting. Porter goes about his duty and eventually finds himself at war with the whole mob for only $70K! The implausibility of this is tempered by the film's sense of humour and clever(ish) twists. Bits of it are just overly nasty for the sake of it, mainly to make Porter seem even nastier. However other bits are clearly cleaned up to ensure that the audience isn't upset - such as the dog who is clearly shot dead in the head (only to have a bandage on it's stomach in the next scene!) or the happy ending.Gibson does OK, but it's obvious he wants to be tough and vicious without being unlikable. In Point Blank, Lee Marvin didn't worry about being loved by the audience. But that's the down side of star-power, you always got to look good. Henry is good as Resnick as he doesn't have to worry about people going to see his next movie - he's able to be tough and vicious without remorse. Bello's Rosie is a bit vapid and is unnecessary love interest. The main strength is in the organisation's bosses - Devane, Kristofferson and James Coburn. Quality in spades - even if they're not taking it too seriously. Finally Lucy Liu has fun as a sexy dominatrix.Overall it wants to be a tough 1970's thriller but it also wants to let Gibson end it as a star without alienating the audience. Entertaining even if it is flawed. "},{"Title":"Don't Bother -- See the Original","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Save your money, save your time.  In 1967 John Boorman made a wonderfully inventive film called 'Point Blank'.  'Payback' is a poor rip-off which is trying to cash in on some of the imaginative qualities of Boorman's film. Trust me -- spend $3.00, rent 'Point Blank' and try to tell me that this re-vamped vanity piece is worth the celluloid.  "},{"Title":"Indestructible Gibson in grim and gritty telling of The Hunter.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is not an out and out remake of John Boorman's 1967 offering Point Blank, the structure is different from the 67 film, and where Point Blank is a dark psychological thriller that is rightly regarded as being towards the top of the neo-noir tree, this Brian Helgeland directed film really should be seen as a different interpretation of Donald E. Westlake's novel The Hunter. Mel Gibson plays tough as nails thief Porter, who is double crossed, shot, and then left for dead by his wife Lynn (Deborah Kara Unger) and his partner in crime Val Resnick (Gregg Henry). We are then taken on a dark journey as Porter sets out to reclaim the $70.000 that he was shot and almost killed for. He wants no more, no less than what he is owed, and he literally will stop at nothing to achieve his goal. Including taking on the Chicago mob organisation known as The Outfit. Payback is a mean and violent movie, it is unrelenting in its willingness to keep nastiness at the top of the story. The film is full of flawed and vile people, even Porter himself, the closest we have to a (anti) hero has badness coursing through his veins, he is a dislikable killer, the film is about exactly what the tag-line suggests, Get Ready To Root For The Bad Guy! As Porter trawls through this part of Chicago, he will come across bent coppers, drug pushers/addicts/runners, Asian gangsters, prostitutes, violence fetishists and the slimy chain of command of the Chicago mob. Nobody here is about to cheer you up. The style of the film owes its being to classic film noir and the 1970s hard crime movies led by Dirty Harry and Death Wish. The makers had originally wanted to film it in black and white, but instead went for a de-saturation technique, a bleach by-pass process that really puts a grim grey and blue sheen on the visuals. The thumping score is tonally correct, while a good sound track also helps (always nice to see hear Voodoo Chile), and the use of voice over narration by Porter evokes the classic noir period and works a treat because it's not over done. The film strongly relies on Mel Gibson to bring menace and a measure of sympathy to the vengeful Porter, and it is with much credit that he manages to achieve both these things skilfully. He is backed by a strong support cast, Maria Bello admirable in her big shift from TV to film - Lucy Liu hilarious and stunningly sexy as a dominatrix and Gregg Henry is just wild. The Outfit chain of command features William Devane, James Coburn and Kris Kristofferson, all slick and welcome additions, even if they are all under used; though this is more by narrative necessity than film making decisions. Bill Duke, David Paymer and Jack Conley fill out the impressive roll call of scum-bags. Violent, laconic and darkly comic as well, Payback is one of the best remakes around, a neo-noir essential in fact. 8.5/10 Footnote Director Helgeland released his own Directors Cut in 2006. Unhappy with the original version, he changed some of the structure and visual style and made it shorter by ten minutes. It's inferior to the 100 minute original cut in my opinion, losing much of the noir stylisations, but the last quarter is different and will (does) certainly appeal to others. "},{"Title":"There's a 70s feel for a reason","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'll put down my TELNET Nikkor lens now. The fast 2.8 400 mm. I'll throw the half-smoked camel with a flick through the window and lock up the up the black Buick that needs a wash and looks like every other car on the road. I got what I needed. What I need now is a drink.Come on, Baby, sit down. That's right, sure, light up. Use the ashtray would you, the janitor complains.You know, Baby, see, you can watch Payback, and wonder, why are all those telephones rotary? Why is the car phone in Fairfax's Limo a car phone? Why does Resnick say on the phone that he wants to talk to President Nixon? Heck, you can call it retro. And that's slick.Look, Baby, there's a generation and a half of you out there that think what you see on the silver screen was written yesterday.Yeah, yeah, yeah, Donald E. Westlake wrote it. 1999, credits said. He did a lot of research, and painted this piece of noir pulp 70s to see if any of you are breathing out there.There--there's the file. Go on. Open it. The Hunter published 1984. Richard Stark, author. Written in the 70s.Check it out. This guy has more aliases than all of the cons and crooks he writes about.Where did I get my information? Wait--here's that drink. Yeah, Cheers! to your baby blue eyes, kiddo. No, I got no ice. This is what you get for free, Baby, this and an almost-clean tumbler of scotch. Next look costs you a couple of Benjis.So, did you like the movie? I did. James Coburn, uncredited. Kristofferson. Devane. You like movies? Check out their filmography. Magnificent Seven. Marathon Man. Bring Me The Head of Alfredo Garcia.Twists and turns? This thing has everything. Mel Gibson couldn't have done better. I knew he had it in him.The director? Gibson took over, you say? Look, the guy, Brian Helgeland, wrote a good screenplay. That don't mean you can get actors to act for Chrissakes.Say, Baby, don't guzzle that scotch--that's multiple malt. What does he do next, A Knight's Tale? My sweet lord, that tells a tale. Give him the credit he deserves as a writer--Conspiracy Theory, L.A. Confidential, Bloodwork, Mystic River.All right, time's up. I got things to go, places to do. You got more than you shoulda got. You OK to drive, Baby? Hey, wait a--put that away, little popgun like that, you could break a window. What is that, .32? Won't go through my jacket. Besides, I got my .45 pointed right at your guts. I won't miss. Be a shame to spoil those lovely clothes. No, you can keep the gun, Baby. Your daddy might spank you if you lost it. Go on, nice and slow, get up. Back out. There's the door, now turn, nice and easy.My, you are lovely though. What a shame you got no manners. Don't let the door hit your, ah, purse, on the way out.Oh and Baby? Lose my number. "}{"Title":"Not a good entertainment indeed","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story premise is another common found robbers, betrayal and revenge. The development also doesn't introduce something new or unique. It's quite boring to see that it's Mel Gibson's way to get back into the action scene, back still bringing the old stuff and offering nothing to looks for. The coloration of the movie is dubiously dark. It emphasizes the movie's whole story of the violent world of crime. The acting is just a so-so performance. Mel Gibson's effort to portray a much more calmer action character than the ones he did in Lethal Weapon movies is not very successful. Having Lucy Liu's start up role here is a good step for her to land better roles later on. "},{"Title":"In one word...Tough","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tough...if I could describe Mel Gibson's character in this film, or even the entire movie in one word; that would be it. Payback is sort of a modern version of the Film Noir movies of the 40s and 50s mixed with the tough guy movies of the 90s. Mel Gibson plays a tough as nails robber/ex-bodyguard named Porter who's out to get revenge, get his money, and prove a point. While there are many points throughout the movie where Porter comes across quite mean and almost heartless, you can't help but end up cheering for him by the end of the movie. Porter even comes across as quite caring at points...in a violent, tough way though of course! All the actors in this do a pretty decent job with their roles. Gregg Henry comes across quite scummy as a selfish, sadistic member of the Outfit, and Maria Bello is quite intriguing and attractive as the almost classy prostitute. Ultimately though Mel Gibson steals the show in this movie with his cool narrative, and his unflinching resolve to take down the bad guys.If you're a fan of movies like The Crow, Man on Fire, Taken, or Die Hard; or you like Film Noir or old Gangster movies; or if you just want to see Mel Gibson own a bunch of people...this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"Great movie that has been chopped a bit.","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoiler AlertSaw this movie in theater on release. Really enjoyed gritty and hard edged violence and performance of all the actors. When it was released on home video, I noticed many scenes had been softened thru some cuts. Spoiler coming. One example, of many, is the interrogation scene with the hammer. It was brutal and you saw the hammer hit toes and the bloody aftermath after each hit in close up. I recall thinking this was new territory for an r-rated movie and in its way was almost unwatchable. In all home video options and versions this has been trimmed to not show hammer to toe contact or the bloody aftermath at all. Nothing. There are other trims also but this one was so egregious it was blatant. Spoiler Alert over.So great movie that has been neutered. Goes for all versions including the inferior directors cut. "},{"Title":"Steely, tough and immensely entertaining. Full of charm.","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There was a time when I could recite lines right along with the characters in this movie, I'd seen it often enough. It was the kind of movie that I just gravitated to, hook, line and sinker; the kind with unbelievable replay value. And what blows me away is just how much that enjoyment comes flooding back when I watch it now. For me, Payback is the definitive big-screen adaptation of Richard Stark's Parker novels. It's sure as hell the closest Hollywood has come to the source material, and it's got its own flair and sharp teeth. Mel Gibson perfectly embodies this character (though he's also the poster boy for a stop smoking campaign), while this particular underworld is populated by some serious talent (Gregg Henry, David Paymer, William Devane, James Coburn and Kris Kristofferson). And I love the otherworldy universe of this movie. Contemporary clothes, yet the phones are all rotary, cars no newer than '89, and everything's colored in that cold blue steel harshness. It's the kind of place that's fun to visit for 90 minutes, but you know better than to take up residence. The whole thing plays like a '70s caper/revenge flick, dash of noir, and just the right sense of humor and levity to pull it all off.Payback is tremendously watchable and just endears with character. Great soundtrack and score, too (terrific use of Hendrix's Voodoo Child, and I love the upright bass theme they use for Gregg Henry). One of my favorite Mel Gibson flicks. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A great non Hollywood action movie","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" No good guys, no evil plots, no cackling villains, just a guy that wants to get his damned money. And yet it's entertaining, and that's what makes this movie kind of great. Mel Gibson is a heartless, kind of soulless criminal. And he just wants his damned money, no matter what it takes. Not that he's suicidal, but that he figures the value of his life is probably less than $70,000; a kind of bleak realism and frankness surrounds what he does.As the ending line puts it We agreed that if she'd stop hookin, I'd stop shootin people. Maybe we were aiming a little high. It's those two sentences that sum up this movie so well. An amusingly bleak kind of entertainment, with no need to shove a philosophy or lesson about society or anything like that in your face. Turns out it can be fun just to watch criminal pricks murder each other without having to learn anything. "},{"Title":"More of this Please!","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really dig a good revenge film, especially if you have Mel Gibson cracking skulls, shooting suits and Lucy Liu as a crazy S&M hooker with Chinese mafia connections.Payback has everything I want from a good 90's action film. It has a cool protagonist, sexy ladies, awesome villains and plenty of humor and excessive violence. The performances were really good but by far the scene stealer was the crazy sexy Lucy Liu. Once you see her in this film, you will understand me. You could always complain about the fact that Point Blank is a better film and Mel Gibson wasn't as good as Lee Marvin and so on, but I don't care. All I want to see is Mel Gibson beating the crap out of bad people and Lucy Liu being awesome.Payback has everything I want from a Hollywood revenge film. I can't expect visual poetry of Lady Vengeance or Lady Snowblood or the excellent story of Oldboy. I'll take anything that's not by the numbers Hollywood blockbuster with superheroes or PG-13 Die Hard clones... "},{"Title":"Great Neo-Noir Film!","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback is a great, gritty noir film that rises above mediocrity solely because of Mel Gibson. The plot is pretty predictable, but Mel being the kind of actor he is, does better than what other actors would have done. He adds a slight touch of comedy that reminds me a little of Lethal Weapon, but this movie is pretty dark even for Mel. It's a tense film that explores the criminal underground. It's tense and has some pretty good action scenes.Brian Helgeland's film is about a guy named Porter who was betrayed and left for dead after a robbery and also had his share stolen. Now he rises from the underground to reclaim his share and to show why he should have died instead of being alive.Mel Gibson makes this movie work. I'm not anyone would have done bad, but Mel has this certain charm that I like. It's nice that he brings a little comedy to his roles no matter how dark they are.Overall, this is a great noir film that had me deep into the movie and kept me hooked despite some predictability. Most movies are predictable these days, but it's up to the actors to make the films work and Mel Gibson does here. This reminds me of the 70's noir films as they are very similar to this film. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Payback Should Have Been Renamed As Wipe Out ***","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A perfect role for Mel Gibson in this 1999 film. He plays a small time thief who steals money with a partner only for the latter and Gibson's wife to betray him. Gibson recovers with a vengeance.Within the first hour of the film, the wife and the partner are already dead, the former a victim of a drug over-dose and the latter provided with a gun shot in his head over a pillow.Problem is that the partner had taken the loot to pay off a debt with the crime organization. The film becomes one where Gibson attempts to get his money back from the syndicate. If the syndicated and only yielded and given Gibson his money, instead, bodies are riddled with bullets, as we see crooked police in this as well. "},{"Title":"Dark, violent, neo-noir comedy","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The following is a review of 1967's Point Blank, 1999's Pay Back and 2006's Pay Back The Director's Cut. All three are based on The Hunter, a 1962 novel by Donald Westlake. Hunter's novel was also adapted by Ringo Lam in 1992. Titled Full Contact, this version of the tale is an ultra violent Hong Kong actionerPoint Blank stars Lee Marvin as Walker, a thief who's shot and left for dead by his associates. What follows is a revenge plot in which Walker rabidly pursues both vengeance and the money he is owned. The film makes all the usual noir stops &#x96; informants, mob bosses, snitches, ex lovers, bars and bar-room brawls &#x96; before climaxing with our cast assembling around a much desired case of money.Marvin plays Walker as a force of nature, a relentless, violent, no-nonsense man. He says little and is supremely fixated on pay back. Broad-shouldered and unblinking, Marvin moves like a machine, inexorably closing in on his target. The film was directed by John Boorman, a director whose films tend not to age well.Point Blank's predecessor is Fritz Lang's The Big Heat, another film which found a macho man hell-bent on revenge. Coincidentally, Lee Marvin played a bit part in Lang's film as well; a low level mobster with a fondness for beating up women. Point Blank also resembles Melville's Le Samourai, a much better film released that same year.Upon release Point Blank was well received. Marvin took violent, macho stoicism to new heights, the film was shockingly violent and its use of several experimental, avant-garde techniques (elliptical editing, fractured time lines, abrupt, shockingly callous violence, discordant sounds, flashbacks etc) was deemed novel. The film's somewhat odd narrative structure stands out even today. It unfolds as the jagged dreams of a bleeding man, a criminal betrayed even by his dying fantasies. Forever cut off from the money he futilely chases, Walker is perpetually trapped in the mind-space of Alcatraz, always reaching, walking or lunging for that case of green he so manically desires.Actor Mel Gibson released a remake of Point Blank in 1999. Titled Pay Back, Gibson's film amps up the sadism, audacity, violence, relentlessness, sexism and macho determination of Boorman's film. In customary Gibson fashion, Gibson spends most of the film bleeding, battered or tied to a chair whilst being tortured. Gibson's sadistic streak and love for flagellation are given a self-conscious tinge, though, as the film has a comical subplot involving an S and M dominatrix.Regardless, Gibson's character, who makes Marvin's look like a wimp, is so determined to reclaim his money that he systematically works his way to the top of a massive criminal organisation, effortlessly knocking kingpins and mob bosses off one by one in an attempt to find someone man enough to pay him the cash he's owed. Because such films rely on the shock of transgressive violence, and because such cinematic shocks are always exponentially increasing or intensifying, Boorman's Point Blank looks positively tame and pointless today. Marvin knocks off some crooked cops and hoodlums, Gibson climbs a criminal empire. Pay Back was so knowingly, ridiculously extreme in 1999 that even today it packs a punch.Note that Pay Back exists in two cuts. Director Brian Helgeland produced a cut which was deemed dull and dour by Gibson. Gibson thus stepped in, altered the script, removed some scenes (ironic, a domestic abuser removing a wife beating scene), added a noir narrator and had much of the film re-shot, re-scored and colour-graded. Gibson then released his edited version in cinemas as the theatrical cut. Always a populist, Gibson's version sucked in the blood-hungry crowds. This theatrical cut is a violent, comic-book neo-noir which amps up its carnage and comedy. It doesn't take itself seriously and revels in its pulpy ridiculousness. Helgeland's director's cut, assembled years later but hampered because much of the footage necessary for such an assembly was lost or missing, in contrast plays like a straight, 1960s crime movie. Few director's cuts are so radically different from their theatrical releases. In any case, Gibson's theatrical cut, because its relatively unique in tone, is superior. Helgeland's cut too strongly echoes tamer crime dramas of the 60s.8/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Payback - Dark Comedy at Its Best","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback, the Theatrical Version, has to be the most underrated dark comedy ever filmed.I haven't found much of anything in these reviews that gives this film the credit it deserves.Examples Ain't That a Kick in the Head, by Dean Martin, is played as background for Val's (Gregg Henry's) beating at the hands of Pearl (Lucy Liu).Hubba Hubba was used by both Pearl and Val in their separate moments of surprised delight. Coming from a member of the Cbinese triad on one hand, and a very Caucasian sadist on the other lends deep humor to the expression.I got hammered, used by Gibson as response to What happened to you, is a clever play on words given the circumstance of its delivery. Gregg Henry's facial expression when being told by William Devane (Carter) that his, Henry's, value to the organization rests on the fact that Henry is a sadist is priceless. Carter You're a sadist. You lack compunction. That comes in handy. (You have to see Henry's facial expression to understand this comment.David Paymer's insistence on remaining upright in the cab despite Mel Gibson not holding him up any longer, as the Chinese triad pours hundreds of rounds into his back. Paymer just seemed to want to absorb those extra 50 bullets for the folks at home.Paymer's repeated, You're not going to f....n kill me are you?..is hilarious considering his imminent demise.And, so many more.This may be billed as a Noir Action Film, but it is in fact one of the best dark comedies ever filmed.Loved it. "}{"Title":"Great revenge flick!","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just wondering how a screen ICON like James Coburn, who plays mob consigliere Justin Fairfax, goes un-credited in this film when Fairfax bodyguard one gets a listing..???? c'mon Mel, did Mr. Coburn rub you the wrong way on the set? BTW, happy birthday and RIP James. Another funny thing is that the Chicago mob, sometimes known as the Outfit, or Syndicate doesn't use the stereotypical Italian gangsters in this movie. The gang consists of a bunch of white guys like Kris Kristofferson, James Coburn, and William Devane. Did the Chicago mob become Irish all of a sudden? The movie is shot using a blue tint, that gives it a noir feel. Mel is not to be f'ed w/ in this flick and manages to slither out of some sticky situations. "},{"Title":"Payback's a B****","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you shoot someone intending to kill him... make sure he's dead. Porter (Mel Gibson) was betrayed, shot, and left for dead, only to come back from the dead for payback. Just like most typical revenge driven movies, Porter has to work his way to the top of the criminal food chain to get complete closure. Payback puts an interesting spin on the vengeance game; instead of Porter seeking justice for his own attempted murder, he simply wants the money that was stolen from him by the guy who tried to kill him. It makes for a somewhat comedic story as Porter seeks $70,000 while he has the outfit, an Asian gang, as well as corrupt cops looking for his blood.Mel Gibson does a great job playing the quasi-looney thief/hit-man. His role is very reminiscent of his role in Lethal Weapon, except this time he is on a different side of the law. "},{"Title":"A good but overrated revenge film, that could have been a lot better, however it helps that Gibson is in top form!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a good but overrated revenge film, that could have been a lot better however it helps that Gibson is in top form!. All the characters are good, and the story is good for the most part, plus Mel Gibson is simply amazing in this!. I did enjoy this movie to an extent, however I was pretty disappointed with the outcome, as I would have loved to see The Director's version of this, plus while I was pleased with the ending it was pretty predictable. Gibson and Maria Bello had very good chemistry together, and I really liked its mean streak at times, however I have seen much better revenge films as I was expecting this to be one of the best!, plus while I loved Gibson's character its hard to feel any sympathy for him, but then again I guess that was the point. It does get quite violent at times, and that I liked, and Gregg Henry gives a fantastic performance as the weasel Val Resnick!, plus Lucy Liu has an absolutely bizarre but sexy role!. All of the cast are very likable, and the character development is better then average, plus the finale was pretty good as well. This is a good but overrated revenge film, that could have been a lot better, however it helps that Gibson is in top form, and I say its well worth the watch!. The Direction is good. Brian Helgeland does a good job here with stylish camera work, great angles and keeping the film at a good pace for the most part, The Acting is great. Mel Gibson is amazing as always and is amazing here, he had a great gritty edge that I loved, and was always unpredictable, he made this movie above average by himself, with his awesome charisma, and gritty character, his chemistry with Maria Bello was very good as well. (Gibson Rules!!!!). Gregg Henry is excellent as the weasel Val Resnick he is awesome at these roles and here was no different!. Maria Bello is stunningly gorgeous and did great with what she had to do as the love interest I really liked her. Lucy Liu had a really bizarre role but pulled it off perfectly she was also pretty hot too!. Bill Duke(Det. Hicks),David Paymer(Arthur Stegman),Deborah Kara Unger(Lynn Porter),John Glover(Phill),Kris Kristofferson(Bronson)all do what they have to do well. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall well worth the watch!. *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best action/thrillers that I have seen in a long time. Mel Gibson plays the bad guy that is screwed over by the badder bad guys, and he is out for revenge. The way that the movie flows ensures that you are hooked, you will not want to leave for fear of missing what he is going to do next.Mel is one of my favorite actors and I would say is up there on everyones list, which makes this movie even better. He is the bad guy that people can relate to. He really plays a fairly twisted, sadistic freak but you can't help but love him for it. The addition of a fine looking lady like Maria just makes it even better.9 out of 10 - One of the best movies I have seen.Great work Mel  "},{"Title":"Pretty good neo-noir anti-hero action film","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's fairly rare to see an action film where the main character is an anti-hero. It's refreshing to see a movie where the main character isn't a flawless, lovable hero who always does what's right. That's just not real. Everybody makes mistakes, and it's nice to see this depicted fairly believably in a film like this. The narration gives it a nice feel of neo-noir to it, and the dark humor and metaphors make for great(if ever-so-slightly hard to watch) entertainment. The action is somewhat limited, but it's not really an action movie(plus, what there is is bad-ass). It's more a story of revenge; Porter feels he's been wronged, and he won't quit until he's gotten the revenge that he wants(including the *exact* amount of money stolen from him). The plot is pretty good, and moves along at a nice pace, once it takes off, which it unfortunately doesn't really do for the first half hour or so(though I wouldn't call what happens up to that boring). The acting is all pretty good. The characters are all well-written and fairly diverse in their actions; most of them are credible. The dark, cynical mood, helped along nicely with the blue tinting and the brutality of the events fits perfectly. The production design is excellent, with its non-retro approach to a 70's look. I think what I enjoyed most about the movie was Porter's(Mel Gibson) dry wit, in every possible situation, he'd crack jokes, and handle the situation in a perfectly calm manner. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good anti-hero action flick, and fans of the neo-noir film genre. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this film to be quite entertaining and insightful.  Unlike others, I don't think violence is glorified by Gibson.  The world of crime in this film is populated by bloodthirsty thugs and corrupt cops.  Everyone is out for themselves.  You have to constantly be looking over your shoulder and there is nobody to trust.Doesn't exactly compel me to turn to a life of crime.   I'm still not sure why one poster brought up gratuitous violence and torture in Passion of the Christ.  That didn't come from Gibson's mind silly rabbit.  It was from the 4 Gospels.  There is your historical context.  Payback is based on the story of a character named Porter.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant Action, Fantastic plot.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the best i've see. i borrowed the DVD and i didn't return it for weeks! mel gibson does a great job in this movie and the character he play (porter) is so cool.  i would recommend this movie to all gibson fans. the whole story works so well and the cast is superb, esp lucy! "},{"Title":"You don't mess with Porter if you want to stay alive and healthy","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ******SPOILERS****** After ripping off $140,000.00 from the Chicago Chinese mob Porter, Mel Gibson, gets double-crossed by his wife Lynn, Deborah Unger, and partner Val, Gregg Henry, by getting a number of slugs in his back and left for dead. Managing to get himself to a doctor Porter has the bullets taken out of his back and is slowly nursed back to health. With his body and memory back to normal Porter has one and just one thing on his mind To get his share of the $140,000.00 that he took from the Chinese mob the 70 grand and nothing will get in his way no matter how big or small it is to stop him from getting it. Tracking down Lynn to her hotel room that she's staying at Porter sees that she's wasted on drugs and the next morning he finds that she's dead from an overdose. A short time later the doorbell rings and it's Lynn's drug pusher with her daily fix. Porter at first lets the dealer in and then asks him who he works for. Not getting the answer that he wants Poter works the dealer over so bad that his memory suddenly comes back. Going to the place when the drugs came from, a cab dispatchers office in downtown Chicago, Porter flattens the hulking bodyguard at the door for not being too cooperative with him. Porter goes in and confronts Artie who owns the place who playing cards with two corrupt Chicago undercover cops. The cops are there knowing that he's dealing drugs but upset in that they aren't getting their share of the drug money from Artie. Trying to find out from Artie where his ex-partner Val is Porter gets nothing out of him but this time he's a little more civil because of the presents of the policemen. Porter next goes to a bar nightclub where a call-girl Rosie, Maria Bello,that he knew may have some information on where Val is. Told that she works out of the Regal hotel Porter finds the bartender there very uncooperative until he slams the bar lid on his fingers where he then tells him everything that he wants to know. Rosie, surprise that he's alive, tells Porter where Val stays and Porter finds him there in bed with a hooker. Instead of killing him, like Val thought that he'll do, Porter tells Val to get him his 70 grand that he ripped off from him if he wants to stay alive and be healthy. Val instead of getting the 70 grand that he owes Porter tips off the Chinese mob to where Porter will be! The place Val is to meet Porter and give him his money. The Chinese mob first try to run Porter down in the street and then tries to do something even worse to him before their interrupted by the two cops that he met at Artie's cab office. The cops were tailing him to find out where and when Porter would get his 70 grand and then rip him off or kill him to get it away from him. The dirty cops do a job on Porter as well but like the Duracell Bunny Porter just keeps taking a licking but still goes right on ticking. At Rosie's place after she patched him up, from the beating he got from the Chinese mob and corrupt cops, Porter goes out and some time later Val breaks into her apartment and mistakenly shoots and wounds her dog who's also named Porter. Val thinking that he, the dog, was THE Porter lying under the blanket on Rosie's bed then gets to work on Rosie. Beating up Rosie and then just when Val is just about to rape and murder her the door swings open and it's Porter, the man not the dog, in person and in living color. In an instant Porter sends Val almost into the next room with a blast from his magnum revolver that leaves him barley alive and breathing. Getting Val to tell him who he works for, a Mr. Carter played by William Devane, in order to get the 70 grand that Val paid him to be a member of his organization Porter puts Val out of his misery by blowing his brains out. The movie Payback goes on with Porter in his quest for his hard earned 70 grand that he got ripped off leaving a trail of broken heads arms legs and bodies along the way. By then there's nobody left standing between his 70 grand but Mr. Big himself Bronson, Kris Kristofferson, the head of the Chicago Syndicate. Porter brazenly kidnaps Bronson's teenage son Johnny to make sure that he pays up which ,if he wasn't by then, Porter became a walking dead man for doing that! But Porter already worked himself up from the dead to become the most feared man alive in the city of Chicago. With the best, or worst, yet to come Payback is one of the most violent movies that I've ever seen. Mel Gibson's Porter ranks right up there as one of the most cold blooded and ironically at the same time ethical, all he wants is his 70 grand nothing more nothing less, killers ever seen on film. With the flamboyant ending of the Bronson gang Porter finally gets his hard earned but elusive 70 grand. In the final scene of the movie we see Porter Rosie and her dog Porter drive into the sunrise going to Canada to have breakfast. Porter ends the movie promising Rosie that if she stops hooking he'll stop shooting people. After what we saw in the movie this is an awful big order to expect from Porter and he knows it too saying to himself as the movies ending credits are rolling we were both aiming high. "},{"Title":"Smart action flick","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not too much time right now to comment this one, but it was a really smart and pretty good action flick. Smart story, good acting, nice cinematography and sterile colours, absolutely weird appearance of Lucy Liu (whatever happened to her character in the end... nothing?!) and pretty violent - in a funny way although )My ratings acting 7.5/10, story 7.5/10, camera 7/10, cinematography 7.5/10, action 8/10, suspense 6/10.Overall 7.5 out of 10. A smart (above-average) action movie. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Interesting...","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm somewhat at a loss for words with respect to Payback.  I thought it was an  interesting movie and a well told story, but it certainly isn't a fun or happy story.  In  this film, there really isn't any good guys and bad guys, they're all bad guys...also the  person you should be rooting for (Mel Gibson) is sometimes a bigger a**hole than the  guys that are supposed to be the really BAD bad guys.The acting in the film is great on all accounts, although it's really hard to accept Mel  Gibson in a role such as this.  He's great at playing rogue cops or all-out good guys, but  an anti-hero is not his strong suit.I suppose if you like Mel Gibson, go ahead and check it out, just remember, this isn't his  typical type of role.  Or if you just like films where you are rooting for a bad guy, than by  all means check it out.  I guess as far a production value and directing, acting,  characters, and all that, it was a great movie.  But personally, I'm not terribly fond of the  subject matter, so there's just no way I could say this is an excellent movie...but it was  interesting.  Hope you enjoy the the film.-LebowskiT1000 "}{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie proves that Mel Gibson can play any role you give him. This movie was great. It was wierd at the beginning to see Mel Gibson act as a bad guy but through out the movie he was really good. I really enjoyed this movie and I recommend this movie to all viewers who are Mel Gibson fans because I give this movie TWO THUMBS UP!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Get Ready To Root For The Bad Guy!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Only an actor with the talent and charisma of Mel Gibson could make a character like Porter attractive. There is nothing good about him whatsoever, he is a sociopathic killer, a criminal and a thief and yet you find yourself rooting for him as he goes up against his betraying partners, crooked cops and the crime syndicate. Gibson makes this film and holds it together with his stoic intensity. He has ample help however with an unusually distinguished supporting cast. People like James Coburn, William Devane and Kris Kristofferson. Kris has one of the best lines in the film when he tells Mel that if he reveals where his son is he wont have to find out what his left testicle tastes like. By the way, I don't think that I am ever going to be able to listen to that nursery rhyme This little piggy went to the market ever again after watching this film. "},{"Title":"All he wants is his $70,000","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Movies like this can be hard to stomach. It is rare in life or film to have a person who actually lives by the motto Don't get mad get even. Now this is a well known phrase, but when this philosophy is put into practice people look like self absorbed *ss**les. That is the problem with the movie, the protagonist is complete jerk, thief, bully, and cold blooded murderer. He actually gets what he deserves but the job is done poorly and he actually lives. Where he goes to recover is unknown but after being shot like that he has to have other friends/ business associates somewhere fairly close. No matter though the real story picks up when trying to get back what he rightly stole. Don't get me wrong this film is very entertaining, it is funny, the violence is generally over the top and not really believable. But what bugs me the most is that not one character in this film could pass for a decent person. This movies leaves you wanting to cheer when our antihero is down near the end of the picture and at the same time you want him to be successful. Their is a real Count of Monti Cristo revenge to all that unfairly punished me feel to this movie. The punishment though is not really unfair. I like to watch this movie when I want to see someone kick some serious *** with a evil smile and demonic wit. I cannot recommend this movie though for those who are easily impressionable. If someone gets in their head that living by this motto is socially acceptable we will end up with a bunch of people being killed over parking spots or something. All in all this is a action movie and that's all. Not everyone gets what they deserve in this flick and the underlying theme seems to be crime can pay (if you kill everyone before they kill you). "},{"Title":"Okayish dark thriller","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler warningPayback is both a good and a bad movie. Good? Some fairly decent action scenes, witty conversations, Lucy Liu not wearing a lot. Bad? Horrifically violent, no one to root for and a slow pace.  I'm not going to explain the plot because it's quite confusing (money, double crosses, mobsters) but I will say it is a very violent film. One review claimed that it is no more violent than your average Hollywood blockbuster, and he is right. What makes it so bad, is that it's the (anti)hero who's inflicting it upon people. I've heard that in an alternate version to the one I've seen Mel Gibson's character Porter rips out a man's eyeball in an elevator, leaves the doors to close on his head, and then later rips the other eye out. This film actually made me feel sick. Not because I'm queasy or anything, just because it's the supposed hero who causes most of the damage. Who the hell are you meant to root for?On the plus side, though, it's an all-round fairly entertaining film. And Lucy Liu! Hubba, hubba indeed!3/5 "},{"Title":"Star Tinkering (Warning Spoilers)","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brain Helegeland adapted the hard boiled crime novel The Hunter with a very unlikable protagonist. He planed on making a low budget directorial debut of a noir crime thrillers. When Mel Gibson signed on, he was given an A list actor and a considerably larger budget. Mel Gibson probably didnt understand just how far his character would go. From many rumors floating around, Mel Gibson reshot most of the film after seeing a rough cut Helegelang assembled.The first two thirds work very well to show how ruthless Gibsons character is. We see through flashback how much the betrayal and attempted murder of him by his friend and wife made him into a stone cold killer. We see Gibson on a path of vengence coupled with getting his share of some money from a robbery. There are too many twist to be mentioned in this film. All I can say is that able comic releif is give by David Palmer, Lucy Lui, and James Coburn. Gregg Henry plays suitably evil villian.The Last third of the film is where it begins to lose its way. This is the part that Gibson reportedly reshot. The begining of the film shows Gibson to be cold and ruthless.  The last third seems more like a hard boiled version of Martin Riggs with Gibson tryin to make his character more redemable. This kills any power the first two third had because it is meant to show just how much of this man died when he was betrayed and his life was stripped from him. Many scenes that showed Gibsons character becoming very violent were cut as well.Mel Gibson had a real chance to play a character that he had never played before, a cold ruthless man that only cares about getting his money back no matter what the cost. Some actors are not that afraid to tamper with their image for artistic fulfillment . What we are left with is an entertaining film that could of been much more had Gibson been more willing to try something new.In the end though, see this film and decide for yourself "},{"Title":"film noir?  more like film bleu....","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  PAYBACK was originally marketed as an action/comedy with the requisite trailer showing characters spouting witty things over a plunky piano tune. That was a mistake.  This is a tough-guy/film-noirish movie, the kind that Clint Eastwood and Burt Reynolds (think SHARKEY'S MACHINE, not CANNONBALL RUN) used to make in the 70's.  It's the kind of movie that has wounded, angry heroes who are morally ambivalent but live by their own rules.  In this case, you have Mel Gibson playing Porter, a guy who was double-crossed by his wife and her lover for a paltry $70,000.  Five months later he's all healed and ready to get his money back.  Unfortunately, it's been given to a crime syndicate that doesn't want to give it back.  The writing is good, the dialogue smart and the acting from a cast of unknowns, has-beens and b-listers is superb.  What's more, Mel Gibson, who usually hides his short stature, is shown at normal size which serves to emphasize the David-and-Goliath story.  His larger-than-life persona (and sometimes over-the-top acting style) are almost hidden.  It's a good choice as it makes him seem that much tougher, as well as much more sympathetic. Another interesting choice is that the film is awash in shades of blue.  It's almost a blue-and-white movie.  The blue tinge to everything is a smart touch as it makes blood look black and acts to tone down some of the violence.  A surprisingly good movie.  Mr. Gibson should make more movies like this.  "},{"Title":"Violent entertainment...","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *Minor Spoilers*Payback is everything its detractors say it is... violent, misogynistic, politically incorrect, with plenty of plot holes and violence for the sake of violence.  Did I mention the constant violence?It's also endlessly entertaining, engaging and funny with a superb sense of momentum and pacing, and if you like this kind of movie will have you on the edge of your seat (if you can take the violence).  A real throwback to earlier films that I thought Hollywood had stopped making.  Gibson plays one of those monomaniacal characters who will stop at nothing to get payback, and somehow magically avoids getting killed numerous times (either through Hollywood de-rigeur deus ex machina interludes or sheer toughness).  The directing and production values are first rate, although I thought the way he gets his payback at the end was a little too easy (and why would he submit to getting beaten up and having two of his toes broken if he had the setup planned beforehand?  To convince the head honcho he's not setting him up?  Ahh, can't think too much with this sort of movie).  Turn off your brain completely and enjoy.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent book-to-movie adaptation","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Under his real name, Donald Westlake writes funny caper novels (The Hot Rock was based on one). As Richard Stark, he lets out his darker side, generally in the character of Parker, a thoroughly amoral armed robber who generally gets double-crossed by his even more crooked partners. A bit of dialogue from one of the books gives you an idea of the characterWOMAN Do you kill people?PARKER Only when I have to.WOMAN You mean in self defense?PARKER No. I mean if that's the only way to get what I want.Payback captures Parker (named Porter for this film) and his bleak world perfectly. There is no good here. The women are either junkies or hookers. The cops are on the take. All the other characters are small time crooks, big time mob bosses or the thugs who work for them. Everyday citizens are merely part of the background, existing only to be stolen from.It's a nasty, violent world best viewed from the safety and comfort of one's La-Z-Boy. And afterwards, you might want to have a copy of Mary Poppins on hand, just to balance out your perspective. "},{"Title":"And you haven't seen it yet?","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great gangster film. The best Angles with dirty faces tradition.Gibson plays a bad crook fighting the Firm for his money. He does a great job of portraing Porter (I really enjoyed the inside monologue). The movie has great action (which is finely shown by good cameramen).It reminded me of French gangster comedies with Delon and Belmondo. The soundtrack is terrific. The way modern and classical pieces arecombined deserves its praise. Some good jazz/blues pieces.Anyone out for Gibson, action and good movies must see. "},{"Title":"Paging Mr Bronson...","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was pretty good for what it was.Possible Spoilers below!!!!!Standouts/things that come to mind when I think of this flick Lucy Liu(all 5'1 100 lbs max of her...) as this leathered up S and M chick-though again Hollywood has made her into this dynamo who whacks around 200 lb guys. Sure. And Mel is 6 foot. Try 5-9 max. No matter, she was hot and all those knees in the nads did make me wince. Mel doing the lit ciggie into the trail of gas bit, ala Yosemite Sam  and that trail of gun powder. Anyone ever see Die Hard II? Yup so did Mel. Kinda dumb but over the top.Liked the exploding bed/phone call part. That was fun, they do get ya going.I liked the Rosie blonde but guys, she DOES resemble Mel's wife too much too. Some watching this with me had trouble telling them apart, ala the leads in 'Thin Red Line'. Try to get different looking leads.William Devane, Kristofferson and Paymer were all fine. The shootouts were right from the A-Team. Was fun to see Bill Duke as a crooked cop. Was fun to see frequent TV co star Gregg Henry(Matlock, Murder She Wrote, etc etc) do a turn on the big screen as a baddie. He was pretty good.Plot was fine, blue tint for the scenes(all shot early in the morning too it looks) were scenic and something different.I liked Coburn too. The flick itself was pretty good, though don't watch the pounding toes or S and M stuff if you like to wince while watching TV.**1/2 outta ****, could have been better but certainly worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Mel mauls mafia, punishes pushers, and heats up hitmen","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This reminded me more of a Bruce Willis shoot-em-up than something Mel would do as he pumps his enemies full of holes, smirks, and fires up a cigarette. The story was as full of holes as a slice of swiss cheese and about as tasty. Lots of blood, guts, weirdos, and mobsters in this extremely violent tale of backstabbing and revenge. Mel was interesting, and I liked the film for the most part, but it was hard to believe that anybody would go up against such formidable odds for a paltry 70K. Really, the movie was pretty corny, and much of the action was just plain off the wall. I did love that Val Resnick character, though; colorful, to say the least.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure what it was, but there was something about this movie that didn't quite make it.  Definatly not one of Mel's best.  (opinion only) It was way to dark and brooding for Mel, and no amount of humor could change that.  Carlito's Way is similar in that we do root for the bad guy, but Al Pacino was made for that role, I don't think Mel was made for Porter. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies of all times!!!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mel Gibson is a very good actor who plays in very good movies, normally. Well Payback is his second best (Braveheart is his best). The backgrounds were excellent, the story was common but incredibly well-written, the actors were great and the movie was action-packed! How can you expect to have all these good things in an action movie? I don't know but Payback is the best example. It is pretty funny to see the bad guy winning sometimes. Not too much violence but intense action with a very great scenario. What else could I say? I give it 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"It's okay. . .","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just recently rented this film, expecting to see slam bang action.  Well, I did get the slam bang action. . .only, very little of it and towards the end.  I found this movie to be very boring, slow moving, but well-acted.  Rent it only for the stellar performances by everyone.  ** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Disgusting Sexist Drivel (Oh yeah, and a lot of people are killed)","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a sad and pathetic waste of time. It was also a tragic waste of valuable studio resources, which could have gone into something more productive, like another Jennifer Love Hewitt movie.But seriously, aside from the needless bloodshed and property destruction, this movie is nothing more than a two-hour long tribute to the human wonder that (we are supposed to believe) is Mel Gibson. One look into those steely eyes of his and we are supposed to accept that he is the greatest, bravest, sexiest actor who ever lived. Of course, that's nowhere near the truth. Everybody knows the greatest actor who has ever lived is Sarah Michelle Gellar.But I digress. On to the sexist drivel. Ever notice that with every action film, the girls can dish it out, but they never can take it? We are treated to countless scenes in Payback of the sexy female gangster beating males bloody, but not a hair on her head is harmed. I guess in Hollywoodland, it's perfectly laudable for women to be perpetrators of violence but it's completely unacceptable for them to be victims of it.Yes, I realize that BAD guys in movies do beat up on women. But haven't you ever noticed that no matter how evil a female character is portrayed as being, she is NEVER offed by the good guy?  "},{"Title":"Great atmosphere","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very much alike OUT OF SIGHT. They are both very violent, they are both narrated and the director in both movies succeeds in making a dark and thrilling atmosphere.Mel Gibson does a great job both as a narrator and as a player. His character - Porter - is a bit unbelievable. On the one hand he is so mean that he robs a beggar and on the other hand he is able to really love a woman. I don't believe that combination is possible.The main problem for me with this movie is that I can't relate to any of the characters. I really did not care if they lived or died. The movie did not get under my skin at any time (perhaps it did not aim to do that either).But all in all - a fair movie that should be watched in a theatre in order to be able to catch the atmosphere.Rating 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"Slick, fun, and hilarious - one of Gibson's best","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just couldn't say enough about this movie. It's everything you've come to expect from Mel Gibson and more. Some very cool action sequences, a terrific script full of hilarious zingers, and some slick and clever acting by Gibson and a host of talented supporting players (James Coburn, Gregg Henry, David Paymer, Kris Kristofferson) all come together to make this film as much fun as a Quentin Tarantino film, if not more so. All in all, this is a great action comedy that I would recommend to just about anyone.  "},{"Title":"On the edge of your seat funny?","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very well crafted.  No one else could have played such as sleaze that you love as Mel Gibson.  Pulp Fiction with the corners rounded off and polished!  "},{"Title":"Not one of the best, but upper cooooool !","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen Payback in a Sneak Preview in Austria, and it's a very good film. At the beginning I thought it's a normal MEL-GIBSON-ACTION-MOVIE, and the first 20 Minutes are going this way. But the longer the movie last, the better it is. And there are not only cool one-liners and cool behaviors. The characters are very strong. Mel Gibson did a very good job, but I think that the three co-stars has stolen him the show. First there is his opponent (Gregg Henry). His face and his acting is brilliant, and he has almost the same acting like Gary Busey. Second there is Carter (William Devane). He is playing a very dangerous boss in a brilliant way. And at least there is Kris Kristofferson who is dangerous multiplied by 100.So if you want to see a cooool movie, and you don't want to see Mel Gibson as friendly guy, then you should watch this movie. "},{"Title":"One movie Ive been waiting for","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That was a great one! Dark, violent, funny. Mel Gibson seems to enjoy his role and it feels great to see James Coburn as one (not so) bad guy again. The film-noir-style is well done and the director manages to combine Raymond-Chandler-novels with 90s-gangster-movies like the early Tarantinos. The brutality (and sadism) is sometimes pretty graphic but so exaggerated and ironic that you are forced to laugh. The storyline is good to follow and logical (despite the fact how Gibson behaves, haha) and nearly everything is explained. (e.g. questions like What happened to him? Where does he know her from? How did he know that? Why did he do that? and so on. Questions that most films leave unexplained) Superb actors, cinematography and script make this movie one of the best in the Action-Thriller(-Comedy?)-genre this year so far. More of this stuff! "}{"Title":"Dirty is good","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Once again I have to express surprise at the average rating. This is far better than any of the Mad Max or Lethal Weapon offerings. The fact that Mel Gibson plays a crook rather than a cop gives him licence to thrill much more by comparison. Compared to the Porter character in this film, Mel's other characters are pussies. This plot on the other hand keeps you guessing all the way and sitting on the edge of your seat. The action doesn't let up, without spending much time on chases etc. which are unnecessary to a plot. By cutting out that crap, this film is still ahead of its time. I mean to say, good plots don't need it!It also has a much larger celebrity cast than any of the mad max or lethal weapon films. So I am guessing the makers expected far more at the box office. I would have done!I just don't understand why I had to dig this out from the bottom of the ratings pile to see it. I thoroughly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"very underrated movie","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most people who saw this movie didn't get its genesis. It is an update of the 1930's and '40's kind of movies called Film Noir. All the great actors in this kind of film from that era would have loved it, such as Humphrey Bogart and Robert Mitchum. This is a perfect homage to a classic style of film, down to all its details, especially using the washed out blue coloration to remind us of those old black and white films.No wonder all these great modern actors took roles in it. The hero is a bad guy, and his opponents are worse bad guys; and, he wins and they loose. Being a modern film they get to shoot scenes of even more violence, all very stylized, and the voice over narration by Mel Gibson, and the lines of dialog are all right on the money.Lucy Liu is choice as a savagely funny dominatrix. Each tiny role is perfect and the language usages are all fun, such as calling a hand gun a roscoeIf you like Film Noir movies, this is a joy. "},{"Title":"Alright, nothing spectacular. But great fun none the less.","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me start off by saying that this movie wasn't half bad, It could have been better but not half bad. Payback is about tough guy Porter who wants just one thing and one thing only, Payback! As the title so justly puts and he wants his money that was taken from him and he'll do anything and everything to get it back.What I found interesting about this film was the malicious way it was played out it was like an evil little wind up monkey that kept clattering and making noise and irritating yo until you got fed up and just step on the darn thing. Well that's the main plot for the movie, it's meant to zip along at only an 1hr. 34 mins. and it expects you to be entertained by this mess, but a good mess it was. Mel Gibson plays a character he's played a thousand times the macho tough guy with no fear. He played this type in all four Lethal Weapon movies, he played this again in Mad Max 1,2 and 3. So why did he try and see if he could pull it off again? Well because he can! And he did! Gibson puts some humanity and somewhat of a soul in an almost soulless character and he does it with such style and grace that it almost makes you want to slap Porter instead of punching him. And that's something, not by much, but something. Brian Helgeland( co-write for L.A. Confidential) tries to play on that moody, devil may care, I'll shoot you if you look at me cross eyed type of Anti-hero and that's all in good but the anti-hero he's created Porter is not somebody you can relate to, or even like for that matter, there were some scenes like I said that you wanted to hit Porter and then there were some scenes that you sympathized with him very well. And there is where this films greatness lies it gives you two sides of the coin to see, on one side the nasty Porter on the other side the kind and loving Porter. It gives you two sides to a very complicated and very world weary man and in my opinion that makes this a good movie.Payback is not action thriller greatness like Lethal Weapon or Die Hard but it does come very close, oh so very close, But the thing is with this movie is that it borders on almost a Noirish type style of cinematography and that up's it appeal to me and who know who else, but in the under lying layers of the film it does have greatness in it it just hasn't been able to tap into it fully but as time goes by this film will become a Mel Gibson classic and a cult classic for that matter. But is Payback a terrible movie? no way! Is it movie making magic? Sorry to tell you no, nothing magical about this one but it is great fun to watch play out and follow along. All in all Payback is an almost can't miss action drama, it flows along nice and it delivers it's punches nicely, it doesn't waste your time and it is great, irresistible fun. Payback is a revenge plot you want to be apart of. "},{"Title":"If you are a Mel Gibson fan, you gotta see this movie.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Simply put, this is a Mel Gibson movie.  And a comedy, at that.  A somewhat 'dark' comedy, but it clearly is not meant to be taken seriously.  His crooked character has been cheated out of $70,000 by another crook and he is determined to get it back.  No matter what. The entertainment comes in the ways in which he repeatedly gets into impossible positions, and usually is able to get out of them. Good excitement and good writing.  There are no good guys in this movie, just bad, badder, and baddest! "},{"Title":"Good movie! One of Gibson's best! The action is really rough!","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Payback is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Mel Gibson, Gregg Henry, Maria Bello, David Paymer, Bill Duke, Deborah Kara Unger, John Glover, William Devane, Lucy Liu, Jack Conley, Kris Kristofferson, Elizabeth Berridge, David Tweet, Sterling Wolfe, and James Coburn! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Gibson, Henry, Bello, Duke, Glover, Devane, Lui, Conley, Kristofferson, and Corburn are really excellent in this film. I thought that they performed good. The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. There is some unintentional hilarious moments in this dark picture! The movie is filmed very good. The music is very good by Chris Boardman. Great directing by Brian Helgeland! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Mel Gibson, Gregg Henry, Maria Bello, David Paymer, Bill Duke, Deborah Kara Unger, John Glover, William Devane, Lucy Liu, Jack Conley, Kris Kristofferson, James Coburn, Action, Crime, the rest of the cast in the film, Thrillers, Dramas, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"Real 70s retro revenge film","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I hadn't heard about this film, when I was suddenly offered the chance to see it, but boy was I surprised. It is a strange film with a script that could have been written in the 70s look at the suits, cars and telephones. Mel Gibson is the only really famous actor, the rest are old stars or b-actors. There are really no bystanders, very few people on the street, thereby placing great emphasis on Gibson and his opponents. Mel Gibson is playing the role of the anti-hero made famous by Clint Eastwood and Charles Bronson. He is not the bad guy, since he kills bad guys, but he is not really the good guy either. He is a cold hearted robber with a mission to get the money back his partner stole from him no matter what. He will not stop until that goal is accomplished. That is the plot-outline. It is a matter of principle and not the $70.000. I can only recommend the film especially if you like Mel Gibson, or the old Clint Eastwood movies.  "},{"Title":"Payback.. AKA the real Max Payne movie","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When i watch good movies i don't usually come here to right a review as i only do that with really underrated or really overrated movies. so i don't have anything to say but if u like the Max Payne game watch this instead of the Max Payne Movie. and all i have to say is old is gold especially when it comes to movies and most of the time PC games. i have not watched the directors cut streightup but looking forward to and maybe also right a review. right now i am looking for movies like these im sure i watched some movies like that style but do not recollect them now. maybe The Punisher but i remember that movie is real bad compared to Payback, because it was unrealistic. "},{"Title":"tough guy kills wife and bad guys ,almost self in process.","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Porter (Mel Gibson) is a violent crook, a bank robber who only robs criminals ( called a 'standover man'- in that he stands over the bodies of other criminals) . He is betrayed by his wife and partner, left for dead he seeks revenge. Porter doesn't have any nice qualitys- he is quick to use extreme violence on women and men and shows no remorse when he takes a life. Even stealing from a homeless guy for a few quick bucks is fair game to a predator like Porter. The one scene i liked, Porter sat leaning against a lampost watching the crowds like a cat watches a mouse hole, searching for the easy mark, the soft touch.We have all walked quickly past people like that- especially at night or in run down areas. This film has a lot of inconsistencies in it, the crooks live in huge mansions yet quibble over 70,000 dollars, they would pay him and then hire hit men to take him out. Some good actors are wasted in roles that could have been better written and directed ( but Brian Hegland was fired by Mel Gibson- suppose it must be difficult directing an actor who has won Oscars for directing already) "},{"Title":"Very ORIGINAL !!","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I Have never seen a movie short of Assault on Precinct 13, where Maria Bello played on with Mel Gibson then in this one! Simply a terrific ride! The movie was to me so neat and Original, I have seen it several times. I even did the same with the movie Assault on.., I hope Maria will do well on her present project. I have come to be more aware of her acting prowess from seeing Assault on Preceinct 13. I think she is a great and sweet new talent! I hope she does very well in everything she does. Also, I think Maria should do more with Mel. And to think I was born just a year earlier than she and I too almost went to Villanova as she did. ) Congrats Maria !! "},{"Title":"Basically everyone dies in Payback. Everyone except (spoilers)...and The Dog (who I have a feeling will spawn a spin-off series of sequels named Pawback).","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't think anyone will complain that Payback is not violent enough. Not only do men get beaten to a pulp, women do, too. There is a nitty-gritty feel to the film that does not go unnoticed. Even a dog gets shot - but the dog does not die, of course, because that would be showing something inhumane. Screw any human corpses that might (God help us!) appear on screen - dog corpses will send audiences fleeing!With all the major advertising for this film, you probably know by now that Mel Gibson plays a bad guy in Payback. He's never played an all-out bad guy like this before - his baddie in Tequila Sunrise was a nice bad guy, this guy is a bad bad guy with streaks of bad. In a world of evil people he is the one we root for because the film has been crafted that way, and because he is a one-man-army (we always feel sorry for the underdogs) - but if you put him in a room with Riggs and Murtaugh, his chances for applause from an audience would be significantly decreased. Gibson plays Porter. I don't know his first name, he's just always gone by Porter, a man says later in the film. Porter is a thief. As the credits role, he wakes up from a (wound-induced coma/injury/nap). In the first five minutes, he has stolen from a crippled Vietnam veteran, pickpocketed a man's wallet, stiffed a waitress, and used the said credit card to buy a nice fancy suit and dinner. Later, when his meal is over, a waiter informs him the credit card he is trying to pay with has been canceled. Nonsense, Porter says. Try it again. The waiter then leaves and so does Porter.In his sadistic voice-over narration, Porter informs us, Not many men know how much their lives are worth. I do. Seventy grand. That's how much they took from me, that's how much I was gonna get back. We find out that some time before his coma/nap, Porter had pulled off a heist - only to be pumped full of lead by his friend, Val (Gregg Henry), and his wife (Deborah Kara Ungar), who took the cash and ran.Now Porter's back, and he wants his money. Not any less, and not any more. Porter doesn't want the money as much as he wants to teach people not to mess with him. As always, there is a love interest, and going with the dirty flow of the film, this love interest is a hooker named Rosie (Maria Bello). Porter used to drive Rosie, and we find out at a seemingly haphazard point in the film that they shared a night of passion together.The film is dreadfully a-typical, but Mel Gibson's sadistic lead performance makes it worth watching. He hisses and uses violence like a real screen villain, while at the same time he spews out harsh (and funny) one-liners with such comedic talent that it is hard to imagine anyone else in the role.David Paymer and Bill Duke also have small roles as crooked cops (although I'm not sure if Paymer is a cop he hangs out with them). You may remember Bill Duke as Mac from Predator, the Arnold Schwarzenegger film. He's a good co-star, if a bit repetitive, and David Paymer provides some comic relief.Basically everyone dies in Payback. Everyone except You-Know-Who and You-Know-Who's Girl. Oh, and The Dog (who I have a feeling will spawn a spin-off series of sequels named Pawback). During an hour and fifty minutes, six men are incinerated in fire, countless men are shot, and James Coburn's alligator skin suitcases get a bullet through them. And Mel does a great job of carrying the lead role in what would at first appear to be an action-star-crafted character. Take that, Willis.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Oooooh yes","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film, it has everything you would want from your average action thriller. But what sets it apart is that every character in the film is brilliantly defined from the moment you first see them, from the superbly weasly Arthur Stegman to the fantastically crooked Bill Duke. One thing which doesn't sit well in the character development section is the fact that the supposedly single minded Porter feels compelled to get involved romantically with Rosie, this is something the original character from the film Point Blank would never have been distracted by. But the thing that really makes me want watch this film again is the performance of Lucy Liu. If you haven't seen the film then its hard to convey the wonderful way she treats everyone she come into contact with through out the film and to be honest I even feel a bit jealous of the actor Andrew Cooper (look out for him on the cast list). I have heard that some of her scenes were cut down considerably which ways heavy on my heart as every second of her on screen is worth more that the rest of the film put together. 8 out of ten for the film, 10 out 10 for Lucy Liu. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movies of all time","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't believe this movie has such a low rating on IMDb. It's probably one of the better Mel Gibson movies made with superb acting not to mention, probably one of the greatest comeback movies ever filmed. I like the fact that the director used bleak colors in this film. At times, it seems it's almost in Black and White...the movie lacks color to give it a boost to become more realistic. The plot is a clich, yeah we all know that, but who gets bored of revenge tales? Well, some will if it's a poorly written script, bad acting with terrible one liners. But this movie lacks all of those.Payback has realistic, witty, deceitful and some amusement to violent acts within the film. I'm not saying that the violence is humorous, but it's the humor that inspires it in the film. Mel Gibson's one liners are far from a clich, and these features make it stand out more then any other film in it's genre.If you like movies dealing with retribution, then this film is a must see. I never get bored of Payback. "},{"Title":"Lots of Violence & Great Classic Actors!","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"                  My interest in Mel Gibson films has increased since his film masterpiece,The Passion of Christ,'04.  In this film, Mel Gibson,(Porter),The Patriot,2000, plays a very tricky street smart Con Artist, who can practically do anything he wants, except trusting his friend Gregg Henry(Val Resnick) who steals his girl, money and blows him away.  Maria Bello(Rosie),The Cooler,'03, is Porters girl friend from the past who is a fancy hooker and when they both meet each other, the SPARKS Fly!   William Devan,(Carter),The Wind Effect,'03, is one of the big gangsters Porter has to encounter in order to get his $70,000 which he is owed, however, for some silly reason, he winds up always being offered $130,000.  There is lots of action in this film with bombs going off under beds and cars blowing up with just the drop of a match!   The director also put some funny scenes in the film and there are two classic actors who appear almost at the end of the picture.   Just sit back and enjoy a great Mel Gibson film from the PAST! "}]