[{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"72 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this might be one of those films that would be good for me to see. I was mildly intrigued by descriptions of the story I had read and with the trailer, so I thought to take a chance. I took someone very close to me, an actual violin prodigy. Coincidently, her and I have recently been searching for a decent violin for her that is affordable by actual humans, so we could relate to parts of the plot first-hand. We arrived to a very thin theater in one of those mega-complex theaters, and while everyone was queuing up next-door to see the latest blockbuster from Hollywood I settled into an amazingly comfortable seat with an excellent view and prepared for whatever might come.I was shocked. This film turned out to be clearly one of the best movie going experiences I have had in ages. We see this as the story unfolds and is creatively told through the reading of the violin makers wife's fortune with a deck of Tarot cards. It is the story of a part of the life of a violin; of the humans who would dare to possess her beauty. A masterpiece of a craftsman's art, it is desired by many for it's acoustic perfection. But, as Tolstoy said, how complete is the delusion that beauty is goodness. Or more interestingly, from Saint Augustine Beauty is indeed a good gift of God; but that the good may not think it a great good, God dispenses it even to the wicked. There seems to be a curse on this instrument as it brings ill to those who manage to possess it. This makes the ending especially eerie.An original, imaginative and thought provoking story that engaged one's mind as American films almost never do. I will not describe more of the plot, it's far too good to ruin. The memory of this film will be one long treasured.Oh, as for my guest, the honest-to-God prodigy she said the music was magnificent (it was) even though a real musician could tell the actors weren't playing, it was well done.  "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"57 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film the same day it came highly recommended to me by a coffee shop friend who couldn't stop gushing about it.  While this guy is also a member of the Academy and has steered me to some pretty good picks in the past, I walked into the theater fearing the usual letdown that invariably follows going into a film with overly high expectations (i.e. The English Patient, The Truman Show, etc.) This film not only managed to exceed my expectations, it restored my faith in the magic and mystery of cinema altogether.We start with a rather simple but cleverly structured story about a very unique red violin that emblematically (and quite literally for that matter) takes on the heart and fate of a 16th century Italian woman as it passes across several centuries and continents on its way to the auction block in present day Montreal.  The unfolding vignettes reveal more and more about the nature of this instrument and, when strung together in the bigger picture, play out like finely orchestrated movements of a great sonata; each movement plucking out its own stirring and poignant variation on theme.  I was so swept up in the majesty and spectacle of this film that it didn't even occur to me until much later that the violin is nothing less than a personification of beauty itself (okay, okay, maybe I'm starting to overly deconstruct things here in retrospect, but the parallels are too perfect to remain unexplored). It's fascinating to watch both the transformative and destructive power of this beauty as it's placed into the hands of a sensitive young boy, a self absorbed musical protege, and a remorseful ring leader of a totalitarian regime.  Much praise goes to director Francois Girard in how he refrained from overplaying the social and moral commentary, repeating this theme at mostly an emotional level rather than an intellectual one -- much in the same way that beauty itself, to some degree anyway, defies analytical discussion and belongs in the realm of pure and simple experience.  You obviously can't dissect it, as co-writer Don McKellar¹s onscreen character thought to do, and so it remains as it was in it's original form timeless, magical, elusive.  The stuff that pompous nobility and rich collectors the world over will offer a king's ransom for and still never manage to posses in the end.Performances were good to great all around.  It's hard to go wrong with Samuel L. Jackson in a leading role and I appreciated the fact that the actors actually appeared to be playing the violin on camera, as opposed to watching the typical hokey cutaways and cheat shots often associated with onscreen musical performances; nauseating contrivances that always tear down the wall of suspended disbelief with a resounding crash. The costuming, set design and cinematography were absolutely stunning (Oscar nominations soon to follow I'm sure) without taking center stage from the story. I especially loved the amazing period recreations of China and Austria.  I felt like I was fully transported in both space and time to these places and walking among people who really belonged there.Overall I would rate this one as a true film classic on the level of masterpiece. Perhaps this is in part due to my love for music and the undeniable fact that, being the sentimental guy that I am, I'm always a sucker for haunting open-ended films like this where you leave the theater in a half daze, pondering all the implications, mesmerized by the lingering imagery. I'm still speculating about the future of Mr. Moritz and what will ultimately happen when beauty is placed into the hands of our modern world. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable experience","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"54 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  After watching too many would-be great pieces lately that are enticing you from TV commercials, leaving you (or me, I should say) disappointed most of the time, The Red Violin is a gem among all these fleeting flicks or time-wasters. Recommended by a good friend I went to see this piece and frankly, I came out of the theater speechless! I was overwhelmed, enriched as well as happy that I finally, in years, got to see something that's well worth while.From the story, costumes, cinematography, acting and finally its greatest actor -the superb music- all absolutely flawless! S.L.Jackson acts at his best, his performance is unforgettable and I am sure one of his own most favourite; I can tell. I was estatic to see J.Corigliano win the Oscar for the best score, and saddened at the fact that the whole movie wasn't nominated for even more Oscars - are they blind in that Academy or what?! Now that's a shame but you know what I don't care what the Academy has to say, important is my subjective feeling and this movie made my day, and days to come.I couldn't wait to get hold of both, the video and the sound track, and I never seem to get tired watching or hearing that beauty all over again. And believe it or not, that ingenious soundtrack can be so erotic at times that if I may give a little advice to all these men out there seeking to entice and seduce their partners - hey, this might be the way to go - worked for me (and her!)!!!Anyways, I'd like to recommend this movie to everybody with an open heart and mind, I guarantee satisfaction and enrichment in every possible way. And lastly let me bestow my gratitude and thanks to the very director F.Girard for enlightening my spirit, my heart and my soul with his vision of a truly quality story that I can never forget. "},{"Title":"Take the journey","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"52 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin is the saga of spirit and soul as they press onward through time.  The adventure begins with Anna, a young woman whose only child brings about her untimely death.  A gift of a violin to be given to the babe becomes host to Anna's spirit.  The Red Violin narrowly escapes the grips of greed, ignorance, and vengeful lust as she is passed from hand to hand of those who would have her.  She wanders about the globe until at last she is exonerated by the one man who knows the truth that she holds within her wooden belly.In spite of the death and despair, the film is truly positive.  It teaches us to appreciate people from all walks of life.  From the violin maker of the 16th century who made the Red Violin for the bittersweet arrival of his baby son, we travel through time with the violin to the Chinese Communist Party who spelled out certain death to any instrument that may threaten the ideals of the collective.  In our travels, we learn the dark and sordid side to each person, but we also learn that to create a shadow there must be light.  That light, or hope, that the people shed is what gives the violin her vitality and will to survive.A truly magnificent film, The Red Violin inspired me to recollect my own past I shared with my aged upright piano; the certain spiritual vibrations I felt while playing a ragtime melody.  Suddenly, memories came rushing back to me tenfold.  I recalled the times as a young girl I would listen as my father played his rendition of Scott Joplin's Maple Leaf Rag.  Wiping a tear from my eye, I remembered how long ago that truly was; how my piano shaped and molded me, as I shaped and molded it.  I am left wondering where my beloved piano is now.  Who is influencing his instrumental life?  In the end, what stories will he have to tell, and will they be of meTake the journey of the Red Violin.  Visit other lands and other times. Feel the strings of life against your fingers; the bow of spirit in your palm.  Rest your chin against the weathered wood of wisdom.  Listen closely and hear the music that is the gentle rhythm of time and change.  See the film to learn about music; to learn about history; to learn the boundless raptures of the spirit.  Perhaps, as I, you will learn just a little more about yourself. "},{"Title":"A wonderful journey","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I was captivated from the moment the film started. The music flowed effortlessly and the scene was set immediately.Some people may be put off by the use of foreign language and subtitles early on in the film but I found this served to enhance the story and grab my attention even more. It reminds you of the true beauty of language and music  and no matter what your taste you cannot help but to be drawn into the story.The story follows the journey of the Red Violin from its creation and you really feel that something special is happening from the way the red violin is revered. The different people who come into contact with the instrument all have there own stories and you find yourself trying to guess how the Violin will affect them. Sometimes you are right and sometimes not.Francois Girard has produced a wonderful film and the original score enhances this. This film is one that I will watch again and again and one that should be highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Measured, thoughtful account of near-mystical instrument","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Literally spanning centuries to unfold its mesmerizing tale, The Red Violin traces the unbelievable history of an acoustically flawless masterpiece crafted in the late 1600s by an Italian master.  Co-screenwriters Francois Girard (who directed) and Don McKellar (who acts in the film) structure the movie around a wealth of richly detailed locales, including Vienna, China, and Oxford, and provide a unique modern-day Montreal framework which intertwines with the often tragic history of the instrument to provide the narrative with a rather unique element of mystery.  The late-19th century English section shows the film at its most baroque, but each of the finely tuned tales reaches for some truth about music, life, love, and passion -- and that is commendable.  Music lovers take note the sounds that come out of the crimson treasure throughout the course of its journey are utterly thrilling and inspiring.  "},{"Title":"emotional","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  this movie, like a book of short stories, can hook you once and annoy you the next. The segments follow a violin for 3 centuries obviously shooting for a wide range of settings, thus a wide range of stories and characters. But they are all much different. The Red Violin will be rewarding for those who pay attention, and a pain for those who don't, because the transaction of the violin from person to person isn't smooth, whoever is not willing to pay attention should steer clear. I definitely recommend it to all big movie buffs, because those willing to see it, should. I really enjoyed Don Mcellars work before, and this is no different. Some segments, like 'Vienna' are very enjoyable and sad (in a good way, like bambi's mom getting shot) well some like 'Oxford' are dark and depressing. You may not leave thinking it's spectacular, but ya gotta respect it. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"An ambitious story that delivers","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  What can you say about a film that covers three centuries, people from all stations of society, and several European countries and Canada. Ambitious is a good start.  This film was very well crafted and at about one hundred forty minutes was too short for me.  The story follows a red violin, an inanimate object, although at times it seemed alive to me, thru three centuries and the influences good and ill that it has on its possessors.  It does ever seem to be owned.  Each of its possessors lives a life of passion and turmoil.  The violin's birth is during turmoil and during its life it buried, shot, and almost burned.  The writing which includes this parallel between the violin and its possessor , five somewhat independent segments that mell and converge in the final scenes, and a story told by tarot cards make for an extremely unique experience.  Add to that the musical score, scenery, the varied languages and cultures and you have a great offering.  The performances were all strong, but I thought Jason Flemyng as Lord Frederick Pope stood out.  To say his character was eccentric and maybe a little over the top is justifiable but I'm sure that was intended.  English nobility has always been known for its idiosyncrasies.  The ending has incongruous feel with     the remainder of the film but is satisfactory and I can not suggest a better one.  Great entertainment!  Three and a half stars!!!      "},{"Title":"Recognition for an unusual epic","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Just to tease those who have not seen this incredible work of art and to make the others think you should see it again !Who could think that a movie about a simple violin could turn into such magnificent beauty? «The Red Violin» whole story is based on a piece of wood and strings, which carries a whole story of humanity and social issues. We travel through 400 years of history and music, to end up in what you might think is the end of the story of the «red violin» but in fact, takes you to the next chapter.If you are a classical and historical music fan, you will love this movie. The Oscar to composer John Corigliano was not an option. François Girard clearly has something for music, as he did another wonderful movie about pianist Glenn Gould, «Thirty Two Short Films About Glenn Gould», a movie that really drives us through the life of a great piano interpreter. Quite different from «The Red Violin», but quite good too. I can't wait to see his next movie, if he ever plans to do one, but the challenge to surpass «The Red Violin» is quite big. "},{"Title":"A wonderful ride, a bit thin by the end, but great mise-en-scene meanwhile","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" The Red Violin (1998)A total romantic fiction, rather compelling in its construction over many centuries, and beautifully wrought in each era.I don't suppose the violin needs romanticizing, nor does it need a kind of obvious group hug view of its history, but that's the feel good, up and down, loving story it takes. First there is the small violin shop where it is made, and the tragedy around this particular model, the maker's last. It's supposed to come from the same era as the Strad and other timeless fiddles. It's a great place to begin a story filled with mysteries (and the mystery of a great violin, it's shape, wood, and varnish, is given high tech reinforcement in the end with an electronic awe). So the violin is born.And it moves from a Austrian orphanage (with an unbelievable prodigy) to generations of gypsies (some interesting filming with the violin suspended in space as one after another player takes it up) to a crackpot British prodigy (who acts more like a rock star and an indulgent one, if that's not redundant). Finally it winds its way (not so improbably, because life is weird) to China, which of course echoes the modern rise of the Asian virtuosi coming from that part of the world.So the tale is the history of a violin, a possessed one. The spirit of the instrument seems to inhabit the movie. This is reinforced by an Italian fortune-teller (a kindly witch) who has an early Tarot deck. The Tarot was not used for divination that early--it was introduced a card game in Northern Italy in the late 1400s--but that's okay, because it works into the plot really well. Five cards are chosen by the pregnant wife of the master violin maker. Each is turned over for another twenty minute chapter in the movie. In a key moment, the wife asks the fortune teller, what if I don't like what it says, what if it's evil? And the fortune teller says, I'll pretend not to notice. Promptly the moon is the first card, the most ominous card in the deck (I've studied tarot a bit, which is why, weirdly enough, I watched the movie). But the fortune teller doesn't say that doom is facing the pregnant wife. Instead she lies, and the movie takes one turn after another.You might think this is brilliant stuff, and it has the trappings of that. It could have been, with some slight twist of intentions, artfully transcendent. But it's a hair long at times, and by the last (modern) scenes, a bit cold and unfulfilling. I don't know the solution to what might have worked, but I know it left me interested and curious by the end, not quite bowled over, which is clearly (on the sleeve) the intention.Still, an engaging, musically rich tapestry of great scenes, great music, and a brimming story. Recommended, with slight reservations. "}{"Title":"Not perfect, but mighty close! This film forces you to pay attention!","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The mystique of violin making has always intrigued me so this film was a big attraction for me going in, and I wasn't disappointed for one second!OK, first of all, the obvious things that make it special reality, craft, acting, scoring, and cinematography! It takes only a few seconds to know that this gem did NOT emanate from the money grubbers in Hokeywood California as one more way to titillate teenagers with sex, violence, and computer generated special effects with a subliminal message that sells products. Nope! This film was made by film makers who understand the power of a story well told, and REAL cinema.Cutting back and forth repeatedly between the present and various disparate periods and places from the past, THE RED VIOLIN forces the viewer to pay attention and most of all... THINK!The Red Violin is NOT the subject here but a catalyst to stimulate thought about human behavior and how different societies have related to art as we move through the centuries.The casting was (on the whole) excellent though the choice of Samuel L. Jackson as a learned expert in ancient instruments was not convincing for me personally. And, the NON-ending which is more of a comment on human habits of acquisition than human nobility, was just not what I considered a definitive ending. (Maybe that was the point! Everything continues endlessly...)If you go to movies as an excuse to nibble away on munchies and get titillation, well, this one's NOT for you. BUT, if you have the patience to watch and think simultaneously as a great story unfolds, then SEE this film immediately!  "},{"Title":"Heavily Underrated","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  An incredibly well-thought-through connecting storyline makes this movie a pleasure to watch.  Its screenplay was one of the most unfortunate Oscar snubs this year.  Although not necessarily the best, it deserves recognition for its creativity. "},{"Title":"A most enchanting movie","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" There are a few great films about artists like Camille Claudelle, Goya in Bordeaux and Tous Les Matins du Monde (All the Mornings of the World). But this is the only film I can recall about a piece of art, and the remarkable journey it takes, with many people through distant lands, over hundreds of years. With all of it fitting nicely into 2 hours of great cinema, drawn from a most exceptional story. Perhaps I should say stories - as there are many, and of course the stories are about people.I don't think a great cast necessarily means famous names, lengthy reputations, or even a lot of acting experience - but one that simply works well. Meaning actors (or acting ability) that fit the characters, with a flow of believability or at least the right feel. Some of the best movies I've ever seen have had several cast members that were never heard of before or after being seen in the one film I saw them in. Here everyone fits. From the child prodigy in Vienna to the instrument expert in Montreal (Samuel Jackson) - this film is well cast. Shot on location in at least 4 different countries, this is storytelling at it's best. One of my favorite films, it is one of the truest examples of what good movie making is all about. It also happens to have an inanimate object (a violin) as one of the stars of the show. Like so many of the rare occasions in your life when something happening seems like a dream come true, it would sound like a fairy tale if you told it. It's that way here. This is a real gem of a movie and a bit of a fairy tale, but it is one for grown ups . . . and a most delightful one at that.http//fullgrownministry.wordpress.com/2013/05/11/destiny/ "},{"Title":"Damn you fools with no eyes nor hearts!(Spoilers)","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  People people people.  Whew.  Let's not be hasty, selfish or unreasonable. Sure this movie had it's flaws.  The Locale's may have seemed just a teensy bit artificial(the most common critique), but downing the movie because Sam Jackson stole the violin, and on top of that attributing it to his color is downright UNCALLED FOR!And further more, to say that the times we live in are the reason for us over looking the fact the violin was whisked away immorally is a clear fall back on cliche for a lack of intelligence.  Because that's what this person is challenging.  The morality of what Jackson did in the closing moments of the movie.  If we were to really analyze the morality from each owner to the next, we would find that morality was not really the wave of fortune the violin was riding on(it was stolen from a grave for crying out loud, not to mention almost burned for simply being... a violin).  If not liking it because of it's closing immorality is not missing the point and the essence and the true exsistence of this film, then I don't know what is.This movie, as shockingly revealed as it was, was not about the life of this inanimate object.  Surely the violin did not have a life.  It was merely the carrier for the essence of the character of Anna Bussotti, Nicolo's wife. Because he used her to complete the instrument, it was endowed with her essence.  That is where you are to find your morality in the tale.  That life, our life, our essence, our being, is lived not only in our bodies, in these pathetic heaps of flesh and bone, but in everything around us.  The morality is that Nicolo's love for his wife, made her immortal in the violin, and her song, was a gift passed down to each of the ones touched by the violin's life.Therefore it is quite inconsequential, the morality of the people(and their actions) and events surrounding the violin, to say that it is the times we live in, or the race of the man stealing the violin, because the story encompasses a much higher enlightenment.  Easily seen, too, if you don't analyze the mistemperments and shortcomings of the people surrounding the voilin to a point where they consume your vision, blocking the true lesson or moral, or whatever you want to call it.  The lesson, or better put  the essence of life.Tres bien by Girard.  An easy 10/10. "},{"Title":"predictable boring and pretentious","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Never in films like this is there any doubt exactly who will wind up dead, inconsolably miserable, and/or insane.  Using inanimate objects to link otherwise unrelated scenarios can work (see e.g., the intriguing Finnish work, Night on Earth) but in this movie it's just annoying.  The RED violin is supposed to embody the continuity through time of human bleeding and suffering and striving and so forth, but the tool is so blunt it might as well just be a laughably cursed object as in the old tv series Friday the 13th.  Although photographed well, the dialog and drama play out like cheap imitations of PBS made-for-tv historical drama. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizingly beautiful, incredible.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This movie is wonderfully executed. It would be a shame to know too much about this movie before watching it. Therefore I leave NO SPOILERS, they would only ruin the movie for you. I almost never feel a movie deserves a ten, but this is one of the few that do. The movie traverses several continents and spans almost four centuries. There are incredibly realistic settings and foreign languages that made me feel as though I were there. The sweeping cinematography and the music are absolutely amazing. The storyline is very moving and touches upon a host of emotions. A majority of the movie has foreign language, but you can activate the subtitles. I watched it first without the subtitles and was so taken by the movie, I watched it a second time with the titles and realized I had missed very little. The actions and facial expressions of the people do an excellent job of revealing their emotions. Trying to read the titles became distracting. I didn't need them so I turned them off. There were several instances where the hauntingly beautiful music gave me goosebumps. I certainly hope it touches you as deeply as it did me. As the movie progressed, I began to suspect the fortune teller was speaking not of the life of the expectant woman sitting before her, but of the violin. That point is not made clear until the final minutes of the movie. To tell you more would ruin the ending. When you learn how the violin acquired its captivating shade of red you will most likely be stunned at first, but then touched by the thought behind it and the bittersweetness of the moment. I am certain the violin masters' heart was breaking as he applied the colour. "},{"Title":"A wonderful and very musical movie.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Independent movies or Asian and European films (to make it easy, let's say all movies that haven't been produced by some big Hollywood studio), always seem to have a certain group of fans, not because they are good, but because they are different. That so-called in-crowd believes that every movie that hasn't been made by a big studio is great art and that all other movies are bad. Never tell them that sometimes the opposite can be true, because they can't and won't believe you. Well, I'm not one of them and I watch all movies with a critical eye. And yes, I try to see as many of those alternative movies as well. But that's just because I'm a movie buff who is interested in all kinds of movies, not because I'm convinced that this kind of movies is automatically a lot better than the rest. In this movie we don't follow some people, but a violin on its journey through time and the world. The movie starts in present day Montreal, where the red violin, a famous Nicolo Bussotti violin, is being auctioned off. But instead of staying with the auction all the time, we flash back to the creation of the violin in 17th century Italy and then follow it as it makes its way through an 18th century Austrian monastery/orphanage, a violinist in 19th century Oxford and China during Mao's Cultural Revolution... Each time it brings the person who owns it a lot of fame, but also bad luck and despair, often resulting in the death of the owner or someone the owner really loves...What I appreciated in this movie is that it wasn't just an ordinary drama or thriller. It actually tried to be original and it succeeded very well. Another thing that I also really liked was the fact that not every detail of the movie was clear until the end (for instance why the fortune teller's predictions come true, but not for the woman, but for the violin instead.). It sometimes seems that the creators of movies don't even bother about adding some mystery in their movies anymore and I really miss that. That's probably why I liked it so much in this one.Once in a while you come across a movie that you might call a gem. Well, The Red Violin is one of those truly magnificent gems. It's beautiful in every possible way. The music is excellent (although you better love violin music, because that's all you'll here), the acting is very nice and the story really is very beautiful. I guess I could talk for hours about this movie, but it's better to watch it than to read about it, so I'll end my review by saying that this is a wonderful and very musical movie that doesn't deserve any less than an 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film that enchants you completely.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  It has been quite a long time since I have viewed a film that told such a wonderful story so beautifully & in such a touching way. The music, the mood, the settings just made the film so real, so authentic in such a way the you cannot help but feel the passion this film is so full of. The concept of the film which follows the violin through the years from its birth to the present day & how it has touched the people in its  presence is unique & done in such a way that reaches out to you to feel its impact. The physical settings only authenticate things, while some films with subtitles can be sometimes awkward, this films' subtitles only make you feel the film more & draw you into the story more. Lovingly filmed, a score that that is memorable & so absolutely perfect. This film touched me in a way very few ever have. I genuinely felt this movie & a treasure like this does not come along very often.     "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing from start to finish","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I originally saw this movie for the sole purpose of seeing a movie about a violin.  Being a violinist myself, I must say that the music in this film is what first attracted me.  However, as I watched the story unfold before me, I realized that there is so much more to this film.  The story is enchanting.  It draws the audience into its powerful grip, keeping their attention from the very first second as the sordid life of the Red Violin is slowly revealed.  There is immensely remarkable work displayed in this film, and the music is just as enchanting as the story.  I think this is a true masterpiece, and should be seen by everyone at least once.... "},{"Title":"Sam Jackson's acting moves me like the movie.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie. Its as simple as that. And Samuel L. Jackson small role in the film is worth what ever the cost for you to view it. The scene when he is listening to the playing of the Red Violin can not be put into words. Its a feeling, and he put that feeling dead smack in the middle of me where I couldn't ignore it, or bottle it up. Bravo Mr Jackson. You are truly a great artist.  "}{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie until I heard about it on the radio. I listen to classical music, and the staion was praising Joshua Bell (an ohio native) on his perfomance of the music. I was curious and saw it when it came on video. not only did i fall in love with the movie itself, but also the music. it was soothing, passionate, and brutal all at the same time. Many people I have talked to have said that Le Violon Rouge was just some crappy indie movie. However, the music is as beautiful as the plot. The storyline and the way it was presented in the form of different people who wanted the violin for different reasons was  not so much genius, but different and fitting.  "},{"Title":"Positive","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A wonderful, unforgettable movie!  The acting is excellent, the stories are interesting, the plot is unique.  The ending can leave one wondering.  If you have not yet seen this movie, pay careful attention to the last prophecy.  An advantage of renting, of course, is that one can go back after the ending to replay the last prophecy, if needed, to form an opinion as to what happened at the end. "},{"Title":"Film as finely tuned and passionate as the most superb violin.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I was moved and fascinated by this film.  Its uniquely crafted story and the use of dual flashback/flashforward sequences make it without peer.  But despite the splendid locations, acting, photography and story, it was the playing of Joshua Bell which lifted this movie to incredible heights.  The Red Violin is supposed to (in the story) be unique in all the world. Whatever actual instrument Bell used, he made it sound as though the notes could have come from this violin and this violin only.The resemblance of the violin's sound to the human voice and Bell's inspiring playing truly made the instrument itself a character in the film. "},{"Title":"A unique masterpiece.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Never before has a movie made me care about an inanimate object as much as this one.  Pulp Fiction and Ronin are the only movies in recent memory that I can think of that even gave me the slightest glimmer of interest in an object.  The Red Violin changed all that.  Not only did I care for the violin, but I began to understand how Samuel L. Jackson's character felt towards it.  A beautifully crafted movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was captivating from start to finish and is truly a  work of cinematic art. Anyone who is a fan of great film and not just the mainstream, mega blockbuster, more cgi than story will love this movie. The fact that the movie is based on the violin rather than the people (which isn't a new idea) is what makes this film great because it shows that objects in our lives have stories all their own. I also loved this movie because I'm a huge Samuel L. Jackson fan and this is one of his best roles to date (other than Pulp Fiction of course) because I didn't know if I was supposed to like him or not until the very end. I also liked the twist involved with the origin of the violin's color because it was totally unexpected. Bottom line this movie was great and one of the best of the year.P.S. - If you liked this try Twenty Bucks with Steve Buscemi, Christopher Lloyd, Brenden Fraser, and Elizabeth Shue. It uses the same idea of an object passing from person to person but in a span of a couple of days not centuries. "},{"Title":"Everyone should see this film!!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  When I look at the number of people who have voted on this film I realize that The Red Violin is greatly overlooked.  The fact of the matter is that The Red Violin is a brilliant film that only comes along once in a blue moon. The plot is flawless, and the cast is excellent.  There are not very many big names in the cast (with the exception of Samuel L. Jackson), but the performances are all top notch.  The fact that some of the film is in subtitles does not take away from it at all, it actually adds to the beauty of the heritage that is portrayed during the journey of the violin.I will not give away any of the plot in hopes that when reading this you will take my advise and see this film and judge it yourself.  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"More than the sum of its parts...","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin is more than a collection of short stories centering about a fabulous instrument it is an examination of Western Civilization and those to whom it is entrusted.  The creation of the violin in Renaissance Italy mirrors the rise of Classical music and, with it, of modern Western culture.  It moves from time to time, from place to place, always falling into the hands of those who are, in some way, greedy.  In every scenario comes a realization of the humanity that lies behind true culture, and the inhumanity of those who falsely profess to be the most cultured.  Those who miss the thematic unity of the work have only seen the cinematic beauty that is but the surface of this film. "},{"Title":"Perfection at it's peak","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps I would like to say this is the best movie of the 1990's.  It's true.  But it's better than that Red Violin is a movie to put proudly with Citizen Kane, La Grande Illusion, Potemkine Battleship, Casablanca and all these unforgettable classic.  The plot is absolutely fabulous.  Movie direction is amazing.  Emotions is at the rendez-vous all the time. The Red Violon sticks with you for a long long time. I saw it in a theatre four times in two weeks, and I just bought it on a video cassette.  Red Violon will be with me til I die. "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is art. Real art. So few films try for this much.My sadness is that its appeal will be limited to polyglots, musicians, and lovers of costume drama. It's worth so much more than that. Beautifully shot, sensitively scripted and acted, and cleverly executed, this deserves more awards and greater coverage than it's going to get.9 out of 10. I dock one point because Girard occasionally lets the pace drop to deadly, and because Jason Flemyng and Greta Scacchi irritated me beyond words - but that's not Girard's fault. "},{"Title":"priced acquisition","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Just saw this film at the local film festival and it lived up to the hype and more.  The music was incredible and considering I gave up learning the violin after Grade 1, I've found new respect and love for the music they produce.  Just felt swept away by the music from the child prodigy, the gypsies and the English virtuoso.The story was reminiscent of The Yellow Rolls Royce with the main protagonist now being a violin.  I thought it was obvious why and how the violin is red but the revealing scene still drew gasps from the audience. So is the violin cursed consequently or just an innocent instrument of fate.Wonderful way of introducing each chapter via the Tarot Cards and ending each through a prospective bidder at the auction.  Initially, I was discontented with Samuel Jackson's character and his eventual prized acquisition but I realised that this is not the end but in fact, another beginning.  If the instrument had landed up with somebody of relevant ties, it would mean the story has come full circle and it's time to wrap up.  This ending actually serves to continue the story - well done!  "}{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time, the soundtrack is incredible, the use of languages and subtitles only enhances the feeling of being there. After all, did Italians speak English at that time? Of course not! I have watched this film more times than I can remember and I never grow tired of it. It is so magical, the reason for the violin's being is twisted and beautiful, I have yet to decide whether that was the most romantic or the more revolting thing I have ever seen! (I'm not spoiling! you'll have to watch the movie to see!) The film is full of beautiful scenes, cinematography and music. This movie is a work of art.Definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"A bold attempt falls short","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed the multiple storylines and the way the text interweaves them into the final suspenseful scene of the auction.  Most of the film is beautiful and interesting, but it disintegrates when the American actors and English lines take center stage.  The spoken text is awkward and stilted.  As a result, Samuel L. Jackson is wooden and doesn't seem to have any reason for stealing the violin.  He looks neither in love, nor obsessed with an object he supposedly pursued his whole career.  At times he has sudden outburst as if the actor suddenly remembered he was supposed to be at the end of his wits.  At other times you can almost hear him saying I can't believe I'm even saying these lines, somebody please rescue me from this film.  I could have easily believed Jackson in this role, but the dialogue and his mistrust for it makes it impossible.  Rent the video, and stop the film before he and his even more wooden co-star start saying things like (paraphrasing for effect) You don't have children?  No, but I know what you mean.  I just want to take this violin apart.  Or It's like it's this thing . . .  Also, equally unbelievable is when the violin maker rushes in to see the body of his dead wife, sending everyone, including the nurse holding the dead baby, out of the room.  This man was making the perfect violin for this child he wanted so badly, but is completely uninterested in him when his body is presented to him. "},{"Title":"Unsatisfactory","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Visually, this movie has everything going for it.  Costume and set design and cinematography win my applause, and maybe some awards.  Unfortunately, though, the script was weak, and much of the acting weaker. Maybe due to the brevity of each piece, I couldn't connect with the the characters or their relationship to the violin-the central theme in each of the 5 stories. Maybe you have to be a string player to fully appreciate this one, it seems to be written by and for violinists. "},{"Title":"A true Diamond in the Rough!","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" All I can say is WOW! This is truly a masterpiece of cinema. I watched this on a whim one evening and I am so thankful I did. The story is superb, the acting is excellent, and the music score was just outstanding! This is the kind of film that true hardcore movie buffs revel in finding while having to sift through the so many bad ones made over the years. But if your lucky enough to find it then you will find that it does not disappoint! If only they made more films like this one. If anything you might come out feeling a little more educated in the art of classical music.lol But seriously folks this is a must see film for anyone looking for a very entertaining movie of substance. It has it all,.. sadness, happiness, danger, love, anger,etc....! it is truly one of the best! If you haven't seen it then you are truly missing out. "},{"Title":"A Musical Detective Movie","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" The Red Violin is a sweeping drama that travels across multiple centuries and multiple continents, landing in a Montreal auction house to which the movie returns at intervals and for the final half hour and climax. At issue is a violin, the bids for which are creeping upwards toward those for a Stradivarius, sold immediately before.The movie opens in Italy in 1681 with a perfectionist violin maker whose trade secrets are of scientific acoustical interest 300+ years later. His wife is pregnant, and the anticipation of a child prompts a special manufacturing effort.Samuel L. Jackson plays, brilliantly, the New York consultant who is commissioned by the auction house to appraise a newly arrived lot of string instruments. Jackson's character knows his stuff. But it's not just his brain that's into the task. It's also his heart. Therein lies the intrigue, and the compelling interest.This is an absolutely topnotch Canadian movie. A musical detective story, as it were. "},{"Title":"a masterpiece fit we need","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  this is an overall amazing movie. the cast can act, the storyline doesn't feel pressured to move quickly, the characters are developed, the cinematography is beautiful, and the whole movie in itself is one that you just cannot pass down. everyone who can read and understand english should see this movie. i won't spoil anything except to say that this low budget canadian film is a little masterpiece in modern cinema.10/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is such a moving film!  Great from start to finish, I was completely sucked in and I thought it was very well done!  Definately in my top 10! I could watch this movie over and over and never get tired of it.  The love and passion presented in this film is quite intriguing and easy to get caught up in...a must see! "},{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the few movies out there I will give a perfect '10' score, simply because this movie is gorgeous.  Perhaps it's because I am a music lover, or history lover, but anyone should be able to appreciate what makes this a great movie--excellent performances, beautiful cinematography, and a passionate, albeit unusual, storyline.    "},{"Title":"Second review...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A previous interesting comment triggered me to write this and I hope that my humble opinions will help put more light in the interpretations of this movie. I apologize if I may offend anyone, I just feel that I need to give this movie a fair trial.This movie is unique in the fact that it really don't have a main character. Well, it does, but it involves an inanimate object; the red violin. And when you know, if a movie is character based, there will have to be 'attachments (added values/importance)' to this main character, similar to many other movies like The Godfathers 2 etc.but in this case, it is a violin. This movie is also unique in the fact that it has two 'central point' that tells the story; the auction and the tarot cards. In most cases there is only one or at all; like the bus stop in Forrest Gump.I agree in a certain degree that this movie is about antique collecting. But I will go as far as it is present in the movie but it is not by any means to be the sole purpose of the movie. (Like requiem for a dream is about only drug uses or pulp fiction is only about killing people) I agree, in the light of music's meaning, putting too much emphasis on a musical instrument is wrong. But in the light of a main character in a story, it is an inevitable step. But I would also suggest in my humble opinion, putting music on the emphasis on the musical instrument OR the musician is just as bad. To say music is the musician is like worshipping Mozart of his status and values and not his music. Music IS NOT the musician. One hand can't make a sound. No matter how good you are, you can't play the Hungarian Rhapsody on a out of tune piano. Music lives in the relationship between the two parties and it should not exist even in the realms of space nor time. It is the interpretation/understanding that is triggered within a subjective perceiver. Hence, it can never be truly spoken of nor discussed. So if this is the case, movies that promote musicians like `Mr. Holland's Opus' or `Amadeus' will all fall within this error. But of course, there are certain limitations to a movie and all movies have to base on a character whether if it is Forrest Gump or The Red Violin.This movie talks alittle about auctions of a number of antiques. But is it just about collecting them? What about the monks? Do you think they want the violin because they want to collect violins for their monetary values? If so, why get the same one that happens to be related to them? There must be more than just antique collecting.Is this just an object of history and not history itself. But wouldn't we not say that history is composed of objects/events (that is related to objects in the space-time)? It is the summation of these important events/objects that give history its meaning. The sum that makes up the whole; one can't talk about the whole without its sum. It is like trying to picture someone you love in the past. It is hard to picture that person out of context. You need to picture that person in context of something you have done/ shared the same event together.Did Sammuel steal the violin because he wants to rebel against capitalistic values? Do you think he did all that inorder to spike the society? (If you want this issue addressed, red violin may not be the best movie to go, try Fight Club).  Did you think that when the 17th Century violin maker used blood to paint an instrument from his beloved wife, he was thinking consciously, `ahh, this will be later of great value to both antique lovers and musicians and I will be rich, rich I say, RICH! Or do you think that he was just feeling pain and anger and love and hatred and emotions and things which logic and rationality that can't explain LIKE what music does to people. Don't analyze music; you can't. Once you start to analyze music, it no longer music but notes on a page.So what is this movie about? It is about a musical instrument, its history, and the relationship of it with the musicians throughout the course of its life. It survives longer than men, and so it may seem alittle ridiculous. But having in mind that this movie is not an account of facts but of storytelling. It also symbolses that comparing to love/music/beauty, men is minute.It does not matter how virtuous the little girl is that the father hands down the violin to, it does not matter. Nor do I think that the pleasure one finds in music or the meaning/emotions one find in music is not equal to what grade of piano you have hanging on your wall. To be able to understand the true meaning of opera does not entail you to be a fat lady. If one thinks about music parallel to skills or notation on a page, music is no more than an illusion.Is it just about music, no. But it is related to music as it is suggested in the relationship it has with all of its owners. The love and the meaning triggered by this violin is beyond words.  The symbol played by this inanimate object is a great one. It resemble freedom, love, greed, ownership, beauty and music; all entities in men. It is a pure neutral entity that will transform to whatever to the musician's subjective desired.I hope whoever is reading this will see both sides of the coin. "},{"Title":"Must be...","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Must be out my head not to write this earlier..but this had been my top 1 movie for a long time now. There isn't much to say because I wouldn't know where to start. The score in this film, wow, it still gives me goose pimples. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Brilliantly Done","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"    Many really great movies are really long and I usually can't sit through them all at one time, but this movie was different. While I was watching it I had the same feeling I did the first time I watched Citizen Kane or the Godfather, and this movie certainly belongs with them as true classics.  I was also surprised when I watched it because I didn't think watching a two hour story on a musical instrument would really catch my interest, but the movie isn't about the violin itself but about the lives of those who held it. The value of an item is increased in the events it endures, and the 'piece of history' the violin is had been through a lot. I loved the way the story traced the violin's ancestors to the present, and the way the two 'buyers' at the end aren't of descent of any of the previous owners.    "},{"Title":"WOW, this movie blew me away!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I'm going to buy the DVD TODAY! I saw it on Bravo last night, and stopped watching before the ending. (The commercial breaks were irritating.) It's my favorite kind of movie epic in scale, intertwining story lines... GORGEOUS cinematography.  "},{"Title":"It's hard to invest emotion when the main character is a violin.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  (this comment contains possible spoilers; read at your own risk)This is one of those films I'd heard a lot of good buzz about, both while it was in theatres and when it came out on video.  I've picked it up several times at the rental store, then subsequently put it back to get something else.  But finally, the time had come for me to view The Red Violin.And it's pretty good.  More intriguing from the idea aspect than from the actual execution of the film.  I like the idea of following this violin throughout the ages and seeing what hands it touches on its way to the auction block, but I didn't really care for any of the people who got the darn thing.  The Austrian music teacher?  He's a jerk.  The long-haired English virtuoso?  A jerk on a much grander scale.  Those gypsies?  All really good violin players, but not on screen long enough to care.  The Chinese girl?  She was the most sympathetic of the characters, but by that point of the movie I was really hoping it would wrap up soon.Also, it didn't help that I figured out the secret of the red violin at the very beginning of the movie.But I appreciate the scope of the film, and the style with which its told.  It's still a good film, but completely unengaging emotionally.  Probably it's suffering from the Batman syndrome, in which it was hyped so much to me that when I actually saw the movie, there was no way it could live up to my expectations. "},{"Title":"This movie should be in top 250","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I was disapointed when looking at the top 250 movies list to see titles such as Memento (ranked 10th) or Fight Club (ranked 36th) but not the Red Violin. I had found that movie to be just like music; harmonic, soft. A real delight to watch, a movie I saw 3 times and that I could see again. I think it deserves a spot in the best 250 movies of all time, certainly more than some other titles that lack the type of feelings Red Violin provided its audience. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal music!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie this spring, and even on the small tv, cramped seating, and irritating background noise, this was a very very good movie.  The storyline was well written, the characters played their parts well, but, for me, the best part was the music.  I have yet to hear more of an amazing soundtrack for a movie.  I immediately purchased the CD and have been listening to it almost constantly ever since.  It's somewhat of a shame that the movie hasn't been heard of by more people... even if the majority of it is subtitled, that shouldn't scare people away from seeing it.  Wonderful. Try it on a rainy evening with some hot chocolate and a fuzzy blanket. "},{"Title":"a true master piece","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is a rich and beautiful tale of a musical instrument that was forged by it creator with his soul. The story carries us through the life of this instrument and the many people who have owned it. This is one of the only movies that I truly believe doesn't get the credit it really deserves. This is a have to see.   "},{"Title":"A superb masterpiece.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A truly remarkable film, I was almost tempted to award it a perfect 10. The only thing that prevented me from doing so was remembering the advice of my old English teacher (Doug Fundamentally Hounsell) that only God can be perfect. Thus I never award 10 out of 10 for anything. Anyway, I digress. This film deserves a whole flock of superlative epithets. From its very start to the shocking denouement I was transfixed. It had been languishing in my video recorder for at least a fortnight waiting for the opportunity for a late-night viewing. By then, I had forgotten what it was supposed to be about, which made it all the more enjoyable. Only the inconvenience of having to fast-forward through the adverts disturbed my viewing of a piece of craftsmanship that stood comparison with its subject, a 17th century Italian violin. Why can't Hollywood make films like this anymore?  "},{"Title":"Intelligent, gripping, wonderful film","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Is it a thriller? Is it a horror movie? Is it a biopic?Well, yes and no... each one, but a bit more as well.. a wonderful mixture of elements of each genre that keeps you gripped all the way through, though you HAVE to pay attention.An unusual structure, not unlike 'Pulp Fiction', would you believe? Not purely flashback, but returning to previous scenes and situations from different angles, building up the mystery and tension.And excellent music, thoroughly deserving of its Oscar. I particularly liked the way the actors look like they are actually playing the instrument.Utterly brilliant! "},{"Title":"A great film but I'm left wondering what happened to all the characters ...","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked this film. The music was really good and the plot grabbed me. I feel as if I've been left hanging on though - I got so involved with all the characters and the film leaves it to the audience's own imagination to wonder what happened to some of them like the young Chinese revolutionary and the English musician's lover ... however Samuel L. Jackson's character really surprised me, with his knowledge of the violin's past and he still fell under its spell. Definately worth watching. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie - weak final reel","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Girard and McKellar have crafted a fascinating story, served with all the trimmings.  As one who has a weakness for movies that milk beautiful environs for all their worth, I was often awed by this one.  Furthermore, Corigliano's score deserves top billing - as the voice of the violin, it's actually the star of the film.Unfortunately, once the violin makes its way to Montreal, things slow down dramatically.  Furthermore, Samuel L. Jackson is woefully miscast.  One wonders if the producers thought Mr. Jackson's Pulp Fiction cool factor would attract a younger audience (and thus sell more tickets).Still, I highly recommend Red Violin, and must also highly recommend Topsy Turvy for another approach to the musical creative process. "}{"Title":"No musician I, but this was right good.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Actually, in places in was moving.I am a sucker for well-laid on period pieces, which this was in force, as well as exotic locales, so I was already softened up. Going beyond the obvious, this was also an unusual love affair of sorts in the present day, developing the human side of an otherwise unpleasant hero.I saw it twice in theatre, and was surprised at the number of things missed the first time. THE RED VIOLIN is a must for fans of historical drama as well as the grip of the arts on human emotion. "},{"Title":"Just see it, there shouldn't be any doubt!!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  My mind was totally lost to this movie when I first saw it! It simply was so good that I in fact could not concentrate about anything else, and that experience doesn't come often...It still takes over my mind sometimes. Therefore I've decided to recommend the film to everybody. I give the film 10 of 10 stars.. "},{"Title":"THE MOST UNDERRATED MOVIE OF THE YEAR!!!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This film is known mainly for John Carigliano's score, which is fine. But all of its other qualities are overshadowed by it.The costume design and cinematography are both superb. But what really interested me was the script.The use of 5 separate little tales is a good idea. The 5 haunting stories takes place in 4 different centuries and are quite different but eerily similar. All of them deal with hope. The first four ends in tragedy, but the last one deals with triumph.A definite 10/10. "},{"Title":"The curious power of violins","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  It's amazing how easy it is to care for musical instruments.  It's not giving much away to say that the red violin is imperilled more than once; and I was sitting in my seat, mentally screaming to the director Kill off some of the characters if you want, maim and injure them, but for God's sake, don't hurt the violin!  I don't think I could stand to watch even an ordinary violin damaged.  As for a surpassingly beautiful and sonorous violin, centuries old and perhaps with centuries yet to live ... well, it's no stretch at all to say that such an instrument would be more important than most of us, certainly more important than I.  So why shouldn't it be a central character?  Fictional characters simply have to (a) have things happen to them, and (b) make us care what happens to them.  They needn't do anything else.This is an amazing film.  The violin comes to life, so to speak, in five different eras (and countries), and every one of them is perfectly realised - it's a joy just to watch the temporal scenery.  (Perhaps the third of the five eras, early Edwardian England, is a little harder to swallow than the rest, with its aristocratic violinist who extemporises great music while having sex.  Really!  As if the resulting compositions would have the slightest value.)  It's interesting that the evocation of time and place is NOT accomplished by musical means.  Almost all the music we hear was composed by John Corigliano, and he makes his music as hard to pin down to any one age as he can.  This was an excellent idea.  It gives the violin a character, and makes it seem more powerful than any of the forces temporarily besetting it.  It also suits the story in a way I'm not at liberty to reveal.Although it's easy to be absorbed in The Red Violin, be warned that the human interest in each of the five eras is subservient to the violin interest.  If you are one of those people who can't easily care about a musical instrument much of the film will be lost on you. "},{"Title":"Magnificent!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"      The Red Violin is a great film that shows the travels and exploits of a Red Violin that was made during the 16th century, I believe.  The story shows how the violin gets passed from one owner to another.  The violin is, at first, constructed by a violin craftsman and then is given to a monastary, some gypsies, a wealthy British violinist, an owner in China and finally at a present day Montreal auction.  What I found amazing about this film is how each of stories come together seemlessly by the end of the movie.  That is typical of most Canadian movies and I think that formula is great.  I also liked how the Talot card reader's predictions match the events of the film.  It gives the story a sense of spirtuality.    Being a violin/viola player myself, I highly enjoyed this film cause I could relate to why the owners of the Red Violin were so intrigued by the little instrument.      This is a movie that I would recommend to anyone.  It also has a very nice soundtrack.       "},{"Title":"Best film of 99","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Reading all those negative comments about this movie I have to say that this is, in my opinion, the best movie of 99...I loved American Beauty, and Magnolia, and Sleepy Hollow and specially the Straight Story, but this one just rocked me...I think the bad comments here are from people missing the point. I mean, you don't really expect character developement from a violin, right??? Because, in case you don't notice it...the violin is the main character here, and the rest are just supporting it...Still, Sam Jackson delivers a beautiful performance as he falls in the spell of the music.People claiming this movie succeeds only in the costumes and score area are totally forgetting the beauty of the story. This is about love, and about humanity,,,So...listen...this is a fantastic movie...just enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"As Perfect As It's Subject","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Everything about this movie works for me, from the beauty of the story itself to the artistry of the inter-woven subplots, beautiful imagery, music and cast selection. 'The Red Violin' is a remarkable epic history of a musical instrument binding both the past to the present as well as the spirits of the participants along the journey.The movies' mysteries are revealed slowly and poetically in a precisely authored meter spanning the violin's  birth, journey, and rebirth. The violin's precise blending of art and mechanical perfection mocks both Cesca's bones and amulets as well as Morritz's mass spec and and organic evaluation's to stand apart as something indefinable which soars above and survives Prince's,  Cultural Revolutions, attempts to destroy it and finally - attempts to possess it. Morritz is the only one who understands, with true unselfish love, the tragedy and travesty of allowing the vilolin's nobility to be bartered like a slave on the platform into the clutches of auctioned greed.I recommend this movie to people of passion and lover's of beauty. Over analyzing critics and nit picker's would would be better served by the movie pi or Eraser Head for this movie's meaning is as much beyond their scope as The Red Violin's value was beyond Mr. Ruselsky's.  "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Creation of Plot and Music","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A beautiful movie with an intriguing storyline that keeps you on the edge of your seat till the very end!  Combined with soaring and heartfelt orchestrations and violin solos that add to the legend and the mystery of The Red Violin. "},{"Title":"The magic of movies consists of losing your sense of space and time.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  And The Red Violin achieves it. The idea of following an object through the years during four centuries is brilliant, and the atmosphere of mystery and curse that surrounds the instrument hooks viewer's attention and curiosity in what will happen with the auction and who will finally get the precious article. Of course, it has its cons, such as being a little bit long and the fact that the mystery of the violin's colour was rather easy to solve before it's explained. In any case, it's an advisable movie. "},{"Title":"A finely woven masterpiece","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I won't give you a plot summary.  You can get that anywhere.  But I will give you what the movie flows, feels, and captivates.  Well, from my perspective anyway.The Red Violin takes you through 3 main stories, with two more narratives that are used to tie them together.  The fortune teller tells the story of the Violin from the past, viewing the future through prediction.  At the same time the appraisers of today derive the past through scientific discovery.  The three central stories are very different from each other, and the switching between can seem abrupt.  But it's meant to.  The shock of Chinese story keeps the audience from getting complacent.Although others might have found the characters in each story not fleshed out enough, it is my opinion that they are supporting characters only. They are not the story, the Violin is.If you want to see Stevan Segal in a movie, don't see this one.  There is no great action.  There is no giant climax.  But the scenery and music is masterful.  The mood is haunting.  And the story is compelling.This movie is a good one to rent on a quiet evening when you can curl up and have no distractions.  The movie is one that you have to pay attention to in order to get the full effect.  But when it ends you can't bring yourself to turn on the lights again.  "}{"Title":"Admiration for an Amazing Film","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin could very well be the best movie that I have ever seen, and I almost missed my chance to see it!No film that I can recall has captivated me in such a way as The Red Violin did. The passion, beauty and mystery surrounding this movie make it a cinematic treat that I will remember for many years to come. The images flooding from the screen are so rich and diverse, showing how people so different from each other can be affected by the same passion making this a truly amazing movie to view. This movie has so much depth and substance to it which make it a movie that I will never tire of watching. "},{"Title":"ambitious, beautifully crafted tale","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin  is a fine, beautifully crafted film that follows the life of a rare Italian violin as it bears witness to the lives of various unrelated people who come in contact with it throughout the centuries. Through these characters, we explore the universal human propensities for fear, passion, jealousy, love, greed, oppression and survival in even the most dire of circumstances. Like many anthology films, The Red Violin loses some of its emotional force through the fact that the characters, by their very nature, cannot be fully developed and therefore tend a bit toward type.  However, each segment is so lovingly created in terms of setting, costume and cinematography, that the viewer is drawn into the many worlds the film creates. The most impressive part of the film is the brilliant overlapping time structure that is remarkably complex and creates a tremendous amount of excitement and tension in the last half hour of the film when all the elements from the various narrative skeins are pulled together to reveal the whole picture.  In fact, the last half hour, in which the violin is restored and the man in charge (played by Samuel L. Jackson) must confront a moral dilemma, lifts the film to a plane far higher than one expects it to go. The surprise ending is also very brave for trusting the audience to accept a morally ambiguous resolution. All in all, this is a mighty impressive achievement. "},{"Title":"An unforgettable journey of passion","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Walking out of this movie all I could say is wow.  Words can't even begin to describe how excellent this movie is.  I normally can't get into subtitled movies unless I'm at home so I can rewind the VCR.  This movie on the other hand had me so enthralled that I was actually able to keep up. The main reason for this was an amazing story structure that goes through the ages flip flopping from the past to the present.  Each scene in time is foretold and acted out completing a huge and complex jigsaw puzzle.  The acting is superb and the settings are marvelous.  This movie just leaves you in an awe.  "},{"Title":"Way to go, Canada!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  While the vast majority of the world's films emerge from the United States, along with a handful from Italy, the U.K., France, and India, a country of only 30 million people, not well known for creating masterpieces in film, has come up with this jewel, The Red Violin. Canada has generated scores of famous actors - Michael J. Fox, Jim Carrey, Donald Sutherland, William Shatner, John Candy, and Neve Campbell to name but a few, but Hollywood's empire of film production has drawn them all down south, while, ironically, so many US films are shot in Canada (especially Vancouver).In the past, Canada made the odd good, low budget film (Who Has Seen the Wind, The Grey Fox) but in the past decade, its government has been setting more funds aside for the development of its entertainment and culture industry. The result has been the creation of about one very good film per year (Decline of the American Empire, Jesus of Montreal, Black Robe, Exotica, and The Sweet Hereafter to name a few).Just as Canadian film-makers borrowed England's Helena Bonham Carter in making Margaret's Museum, the latest Canadian creation - The Red Violin - features a well known US actor - Samuel L. Jackson. Perhaps we have done this as a drawing card to attract attention to great films that, because they are Canadian made, run the danger of passing unnoticed outside of the country.I glowed after watching this heart-galvanizing spectacle of beauty out of slight feelings of humble patriotism, seeing that my country really is capable of landing a winner in the movie making game. Everything is likable about The Red Violin - great acting, dialogue, production, cinematography, music (score), compelling characters, and interesting stories woven together into a work of art. And, just think, this was pulled off without Hollywood's gargantuan enterprise of talent, experience, and funding. WAY TO GO, EH! "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This will be brief, since I don't want to go into detail about a movie I've only seen once (so far).  This movie Was very well done...it's 2 hours and 10 minutes long, but seemed much longer.  This was not bad...I didn't keep thinking When will this end? like I do with other movies.  This movie just took me through a journey that seems impossible to fit into such a short time.Samuel L. Jackson showed me his true acing skills in one scene where there's a 15-20 second (I think) close-up of his face.  There were so many different emotions portrayed in that one face, it re-enlightened me as to what a good actor can bring to the screen. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Very well orchestrated story and well acted throughout. A sleeper movie that should be on everyone's list. One of the best movies I have ever seen that fades back and forth through centuries of time. "},{"Title":"something for everyone","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The basically simple storyline of this film is given a fresh twist by dividing it into historical segments, and showing them intercut with contemporary shots at an auction house, where the full story is slowly revealed through scientific research, and with other shots of a fortune teller predicting the life of a young mother-to-be. What the mother does not know (and the fortune teller can't see in her cards) is that the fortune being told is actually that of a violin. How the mother's fortune got mixed up with that of a violin is revealed only at the end of the film.Samuel L. Jackson, always one for lingering facial shots that allow his remarkable ability to display subtile emotion to be fully utilized, turns in a fine performance that holds the film together, and also gives the film an extra kick as his character participates in a bit of premeditated subterfuge (how premeditated is also not apparent until the end) that gives another nice twist to the film and really helps to advance the character of the plot through the ending and beyond; the violin's story is obviously far from complete (here is where Hollywood will often screw up - they will take a film and staple the ending down so that the story has no life, but is rather obviously yet another project of an uninspired writer). Here we see that the contemporary portion of the plot is not an end but only another stage. Not profound perhaps, but compared to usual Hollywood garbage it seems profound.Throughout the film is fine music, in many styles, depicting the various persons who own the violin (kudos to Joshua Bell, the superb violinist who does all the playing where the red violin is concerned). How the violin affects them, and to a lesser degree, how they affect it, is the work of the great variety between episodes. And they are not all shaped by the same cookie cutter either. Each person is fascinating in their own right, and this would make a fine movie even without the violin (but how else to tie the episodes together so nicely?) And yet, each episode is represented in the contemporary scenes, as it is slowly revealed that the bulk of the bidders in the exclusive Montreal auction house are somehow related to the various historical characters, and wish to recapture the magic that they know once influenced their lives and fortunes.One more point; in most films where actors pretend to play instruments, it is painfully apparent that they are doing no such thing. My hat is off to the film makers for managing to portray various figures playing complicated music on the violin, in such a way that it is almost always totally convincing, and perfectly matches the sound track. Were the actors selected from expert violin players? Were special effects used? I don't know how, but it worked.This movie is a costume drama, a suspense film, a history lesson, has a great soundtrack, and no filmgoer should find themselves left out. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I recently went with a friend to see The Red Violin and I was not disappointed.  The way the flashback sequences were done were great because they didn't really seem like flashbacks and the narrator in the story was just great.  I guess I really liked this movie.  I'm not much into independent films, but this movie has opened my eyes and I hope to find more like this one. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films of 1998!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin is a masterpiece. It ranks with Saving Private Ryan, Shakespeare in Love, and Primary Colors as one of the best films of 1998. The story centers around the journey of one violin through three years of being handed down from person to person and finally ending up in the hands of famous art dealer Samuel L. Jackson. It is a true classic that will never be forgotten. I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"what music!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I echo all the above about the story and the directing, but would like to comment more specifically about the musical effort at the core of the film.This is a great achievement, and the first true musical I've seen in years that really works for me. The score is magnificent. Watching Altered States and this back to back reveals the tremendous range this composer is capable of delivering, and points to the fact that despite Corigliano's status as a legit composer, he really makes a great job of *scoring* this picture. Unlike Copland's Red Pony, or Thomson's The Plow that Broke The Plains (where it often seems the picture is there to serve the music rather than the right way around)this is the rare case where a great classical guy actually understands underscoring. Girard and Corigliano did an incredible spotting job. And as for the orchestrations and overall composition, the bar has been raised. Goldsmith and Williams and Horner have some serious competition from this fellow. "}{"Title":"teriffic","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This should be recognised as a great movie, one that should topple THE SWEET HEREAFTER as the best thing to come from Canada-ever.  We saw it before you guys, so we alreay know what fantastic reviews this film will receive. "},{"Title":"A musical feast for the eyes, ears and heart.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Years ago there was a type of film which followed a particular item through the years as it passed from owner to owner (The Yellow Rolls Royce). Francois Girard has directed and written (with Don McKellar) a beautiful drama detailing the life of a red violin from its manufacture in the late 17th century through its sale at an auction in the present.Samuel L. Jackson portrays Charles Morritz, an antique violin authenticator. This auction is the framing device for the rest of the film. The tale flashes back to the tale of Nicolo Bussotti, a fictional violin maker. He is planning to give it to his unborn child. His pregnant wife (Irene Grazioli) goes to an old woman fortune teller who proceeds to relate some of the future of the Bussotis and other owners of the instrument.The violin continues on through the years coming into the possession of an orphan (Christoph Koncz). It then is owned by a virtuoso soloist (Jason Flemyng) who gets his inspiration by playing it during love-making with the lovely Greta Scacchi. The instrument passes across the ocean to China where Xiang Pei (Sylvia Chang) is caught in the middle of the cultural revolution. Finally, as a valuable antique, it is brought up for auction in the film's final sequence.This cursory summary cannot do justice to the lush beauty of this film. Joshua Bell plays the violin on the soundtrack to a fine score by John Corigliano (CD on Sony Classical). At an early screening Bell explain that the children in the orphanage are actually violinists. Bell's hands are also shown in other scenes as the instrument is played. The movie cost only $9 million but the production has an epic feel to it. McKellar explained that this is accomplished by lavishing the expense on one elaborate scene in each vignette. It definitely works.Girard has fashioned a wonderful story that probably should have been saved for the fall season. It has award winner written all over it. Especially in the areas of costumes, scenic design and music. It's a feast for the eyes and ears. "},{"Title":"A breathtaking journey through 3 centuries and 3 continents.","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Spanning three centuries and as much continents, The Red Violin is a little jewel which brings back the belief that there is a chance for intelligent film-making (beyond Hollywood, that is). Love for historic detail, terrific acting, really great music and a plot that is both thrilling and melancholic are the ingredients for this film and, above all, the viewer will learn -- again -- to respect the art of instrument-making (and of craftmanship in general). It's a very European movie, although it is an international co-production, and everyone who did enjoy movies like Orlando will enjoy this, too. "},{"Title":"Tainted Melody","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Corruption, fortune telling, lust, and revolution. Not exactly what is expected from a movie named The Red Violin (Le Violon Rouge).Writer/director Francois Girard's dark tale takes us on a journey following Nicolo Bussotti's masterpiece known only as the Red Violin, named for its unique red varnish. The Italian violin maker's wife, Anna, is soon going to be giving birth. The mother, wanting to know the future of her baby calls upon a servant to tell its future with the help of her Tarot cards. When the mother and baby die, Bussotti is left with nothing but his unfinished work. The most perfect violin in the entire world.The violin makes its way around Europe into the hands of an orphanage where the children all learn to play the violin. One boy in particular, Kaspar Weiss, is considered a child prodigy. He is taken in by Georges Poussin who hopes to make him into the next Mozart. The journey of the violin does not end here. The violin travels across Europe once more and eventually ends up in China. What was meant to be a gift has become In present-day Montreal, the violin that was once going to be the prize possession of Bussotti's baby is now up for auction. Several violin connoisseurs and enthusiasts are present to witness the unveiling of the magnificent stringed instrument, including Charles Morritz (Samuel L. Jackson). A person from the violin's past is represented by family or organizations to claim it.It is rare to find a film with the main character being an inanimate object that travels so much. All of the characters are linked by this one instrument through one way or another. The violin's itself is steeped in mystery right until the very end of the film. Everywhere it goes there is one thing it carries with it the ability to enchant, dazzle, and endanger those who come into contact with it.The film excels in all areas. The cinematography is extremely tasteful and compliments the Academy Award winning score with its flowing movements and well thought out shots. One scene in particular the violin changes hands several times yet it remains in the same part of the frame with each person. It almost appears that the world is revolving around the violin.The one part of the film that stands out has to be the story. The chopped up storytelling much like that of 21 Grams and Pulp Fiction (although not as chopped up and graphic) is incredibly hard to do. It can't be too hard to follow or too easy to figure out. Girard perfectly executes what it should be. The story is easy to follow but keeps you guessing the whole way through. Unlike some directors, Girard uses the languages of the countries that the violin travels through. Some would have had English all the way through. This story seems too real to be fiction.The Red Violin is an absolute joy to watch. It isn't one genre. There is mystery, crime, romance, drama, and scandal. The senses will be delighted with colors and sounds from all time periods and places. This is truly a great movie going experience. "},{"Title":"Very creative","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I thought this movie was excellent. I loved the idea of the woman's soul being connected to the violin over all that time, and how it brought out something different in each person it came in contact with. To the child, she was a mother he who comforted him at night couldn't bear to part with. To Pope, she was a woman he made sweet music with reminiscent of Pan and the nymph. To the Chinese woman, like an old friend to be protected at any cost, and to the appraiser, a love affair and pursuit like no other, even eclipsing his wife.The arc to the story is chronological and perfectly logical, making progression of the plot easily understood. The tarot cards not only make a nice sub story within the frame (as if the frame itself were not engaging enough), but provide helpful insight to the pending chapter when one knows the cards. The music is an added bonus, and the strains of it will haunt long after the celluloid stops running. The film is artful and tastefully done and is a must own, much less a must see. "},{"Title":"Good - but could have been much better.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A very good idea, and, for the most part, a very good movie - but something about the end dampens my enthusiasm. From the beginning we are introduced to various characters (in a well developed and rather intimate fashion), and all while this is going on I kept asking myself How is this going to end?. Well I'm sorry to say it ends in a rather disappointing fashion (at least it did for me). The end does not do justice to everything which had preceded it and that is a shame.I don't want to spoil the movie for anybody so I won't get specific as to why I was so disappointed in the ending, but I am curious to see what others thought. "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Director François Girard signs a real true winner with «Le Violon rouge». It's quiet interesting to follow the lives of those who own the instrument, sometime in its existence. The acting is good and the cinematography is excellent. 9 out of 10. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Under-rated","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A very interesting and spell-bounding story of what seems to be a 'cursed' but sought after violin throughout the centuries.I had the great opportunity of watching this film with the crew of the Shanghai scene and I was very impressed.  It has been a long time since the last time I had watched a film and went WOW.  With great acting and beautiful music score, this film should have had a massive distribution, over here in England I was told it was in cinemas for only a week or so.Unfortunately, I believe that this is one of those films that I can only watch once or at least watch it again after a very long time.  When I first watched Red Violin I walked out of the room very satisfied that I was one of the first to watch this film (or so I'm told), but then I watched it again after I bought it on DVD and was not as impressed as the first time. I guess it was just the impact of the story that got me the first time but since I knew what was going to happen it just didn't hit me as much.So to those out there who is thinking about watching this movie...watch it and savour it.  "},{"Title":"One of the best of '99!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched one of the best movies of '99.  It's called The Red Violin.  It stars Samuel L. Jackson (in a very surprising and pleasant role change as a violin expert)  and Greta Scacci (Presumed Innocent).  This movie is like Shine on steroids meets In The Name Of The Rose meets Elizabeth.  It does a bob and weave like Ali against Foreman.  It's definitely a heavyweight fight before Don King.  The story takes you on a journey in the lives of the people around the Red Violin from 1681 to present day.  The Red Violin has a secret that isn't revealed until Jackson's character arrives.  The ending almost rivals The Sixth Sense. This is two thumbs way up.  Ebert agrees. I didn't know it was going to be this good.  Everything was out at Video Central, so it was only by chance that I saw and rented it.I learned several things from this movie 1) Gypsies are the true scum of the Earth. 2) Greta Scacci always plays a scorned lover. 3) Samuel L. Jackson is always a bad a**.If you watch this, pay special attention to the Gypsy scene.  The music is truly wicked.  I loved the musical score.  Well, I hope I didn't give too much away.  If you get a chance, it truly is an excellent movie.Catch ya' in the popcorn line,Levi Cremar (kcon) "},{"Title":"A wonderful adventure through time and place, I loved it.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Great story, good acting, wonderful music, Made my day! "}{"Title":"A fine film, worth watching but much over rated.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin starts just before the end and is told through flashbacks. There are actually three stories, intricately interwoven.  First is the making of the violin itself, second the violin at the auction house and third, the main story, tracing the red violin through more than 300 years. We know from very early that this violin is the premiere lot at an auction of very valuable musical instruments, yet repeatedly wonder how it can possibly survive it's long journey.  Each stage of it's journey is revealed in due course.  The secondary stories have their surprises also but one contains the movie's major flaw.  No motive is supplied for the actions of a secondary but necessary player and some big questions have no answer, making for a less than satisfying end.Nearly everything about The Red Violin is well done.  As with any movie that traces many characters over a long period of time, it doesn't stay with any of them long enough for us to get to know them well and thus to really care about them.  I could easily sit through this movie a second time but don't know why I'd want to.  Once you know the twists and turns what is there to bring you back again?  And again?  Really good movies (8 - 10) have extras that keep bringing you back for more.  For me they include characters you really care about, brilliant dialog, lines and situations that make you laugh numerous times and thrilling action.  The Red Violin has none of these; I never laughed nor had a moist eye.  It's surely neither a dialog or action movie.  It has a complex plot and strong appeal to the ears and eyes.I normally need to see a movie three times to sort out the 8's, 9's and 10's.  I give The Red Violin a 6 which puts me in the bottom 12% of those who've voted.  Watch it, enjoy it but don't expect a masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Not Your Typical Samuel L. Jackson movie.","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" The Red Violin, or Le Violon Rouge, was not the typical movie you would expect from Samuel L. Jackson. It centers around, you guessed it, a red violin. A perfect, red violin which was the last made by legendary violin maker, Nicolo Bussotti (Carlo Cecchi).This movie seems to take place in a somewhat parallel way in the past, with Nicolo's pregnant wife, Anna (Irene Grazioli), and in the present, during an auction for the illustrious violin. Anna is having her cards read by a tarot card reader in between each scene involving the new whereabouts of the violin.It circulates between a child prodigy in Vienna, a music lover in communist China where the violin is an illegal western instrument, a great concerto player who uses the music to seduce women and finally, to Montreal, where the auction is taking place.In between each scene, you learn a little bit more about the violin and it's origin and the fate of the Bussotti family, including why it is red. Also, with each story, you see why certain people participating in the auction are interested in said violin.Charles Morritz (Samuel L. Jackson) does not even really appear, other than a few quick flashes, until the very end. It is then when we understand what Morritz is doing there and the ultimate fate of the violin, at least for the time being.This was a good movie although a bit overrated in my opinion, it was still worth a watch. You have to be in the mood for this type of movie, as it is filled with sub-titles and is, ultimately, a foreign movie. Although I like foreign movies, there are times when I am just not in the mood. With that said, The Red Violin was a pretty good movie and if you know what you are getting into, it can be an enjoyable experience. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A good concept gone wrong","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing this film, but was sorely disappointed when I finally saw it. I found the writing horribly trite, especially in the segment of the movie set in England. The dialogue between Pope and his lover was laughable.  In fact, my friend, an Englishwoman herself, did laugh.  Samuel L. Jackson capped off a poor movie with a poor performance in the final segment of the film.  Then again, maybe it wasn't his acting so much as poor writing.  I simply didn't care about him or his scheme.  The only redeeming aspect of the movie was the segment which centered around Kaspar Weiss.  The writing was much better in that segment, partly because Kaspar rarely talked. In the whole film, Kaspar was the only character I cared about.  If you're looking for a film that progresses through several separate stories, check out A Night on Earth. "},{"Title":"A Centuries-Long Tale","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" A perfect red-colored violin inspires passion, making its way through three centuries over several owners and countries, eventually ending up at an auction where it may find a new owner.I know precious little about violins or about Stradivarius and why his violins are considered the best in the world. But this story is told in such a way where you need to know nothing in order to appreciate that history. Everything is laid out here and in a much grander story arc than any real violin likely ever went through.Perhaps best of all was the casting of Samuel L. Jackson. He is the only real star in the cast, and his character is among the most complex. Though we go through several centuries and multiple countries, Jsckson's story really ties it all together -- like the moment in 2001 where the bone becomes the satellite, Jackson is the modern day counterpart to the violin's entire history. "},{"Title":"beautiful music but not much tension","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" A Nicolo Bussotti violin, known as the red violin, is auctioned off in Montreal. It was built in 1681 and Nicolo's last. The movie follows the violin from the story of its construction to the present. Nicolo's wife Anna Rudolfi is pregnant and her servant Cesca reads the tarot cards. When Anna dies in childbirth with her child, Nicolo mixes her blood with the vanish to paint on the violin giving it the unusual red color. The tarot cards foretells the future of the violin and not Anna.This is a difficult thing to make each section as compelling as possible. In the end, that is not achieved. Each section doesn't have enough time to tell its drama compellingly. Also the movie already shows that the violin doesn't get buried or burned. The music is beautiful as long as you love violin music. This is a beautiful sounding movie but the plot doesn't have much tension. There are some poetic moments but it meanders a bit. "},{"Title":"Engaging story, with a twist","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I didn't have a clue what to expect from this movie. I was afraid it would be slow, tedious and somewhat boring, but it was engaging from the beginning and kept your interest as you followed along the saga of the red violin, which was the main character of the story. From it's creation, passing through a variety of hands of ownership, the red violin has a rich history and significant stories. It has multi-layers of interests historical, artistic, relational, political. It includes beautiful music and an intriguing twist to the story and the significance to the instrument. Watching the movie is like the feeling many of us have had going into an antique shop, purchasing an item and wondering the life it had before it reached our hands. This story answers that mystery for the red violin and weaves the tales of it's existence into this interesting piece of film. It is a quality and memorable movie, well worth your viewing time. "},{"Title":"blood and music","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This ambitious project realized 15 years ago and directed by Francois Girard uses a not completely new pretext for its story line retracing 300 years of history of a superb violin manufactured at the end of the 17th century, a violin born in tragedy and seeming to carry unusual passion and power which marks the destinies of all its successive owners. When watching this film we cross centuries, countries, continents following the destiny of an unusual instrument which seems to be hiding the special gifts making wonderful sounds, but also a curse for the fate of its owners. An object that ignites art and passion.The story telling predicts by a few years the novels of Dan Brown and the like, and we deal in parallel with the chronological told story of the violin and with the intrigues behind the scenes of the public auction in which it is sold at the end of the 20th century. As the story develops we understand that the participants in the bid are also related to the history of the instrument, descendants of its previous owners, connected also through a destiny predicted in cards of tarot, which is also revealed gradually as the story progresses.15 years after the film was made its music and some of its independent story segments survive better than the whole. Violinist Joshua Bell was the musical consultant and probably played much of the score, which makes for some very interesting but out of the beaten track music. I liked it, but do not expect to hear any famous scores, you will need to listen carefully to understand the passion and appreciate the quality. The short stories in the history are all well written but also a little bit conventional, characters are drawn with attention, and love for music. The connection between the episodes is not so well made, the five cards can be a transition trick that works well on TV, but the jumps in time and the changes of hands of the owners are too sketchy for a big screen movie. The final episode (of the public auction) introduces an element of suspense which I found again to be a little too conventional and not really in tune with the rest of the story. A little bit like a musical composition with many beautiful passages but lacking strength in composition and a 'finale' to remember. "},{"Title":"An Incredibly Crafted Piece of Cinematic History","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This could very well be the most profound film you'll ever see. Master-crafted to near perfection the story, acting, directing, cinematography, writing, lighting, suspense and aesthetic feel of this film is beyond anything I'd experienced. Although it didn't hit me right away, I realized three fourths of the way through this film that I might be witnessing one of the best films ever made. To take an inanimate object and show so much emotion, history and intrigue through it, weaving centuries, people and history through that object is quite simply genius. See it as soon as you can, see it with someone you love, see it with someone you hate, just see it. There are certain movies people call 'hidden gems'. Well this movie might be the one that shines brighter than them all. If the Oscars went back over each decade of film and give honorary Oscars to films that should have won best picture, this should be the winner of that hypothetical award The Best Picture that never got any credit. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Moving","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This movie has been on my list of movies to watch, but for some reason I simply never got around to it. Finally, I had the pleasure of viewing it last night at home in HD and was pleasantly surprised. I knew it had received high ratings, but I had never expected it to be so good. I am really not an intellectual person, but I could really appreciate the emotional history of this instrument. Without giving too much away, it seemed like this red violin had a life of it's own. I wish I could have given it a higher rating then 10. Quit putting this off and watch it. You will be glad you did. There are a few subtitles, which I don't usually care for, but I got use to it very quickly. Two thumbs up!!! "},{"Title":"Compilation Film Suffers from Same Problems That Plague All Compilation Films","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" One of those compilation films, essentially a series of short films linked by a common theme, character or plot hook. In this one, a violin makes its way from owner to owner across centuries, and we follow its path and get a feel for the history it acquires along the way.Like any compilation film, some parts are better than others and none of it is especially engaging because you know the film is going to move on to new characters and places before long. I never really understand what motivates filmmakers to make movies like this.On the plus side, there are nice visuals and a lush, Oscar-winning score.Grade B- "}{"Title":"Good Movie, Great screenplay, Great cinematography, and a very average Music","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Its an amazing movie with a really moving screenplay interwoven with some magnificent cinematography. But come on fellows, It is a musical and its just not that. It should have been a musical masterpiece with all the efforts from the crew. But the music was very ordinary. It did not create any impact, at least to me. I have heard some good violin pieces and this is not even good. I loved the film but the music really let it down. Was very disappointed that the Music director missed out on a great opportunity. That is why i have given it 7 and with good music it could have been 9.5. Violin according to me is the undisputed queen of acoustic instruments and if you can't get that instrument to emote, then you better stop composing music for such good films. "},{"Title":"Classic Entertainment In The Classic Tradition","Date":"19 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This film was classic movie entertainment at it's finest. Everything about this production is superb. The Academy Award winning score is hypnotic and moving. The production values are impressive, and the script is clever and involving. The secrets behind the violin are somewhat disturbing(if you haven't seen it i won't divulge) but most secrets to life's mysteries are often very strange and unusual. Trust me. I know.Have a glass of red wine and kick back and enjoy a very entertaining film about life's mysteries and learn something about the truly strange world we really live in. Not the one our rational selves believe, but the true world, the one we don't actually understand. God Bless. Good luck with your journey and the paths you take. "},{"Title":"Campy","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Director Girard likes classical music and campy cinematic set-pieces. If you like either -- particularly the set-pieces hoary, over-the-top grifts and costume dramas -- you'll probably enjoy this film. The sound won an Oscar, presumably for Joshua Bell's lovely, beautifully recorded playing of John Corigliano's derivative violin music; the compositions themselves aren't very interesting. The stories feature a 17th century tarot card reading, an orphanage run by monks high in the Austrian alps, an opium-stocked Edwardian lord whose fiddling makes Greta Schacchi swoon and her prose definitely purple, and one of those high-end auctions where folks call in on the phone and the auctioneer keeps saying Fair warning in a plummy English accent. It's a showy film, not arty or especially clever, but it's interesting enough for an evening at home. "},{"Title":"An Oscar winning Score,  to be had by all that can appreciate such.","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I haven't seen this film in a few years, yet I often think of it. I recommend this beautiful film to anyone that likes a truly wonderful story. This is one of the least known movies that the great Samuel L. Jackson has done, and although his part is minor, he binds all the individual stories into one. Who knew a movie about only one constant (the violin) could be so touching/heart wrenching all in the same movie. I don't recommend this to everyone, but to those willing to think about the different cultures and how we all can be united by something as beautiful as music. Now I am not a huge fan of the violin sound particularly, (Yo Yo Ma notwithstanding, he's brilliant!) but I think anyone that has a basic understanding of musical instruments will realize and listen to the beautiful sounds that come out of this truly original piece of string family. Now if you like a lot of what is considered music these days, (Britney Spears for example) don't bother with this film because it will go right over your head. I would say when they get to some of the Oscar Winning original score, (It won in 2000) close your eyes to really listen to music. Now I'm a huge movie buff, and I am the last person to close my eyes during a movie, but when you watch this a 2nd, 3rd, 4th time, give it a try. Prepare for one of most amazing sounds ever to come out of this rarely heard of gem of a film. "},{"Title":"...and so we learn the 'mystery'... (spoiler at hand)","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Excels beyond finer celluloid fare, and most certainly, ambitious....but you have to be 'ready' and 'comfortable' for this film. I like 'weymo's' commentary from Atlanta ...the perfect movie for a rainy autumn Sunday afternoon when everything is quiet but the popping of the fire and the creaking of your favorite easy chair. ...well said. And courage to Francois Girard and Don McKellar for making the effort to put us in that perfect spot. But as Dylan Thomas once said - and Bob Dylan echoed many years later - Do not go gentle into that good night...(Mr Taborine Man), or you will find yourself wanting. Having said that, pay attention to the real plot WHAT MADE Le Violon rouge? Why, blood, sweat and tears of course -- particularly, the foremost. And it wasn't without a bit of hand-crafted genius from Nicolo Bussotti...such trade sorely lacking, these days, I'm afraid.Go beyond yourself; take a step into the mysterious - see the film, and think about 'another world' right here on your own planet Earth, with all it's failures - and serendipities. We DO produce some good 'bling' from time-to-time....and I only 'tune' computers. "},{"Title":"This film appears to be a film about a constellation of journeys, the central one being that of a unique violin.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Art is the substantiation of the psyche. Speaking as a painter and poet, and not as a movie-goer, this film is exquisite. My then nineteen-year-old son--while on summer break from college-- made me watch it with him. No, he was not a theatre or other arts major, but a football -player cum chemistry major on his way to medical school. Throughout our relationship he has given me unique gifts, and this was no exception. Not a little part of that gift was sharing it with him.This movie is the best that I have ever experienced. At various times other movies may have taught me, thrilled me, scared me, made me cry or intrigued me, but none has ever immersed me in their artistry as this one did. And still does. Not a little part of my son's gift was sharing it with him. The plot is simple. A violin of unique character passes through multiple talented hands as forecast by a tarot reader. But the plot is merely the stretcher for the canvas which is the story. And the story is painted with the visuals, acting, music, etc. The violin and the movie are metaphors for life. We are all unique and on a journey and we are all connected. This little gem is beautiful and momentous. To its critics the making of work of art is not unilateral. Unless you cannot truly see or hear or feel or think, this movie is art. "},{"Title":"Top Marks","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" As with most work associated with Don McKellar, the Red Violin surprises and entertains. McKellar is under-rated with most of his effort, but I have found all of his work that I have been exposed to, to be not only entertaining but very thought provoking and human.I first saw the movie in theatre and bought the DVD the first time I saw it available. I've lent it to a friend who refuses to return it he liked it so much. If you liked this, check out Last Night, another McKellar movie. A truly end of the world movie where the world actually ends, unlike most Hollywood flicks where someone always saves the day, like Armageddon, which was release around the same time. "},{"Title":"Every Violin has a story of its own...","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" The violin is my favourite musical instrument! That being the case, I wanted to watch this film ever since I heard of it. I found the story of the passage of a violin across centuries and continents just too enchanting and irresistible! I'm glad to say I wasn't disappointed! This film is a feast for the senses - the cinematography, the acting and of course the music, are top notch! I was most happy to learn that it did receive the Oscar for the Best Musical Score the year it was nominated. With the help of Joshua Bell, John Corigliano, casts a spell with his music! Interestingly the violin that Joshua Bell plays is steeped in as much intrigue and history as the Red Violin. The Gibson Stradivarius that Bell plays now was made in the early Eighteenth century(1731 if I'm not mistaken). It reached the hands of Polish violinist Bronislaw Huberman from whom it was stolen by a John Altman who played it in bars for fifty years, never repairing it although it needed due care and attention. While on his deathbed, Altman is said to have confessed his crime resulting in the Stradivarius being duely restored to its original glory. And then Joshua Bell eventually became its owner, feeling an instant connection with it the day he played his very first notes on it...! Every violin does have a story of its own... "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece. Mind blowing.","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin Wow. I was strolling the lanes of Blockbuster today and I fortunately picked up The Red Violin. I have nearly watched this film about 5-6 times before, but each time I always find another movie just getting ready to go and I put this one back as its always my backup. I didn't really know that much about it, but I was curious, so today I finally used my 3rd rental spot on it. Boy am I lucky I chose this.The Red Violin is a story about this violin that was created in 1683 by this relatively famous violin maker. It passes through many hands and is owned by various people of four different languages, five countries, and 300 years. It is practically mythical around the world. But, out of chance, it ends up in an auction house in Montreal where it is what everyone came for. It is the main event. I'll leave out all the various stories, but they are magnificently done and all quite interesting. This magnificent script alternates between the year 1683, the year that the certain owner has the violin (I believe they show ~4 different owners), and the current year (the present) and does it incredibly smoothly. It constantly keeps you on an edge by giving you bit by bit of the auction, until the end when they finish it up. I found this to be a great way of presenting this. Made you really want to see what happens because they kept repeating this.Besides the alternating between time periods, I enjoyed the great characters of various cultures and many different music periods that I encountered as I watched. All these very different people came upon this violin and you can see that while they were so different, they all hailed it as a masterpiece. As a treasure. They all knew that it was special. They all masterfully linked with this violin. Along with this, every character that was introduced was very interesting. You only were with each one for a relatively small amount of time, but that was no matter. You quickly cared for them and their relationship with the violin. You always wanted it to flourish, while still being disappointed time after time.I'm going to try to leave out any specifics of each of the stories, but they are all incredibly interesting. I put a fair amount of backing behind The Red Violin and I definitely recommend it. Four stars, 10/10, A+ etc.err well I forgot to mention the beautiful score that accompanied this. What was so amazing is how each different piece that was played went along with the character that the movie was focusing on at that time. Each person had their own little piece. Its of course some magnificent violin that accompanies the film. I unfortunately heard about this part and didn't spot it myself. I was looking for it the whole film and I am glad I did. It added another dimension to it.  "},{"Title":"An amazing multicultural film","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Francois Girard's 1998 film, 'Le Violon Rouge' (The Red Violin) is the tale of a violin that is up for auction with a Sotheby's-like company. As the bidding proceeds, we see the birth of the violin, created in 17th century Italy by Nicolo Bussotti for his son, and it's three century journey to where it is now housed, in France. Between the 17th and 20th centuries, the violin is used for a century in an Austrian monastery, buried for years in a grave, travels Europe with gypsies, becomes the prized violin of an English virtuoso, and finally, the personification of intolerance and loss during the Cultural Revolution in 1950's China before landing on the auction block in France. The film becomes compelling when, after a segment of the violin's history is revealed, we return to present day and see someone associated with that portion of history present at the auction, and bidding on the cherished item. The red violin ties all of the stories together, and it is Charles Morritz (Samuel L. Jackson), a consultant for the auction house who discovers it's secret. There is so much to appreciate about 'The Red Violin'. There are scenes that look like they were blocked in order to look like paintings of the Renaissance and Flemish era. I expected to see Pieter Brueghel off to the side at times, painting a perfect scene. All of the stories with one exception are intriguing, emotional and somewhat enlightening, particularly the scene set in China. The only segment I wasn't crazy about, though it was definitely necessary to the advancement of the story, was about the English virtuoso Frederick Pope (Jason Flemyng) and his lover Victoria Byrd (Greta Scacchi). It just didn't do a lot for me, though it certainly wasn't horrible by any means. The score, with solos by Joshua Bell is absolutely beautiful. The most impressive thing to me, however, is probably something that isn't a big deal or noticeable to most. While the story, cinematography and acting were quite good, I was most impressed by the fact that writers Girard and Don McKellar (who also acts in the film) did not dumb down the presentation, but rather allowed each story to be told in their native languages. Considering what we have learned from the last century of films, that we are to expect that it is natural that everyone, regardless of country or origin speaks flawless English, even in their own native countries, it is like a breath of fresh air to see something a bit more 'real'. If you have seen this film and enjoyed it, I would also recommend seeking out Julien Duvivier's 1942 film 'Tales of Manhattan'. It may be hard to find because it's kind of a buried classic, but it is the same kind of concept, only in this case it follows around a tuxedo jacket. It has always been one of my favorite classic films, and was actually the first thing I thought of in terms of comparison after seeing 'The Red Violin' for the first time. The story concept of 'The Red Violin' is compelling and intelligent and the presentation is beautiful &#150; I highly recommend it to anyone who appreciates a good story with his or her aesthetic.--Shelly  "}{"Title":"An old-fashioned spectacular","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I see no point in recounting the plot here; many other reviewers have already done so.  If you like large-scale international films, this one is a must-see, but DO NOT WATCH THE COMMERCIAL-TV VERSION!  It is cut up into cinematic hamburger; the final segment, set in Montreal, makes no sense at all.  Also, the showings on Bravo have commercial garbage at the bottom of the screen even during the movie itself, which sometimes makes the subtitles impossible to read.  By all means, rent the DVD or videotape, after which you will probably want to buy it.  While you're at it, pick up the soundtrack CD too. "},{"Title":"A successful co-production?!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A film in four different languages married by a timeless theme trancends barriers never before touched by large scale global co-production (well, european). Normally these sort of multi-country produced films end up being a mish-mash of various different tastes and styles, not knowing which country to lay its routes in. The Red Violin however is unique in its capturing and execution of a spellbinding story through the great divide, which is the multilingual european community. Its success lies in its focus on simply telling the story and weighing in with some delightful time-line editing. A rip roaring, eloquently woven masterpiece... "},{"Title":"A Single Flaw","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  In an otherwise perfect movie, I only note one flaw.  The tarot reading was WRONG.  It was so wrong that I, a rank amateur, could tell that it was wrong.  Moreover, the tarot segment was not important considering that the auction was already used to separate the segments.I'll leave the rest to the others who have commented before.  Needless to say, the music is exquisite... "},{"Title":"The glorious music endures","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin follows the history of a finely crafted violin from its creation in Cremona, Italy in the 17th century to its present day sale at a prestigious auction house in Montreal. The instrument survives centuries of use and abuse and changes the lives of every one it touches. Five years in the making, The Red Violin offers a great score, involving stories, a terrific ensemble cast, beautiful costumes, and outstanding cinematography. Directed by Quebec director Francois Girard (Thirty-two Short Films About Glenn Gould), the film was shot in five countries (Italy, Austria, England, China and Canada), spans five centuries, and uses six languages, one unspoken. The unspoken language of course is music, and we are treated to the sound of this beautiful instrument played by Joshua Bell performing an original piece, Chaconne for Violin and Orchestra, by John Corigliano.The film dramatizes five stories about the different owners of the instrument through a period of 400 years. Each seemingly unconnected tale is woven into a tapestry, a theme and variation, that is epic in scope and a sumptuous feast for the eyes and ears. The central symbol is the last violin made by the fictional Niccolo Bussotti finished with a red varnish partially consisting of the blood of his dead wife. The story is framed by Cesca (Anita Laurenzi) a Tarot card reader foretelling the future and a modern auction in Montreal in which Samuel L. Jackson plays Charles Morritz, an appraiser of antique instruments who is determined to keep the violin out of the hands of crass global investors. The film goes back and forth between Cremona and Montreal and each segment is linked by the Tarot readings.Rescued from an Austrian orphanage by arts benefactor Georges Poussin (Jean-Luc Bideau), the violin is first used by Kaspar Weiss (Christoph Koncz), a gifted child prodigy with a heart condition. It is then redeemed from a graveyard by a group of gypsies, travels to England where it becomes a tool of erotica in an over-the-top Victorian melodrama featuring violin virtuoso Frederick Pope (Jason Flemyng) and his lover Victoria (Greta Scacchi). After the instrument is sold at a pawnshop in Shanghai, China, it becomes an object of scorn by Communist cadres during the 1966-67 Cultural Revolution who see it as too European. Coming full circle, the violin ends its journey in the hands of Morritz (Jackson) in Canada who investigates its origins and recognizes its true value. Along the way, the violin is shot at, buried alive, used as a tool for political repression, valued only as a commodity, yet the glorious music remains, a testimony to the enduring power of art. Bravo!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Epic with Some Flaws","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Stunning cinematography,expert direction with an contemplative pace. There were many scenes of immense beauty and realism. The Chinese cultural revolution period and characters were refreshingly real and energetic. But there are few contradictions that is not easily overlooked. While the old fortune teller woman reading of the cards were adeptly played, and each card symbolized life's great dilemma, why did she declared to the violin maker's wife who asked that she tells everything, that madame will have a long life where in fact she would shortly died? Another difficulty I have problem accepting is Sam L Jackson's role as expert artifact authenticator. The delicate instrument looked like a child's toy in his huge hands, and he did not show particular careful handling such a revered instrument would bring. While Jackson has had many fine character performances even including action pics with Mel Gibson,I have hard time believing from his demeanor that he was an art expert. Also short on display was the knoweledge that his character called for. Those who sing his praises are probably more driven by a black man in a non-traditional role than actual merit. Finally,the ending was most troubling. **SPOILER** it should have Jackson tempted to take the instruments (big climax), refrains and walks away, follows by call to his wife from the taxi to the airport and tells her she loves her by doing the right thing. That's the ending it deserves. "},{"Title":"Nicely Crafted","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Every man wants the Red Violin.  Why?  Well, the reason why is the big mystery revealed in the final scenes of this very clever piece of work. Spanning three continents and several centuries, the film has the look of a lavish production but somehow was made on a small ten million dollar budget.I liked it a lot.  There must be a half dozen stories crammed into this epic, all very well told, some sexy but mostly tragic. The script is merciless on the very engaging characters and it seems to have a slightly wry, almost cruel sense of humor as they are put through their travails. I admired the beautiful, stylish photography and inventive direction that makes the imagery stick with you -- especially one hypnotic montage spanning generations while gypsies play the violin as it somehow appears to be suspended, immobile in the frame.But the real story is the adventure of this violin.  Men fall in love with it, it is buried and resurrected by gypsy grave robbers. It becomes a pawn in the Chinese Cultural Revolution and is nearly incinerated.What really stands out though is the brilliant way multiple timelines are interleaved, overlapped, flashed forward and back rhythmically but without any confusion.  Some say there are three timelines, I counted five.As you watch, you see odd occurrences -- like a woman who discovers her lover cheating.  She finds a gun and shoots -- not him or his companion but the violin.  The big supernatural revelation at the end makes all those puzzling scenes suddenly make sense.  But the end also tends to reduce the whole story to a macabre and naughty little joke that just makes you smile.And the ending, as startling as it is, is the problem.  The movie outdoes the message. When people see a movie that looks this grand, they leave with an empty feeling if they are not treated to profound statements about life and the human condition.  But that is not what the Red Violin is about. True, it has a lot of good drama but it is not a morality play at all. Don't look for heroes (there is a heroine -- but that would be telling).If anything, and even this may be a stretch, it is about lust, the coveting of a finely-crafted thing of beauty.  But that is what the Red Violin is -- an intricately cut jewel of a film. Expect no more than that.  "},{"Title":"Even better the second time","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A couple of years ago I came upon this movie on HBO and began watching it when the violin was in the monastery.  I thought it was a good movie and enjoyed the twist at the end, but had no clue what the old lady was talking about.I watched it again recently from the beginning and now appreciate the use of the fortune teller and I enjoyed the twist at the end even more.  I am now tempted to rank Red Violin as one of my favorite movies of all time.  My only hesitation is that I do not recall any fanfare about this movie when it was released.  I wonder what was I doing in 1999 when Red Violin was released that I missed that fanfare or what did this film lack in the minds of critics at that time?  It would seem to me that Red Violin should have been deserving of at least a nomination for best picture.I loved this movie from beginning to end. One of the all time greats.  My only regret is that it had to end. "},{"Title":"Great movie. Shanghai part stands out best.","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was really mistreated at the Oscars. It should have got more credit. The director did a really good job entwining all the stories, and capturing the essence of each location.BUT of all the different parts of the movie, I liked the one in Shanghai. I don't know exactly why, but Sylvia Chang's performance in the movie was definitely the best one (in my humble opinion). "},{"Title":"This movie is, REAL!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  What more can I say? This movie has drama, suspense, and an awesome cast. The tune that is the theme throughout the movie is eerie and kind of creepy...................I LIKE IT!!! Anyhoo, check this film out because I said so and because you WILL like it. Peace & Love peoples, OUTTRO. "},{"Title":"Great little flick, but...what was it about again?","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I don't think it's the deep, profound epic some seem to suggest, but I liked the idea of the violin as the McGuffin, and as an axis for the film, it held things together very nicely. I won't provide any spoilers here, but I was a little perplexed as to what to make of the ending except as a very simple little parable about the continuity of civilization; it seemed a little out of character, nevertheless.I write today, however, to praise Samuel L. Jackson. Even though he's got a relatively small role in this film, it really shows what he can do when given some space to stretch out. It reminded me very much of the way Gene Hackman almost always blends in to his role, making you forget he's Gene Hackman, which is the hallmark of good film acting. Sometimes Sam can get a role where you say to yourself, man, I love Samuel Jackson (Shaft, Jackie Brown, etc.), which is fun in itself but often detracts from the film around him. This time around, though, his chops are great AND he becomes the role; it makes me want to see him in more roles like this, and fewer Pulp Fiction riffs. "}{"Title":"Outstanding Cinema Experience","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"      The Red Violin is a cinema to be remembered.  It captures the imagination from beginning to end and rivets ones' soul with pristine music of unequaled quality during the performance.  Samuel L. Jackson gives a unique although brief performance as one of the bidders for this instrument.  I can highly recommend this classic feature. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is unforgettable.  It is a very good movie, and one of the few R-rated movies I have ever seen with no major profanity.There are a lot of languages used in this movie, including Chinese, Italian, English, German, and French.  The foreign languages are guided by subtitles (the movie takes place in several different times and places).Besides a somewhat graphic nudity scene, this movie does not have much bad content.  However, there is one gun scene, some mild language, and brief drug use. "},{"Title":"Sexy, sensual, stunning, exciting","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Rich colour and camera work complement the stunningly gorgeous soundtrack of this incredibly sensuous film.  Most of the acting is top-notch.  This is not a staid, reserved period piece  spanning centuries, the slightly disturbing plot moves ahead relentlessly without being disorienting or confusing.A beautifully constructed work of art with all the action and romance (and sex and violence!) of a popular cineplex movie, this should appeal to any adult audience. "},{"Title":"Smart Gripping Movie","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is of a flashback to history genre, but I think it is the first I have seen which runs on three time lines.  There is the pregnant woman at the beginning of the film having her fortune read one afternoon in the 1600's, there is the modern day SamJackson doing his violin consulting work over the span of a week, and then there are all times in all the years between.   The movie saunters among these three times, like moving between delicacies on your dinner plate, with a taste here taste there, etc.  I like how it was put together, and I like the passion running throughout the film.   I had to give it a 10, and I hope you do too, since it is so much better than some of the films on the top 250 list.  This deserves to be there. "},{"Title":"Shocked","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I wasnt expecting a film of this caliber. This will always stand out as one of the seminal motion pictures in my viewing career simply for its remarkable pacing and lovely premise. The plot line is very engaging and very clever. I enjoyed Sam Jacksons work in this the most I think. He just dominates the screen with a certain prowess that infers mental clarity. The scene in which he hears the violin played for the first time and tears build behind his eyes is just simply incredible. Ive never seen anything like it. I dont know how its possible to not be won over by this film. Its exceptional. "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Very Mild Spoilers!!! Caught this film for the first time the other night on IFC/BRAVO. Missed the first 20 minutes, but fortunately IFC reran the film as soon as it ended, so I stayed up to watch the portion I missed. The surprise ending was quite a surprise on first viewing, and I don't mean to detract from that in anyway. But upon seeing the film from the very beginning, it was pretty evident what the surprise ending was going to be. Still, a tremendous movie. A movie for movie lovers. What a cast. What sweeping visuals and storylines. The plot follows BLACK BEAUTY pretty closely, which is particularly interesting since the featured player is an inanimate object -- of sorts. The ending, which many viewers apparently felt let down by, makes perfect sense to me. It continues the instrument's tradition of being cursed. What a movie. A four-star event.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen (spoilers)","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  ****Spoiler Warning******Red Violin is one of the most unique blends of movies to come out in a long time, mixing traditional storytelling aspects with a unique central character.  It is an episodic journey told by foreshadowing, as a violin makes a long trek from the seventeenth century to the modern day.  How a tarot card reading to a pregnant woman in the 1600's ties into the violin's journeys, or why the violin itself is red, is something I think best left to the viewer to find out.  The movie's summation and climax, with an auction for the violin being attended by a host of characters who each represents the episodes of the violin's journey, and each one vying to possess it again, is a wonderful piece of dramatic conclusion, tying together the seemingly disparate threads of the story into a whole.  However, all is not perfect.  I couldn't see why Samuel L. Jackson's character was somehow the one entitled to the violin. (But getting it by switching another violin, as happened several times in the story, was a good touch.)  I assume maybe because he was the only one who knew the violin's entire story and perhaps really knew it, but he acts like such a royal jerk most of the time I kept hoping the violin would take it's bow and run away.  Despite this, Red Violin is one of the most interesting and unique movies I've seen in a long time.  "},{"Title":"Trying for the rub?","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  For the first hour and twenty minutes, I felt as if I was watching a movie that felt the need to edit in(or tack on) a box office draw(Mr. Jackson)-I guess the last twenty minutes proved me wrong--unfortunately the ending not only ruined the movie, it all but threw away an opportunity to tie up loose threads. Who were all the people interested in acquiring the violin? Finally, Samuel Jackson is a fine actor, but didn't anybody notice his digression(from time to time) into ghettospeaksomething I have a hard time believing a character such as his would be inclined to do. "},{"Title":"Very good piece of movie","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This could have been a great movie had the end been different. It is just too much America over it (the ending). I would have been more satisfied if the final had been another and in the same line as the rest of the movie, but maybe if it would, the spectators would have not been so many?Nevertheless, Samuel L. Jackson makes a good appearance in a film that was always going to be very good directed by François Girard with the sounds of Esa Pekka Salonen and Joshua Bell (solo violinist).I loved the costumes and makeup for the 18th century part which happened to be the best part, I reckon. Obviously from my comments above, I liked the last one the least. The ending is not poor, but I felt it could have been done better with a more satisfying outcome.You will be enlightened should you decide to watch this flick. It has an outstanding beautiful sound track. I recommend this to anyone. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Recently saw this movie on DVD. What a great experience. This movie was one of the best movies I've ever seen. The script is a masterpiece and flows flawlessly thru the ages of the story. It left me speachless with a sense that I had just been part of something special. "}{"Title":"a twisted, yet smooth, journey through different beautiful stories","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  As I was watching this film, I realized how similarly structured this film was to 'Traffic'  the jumps in time that seem startling, yet turn out to be very smooth transitions, uniting many beautiful histories into one legendary story. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking and engrossing","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of the last decade.  I went to see this in the theatre simply because I had never heard of it and the starting time was right.  I had no idea what was in store for me.  My companions and I left this movie in silence, each of us running the story back over in our heads. We talked about it for hours afterward, each of us enjoying different parts most.  I have since purchased the video and watched it two or three more times, still loving it each time.The story of the red violin's journey across time and continents is fascinating and engrossing.  The film feels like four or five films woven seamlessly into one.  The feel for each country and time in the story is crafted beautifully, and the scenery is breathtaking.  The premise of the story being told through a fortune teller's predictions is clever, and the flashback/forward method is well done here.The only real flaw in this movie is Samuel L. Jackson.  Don't get me wrong--I'm a huge fan of his work--I just believe that he was terribly miscast in this role.  He just doesn't fit.  But for a few moments when his superb acting absorbs me, I am distracted by his presence.  Unfortunately, there are many scenes where his acting is flat, at best.  I feel that just about any other similarly talented actor could have pulled off this role more effectively.To anyone who has not seen this movie--what are you waiting for?! "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson and Violins","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Jackson makes a guest appearance in this film rather than playing the leading man even though he is the first protagonist that is seen. He is not a violin player in this film but a buyer, neither can we be sure if he can play the violin. The film shows the first scene from different perspectives, and Jackson ends up being the lucky man that acquires the red violin without purchasing it, for his daughter. "},{"Title":"Great movie, wonderful music but why no widescreen on DVD?","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I initially viewed the movie in it's theatrical release and thought it was an incredible production.  Fabulous story, great music and wonderful cinematography.  I was looking forward to adding this title to my collection, but no widescreen version!  This is a movie that deserves to be kept in it's theatrical form.  I hope the producers will re-release this as a widescreen DVD! "},{"Title":"The Best Film of 1998","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is not a light-weight, commercial or formula, film.  It is a brave journey into the human soul. The damsel in distress is an inanimate object, the Red Violin. It evokes varied, sometimes profound, emotional reactions from all who see it for what it is. There are many fine performances, especially by Samuel L. Jackson. Excellent direction. "},{"Title":"a visceral pleasure","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is a movie lover's movie.  The perfect characters, sensual landscapes, delicious textures, and altogether mysterious plot.  Although the riddle is not difficult to solve...in fact you may very quickly...the joy is in the getting there.  The story weaves about in time and space, forming a fabric so fine that in the end you have lived a lifetime in the arms of the Red Violin. This is the perfect movie for a rainy autumn Sunday afternoon when everything is quiet but the popping of the fire and the creaking of your favorite easy chair. "},{"Title":"Engrossing story, good acting","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot. The lives of the people that used or were associated with the violin were fascinating, along with its near destruction on more than one occasion. Acting was solid all through. I thought the very end was an unnecessary twist that didn't really make a lot of sense. They could've figured out something better. But all in all a good show, worth watching again sometime. "},{"Title":"Object of Desire","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A violin will transport you through time as it's fortune is played out over 4 hundred years in this totally captivating and intriguing story. It's one of the best spun tales on film in recent times. A rare film of beauty, emotion and quiet humor. It's not often that a film succeeds and satisfies on so many levels as this. The richness of life is built on it's simple twists of fate and this film opens the door on the secrets held within an exquisite instrument known as the Red Violin. Don't miss out!  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful intellectual movie","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Sam Jackson never disappoints.  I loved this movie!  I didn't know what to expect, and was surprised at how good it was.  My husband even liked it, which is somewhat unusual, as it was partially subtitled.  A wonderfully told  story, with a great plot twist, and an enthralling climax.  A must see for anyone with a brain.10/10...again...I don't give this rating very often. "},{"Title":"Fascinating!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is absolutely tremendous. I found the story mesmerizing with it's unique structure of story telling. The opening was nice and slow, leading the audience in, and following with good pacing. Of course, the plot was helped by spectacular cinematography and music. Even if you don't love the violin, you must watch this movie! Far better than any summer blockbuster you'll watch.  "}{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  For starters, this movie is more than it seems. It is more than just an epic following the history of a certain violin. It is more than a poetic journey through time. It is the last true masterpiece of the 90's. It is a beautiful grouping of cinematography, characters, music, and most of all, heart. The makes of this film saw more to everything than just a red violin with various owners. They saw an opportunity to tell a story that rivals the Old Testament. If only the Academy could recognize such beautiful work, then they'd not be condemned.If you've not seen this movie, see it now. Rent it, rent it again, rent it again, and then buy it. Buy it on VHS. Buy it on DVD. Buy the soundtrack 7 times so it never wears out. "},{"Title":"a film to be remembered","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I can not say enough good things about this movie masterpiece. Like the film The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc, The Red Violin contains the rare mixture of drama, music, mystery/suspense, a great cast all the way around, good attention to detail, a good ending, and a cohesive tale that tells a story over a lengthy period of time. The different time epochs and cultures displayed in the movie were all done with quality, and I enjoyed the different languages (English, Italian, French, German, Chinese) and subtitles during the course of this film (I speak some of all of these tongues except Chinese).An appreciation of violin music also developed in me as the movie continued, as well as that of violin players and the history of the instrument. I even am considering giving the instrument a go at it. As some of the viewers have commented, I also am appalled that The Red Violin did not receive an Oscar nomination for best picture/best producer/best director. This film is truly a masterpiece that should linger in the memories of any appreciative person lucky enough to discover this under-publicized film. What a tremendous oversight by whoever claims to recognize works of art at the Academy.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pure Passion","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  How can music have the power to stir one's soul?  Perhaps it lies not in the music itself, but within all that the music comes with- the history of it.  Its past, all the different hands that have gone into shaping it, the work of the individual that creates that music at that moment.  Music is the most delicate of the arts, for once created, it can never be re-created identically.  And each moment is fleeing, dynamic, related to the moment before and the moment that follows.  This movie follows the path of a violin, as it exchanges hands over centuries, touches lives, brings passion and pain.  The theme of the movie, first hummed by the violin-maker's wife, becomes the voice of the violin, linking the human soul with that of the violin.  I wouldn't go so far as to say that her soul inhabited the violin, as other reviews here have.  However, I think the movie tries to show how everything that has occured in the life of this violin has affected and shaped it, made it into the perfect musical instrument it is.  I was especially impressed by the performance of the little boy in vienna.  He is actually playing the violin- amazing!!! And the soundtrack, of course, is incredible.  Joshua Bell is God.  Above all, this movie is about passion.  Feelings are not just intangible wisps of nothingness that vanish as soon as they are created.  They remain in the vessels that create them, and in the vessels that are affected by them.  In this case, all the passion that surrounded this violin became a part of it.  When one person played it, the music brought back the memories of all those who had played it before.  The story is slower than most movies today, yes.  But why let that dissuade you?  Why go see a movie if you aren't willing to let it take you in, absorb you, and free you from the time contraints of everyday life?  The movie is made to be watched, not as an accompaniment to popcorn.  Let the story be spun around you, and take things in as they come.  Trust in the storyteller to unfold the events fully and satisfactorily.  You have all the time in the world to watch this movie.  Finally, let the music itself envelop you.  Feel the sweep of the phrases and the rich fullness in the violin's voice.  Enjoy the lopsided, fun, gypsy's theme (my personal favorite), the firey passion of pope' theme, the frenzied desperateness that comes with the little boy in vienna.  Take in the despair that was the cultural revolution in China, where anna's theme, full of longing and sadness, comes to its prime.  Anna knows she is going to die, hence her melancholy humming.  The violin became her child, her last creation, and her voice.  See this movie, and let it take you in.   "},{"Title":"Passionate film","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  If you ever wondered why certain items are considered more valuable than others, this film will answer all of your questions. The red violin is the perfect instrument, created by 'Nicolo Bussonti' a passionate perfectionist for his fatally ill wife. As we follow the life of the violin, we are exposed to several cultures, as is the violin itself, absorbing every ounce of love and despair, through it's travels around the world.The present day story allows us to look back on it's life, but also gives us an opportunity to realize it's value, from the eyes of expert 'Charles Morritz', played by Samuel L. Jackson. There is one problem, this expert has become as obsessed with the instrument as it's past owners, but even more so because he has discovered a secret, shared only by the violin and it's creator.  "},{"Title":"Lovely, moving.","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I strongly recommend this film. Aside from the beautiful score (which I'd heard before, and was one of my main motivations to see the film), it is an understated masterpiece visually and emotionally. The section set in Maoist China was particularly stirring, although I felt that the human characters in it were less fleshed out than in other scense...the violin is the character for which one feels the most compassion and anxiety. I admit that Samuel L. Jackson was an unusual casting choice, but I bought it. See this film if you are a music lover.  "},{"Title":"Interesting... to say the least...","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Hmmm... Let's watch The Red Violin -  the movie that came out of nowhere and won the Best Score Oscar a couple of years ago.OK - typical story of an object through the years... but wait... it's told in a unique fashion - with clips of various timeframes - now and then - sort of like The English Patient - and it works.This movie is much better than I thought - held my interest - each of the stories is interesting, and tied together nicely by the tarot card reader. The music, of course, is outstanding.Why didn't this movie get a wider distribution? Why did it surprise me at the Oscars when it won Best Score? Why had I never heard of it until then? You tell me.Rating 8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Violin as continuity of a dream","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The value of a violin.  What is it?I was ready for a mildly interesting art flick, and came away very pleased.  I loved the way the crafters of this film kept binding the whole together with the cords from start of the story.  What is the value of a violin?  The film follows the maker, Busotti, in 17th century Italy as he finishes his greatest work.  As it turns out, it is his final creation.  In it, he and the people he loved the most find a sort of immortality.What is the value of a violin?  What is the value of mankind? "},{"Title":"A great antidote for my POS (Post-Oscar Syndrome)","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this movie on tape last night, and I found it a great antidote for my post-Oscar anger, frustration and cynicism.To appreciate the beauty of this gem, one needs to see it as a tale, a fable.  It is a simple yet powerful story about love, passion and music, all priceless in the eyes of the beholder.  Nicolo made the violin out of deep love for his wife and child.  Little Kaspar, himself loved by Maestro Poussin, develops an unbreakable bond with the Red Violin.  In the hands of Frederick the virtuoso, it becomes the instrument he has chosen to express both his love and passion for Victoria.  Even in times as testing as the Cultural Revolution in China, love delivers it from peril.  To the earthly and uninitiated (the Gypsies, the pawnbroker, Ruselsky), the violin is nothing more than a toy, a commodity, and a trophy.  In the end, the Red Violin found its way back to how it all began - as a token of love.  "},{"Title":"The music in this film takes on a life of its own...","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I just recently had the wonderful opportunity to participate in an interview with the director of this film, François Girard, and it was fascinating. I am a student in a university film music class, and he spoke to us about his thoughts and motivations in making the Red Violin. He talked about the way that the music was a way to speak in a universal language, a language that everyone could understand. It moves through space, time and cultures excellently, much better than spoken words. Girard gave us the interesting example of children he knew who watched the film, and how they understood what was happening even though they were too young to even read the subtitles... The subtitles were a way to stay true to the mood of the characters, while letting the melodies and music played by the characters express their individuality. The soul of the young pregnant woman, 'Anna' becomes closely tied to the 'soul' of her husband's masterpiece, the Red Violin. The song she sings becomes, as Girard told us, the basis for all of the music in the rest of the film... Essentially, this movie is a story about the power of music and how it can change lives, for better or worse. "},{"Title":"Beauty, mystery, elegance, and more...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I don't usually comment on these so don't mind if I'm not that well versed. For one thing, I truly believe that this film should have gotten more Academy Award nominations besides the one that it got.This film is exquisite and unique by any standards. First take the plot. The movie follows a rare and special 'red violin' over three centuries. It finally ends up in an auction where it is being eyed by the obsessed Charles Morritz Samuel L. Jackson. Throughout the movie we follow the journey of the violin and the lives of all who touched it. Upon the climax, we learn all the secrets of the violin. This movie had everything. Beautiful costumes, excellent acting, great visual effects, stunning cinematography, and a suspenseful plot.If you love suspense, drama, and mystery this movie is for you.  "}{"Title":"A 'must see'","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin is a fantastic, passionate, romantic journey across time and space.  It is a must see for anyone who appreciates music.  The film is easily one of my favorites, it features incredibly beautiful scenery, a passionate story, and fantastic performances by all actors.  The story is quite dismal throughout, but is one of the best modern day tragedies I have seen in a long time.  I applaud Monsieur Girard for his creativity and skill in this film, and I highly suggest any other production of M. Girard (Specifically 'Thirty-Two Short Films About Glenn Gould', a film about an eccentric Canadian pianist, definitely one of the greatest genius' of our time). "},{"Title":"The movie's as good as the fiddle was!","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Sheesh! It is amazing how much control the Hollywood establishment has over the entire spectrum of news media. In the morning paper, I read about some new movie for the first time ever. At noon, there it is again in a news magazine I get in the mail. Then I see some news story about it at six o'clock, and later on in the evening there's some story about one of the stars, and later again, an interview with the director and so on. The next day, the movie opens in a theater near you... and it turns out to be one mediocre dog doo of a flick that's begging seats in the dollar theatre a month later, only to be forgotten by year's end.Then, there are movies like this one. I'd never heard of it when I happened by chance to see it at a friend's house. And I'll never forget it. What a masterpiece!If you're a musician, and especially if your first instrument was a hand-me-down, you might appreciate the peculiar tendency of a musical instrument to absorb and even accumulate the human soul, and find its way into the most appropriate hands. That's what this movie is about. Although if you're like me, you might think it's about that one hand-me-down that nobody else wanted, that got you started, the one that years later, when you saw some kid admiring it, you just *knew* it no longer belonged to you... "},{"Title":"style for days, but shallow characters","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  i enjoyed this movie, in spite of itself.  the word here is; style, and then some. well told yarn,  woven together beautifully; with flashbacks, a fortune teller, a red violin, and fantastic photography.   problem is,  the characters are not developed, and little boy klaus is the only likeable hero.  we also, after beautiful scenery, and masterful pacing, get rudely slapped in the mouth with western anti-politics.  it was unsettling.   still, this is director 101 stuff. definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Warning contains references to the surprises","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A sentimental fantasy; not great, but worth seeing.The wife of a Renaissance Italian violin maker is pregnant with her first child; her husband has been working to build _the_ greatest violin that his son, when born, can learn to play.  His wife, shortly before birth, has a servant tell her fortune with Tarot cards; the prediction proves accurate but not in the way one expects.  The woman and her newborn both die in childbirth.  The movie traces the later journeys of this violin as it passes from musician to musician.  Joshua Bell, a young 20ish concert violinist noted for his flair with romantic music, plays on the sound track.  The movie doesn't have so much serious music that those who don't usually listen to it will be turned off; the reverse could be more often true -- that some of those with an especial love of the violin and its serious repertoire may feel a little short-changed. I've read a few other user comments and agree with those who remark that the transitions from one story episode to the next are somewhat rough.  And agree that the episode with Kaspar Weiss is the most effective.  The episode with an English violinist and his love, a female author, was almost worthy of a pulp fiction romance novel except it lacked enough credulity of gender roles for those times (or combining sexual and musical activities?).  Oh, and the red varnish of the Red Violin -- terribly sentimental, romantic, and so fantastic as to be completely unrealistic. (Don't they feed these scripts through any technical editors?  Or didn't it matter?) A college freshman friend of mine who's a music major said she saw this 7 times and urged me to see it.  Not bad, entertaining,  but we have different tastes. In the demographics women in the 18-44 age ranges rate it about one whole point higher than men.  Does that make this a chick movie?          "},{"Title":"a worthwhile film","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is a good film from a number of viewpoints, including intellectual, visual and emotional, and it even has an intriguing plot line.  Effective and smooth use of flashback allows the movie great latitude.  I enjoyed it and recommend it. "},{"Title":"Hauntingly beautiful","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This film uses the interesting devise of looping time around two events the reading of Tarot cards by a fortune teller/servant in the 1600's, and a modern day auction. At first it threw me, but it proved to be an ingenious was of pulling together  stories on the varius owners of the red violin. This is a gem of a film -practically faultless. The youngster playing Kasper was breathtaking. Samuel Jackson was excellent for the most part. Two outstanding moments for Jackson when he first holds the violin, caresses it with gentleness and awe; when he first hears it being played. His eyes foretell the final outcome. The ending disturbed me, but after further thinking I realized that this was simply another story, and ensured that the red violin would continue its journey.  "},{"Title":"Music and science in perfection","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I was intruigued by the title of the movie and I am glad that they waited til near the end to reveal why it was red. I liked how the movie wove together the tarot readings and the different owners of the red violin and I also liked how it was all again brought together at the auction.  I don't mind reading subtitles- that made the parts of the movie that were in Germany and China and Italy more authentic.  The music was very good and the story that most touched me was that of Kaspar Weiss the little boy with so much talent and such a weak body.  A very good film- I also enjoyed the directors other work abou Gould- he has a knack for typing music and stories together.   "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece of Cinematic Art","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  If you don't see another film in your life, see The Red Violin.   The story of the red violin, its conception in Italy, its passing from owner to owner, until   the present is engrossing and totally believable. As the story unfolds, the audience becomes part of the story.  The red violin takes on a life of its own encompassing within itself some of the passion of each of its owners.Highly recommended for the discerning moviegoer. "},{"Title":"A Finely-Crafted Movie","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is the story of the soul of a violin, created in the late 1600s.  The story flashes forward to the red violin being sold at auction and back to a period in time where the story of its various owners through the ages is told.As each story is told, the mystique about the violin grows and another group is added to those interested in bidding on the holy grail of violins whese rumored existence becomes a reality.This is an exceptionally good movie.  It excels in all technical aspects of film making.  The plot is very interesting.  I highly recommend this, especially for those of you who, like me, are tired of the Hollywood, predictable cookie-cutter movies.  "},{"Title":"Canada's best....","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I won't be redundant--in view of the many glowing reviews--except to say that this is a most astonishingly beautiful film... ...but i am absolutely stunned and appalled that TV GUIDE would deign to give this film only 2 stars--unbelievable!!  who is the bonehead in charge of that rating, and moreover, why??  can Roger Ebert be so far off the mark, with his 3-and-a-half star assessment?  i don't think so...for those of you in other parts of the world, this film is actually from 1998 (in Canada), so you won't see it being mentioned for any U.S. awards, nor was it last year, that i know of...it may have received mention at some festivals...it seems many of the best films are overlooked gems, such as this one--more's the pity! "}{"Title":"Absolutely Tremendous","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This film uses an ingenious method to captivate its audience. Displaying the history of a violin, showing the effect it has on individual's lives, and the illustrious legend it leaves behind for itself. It is magical. The violin comes to life through the movie, creating a personal relationship between the audience and the violin. I definitely recommend this film to all. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Engaging Film; Terrible Ending","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The RED VIOLIN is well acted, beautifully filmed, and the story is extremely engaging.The ending is way, way too pretentious.  After following the history of the instrument for 300 years, we have no logical reason to believe that Morritz was the violin's Saviour, or that his choice for it's contemporary ownership meant the end to its wanderings through time, except for the Director (and story) telling us so.  We are left more inclined to believe the violin will go on, and that Morritz and his daughter are just another stop in its journey.  What arrogance to say otherwise.I will not even go into Morritz's end justifies the means morals.Such a terrible ending to such a wonderful, beautiful film. "},{"Title":"A passionate movie about making music.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps the most interesting thing about The Red Violin is the fact that it transcends cultures.  This a film about the life of a violin that travels over 300 years from renaissance Italy, to revolutionary France, through eastern Europe, onto Communist China and into modern day Montreal.  Along the way this violin is the property of several people who have nothing in common, except for their love of this exceptional instrument. The film opens with Samuel Jackson as Charles Morritz, arriving at an auction house in Montreal where this violin is about to be sold.  We are soon whisked back in time to the workshop of master violin maker, Nicolo Bussotti (played by Carlo Cecchi).  His young wife is pregnant and seeks the advice of the kitchen help/soothe seer.  Using tarot cards the seer predicts an untimely end to the life of this woman, but somehow also sees a long and turbulent life for her.  We wonder what this scullery maid is talking about, however it quickly becomes evident that she has tapped into the life of the violin.  This violin is still under construction.  Nicolo feels that it is his most perfect work to date, and will present it to their child when he/she is born.  Unfortunately the seer was right about the wife dying, so when all is said and done, a broken Nicolo closes up the work shop and puts the newly created, and quite perfect, violin up for sale.  The violin ends up in the hands of several people over the years, and in nicely styled vignettes we see how much this instrument means to people who really know nothing of its tragic origins.  As the film moves from era to era, we hear beautiful arrangements complete with some gorgeous photography.  Each story is told like a parable of sorts.  Not one of them are long enough to get into complicated detail, however they are complete enough to create an impression.I thought there were only a few minor disappointments, none of which would take away from the film as a whole.  Jackson seems to draw on his character from Pulp Fiction in various scenes as he tells off hotel staff.  That got a little tiring, mainly because it was so out of place with the rest of movie.   Francois Girard directs this film, using styles similar to that of Stanley Kubrick's Barry Lyndon.  Like Kurbrick, Girard allows for long periods of silence, using imagery to tell his story.  The story of the little orphan boy in the monastary, with a weak heart, but a passion for music, was hauntingly stunning.  As we see him going as far as sleeping with the violin, we learn the true value of Busotti's creation. Of course the tragic theme of this film is man's inhumanity to man.  Jealousy, betrayal, greed, vanity and bigotry all come into play in this film.  We wonder, in the end, how this violin ever survived all those years.   "},{"Title":"A Note Above the Rest","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Like an orchestral maneuver this movie winds around you until you are caught up in its glory and powerless to escape its emotional intensity.  It is wonderful.  The film follows the path of a violin through the years as it makes its way through five different stories and many different lives. Unfortunately the transitions are not always smooth so you must pay attention but it is oh, so worth it.  A moving piece of cinematic excellence.   "},{"Title":"What a feeling!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  You know the one you get when you pick a movie 'cause you want to add some culture to your life (I mean it's about a violin).  You expect over-your-head metaphors for life, annoying subtitles and goofy looking clothes and it turns out to be one of the best one's you've seen.  Great plot (though there are some goofy clothes) and acting- Samuel remains one of my favorites, especially after working with very little hype. Check it out and I guarantee you will be surprised!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful and moving, the Red Violin takes us on a magnanimous journey through time and space to reveal one of the most intense final scenes ever.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is absolutely the most aesthetically pleasing film I've ever seen. From the enriching sets to the extravagant costumes, the film takes us on an all involving quest around the globe.  Each scene is like a puzzle, an intricate weaving of story and plot.  As the puzzle becomes complete, we reach a heightened suspense as the climactic battle over the violin ensues. The movie gave me goosebumps, tears, and happiness.  If you have any sort of interest in music at all, this film will move you. "},{"Title":"The best film so far this year","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A whole film about the history of a violin! How can this possibly make for riveting cinema? But it does. There is not one particular story or performance (apart from the music itself) that really stands out. I was even a little unsure of Samuel L Jackson's casting ; but the film works as a whole as a wonderfully interwoven mix of stories bound together by the sale at auction of the violin. I can't say that I have seen another film like this but it does have the feel of those compendium type Hammer Horror films of the sixties...not the content  but the style. Anyway my wife and I just loved it.   9/10 "},{"Title":"My comments refer to the DVD version of The Red Violin","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Alliance Atlantis issued The Red Violin on a DVD. Prospective purchasers beware. I am one of the unfortunate people who bought this title. This is the worst mastered film and the resulting video quality is very poor. The image is very soft and lacking in sharpness and the colors look as if the transfer were made from a faded original.  "},{"Title":"Fairy tale for grown ups. Go see it!!!!","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. It has something for everybody. The red violin remains an intense object of desire which unifies the diverse episodes, which range from renaissance Italy to modern day China.I particularly appreciated the way three simultaneous stories are told ; you keep coming back to the beginning and to the end, while watching what happens in the middle. A really accomplished tour de force. "},{"Title":"Never were words and music so Powerful","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Never were words and music combined so beautifully and powerful.  The Red Violin is about a legend that takes you through time.Its story begins when the violin is made by a violin maker, as it gradually travels around the world for centuries till the present.  Each individual who becomes emotionally and musically involved with this violin, tells a story that captures the heart of the audience.  I mean really captures the heart; it moves it, destroys it, and provokes it.The violin represents that one perfection that everyone strives for.  The conflict is what do you do with it once you have it and how does this perfection effect you.There are some things in this world that are priceless that just can't be explained unless you've experienced it.  The Red Violin is exactly that. This movie makes your emotions and mind think; unlike many movies that do the thinking for you.  It makes you want to value things more and it shows you utter Beauty.  If there was anything more than beauty, this movie would be it.It makes you wonder why Titanic got best picture.  Although this movie was made a year ago, I'm pretty sure this is a movie we will see at the Oscars; if the Academy keeps its eye open. If I could, I'd give this movie infinite amount of stars. "}{"Title":"This movie needed to be advertized more!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I've read some negative reviews, but I have to wonder if it is so bad, why has it been running for more than a month in a cineplex that rolls movies over in a hurry when they don't make the cut?  It is because this film is one of those sleepers that no one hears about until the Oscar Awards come out and then everybody wants to run out and see it.  People are telling other people to see it and they are.  Too bad this beautiful film has to rely on the grapevine like this.  If they had been able to advertize, I think it would be a much bigger hit.  Go see this movie! It's worth the trip!  I could go on about what it is about, but other people have covered the basics very well on this site.  Be warned though The English lord has some weird sexual tastes, and the creation of the violin's red color is stomach churning.  But the rest of the film is magnifico!  Don't miss!! "},{"Title":"Five aimless tales of a fiddle in red","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is a portmanteau movie, with five separate stories involving the same violin on a three century journey from its creation in Cremona, Italy, to its sale at auction in modern-day Montreal. The auction ties the stories together, sort of, but the viewer is still left with a feeling of discontinuity since the object, beautiful and possessed of a fine tone, is still that, an object. The music is interesting and pleasant but can't replace the lack of a strong storyline. The story of the violin's creation is a bit poignant, but mostly trite. The second story, the sad tale of the child prodigy from the Alpine orphanage, has the most impact, but ultimately is pointless. In the third story, Jason Flemyng does a terrific Chopinesque musical Lothario, reminding us that the 19th had its brattish pop stars, but his sticky end is a bit pointless too. Greta Scacchi does make a nice femme fatale though. The fourth story, set in Mao's China at the time of the Cultural Revolution, is pretty dull. The ending, at the auction, is pretty silly.Back in the 1960s, the director Anthony Asquith, did something similar with a motor car in The Yellow Rolls--Royce (his last movie). There was a fair bit of sexual hanky-panky in and around the Roller but that seemed fitting. The stories were separate but on a similar theme, love, sex, betrayal. This film, on the other hand, says something about creative passion, but I'm not sure quite what - maybe how hard it is to control, to channel productively. It also says, if you want to get money out of five different film funders, give 'em five different plots. Oh well. The crew(s) must have had a good time.  "},{"Title":"5 Rather Longish Short Films About a Violin","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A beautifully crafted and designed film which succeeds quite well despite its unnecessarily long two-and-a-half hour running time.The film charts the life of the mythical musical instrument of the title in five distinct segments Its manufacture in Renaissance-era Italy; its initial life as a teaching instrument in a monastery; its possession by, and inspiration of a Victorian English composer; its clandestine life in a Chinese attic during the Cultural Revolution; and its sale at an up-market auction house in modern-day Montreal.Director Francois Girard and screenwriter Don McKellar haven't mastered the fragmentary style and structure as comprehensively as they did in their earlier 32 Short Films About Glenn Gould, but the superb cinematography, costumes and original score more than make up for that.In the ensemble cast, the best performances come from Samuel L Jackson as the instrument's present-day discoverer, Colm Feore as the Auctioneer, and Carlo Cecchi as the Violin Maker. Fans of Greta Scacchi be warned, however; although she appears naked again after a long period of on-screen modesty, she and Jason Flemyng (as lecherous composer Sir Frederick Pope) are wasted in the film's least successful segment "},{"Title":"This is musically expressive.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Red Violin is a musically expressive film.  The history of the main character, the Red Violin, flashes back and forward, spanning years and centuries.  I liked the fact that a character from the old past foretells the instrument's future.  The compelling violin music heard and played throughout the film strongly communicates the passion, pain and obsession associated with the instrument and its owners.  Because of the vivid flashback sequences, the audience has to sense that the instrument cannot wind up in inappropriate hands; otherwise the spirit guiding its journey would be betrayed.  The film's imaginative ending fits. "},{"Title":" Magnificent! The most heartfelt and ambitious film I've seen in years!!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I operate an Art Theater in Central Illinois that  has just finished a run of The Red Violin. We had  to hold it over for three weeks because the  response from our patrons was astounding!Too many times certain so-called 'critics' forget  what it is a movie is even supposed to accomplish. These poseurs get so wrapped up in their petty  arguments over artistic motive, they often fail to  see true genius in front of them!The Red Violin is a perfectly textured masterwork  of the first order! From its incredible music score,  to its fantastic art direction, to its flawless  performances from an International cast; this is a  DON'T MISS experience!See it on a MOVIE screen; don't wait for home video to blur its pristine images!My highest compliments to all the persons involved  with making such a wonderful and heartfelt film!I didn't want it to ever leave my theater!  "},{"Title":"Storytelling at its finest!","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  It's a shame that a film such as this will be overlooked by the majority of viewers across the country.  Although I'm sure nominations will be garnered, and critical acclaim is already being bestowed upon it, The Red Violin suffers from a lack of hype, stars, and a major studio, which is the pre-requisite for today's mega-blockbuster  craving audience.As you may know, the story revolves around the life and times of the people that come into contact with this very special violin. The transition between stories is brilliant, and the conclusion is very dramatic.  The beauty of this movie lies within the beauty of it's settings.  We are taken to random regions around the globe, following the trials and tribulations that surround the mysterious instrument.All great films have one thing in common...story.  And the story behind the Red Violin is masterfully told by François Girard.  The cinematography is first rate, and obviously the music is spectacular.  The ensemble cast does a brilliant job of conveying their characters (the young boy stands out the most).  Without a doubt one of the year's 5 best films                                                       "},{"Title":"Son of Michael Powell's 1948 The Red Shoes with a new coat of red paint","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin has trouble deciding whether it is a costume picture or an art movie.  The film traces the history of a rare violin from its birthplace in 1681 Italy.  The instrument is headed for a 1998 auction house to be sold. Enter expert Samuel L. Jackson.  Jackson knows rare violins.  He recognizes this piece as one of a kind. Its not a Stradivarius. Its even more refined, a handmade instrument from an old Italian craftsman.  Jackson is not the only one who sees through the plain trappings of the violin.  A young scientist who measures the richness of fiddle acoustics, is also onto the red violin. The young man is actor Keith Gordon the same young skeptic who doubts Rodney Dangerfield's attempts at getting an education in the 1986 film Back to School. The Red violin is so famous there are knock-offs and copies circulating in the rare violin marketplace.As I mentioned, the first four historic scenarios through which the vintage violin travels are costume pieces.  They are also choppy and differ in detail, authenticity and tone from the last auction house episode. On top of that the auction mystery is so richly separate in tone and character from other sequences, it is as if separate filmmakers were working here.One sequence features a Viennese landowner who retrieves the instrument from a band of gypsies who are trespassing on his property.  The aristocrat is a true eccentric.  The music  he plays  on the Red Violin is extraordinary. His love affair with absurd European Duchess Greta Schacchi is so unnecessary, the episode plays like farce.Another episode takes us to China in the early 20th century then moves the daughter whose mother buys the pawned violin for her, to China's cultural revolution of the '60s. All old things are now considered reactionary. Violins are instruments which play decadent western music. The young girl, now grown up, takes flight to save the instrument.  This sequence echoes the ridiculous woodenness of the cultural revolution itself.  Characters are reduced to counterrevolutionary sloganeering. Its difficult to believe even the Maoists of that period could have cared so much about an off-colored violin.Scenes from the the first 17th century period when the instrument is made, explain its strange color.The last sequence is a mystery.  It pays off a story  that has been difficult to follow.  The auction sequences take place in a European Capital, though the actors appear to be Canadians.  Fittingly, the actor who actually auctions this fiddle played the title character in Thirty Two Short Films about Glenn Gould. The 1998 auction sequence saves the whole film from being little more than a comic book. Most of the violin music played throughout the films is exquisite and interesting in its variety and range.Samuel Jackson, Keith Gordon and the many others in the last sequence are superb. The last part redeems the entire film.  The screenwriting is fine here as is the camerawork. The color photography, if I have failed to mention it, seems excessively red. "},{"Title":"An exquisitely crafted movie about an exquisitely crafted violin","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin traces the history of the fabulous Red Violin, crafted by the great (fictitious) craftsman Nicolo Bussotti, from its birth in seventeenth century Italy to a present day auction in Montreal. More than a simple collection of stories told one after the other, The Red Violin is made up of five threads that are sometimes parallel but more often tangled. The movie jumps from thread to thread, sometimes showing us new pieces of the violin's history, sometimes returning to events we have already seen but revealing just a little bit more. It reminds me a bit of Tanith Lee's The Book of the Damned. Both are made up of several different short stories that are largely unrelated save for the connection of a single mystical object and its effects on those who possess it.I enjoyed The Red Violin immensely as a whole, though some of the threads are better than others. I especially like the Frederick Pope thread. It is witty, sexy, and quite fresh. The auction thread could have been better, but it did succeed at filling its place as an integral piece of the overall puzzle. Although each of the threads would stand reasonably well on its own, the strength of The Red Violin lies in the brilliance with which the threads are woven together. The jumps from thread to thread are not at all disorienting. The tapestry they weave is consistent and satisfying. All of the threads come together to tell a wonderful story that was far greater than the sum of its parts.Be forewarned that The Red Violin is a bit slow. That being said, it is an exquisite movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The best film I have seen this year","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" The Red Violin is the most beautiful, haunting, best-directed and best-photographed film I have seen this year, and I say that AFTER having seen A Midsummer Night's Dream, Life is Beautiful,and Shakespeare In Love, all of which perhaps equal it, but do not surpass it. I have just bought Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide 2000,and am horrified by the fact that he gives it only two stars! I usually agree with him, but in films relating to classical music, he is usually WAY off-base----witness his 2 and 1/2 stars for Amadeus, 2 stars for the 1984 Carmen, and 3 and 1/2 for the film of Verdi's Otello! The Red Violin is the poetic story of a legendary violin, the greatest musical instrument ever made, designed under mysterious circumstances during the Renaissance in Italy. (The circumstances are revealed fully ONLY near the end of the movie, so if you do not wish to know the solution to the mystery, be careful which review you read.) The framing story of the film is the present day auction in Montreal at which the violin is scheduled to be sold. We are gradually taken, in flashbacks, through the story of the violin and all of its owners, in four different countries and five different languages----Italian, German, English, Chinese,and French.(yes, there are subtitles, but this film is so good that who cares?) The storytelling is absolutely mesmerizing--each twenty minute episode is seamlessly interlocked with the auction and linked by beautiful shots of the sea rolling. The acting is excellent, especially in the German episode featuring little Christoph Koncz as a hard-driven child prodigy and Jean-Luc Bideau as his well-meaning but misguided stepfather and tutor.Greta Scacchi and Jason Flemyng, in the nineteenth-century British episode, are like lovers out of a Harlequin novel, but I have a feeling that this episode MUST have been done tongue-in-cheek; it is just too over-the-top compared with the dignity shown in every other episode. Samuel L. Jackson, in the framing segment, demonstrates incredible subtlety as an actor---watch his eyes as he listens for the first time to the red violin as it is played. The costumes, sets,and photography are ravishing--and most significant of all, there is John Corgliano's music--perhaps the finest musical score written for a film in more than twenty-five years, and no,I'm not forgetting John Williams' score for Schindler's List, though THAT one comes the closest, and violinist Joshua Bell does the Red Violin score full justice.Don't even think of passing this one up. "},{"Title":"Exquisite","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"    That's the word to describe this film.    Incredibly ambitious, this movie follows a violin through the centuries, up to modern day Montreal, where its going to be sold at an auction.  This movie could easily have fallen apart.  IT might have been too ambitious, or badly structured.  Instead, we're given an elegant film, that moves backward and forward through time seamlessly.  At the auction, there are five people who want the violin, and each have their reasons.  Set in Montreal, Oxford, Vienna, Shanghai, and Italy, this story is universal in it's appeal.  At the core of this film, other than the violin, is it's performances.  Jason Flemyng and Greta Scacchi make a very sensual pair.  Yet my favourite performance comes from Christoph Koncz, as Kaspar Weiss.  The music solos, by Joshua Bell, are nothing less than remarkable, and this film ranks as one of the best of the year.  "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  It is a wonderful film due to its originality and excellent cinematography. The soundtrack as well deserves mention.  We follow the history of a famous musical instrument through many centuries as it influences lives in many ways.  This journey is very rewarding for the viewer as we get swept up in the passion and intensity that surrounded this violin from its creation. Also I appreciated the unhesitating use of subtitles as we travel through many foriegn lands and foreign tongues.  A must see. "},{"Title":"Multilingual Symphony...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Plot           An astounding journey through time and space, tells the story of a mystical red violin, unveiling the hidden secrets of it's past and what is yet to come.  Review      Journey upon the path of destiny from the heart of Europe and into Red China to Montreal in modern days, tracing history and culture. From sorrow and grief, the mystical violin sprouts. However, every hand it lands in offers glimpses of the many facets of beauty ( lust, passion, freedom... ). A unique intertwined script ( witty, and realistically illustrated by the five languages used ranging from Mandarin to English ) portrayed by a talented cast of actors spanning the globe and garnished by fabulous sets and costumes along an inspiring musical score create a rich feast to delight senses, mind and soul. ( No wonder it won various prizes at the Genie Awards, Jutra Awards as well as the Tokyo International Film Festival! )   "},{"Title":"A clever, well crafted film that sinks at the end","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin presents so many striking images and sounds that it is easy to overlook its flat characterizations. What it lacks in emotional depth, though, it makes up for in its sensuous imagination. The film is alive with masses of people, monumental locations, and the artistry of five very different eras. The fact that the plot leaps freely between characters, continents, and centuries makes its sensual impact that much greater. There is no point in trying to predict what comes next, it seems to say; we're wiser to notice what is here and now. Above all, music is here and now.As compelling as these first four acts were for me, the final act (lasting only 30 minutes but feeling like a day) is so outrageously terrible as to nearly sink the film as a whole. Instead of sensuality and beauty, the film meditates on money, bland hotel rooms, laboratory technology, and an unnecessary (and extremely implausible) double-cross that is intended to tie the film shut. Through this tedious action, the movie instructs us about how meaningful the Red Violin is to some people -- just in case we missed this point. Of course, by now, we have a more intimate understanding of the Red Violin than any of the Act 5 characters possibly could, and so their ovations about its deep significance come off as the worst sort of pretentiousness.At one point, an acoustical engineer (yes, the film calls in tech support to explain how good the instrument really is) says that what he'd really like to do is take the violin apart for closer analysis. As preposterous as that suggestion sounds, this is precisely what the final part of the film tries to do to what came before.My suggestion Skip the fifth act. Go listen to some music instead. "},{"Title":"An amazing finished product!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I went to see this film at my sister's request, dubious of it before I even knew what it was about.  But sitting in the audience, awash with so many languages, it quickly grabbed my attention.  With a background in Italian and a little bit of knowledge of German, I was happy to read sub-titles as it switched from generation to generation.  It is all tied together leading you from one century to the next, then back again. Surprisingly the unknown actors in the film were wonderful, while the stars left something to be desired.  That aside, I eagerly agreed to see it a second time with a friend, and really got even more out of it.  It is written well, and is a first (for me!) in it's multilingual script. Though the feature was Canadian, it easily could have been Italian, Chinese, British, or German.  I love the concept.  9/10   "},{"Title":"Music, Obsession, Love, Lust & Intrigue","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A poignant love story interwoven throughout several centuries, countries and cultures while following a very special violin and the lives it touches. This movie is definitely near the top of my must see list.The Red Violin has something for almost anyone of intelligence who is interested in culture and music. It's main theme involves a poignant, yet tragic, love story or, should I say stories, as we witness the way this instrument effects the lives of the people who become enamoured with it.The movie is not difficult to follow, despite the interweaving tales, however, it might be a bit hard on those who hate subtitles, as various segments are spoken in the native language of the people whose lands the violin resides in over the years. I barely noticed it, and probably found it more intriguing and believeable because of it. I hope it's the start of a new trend.If you are a lover of violin music and human nature, this is a film for you!!! "},{"Title":"A Very Expensive Fiddle","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Dir., Francois Girard.  A 300+ year-old violin passes through the hands of its Italian maker, a sickly young German protege in Vienna, a sensual English superstar virtuoso who looks like Carrot Top with sideburns, and a female Party member in Mao's Shanghai.  This overlong, dull, contrived cut-and-paste job overlayed with fortune-teller narration masquerades as an intricately woven Euro-saga (even composer John Corigliano couldn't make it sound important), and it should have been called '32 time shifts for nothing'.  The only saving graces are Joshua Bell's astonishing solos and Jean-Luc Bideau's performance as the boy's teacher.  Co-starring Greta Scacchi and Samuel L. Jackson. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing again!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I've been surprised by the numerous negative reviews I've seen of this film, which was spellbinding.  It was not flawless--what is?--but it is wonderfully engaging in addition to having gorgeous music and beautiful cinematography. There are so many films I won't even bother to see, on the grounds they aren't worth $7, and I'd rather wait for the video!  This is one I am eager to see again, to further appreciate the nuances of the violin's travels.  A grand, entertaining film built with a great deal of cleverness around the theme of passion, with an ending of truly poetic justice.  "},{"Title":"A Beautifully intertwined story","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin is a beautifully intertwined story following one very special violin throughout history.  From Italy, to Germany, to England, to China and finally ending up at an auction in Montreal, this is a film that had me touched the whole time.  The narrative in this film is very special as well, as it is told by an Italian psychic, reading a pregnant woman the future of this red violin.  With each new home, this violin seems to tell a new story. And in the end, each place it has been has come to claim it back.  The end is a great twist to the movie and I will let you find that out yourself. *********(9 stars) "},{"Title":"One of the best ever after one viewing","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Superb on all counts, except for some isolated casting weaknesses. A Must see for anyone with the slightest interest in any form of the Arts. Music, photography, sound track, directing especially renew my faith in the possibility of a well done movie. Re-creation of the Chinese Cultural Revolution superb! I do not follow the Oscars, but if this film is still eligible, it should get several! "},{"Title":"Superb in all aspects","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Superb in all aspects. Cinematography grabbed you from the very beginning and throughout all the different eras; remained accurate, moving, exciting. Acting was also consistently excellent- by all performers. It would be difficult to single out any one performer, despite the listing of the credits. The story line was persistent and though flashbacks were used, there was a purpose behind all of them which kept the story line moving forward. It would have been very easy to overdo each and every episode, but there was a control present by the writers, director and actors that never permitted this to happen. Without a doubt, one of the finest movies I have seen. I am not prone to superlatives, not caring for most films I see-- this is an/the exception.  "}{"Title":"An excellent film about music, passion, and obsession with excellence","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I missed this film at the Seattle International Film Festival but figured it was going to come back for regular showings shortly thereafter, and it did. This is clearly a  4 star movie. I think the sign of a great movie is that you forget you are in a theater watching it - you are drawn into it far enough to feel like you are watching real events unfold.  Another sign of a great movie is that you are really elated about the successes some characters have or depressed about tragic things that happen to the characters.  This movie succeeds on both fronts.  And who would have thought that a violin could be a character so successfully?  The score is fabulous - I want to own a copy of John Corigliano's music.  The Paganini-like virtuoso in the middle of the film and the Paganini-like music were remarkable. The well enunciated Italian, German, French, and Mandarin (the last-mentioned I can only say presumably well enunciated) also added to my enjoyment of the movie.  I want to rent the video of Immortal Beloved again to compare the two films more closely.  As Rachmaninoff once said, Music is enough for a lifetime, but one lifetime could never be enough for music.  "},{"Title":"Perfect! Divine! Real Art.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I finally see one real movie this summer.  I mean, a real movie, a production of Cinematic Art, not some box-office addict.One thing I love the most about this film is that it did not rely too heavily on music, as most of the movies about music did.  This one is simply the storytelling, a story about the divine instrument and the passion, time, love, hate, and people.  It's always amazed me the most not the Art itself, but the stories behind. I must confess, after finishing the movie, I walked out of the theatre with the great sense of regret of my giving up playing piano all those years ago. I hate the music then, because I couldn't understand why I should routinely spend one hour a day to play the piano and listened to the teacher scream at me.  Later I heard about some professional piano players practice 7,8,9 hours a day and found it unbelievable.  I understand now. It's that perfection and passion we should be looking for. And passion, above all, I believe is the essential element present in any form of Art.  And that's what this movie is.  "},{"Title":"Lust in music","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This movie can really be summarized as a commentary on how lust can have disastrous effects on it's victims. The violin is a symbol - it could just as easily be a woman, and how she brought out the worst in people; however, because we are dealing with an inanimate object, we have the luxury of following it through many lifetimes.When I first read reviews on this movie, I was worried that the jumping around in time that takes place would detract from my enjoyment. I must say that the jumping around is an essential device in this case, each part of the story making more sense as you see other parts.Expertly filmed, and one of the rare music movies, where it really appeared as if the actors were actually playing the instrument.  "},{"Title":"I'm completely in awe . . .","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I never fully understood the common critic words breath-taking, until I saw this movie.  It is absolutely beautiful and everything seems to be painted beautifully.  This movie is true to itself. The Red Violin is a good example of a movie that proves that movies don't need to have the added action, computer generated objects, and big-time movie stars to get the audience's approval. This is a story of a violin who begins an incredible journey in the hands of a violin maker in the 17th century, all the way to the present day. The impact the violin has and the story it tells is so passionate, emotional, and moving as it makes its mark throughout time.The Red Violin, plays on a good note.  I am pleased a movie has been made that depicts true story-telling.  It has been a week since I have seen this movie and I am still bestowed in utter awe.  "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly loved it.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I read a review of the movie before I went -- something I usually dont' do -- just because I hadn't heard anything about this film. What a shame that more people haven't heard about it. A truly wonderful, intense bit of filmmaking.My only complaint would be that the title itself is a little too obvious for such a finely crafted film. "},{"Title":"Art in film as an endangered species","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Watching The Red Violin, its story unfold in splendid craftsmanship is much like watching the Italian violin-making master sculpt the perfect instrument for his unborn son.  A very touching and inspiring story, this film tells the life of a special violin, which over the course of several centuries in many countries, brings passion, pain, suffering, and inspiration to those who own it, and finally becomes an object pined by many connoisseurs.  Although this film never leaves one in noteworthy suspense, it elevates the spirit with its marvelous photography, breathtaking music, and wonderful characters.  One of the five best films I've seen.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful film","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have seen in a long time, far better than (in my opinion) the politically correct but rather overrated Life is Beautiful.  It does require the viewer's careful attention, to be sure; this is not a film for those who like to put their brains in neutral and watch the bullets bounce off Arnold Schwarzenegger.  It is really at least four or five separate stories (taking place in widely different locales) about things that happen to the Red Violin, any one of each, with just a little amplification, would have made a very satisfactory film by itself.Of course, despite the score's composer and one of the principal actors being American, the film is basically Canadian, and thus probably will not be seen much anywhere else.  I am sure that, had it been made in the U.S., with the final scene taking place not in Montreal, but in Ell Ayyy or Noo Yawk, it would be critically acclaimed as one of the season's best.  "},{"Title":"Excellent film about the power of music","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Francois Girard does it again.  Like his last film, 32 SHORT FILMS ABOUT GLENN GOULD, this explores the power of music (and though the subject here is classical music, it applies to all music), in a non-conventional, yet compelling way.  The red violin is not the overwrought symbol it might have become in lesser hands, but the expression of how moved we are by music in so many ways.  The way it's tied up to fate, passion, and, ultimately, life, is also well done without being pretentious.  It's appropriate that the violin is used, for it's one of the most basic of instruments.  The way Girard weaves in and out of flashbacks is also well done.  Finally, the performances are all good, particularly Jackson as the collector.  I even liked McKellar in his small role, for while he's a good writer, I'm not a fan of his acting.  All in all, superb. "},{"Title":"a truly wonderful epic with brilliant story structure","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  What a delight to be reminded that movies can be an art form,  and that Sid Fields does not dictate the requirements for every script that will work. This movie does a great job of sweeping us through three centuries of history,  without ever letting us lose our place.  The auction scene becomes more and more meaningful as we start to recognize the characters from the violin's history represented among the bidders by their descendents.  And the simple use of the line Don't let me forget this. in the dramatic payoff is just,  well,  brilliant. A truly great film. "},{"Title":"An emotional masterpiece that follows a violin throughout history from the 1600's to the present day.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin is one of the best films I've seen in recent times. I saw it this afternoon at a press screening of the Toronto International Film Festival. The story follows the history of a violin, the red violin as it is known in musical circles, from it's creation in Italy in the 1600's to the present day where it is being auctioned off in a collection of instruments in Montreal. The film is tied together in flash-forwards of the wife of the violin maker, who is having her fortune told with tarot cards. Except that it is not her fortune that is being told, but that of the violin. We follow the violin through numerous and varied owners and across three continents. There are also flash-backs from the present-day auction.As a musician myself, I identify easily with the emotional attachment that musicians, especially string players, have for their instruments, and the importance of music in their lives. I recommend this film to anyone who can see beauty in life, anyone who understands the passion of the Arts, anyone who can feel emotion, because this film will touch you, deep inside your soul. "}{"Title":"The perfect storm","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This is without a doubt one of the best movies I have ever seen or may ever see. This is a tale told through time tracing a violin from its beginning to modern day, it is a tale of love, anguish, terror, the gamut of human emotions and frailties. I wish I had the words to describe how much I loved the story and the production of this film, it looks beautiful , the acting is superb, it is as I said the perfect storm, all things came together in a perfect manner to create a benchmark, a sterling example of movie-making, of what others should be trying to emulate in Hollywood. My wife and I saw this at a film fest and never again saw it as a wide release which is a shame. If you have a chance to rent it I strongly encourage that you do so as it will be well worth the effort. "},{"Title":"The perfect film about the perfect violin","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" A prized red violin is passed from owner to owner for 300 years before ending up at an auction house in Montreal. We witness its journey, from its creation in 17th century Italy, through an 18th century Austrian monastery to the possession of a violinist in 19th century Oxford, then to China during the Cultural Revolution and back to Montreal, where a collector (Samuel L Jackson) tries to establish its identity. Director FranÃ§oise Girard (32 Short Films About Glenn Gould) enjoys working with unconventional dramatic structure, and this episodic offering is no exception.The narrative flutters effortlessly between a modern-day auction hall and three different centuries. The cast is rich and diverse, in particular Jackson's turn as the contemporary violin expert at the Montreal auction. The Red Violin is a little long, but such a minor flaw is easily forgivable, and the accompaniment of soaring violin music is magnificent.10/10 "},{"Title":"regarding the Tarot Cards","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" True, I did not read all 200+ of the viewer comments, but of the many ones I read I did not see anyone make the realization that I did that the tarot cards were telling the future of the violin, not of the lady. A long life. A long voyage. Etc.I almost passed on this movie, but I'm ecstatic that I watched it on IFC. It's excellent and I will watch it again as soon as I see it listed. I agree with other viewers that Samuel Jackson did not emote appropriately, considering he'd been searching for this instrument for so long. I don't have much else to add, but the rules dictate that I go on for at least ten lines. So there you have it! "},{"Title":"If someone will ask me...","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  What is your most favorite movie?  I now have the answer for the rest of my life, Le Violon Rouge hath my heart for Ever and ever and ever and if My movie review just happens to be The first one you'll see on the IMDB I beg you to stop right there and then Before your mind is made dirty by spoilers Before evil sayers will fill it with poison Leaving no way for a joy to enter Your angry hear and stay there for Ever and ever and ever.. "},{"Title":"A Work of Art","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  What do you do when the thing you most wanted, so perfect, just comes? - Charles Morritz (Samuel L. Jackson)Perfect the violin and the film.What could be more apposite than an Oscar for Best Original Score by John Corigliano.This film HAS music, breathes music, aspires to be music.The Red Violin is music; as bright and as fiery as the color itself.  "},{"Title":"over rated","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Brought to you by the same team responsible for Thirty-two Short Films About Glenn Gould, Red Violin is four too-long films about an apparently fictional violin. On the one hand Glenn Gould was an eccentric celebrity pianist of genius, while the violin is perfect and well, red. What were they thinking? "},{"Title":"Insulting piece of capitalistic, antique collector-minded cow-dung","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS I've read many reviews of this film, and it appears that most critics believe the film is about music. Allow me to correct them. One thing this movie definitely is not about, and that's music. Rather, this movie is about promoting the business of antique collecting. As such, it carries the mentality of collectors, a breed of human that sits around thinking about how much more fun life could be if an old object were to jump in monetary value. There doesn't exist a train of thought more thoroughly removed from purely musical thoughts. This is why a film like this, supposedly about the virtues of musicianship, is little more than a jumble of pretentious, lying crud.Let's take violins, for example. My uncle was a violinist/violist and he held high esteem for a finely crafted instrument. But he also owned enough honest musicianship to know that placing too much value on a fine instrument is a mistake. The greatest example of fine musicianship, as my musical elders would say, is when the musician can take a shabby instrument and make it sing. This is the sentiment of true musicianship that I'm talking about. The Red Violin makes no attempt to share this concept to its audience. Instead, it wants to sell the opposite concept, that musicians are shallow until their instruments, if they are finely made, save them from themselves and others. What a load of nonsense... we musicians say! But antique collectors, well they fully embrace such a concept, of course. Next stop college music courses taught by antique collectors.Antique collectors value the objects of history more than history itself. This is demonstrated in this shallow film, which craps on four periods of history while upholding the present as better than the past. But the fact is, the present state of humanity is sickeningly capitalistic compared to the past. So the story's protagonist finds a way to pilfer an auction house of the filthy rich in order to give a young girl a priceless violin. Is this the best anyone can do to set the vicious world of capitalism right? It doesn't set the vicious world of capitalism right. Such an act in the real world of auctions for the filthy rich would cause these capitalists to be that much more annoyed at thieves, thus that much more viciously competitive. Lesson burglary as rebellion against capitalism is a failed endeavor no matter how one attempts or perceives it.I give now a recounting of my experience watching this film, in the form of a plot summaryA virtuous, 17th century violin maker uses his dead wife's blood to coat one of his better instruments, making it special to both musicians AND antique collectors. God forbid they should make a movie about how musicians, but not antique collectors, favor a certain instrument, then learn through their pure musicianship that it's not the instrument that counts, but the musician who plays it. Then a sickly 18th century child is given scholarship but dies before he can use it. Wasn't  the old world dreadful? But the violin survives this encounter, metaphorically informing us that violins are stronger things than humans with natural music talent. Gag me&#133;.But wait! Now we must endure a soap opera styled interpretation of musical life during the 19th century, when apparently talented musicians are so decadent that their musicianship suffers. It's a typical misrepresentation of the Romantic music culture, and entirely expected from the creative minds of 20th century capitalist bigots who think that their own century saves all. What they forget to include is the bona-fide fact that 19th century music is leagues more virtuous than any music ever created during the 20th century. Again the violin survives the musician, and now the nausea is causing the vomit to flow from my mouth. But they're not yet through with me.First I must endure more capitalistic rhetoric when, during the 20th century in China's cultural revolution, all non-nationalistic (decadent) music is forbidden. Now the virtuous musician must sacrifice their instrument or face violent persecution. It makes for a good bit of espionage, and I'd be the first to denounce such totalitarian atrocities. Only I'm aware by now that this story is meant to serve a purpose. That is, to show us that free capitalism is better than anti-art, totalitarian socialism. Hmm. Agreed, like the lesser of two evils.Again the violin survives the musician. Hey, this is some violin. It's indestructible! Finally, we reach the present age of technology, when real music has finally been completely obliterated by way of over analysis. A guy manages to burglarize an auction for the filthy rich, then plays Robin Hood and hands over the priceless violin to a musically aspiring young girl. Is there anything in the story explaining to us just how musically virtuous this girl is? Of course not, that's not necessary. Besides, such a digression would spoil the moments of deep sentimentality that all the would-be antique collectors in the audience are feeling towards this incredible violin. It's about the violin, you see, not musicians. If suddenly these fools in the audience were subjected to real music performance on the screen, their sensibilities would surely be twisted out of their comfortably shallow little places.The part of the story that I sorely missed, was what happens after the ending A few years later the girl who'd been given the priceless violin decides to quit learning the instrument and listen to some Brittany Spears with her friends instead. Since otherwise she would certainly be considered a nerd freak by her schoolmates. One must have realistic priorities these days, hmm? Hence, this film is not about music. For currently music is at a very low rung on the average citizen's list of priorities. And this movie is, after all, for the people. Finally, I pass out from exhaustion. Thank god this horrible episode of my life is over. "},{"Title":"As inanimate as the violin itself","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I prefer not to speculate on the reasons why so many people gave such good scores to this movie. This is the worst kind of art movie, as self-indulging, fawning, simplistic and manipulative as the worst kind of Hollywood product. It intends to portray the power of music to affect the lives of human beings, but it does so in such a facile way that it never achieves the power to move, only to irritate. The only segment I found (a bit) moving was the Chinese story, and even this one wastes the character of the old music teacher who risks prison or worse in order to save his instruments. The English segment was sooooo ludicrous, I would have laughed if I hadn't felt my intelligence so thoroughly insulted. The other segments were just forgettable.The music is pretty, but that's it.  "},{"Title":"Would give this an 11 if I could","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  As incredibly moving and engrossing film as I've ever seen, especially as a musician. I can only imagine owning a musical instrument with such a history and bond to its maker and inspiration. Absolutely exquisite. A complete gem in a sea of mindless action flicks, shallow tearjerkers, and insipid comedies. Definitely a film I must own. "},{"Title":"Slow, no character development","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  As the violin spans several generations and continents, you witness how various people's lives are transformed by it, the sacrifices they make to hold onto it. It wields enormous power over its owners, or people who would like to own it. It's a clever idea, but by getting fleeting glimpses of various lives and time periods, you don't get to know any of the characters very well. The music and cinematography are beautiful but I need a strong plot and good character development to like a movie.  "}{"Title":"Dull portmanteau film","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This was an overlong, dull and disappointing film with some hysterical acting. I wasn't the only one to laugh in the cinema when Jason Flemyng came gamboling along at the beginning of the British section and Greta Scacchi really should have known better than to get involved in this. The whole thing seems as if it had been put together by the film or tourist commissions of several countries and I think I'm right that counting a bit of Latin there were seven languages used in it. It does have a final few twists though and Samuel L. Jackson is always good value. "},{"Title":"Did not rise to its potential","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed historical movies and in general find the life of a priceless antique worth reading about (or watching). I find it amazing that we can know every owner for example of a specific pearl going back several centuries, but most folks know about their own families usually just two generations back. So I thought this movie would be one I would enjoy. I also expected to hear some beautiful violin music. Wrong on both counts. The violin's history seemed too manufactured for the film's sake, not a real logical progression from one owner to another. Some of the major changes of ownership were left to the viewer's imagination and at least in my own case, I was unable to make the leap. The change did not make sense. How did the violin get to be owned by gypsies? How did it get to China? It would have made an interesting story, but where the manufactured history is stretched way beyond anything credible, the change of ownership is simply not explained. While I liked the overall concept of following the life of an object, the music, which I expected to be a major part of this film, was beyond disappointing. I don't play the violin but I can certainly appreciate beautiful music. There was very little music per se in this music. The only time anything that could be called music was played was some Chinese children's performance and it was made by accordions. The only sounds we heard coming from this supposedly incredibly valuable violin was the endless screeching, and this in spite of the fact that its journey took us through times when some of the most heavenly music on earth had been composed. Not one piece from Mozart, or resembling Mozart's style, had been offered. Just screeching. No music of any of the music's great composers was played at any time. More screeching. The sounds this violin made could have been compared to a cat scratching on a metal roof. That bad. Wonder how many CDs with the soundtrack they managed to sell. That would tell them just how wonderful the soundtrack was. The soundtrack was thoroughly modern, something that may be considered all the rage today. The music was probably difficult to play, but there is no sugarcoating it - the music is nothing but screeching. No melody, no rhythm, no emotion. No sweet sounds that leave a person in awe of beauty of sound. So no music, just noise. The ending climax likewise is not really any surprise like it is supposed to be, and most certainly not a shocking surprise, because I thought the secret was already implied in the beginning and so it didn't seem like any kind of surprise, at least not to me. If you can stand the noise that passes for a soundtrack, this is not a bad film. It's different. It's not very entertaining, but just the fact that it doesn't follow the standard mold makes it interesting. Best film ever made (as some of the reviews here indicate)? Most definitely not. I am writing this in 2013 (saw the film for the first time yesterday) and the film is all but forgotten today, 15 years after it was made. I happened to pick up an old VHS tape in a second hand store. Otherwise, it's forgotten. "},{"Title":"Very nice cinematography, but empty","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Nicely shot, great costumes. The chinese story and the present time is interesting, but the whole thing is very boring and predictable.  If you are into snobbish boredom, watch it, otherwise, you could be better off doing something else.  "},{"Title":"Artistic junk!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Don't confuse my comment with Hollywood junk, which is just pure trash that is entertaining only in fits. The Red Violin is artistic junk, meaning it is a movie that tries to be inspired and that isn't bad, but it isn't very entertaining at all.I caught The Red Violin on Bravo, home of all the artsy movies, not knowing what it was all about and not knowing that it was supposed to be a masterpiece. I hate it when people toss about that term like it has no meaning because this movie is most definitely not that. A masterpiece implies a movie that not only has narrative finesse but narrative cohesion. The Red Violin is not even entertaining, so it definitely doesn't have the first. At first, I thought The Red Violin was a cool foreign film. But as the movie progressed, it became clear that it wasn't even that. The movie is all about one single solitary violin and what happens to it over the centuries. Sure there are groups of characters that pop up and tell their stories around the violin, but there is no single main character or even groups of main characters. The players don't stick around long enough, and in the end, it's all about the stupid violin. I don't know about the rest of you, but it's hard to care about a violin. The movie jumps about between the centuries so much like they're some kind of cool plot device, that I was uncertain what was going on. As such, it most definitely lacks narrative cohesion. As such, it most definitely is NOT a masterpiece.I don't know what most people saw in this movie. I guess it's one of those movies that everybody but me seems to think is one of the greatest movies of all time. I don't think it's even entertaining. It's not a bad movie, but it's got too many flaws, is just boring, and is just way too artsy and self-congratulatory for its own good. I like artistic foreign films. Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Brotherhood of the Wolf. But The Red Violin is should be thrown into the reject pile. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Well made however repetitive and slow","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Quite slow and a real effort to watch without a iota of humour. Beautifully shot and a good cast just to repetitive and slow paced. I found it hard to connect with any of the characters as well. The scene at the auction was shown to many times. Different eras and using different languages also didn't work for me. I felt it could've been great but just lacked something. Perhaps better scriptwriters may have helped. This movie felt really long and scenes where all over the place. The English character is miscast not likable or charming at all. Feel as though the movie is well reviewed by people jumping on a bandwagon. "},{"Title":"Just ok","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I understand this movie is about a violin, but what are objects if there is no human hands to make them alive? My point is I love the fact that the violin is somehow cursed because of the cause that made it red, but it doesn't stand for itself, without a musician's hands to bring it to life. So, why wasn't i able to feel any connection with any of the characters? The movie tries to say too much as it explores too many stories, only to tell us the violin is cursed, but it failed to deliver, because for the viewer to feel that, there would have to be a connection between us and the characters. On the contrary, i couldn't care less about any of them, except maybe the orphan virtuoso.I also felt that the passion that I (as a viewer) was supposed to feel for the violin, just wasn't there. There should be more emotional items to connect the viewer to it, like for instance, better music. What happened to sweet and dramatic and revealing melodies? They aren't there at all, and it's such a shame. I remember when i saw Copying Beethoven i cried all the way through his concerto, because i felt attached to him, Diane Kruger's character, and all the music, all the instruments, it was all wonderful in that scene. This movie doesn't have high moments like that.I rate it with 5 out of ten, because, although i was expecting more of this movie, i was entertained, and i also loved the motif that made the violin red. I liked the fact that we followed the violin in different moments of History, i liked that it wasn't centered only in one place and one story, i just think that it should be more centered in the characters and on how the violin grew on them.Overall it's an ok movie. "},{"Title":"a review for the red violin","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" The Red Violin is actually a two part story. The main story is about Morgan Freeman's character, Charles Morritz. He is musical instrument historian trying to authenticate the Red Violin's origin. The secondary story is the history of the violin from the very beginning in 1681. The theme of the red violin is the journey of one particular item and the lives it can change. The main characters in the film are Morgan Freeman, Charles Morritz, plays a musical instrument historian trying to authenticate the origin of the red violin. Carlo Cecchi plays Nicolo Bussotti. Irene Grazoli plays Anna Rudolphi Bussotti, Nicolo pregnant wife. Anita Laurenzi who plays Cesca Anna's servant and performs the tarot card reading. Christoph Koncz, Kasper Weiss. After Anna's death, the violin was donated to an orphanage in Austria and for the next 100 years many boys played this particular violin. Until Kasper Weiss received the violin and he made it sing. He also was attached to his instrument so much so he would sleep with it. It meant the world to him. He died playing that instrument. The next stop is Oxford, London and it is played by Jason Fleming as Frederick Pope and to him the violin is good and bad. It brings out the best in him musically but personally it destroys his family. So much so his girlfriend shoots the violin grazing the neck. He is smoking Opium and is in the arms of another. He commits suicide and leaves his entire estate to his girlfriend. The violin, however he leaves to his Chinese servant. The violin then moves on Shanghi, China. During this time period the violin must be in hiding because anything to do with Western culture is banned and destroyed. Its final stop an auction house in 1997, where Charles Morritz finally proved it was the original Red Violin. He switched it with one of the really good fakes and took it home to his daughter. Violin3The characters throughout the movie have a special relationship with this violin and it helps many to overcome fears and gives them confidence in themselves. The setting of the movie takes place on five different places and each place is as real as it gets. The rich red color of the violin is amazing. When you craft something for the one you love, of course it is going to be perfect. In its life span it had made many people happy and sad. The journey of life is not all about the things we collect, but the few that we do are special and we want to hold on to them. "},{"Title":"As good as movie-making gets","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I am a movie fanatic with over 1000 titles in my private collection. I spend a lot of time on IMDb reading movie reviews to decide about what to order. This movie would rank in my top 5 favorites and the only one so far that I have taken time out to review like this. The story is so unique, incredibly well drawn, directed and acted and you have absolutely no way of guessing at what will happen next (this is one of my top criteria for great movies - that of being non-formulaic and unpredictable). The story begins at an auction house where a masterpiece antique violin is being auctioned off. The viewer is then taken back through the life story of the violin and the lives that it touched over 200 years. I have seen this movie several times and I never fail to marvel at my re-enjoyment of watching it. Great story, great acting, great music, unpredictable and unique. It doesn't get any better!! It amazes me that while this movie gets high marks and outstanding reviews that it isn't rated even higher. "},{"Title":"Le violin rouge","Date":"22 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Offering both brilliance and disappointment, a second viewing of this still rather enchanting film proved that perhaps the film was after all too ambitious for its own good. I love Don McKellar, he is a big influence on my own writing and his sensibilities fairly close to mine, especially with our shared fascination with multiple intersecting stories, but with Le violin rouge, the sheer scale of the film, spanning three centuries and five countries as we follow the titular red violin, a real thing of beauty, on its journey. Three of these stories are very good, particularly the violin's own 'origin story', the other two quite dull and occasionally painful (Oxford and Shanghai). The screenplay is still excellent despite the flaws, and plays out like an intriguing, particularly romantic Twilight Zone episode for music lovers, leaving almost everything up for interpretation. Perhaps those flaws would have gone down easier had the cinematography not been a pretty dull TV-level affair in general and Francois Girard's direction so flat much of the time, but unfortunately those aspects also hurt the film overall, though neither are incompetent. A generally strong cast with an unusual role for Samuel L. Jackson help keep the film involving.It's a real charmer, a great idea and with many great scenes, a frame story that more than just does its job, and a truly epic, yet grounded, scope. I wish I could love this film like I used to, but some of it just doesn't hold up like it used to. I do want to read the screenplay at some point because I'm nearly entirely sure that this reads better than it plays out on screen. Despite my expressing disappointment in the film here, I do need to clarify that I still recommend this film, and quite strongly. If nothing else, it is very unique. Thankfully, there's more than that to recommend it. How about this for instance one of cinema's great scores by John Corigliano, with the violin solos played by Joshua Bell? "},{"Title":"Segmented Symphony","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" The history of a famous violin, as it changes hands over centuries, provides the framework for this episodic film. The cinematography, particularly in the period episodes, is exquisite, and the score is nice. However, the segmented structure makes it difficult to become involved with the story and the characters. The dialog in the Oxford segment is laughably bad. The Chinese segment belongs in another movie. The Montreal segment, which the story centers around, is repetitious and uninteresting. Other than the violin, there is nothing compelling holding the segments of the film together, and it tends to drag due to its excessive length. "}{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Words cannot express my feelings for this Masterpiece, a story as told by a true master. I happened upon this movie by chance, but then isn't life itself a game of chance, yet once I felt its passion, I couldn't let go even if I wanted to. It drew my attention in like some giant vortex, it pulled me in body, mind and spirit and built to a magnificent crescendo as it played on the strings of my heart. I am still quite unsettled by the experience.I had never even heard of this film prior to today, by the title itself it was not something I would have pursued voluntarily, but once the storyline began to work its magic, it put me in a trance, I was completely absorbed and as the story progressed I both rejoiced and wept, shook my head in incredulity and nodded with approbation, it was like a roller coaster ride of emotions. I am grateful for this opportunity and wait with eager anticipation at the prospect of watching it from the beginning. Excellent! "},{"Title":"What do you do when the thing you most wanted, so perfect, just comes?","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" A fascinating film that traces the history of a violin across 300 years from it's maker to some monks to a British aristocrat who likes to play the violin while he is having sex and a Chinese woman who risks her life to protect a violin from the martinets of the Cultural Revolution.In the process the violin is buried, shot at, and burned before it's secrets can be discovered by Samuel L. Jackson. He desires this instrument and we have to wonder whether or not he ends up with it.It is a remarkable story of perfection and greed amidst the hunger of the world. Is the beauty of a perfect violin worth more that the mouths it can feed? "},{"Title":"Not a Romance at All","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I agree with the general enthusiasm that reviewers here have expressed for this film -- indeed, I share with you what seems to be a real affection for it.The idea is strangely similar to a film from decades ago, The Yellow Rolls-Royce. In that film, the yellow Rolls passes through the hands of four owners, and with each owner comes a story of the life of the owner and his friends during his association with the automobile. It was not as good a film as The Red Violin, by any means, but the parallel is curious.The Red Violin is, indeed, a wonderful film, by any criterion one might apply to a film. My remarks, however, speak to what has been said here about the film -- and to what has not been said.I viewed the film on DVD just a day or two ago. When I sat back to think about it, I realized, above all, that this is a very slyly droll film. The romance and fine sentiments that everyone speaks of are all well and good, but they hardly speak to the artistic heart of this film -- which is humor, irony, satire, and -- well -- fun.Didn't anyone notice the extraordinary lack of sentimentality in this film? The lack of romance? Oh, romance is present -- in the form of a sort of parody of romance, especially in the segment depicting Pope's possession of the instrument. Then there was the wonderful -- and perfectly comic -- performance of Jean-Luc Bideau, culminating with the death of his young prodigy, a death which, if you noticed, was less tragic than it was gently comical and ironic. No one seemed terribly sad when the poor tyke toppled over -- they seemed chiefly bemused.The life of the instrument is then continued by dint of an act of grave-robbery, as it passes into the hands of rogues and gypsies, on its way toward even more extraordinary, and more lunatic, ownership.All the while, we are watching Moritz (Samuel L. Jackson), vetting the instrument for Duval's, chasing down the intimate secret of its varnish, and generally playing the perfectionist, business-like expert. Ah, however -- we discover that what his heart truly is set on is simple larceny (and, incidentally) putting one over on a pompous would-be owner of the violin -- a bumptious bidder who is correct in his charge that Moritz had warned him off the instrument for self-serving reasons. The irony sizzles when the butt of Moritz's trickery buys the fake red violin. Moritz then escapes with the real article to give to his own child -- another irony, because, as much as he knows about the violin, he does not realize that he may be passing on to his offspring, along with the instrument, a virulent curse. A lovely film, an ironic film, a very tongue-in-cheek film, and a very funny film, this is (albeit with some drama and pathos); but it is neither sentimental nor romantic. Quite the contrary. From the beginning -- and others have noted this -- Bussotti is a singularly unsentimental man. We see this in his treatment of Anna and in his treatment of his apprentices. He was clearly distraught at his wife's death; but it immediately became for him another problem to overcome before getting on with his work. I loved this film for its beauty, its wit (a quality that today's movie viewing public should be better schooled in), for its technical acumen (cinematography, sets, and so on), for its clever structure, and for its masterful quality of spoof and satire, blended with a curious innocence in everyone who possesses the instrument, from the unfortunate orphan to the conniving Moritz. "},{"Title":"the most underrated film on this website","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" One cannot even begin to describe the impact of this film in terms of cinematic excellence. In every department from costume, score, set design and of course acting and the wonderful script, I was entranced. As a lover of period pieces and classical music this movie had everything I wanted from romance, intrigue and yes unbridled enthusiasm. I cannot understand how a movie such as this listed in IMDb's top 250, didn't place this film in the top 20 for all its creative and imaginative work. If one could guarantee enjoyment from watching a film this would be my pick. I have never felt the range of emotions from a movie that lasted well beyond the following days. "},{"Title":"Past Present Future","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" From the directing to the cinematography to the acting, the movie has achieved the effect of bringing the viewer into the intimate world of what was portrayed in each context. It also informs the viewer of the social conditions in each of the periods. I can feel the mood, the agony, the little joys of characters as if they were true. I cannot emphasize enough how much I appreciate the efforts in concerting the entire events of editing and art direction to simple details like the prop design to mirror the events following. It was simply elusive and helps add character to the movie as a whole. Throughout the oeuvre, it was inspirational to the soul to help make believe that true love and passion for one's loved ones, possessions could be so deep and extreme for the better. It was like watching an old record being broken at the Olympic games through one's pure suffering during a training process. The events portrayed though nothing ordinary has been extremely human. We see so many things at a time but we can identify and linked together with all. The past is history, the future is unknown, appreciate my family now ;0) "},{"Title":"Good Sights and Sounds","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin follows the long life of...a violin.  As a historical back story, the Red Violin (fictional)is considered by collectors to be the greatest instrument produced by a certain 17th Century Italian violin maker--a perfect acoustic machine as described by a violin restoration expert.  It is because of the instrument's perfection that it was coveted by many who encountered it, and survived centuries of owners and pawn shops.  Most of it's owners had no knowledge of the violin's origin or unique qualities, and the movie audience itself discovers the violin's most unique characteristic only at the end of the film.  Shot on location in a number of cities around the world, and combined with a marvelous soundtrack (in glorious DTS sound on the DVD), it's a joy to watch the sights and sounds along the violin's journeys.  This violin is sort of the Forrest Gump of musical instruments, finding it's way by accident through many historical events.  Don't expect a huge surprise twist ending.  The ending is only mildly surprising, and really not the point of the film.  The purpose of the film is the journey, and the violin, and it's effect on it's musician owners, obsessed with music and rare objects of perfection. Some interesting observations (spoilers!) It's interesting that the fortune teller was probing the woman's future, and yet the tarot cards told the future of the violin.  Presumably this is because the violin is varnished with the woman's own blood.  It carries her essence, so the cards extended her future into that of the violin.  Is this not an interesting technicality of tarot cards?  The woman was already dead when her blood was extracted, yet the cards considered her blood a continuation of her life, and therefore, her future.  For tarot cards, at what point is a dead person's blood no longer considered part of the person?  On first viewing I thought perhaps we are supposed to notice that each person who possesses the violin suffers an untimely death.  This turned out to be an unintentional thread on the part of the director.  Interesting that there was no Mozart played in this movie, even though Mozart was a grand master of violin composition.  Mozart was even mentioned in at least one scene ...even Mozart, God rest his soul, played a child sized violin.  There's no shame in it....  Perhaps they were trying to avoid direct comparison to the movie Amadeus with which this movie has many similarities.  "},{"Title":"Music is all that matters..","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This is a story about a spectacular violin that was made long ago.  The story starts off as a master craftsman in Italy looses his wife and newborn during an awful birthing.  As a result hey uses the blood of his dead wife as a varnish for the instrument and it transforms all who come across this violin into pure fanatics as it seems the soul of the dead wife inhabits the instrument and makes music like the heavens.  There are 5 stories as the violin is handed down, traveled through countries from France, Germany, China, and then modern day North America.  The climax of the film towards the end of the story involves an auction house that has the violin in which several parties are all trying to get it.This was a great film and even though it dragged at times it truly shows what music can do to ones soul.  Relationships broken, hopes lost, joy found all through music as it transcends history.  Although some parts were a bit lengthy the music score keeps you sitting tight and pleased.  There are also some humorous moments for the film, certainly lead violinists all have a chip on their shoulder.  But one thing is for certain, music is all unifiying, it breaks down walls, politics, hate,  greed, and is all encompasing and all it takes is one little instrument.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What could have become a good movie ...","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" ... admittingly the idea is enchanting. Who wouldn't like to be given the opportunity to follow an artifact through time, beyond the limitations of a human lifespan, particularly where this artifact is a violin that almost seems to live a life of its own and has the passionate power to inspire the muse of its masters.But as is so often the case, a powerful idea is one thing, to put it into reality another. Girard once remarked that he could have going on researching forever, and with all the sophisticated locations and costumes in mind this thorough research might well be a hint for Girard's taking perfectionism too far. Unsurprisingly then that is exactly the film's problem, that it is obsessed with details and effects and misses out on overall coherence and consistency.Location and costumes were already mentioned as an example for sophistication, but this is exactly were Girard's perfectionism goes far too far, as the setting looks remarkable artificial,  even dirt and stains, where they were admitted, look disturbingly sterile.It might be the presence of Mr.Jackson that makes one compare the film with Pulp Fiction, but clearly its episodic character and its obsession with effects, as the surprising twist towards the end, show some resemblance, and there exactly lies the problem, that coherence, powerful and moving overall motives and the development of characters are sacrificed for a handful of twists.Vivid imaginary and a beautiful score, exploring its different eras musically, make this film worthwhile watching. Not quite a potential classic though.  "},{"Title":"Yes, but -- !  Spoiler warning!!","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING AHEAD! GO BACK! SKIP TO THE NEXT COMMENT!With all the glowing comments about this film and its visual and musical beauty, it stands out that no one sees anything wrong with the Samuel L. Jackson character stealing the violin. The message is that it's OK to take what you want as long as you *really* want it. And while you're at it, call home and make it clear that your little girl will get a nice piece of stolen property as a gift.The fact that the expert is a black man only confirms another stereotype.Too bad Jackson's character couldn't have reaffirmed his sense of honor by admiring the instrument, and while lamenting the fact that someone else was going to get it, at least being satisfied that he had become a part of the violin's story.I was as hypnotized by this movie as everyone else -- until the end. I was going to purchase the soundtrack, now I won't bother.I guess considering the times we live in and how values and decency have gone down the tubes in favor of selfishness and greed, I shouldn't be surprized that nobody seemed to notice this. Show's to go ya, I guess. "},{"Title":"Movie  B  DVD  A-","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The Red Violin	B/A-				4.2.00			1.851/5.1 	First Viewing		Anamorphic WidescreenI had hoped this story would be more about the music.  While the violin itself has an interesting life, affecting all who possess it, it&#146;s the music that should matter.  That&#146;s where this film missteps.  No real extras on the DVD but the movie looks and sounds good.  "}{"Title":"An enjoyable 7 rated movie.","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Like many highbrow movies that target a more mature and elderly crowd, I did find this one to drag a bit. However I did enjoy the concept of seeing the history of the red violin as it passes from owner to owner over a period of generations.I also found the stories and characters related to the violin to be mostly entertaining. A good 7 rated movie in my opinion. Not a masterpiece, but worth the rental price. "},{"Title":"A stunning, hauntingly beautiful story.","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  What a beautiful and elegant story.  So full of emotion, The Red Violin weaves tragedy and music, art and science into something so very magical.  Deeply moving and touching, I really felt swept away by the journey of this very special red violin.  Sam Jackson was just fantastic in this role. The movie makes an amazing connection between love, birth and rebirth of man and his passion for music and love of life.  What an incredibly touching film. "},{"Title":"Rich in detail,never simplifies;makes for great discussions!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Assumes the viewer is intelligent; 'spelling out' the plot is minimal, forcing you to draw your own conclusions. Three viewings and I still want to see it again...really nice use of shifting time sequences "},{"Title":"I thought The Red Violin was a very surreal film.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I thought The Red Violin was a fantastic picture, because it followed the life of a very special violin and therefore made the violin the real star of the film, and the film went along so smoothly that sometimes you forgot it was subtitled. Samuel L. Jackson really stood out in a very unique and profound way because he knew how very valuable the red violin was and held it in the highest of regards almost as much as the maker of it, and Kasper Weiss.  In all it was a really enjoyable picture, I loved how the flow of the movie went along so smoothly as if the violin was being played.  "},{"Title":"Le Magnifique","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The cinematography is wonderful, the characters are wonderful, the story is wonderful, you get the picture. The twist on the story is well thought out and deliver beautifully. The flashback sequences that rarely work on movies, without confusing the audience, deliver this story in a flawless manner. Without giving too much away, It makes you believe  this Red violin exist. "},{"Title":"Beautifully crafted movie.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A delightful and wonderfully crafted movie. The story line was entrancing and the transition from one story to another was unique and creative. The scenery was beautiful and the acting superb. "},{"Title":"Cinematographer Alain Dostie creates paintings on-screen as richly textured and as passionate as a great symphony. The visual hit alone is worth checking out the film.","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  A film of epic proportions, following a violin through the centuries, which realizes the expression of a variety of themes using the instrument as a focal point to reflect the societal values of its times.  Don't misunderstand it's not an  intellectual head trip. While it has a lot of substantive points of view, it's compelling and very entertaining. Francois Girard is a director to watch. If his talent continues to grow, he could well turn out to be a true Master.  There are wonderfully humouress, passionate and tense moments and I was continuously enthralled. "},{"Title":"Great idea for a film. Too bad it misses.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I do hate to be a naysayer, but I will anyway. It's a great idea for a film following a wonderful violin through the centuries and through different worlds. The music is grand. But something is missing -- life. Except for the Chinese sequence, (and the music), the picture is static. Sure you're interested in what happens to the violin in its many lives, but it just doesn't hang together. And the ending, in present day Montreal, is simply a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Flawed violin, beautiful music.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The red violin depicted in this film had been damaged and repaired with horse glue.  Imperfect, it still made beautiful music to anyone who would truly listen.  The film is like the instrument - flawed but capable of magic.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"We follow the fortunes of a masterpiece violin and the people who possessed it.","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I was mildly interested by this apparently very expensively produced artistic film, enchanted by the gymnastics of the violinists, and impressed by conviction with which the violin's first unfortunate owner, a very young child prodigy, played the instrument. But I thought the story line weak and the play loaded with dead scenes which might just as well have been left out as they vastly increased the run time and did little to advance the story. However, I was really intrigued by the number of production companies, actors, and locations, the latter not being at all simulated but moving from Italy to Vienna, to Oxford, to China, and finally landing in Montreal where apparently the major investors lived. I thought that perhaps Samuel L. Jackson might have been a major investor as he commands considerable sums for his acting service and seemed particularly unsuited for the part. Jackson is the very best ever in roles such as Pulp Fiction and Jackie Brown, but just didn't come through this time. All this being said, judging from the enthusiastic response of most who have written in this column, I seem to be a minority of one. And I did enjoy the picture withal. However, I still wonder whether the investors and production companies were as pleased with the box office returns as our writers are with this story. I would be vastly appreciative if someone could enlighten me about the financial aspect of this production.Lew Warden lewwarden@pronet.net "}{"Title":"Interesting, but not engrossing.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  This film is well made with a great concept, looks beautiful (great cinematography), has beautiful music and a little twist at the end, but it falls short of a masterpiece. I feel each story was too rushed with the Shanghai story, potentially the most interesting, over almost before it has begun. The Viola family is my favourate of classical instruments, and the musical score is delightful. Worth a watch (and a listen)5/10   "},{"Title":"The most compelling story of the year.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film last Saturday (6/26/1999) and was completely  moved by the perfect character development, very complex but well structured in the story line, including all the sub plots, and the significance of the reason why it was told.As a student in a film major school, I've been interested in storytelling in flashback structure.  Also, I more understood of it because of the film as well.  How the individual stories progress in the past toward the present to make the essence of the film be told.  Of course, there were betrayal, hate, justice, violence, as much as love in it.  However, what's the  most important for the film to tell the audience.  It was love.   That's why it was told and I, one of the audience members, appreciated it from the bottom of my heart and applauded when the film ended with other people in the theater.I believe that it is a good storytelling film and there's no comparison so far this year.  I hope whoever wants to see it to like it as much "},{"Title":"an irritating movie","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This is my second try at watching this film, after a long interval, and after thinking I must have been wrong about how much I disliked it the first time. I'm completely open to a fragmented narrative constructed around an object traveling through time but this is thoroughly mediocre film-making and storytelling. Somewhere between the legitimate formats of art film and mass entertainment is the failed art film, which offers only meager nourishment, and the joys of neither. The structure of Violin comes by way of The Monkey's Paw, except here the lowbrow monkey paw is replaced by the snootier totem of a violin. There are two types of tiresome scenes in this movie; people playing the violin... and viewers getting to know a string of aggravating characters. It's too long by an hour to include all those irritating virtuoso performances and familiar/obvious practice sequences. The historical sequences are all lifeless clunkers. This movie also does a pretty bad job with non-sequential time and narrative jumps. When mad lover Victoria pulls a gun and shoots the violin that is coming between her and her lover, I just rolled my eyes. You'v got to be kidding.. that's just over-the-top silly. I was laughing at the wrong points (Actually there are no laughs - it's oh-so-serious!) When the kid dropped dead as he was about to play his concerto, I burst out laughing. There's actually nothing funny about a kid dropping dead, but bad manipulative film-making is a laugh riot.The only good moments I found in this were those depicting the cynical, blood-thirsty cultural revolution in China, which manage to suggest that the meaning of music is transitory. Perhaps you'll be as tired of violin music as I was about halfway through this. This story is as shallow as a puddle. "},{"Title":"Could not watch it )","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone seems to love this movie... thought I'd throw a bit of contrariness...Usually I enjoy well-made European movies (and even occasional American ones ). I am not as far into art that I can really enjoy Fellini, but I hope to get there. However, I literally could not watch Red Violin. I barely managed to sit through 15 minutes of it and had to stop. It was completely, unreasonably uninteresting. However, the problem is not with the movie, it's with me.I don't dig music. I am not tone-deaf, and I enjoy an occasional tune on the radio. (And when I do, violin isn't my favorite instrument. It's too squeaky, IMO ) I own only maybe a couple of CDs, and do not have any urge to buy any more or to listen to music in general. And apparently, the movie loses everything when you take out the interest in music. Without it, the first 15 minutes of the movie is just a soap-opera-style sequence of events, totally bland and non-gripping. I simply do not care what happens to the instrument and to the protagonists.I wish I could say it's a masterpiece... I did not see it as such. "},{"Title":"The main character is a violin","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The high votes and rave comments led me to see this film.  The Red Violin is extremely slow paced and never develops any of the characters.The violin through history idea is a good one, but there is no wit or creativity in each historical segment.  If you like pretty scenery and violin music, by all means see it.  Otherwise stay away.  "},{"Title":"Visually, aurally lovely, but overlong, pointless and boring","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  The vast majority of reviewers on these pages love this film, and I have learned not to go out of my way to offend the tastes and opinions of others.   For me I can only say the film was beautiful to look at (the Art Direction deserved an Oscar nom) and it has just deservedly WON the Oscar for Original Score.  That aside, as a piece of drama - I found it dull, far too long and boring.  I empathized with no one in any of the stories - all they had in common was the violin - and its curse was not strong enough to truly effect everyone the same way, which would have at least given it a sinister atmosphere.   So, a success in terms of visuals and music - but a failure in terms of drama.  (and SOOOOO predictable - in the first fifteen minutes I knew the source of the red and what Jackson was doing at the auction. "},{"Title":"Life in the day of a Violin, or centuries in this case...","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" A journey from the creation unto its eventual end brings you through many different small stories; people from different generations all effected by the power of a grand spiritual 'red' violin. Though music lovers should appreciate this most, it has enough elements to satisfy any regular film goer.I myself can't help but feel captivated; looking to see how this one little violin could effect the next setting, how it could change so many lives. Not only did it bring these stories to life in a very provocative, masterful manner, it also kept on fishing out the intrigue even until the final scene. Throughout each instance, you can't help but wonder what will happen next to this instrument, and how it will seek to live on.I loved how, though I don't believe in myself, the tales related to the old house maiden and her predictions. Its seamlessly put together instances of the predictions, the life of, and the present pace of its journey and Its scope is so grand, yet so well done, with the music to match, that I can't help to also feel mystified and intrigued by it all. Another awesome addition to my movie collection... "},{"Title":"music to my ears and eyes","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Le violon rouge (called The Red Violin in English) uses a masterful violin as a conduit to show various parts of history - such as Renaissance-era Italy, 19th-century England, and the Cultural Revolution in China - right up to a 20th-century auction in Montreal. It's beyond amazing how they do the movie and look at the numerous historical events (maybe the scene in China won't make your skin crawl, but it's not a pretty sight).This is definitely the sort of film that would make anyone revere musical instruments. And among other things, it shows that Samuel L. Jackson can do more than play bad mother****ers in movies. A most impressive piece of cinema. Also starring Colm Feore, Jason Flemyng, Greta Scacchi and Sandra Oh (of Sideways fame). "},{"Title":"History Through The Eyes Of A Violin","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" In many respects this is a rather unusual movie. In fact, you could even say that it isn't a single movie - rather, it's several shorts combined together, with the single connecting thread being the red violin that we watch change hands over the course of a little over 300 years. Built in Italy in 1681, the stories follow the violin through France, Austria, England, Hong Kong, Communist China and finally to an auction house in Montreal, Canada where it's to be sold. The nature of the movie being what it is, some of the stories are stronger than others. The one that really stood out powerfully for me was the depiction of the Cultural Revolution in China.There's a somewhat effective mystery that also holds things together. In 1681, the violin maker's wife went to a fortune teller before she died in childbirth, and the movie makes clear that somehow her fortune is being fulfilled through the violin's travels. I had an advantage coming in, because I knew the basic story and so the explanation of the violin's connection to the woman came as no surprise, but to give credit to the writers, had I not known the story coming in I don't think there's any way I would have figured out the mystery.It's hard to rate the performances here. Again, the nature of the movie worked against being able to identify anyone as the star of the movie. The biggest name was probably Samuel L. Jackson, but he really didn't have a major part until the last half hour or so. I wasn't really keeping track, but if memory serves, the most screen time probably went to Colm Feore, but his role as the auctioneer didn't really stretch him.Overall, I'd characterize this as a movie that really didn't pull me in, but one with a few parts that I thought were very well done. In all honesty, though, I don't think I'd be tempted to watch it again. 5/10 "},{"Title":"I don't know if I am interested in the fate of a musical instrument","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  I was quite distressed, when they repeated the promising auction scene again and again, and, instead of continuing with it, they switched back to all these rather unnecessary episodes from the past, where all the characters were portrayed so roughly &#150; obviously because there wasn't a lot of runtime left for each of the episodes &#150; that the stories become, well, not interesting.As Jim Jarmusch has shown us in `Night on Earth', it is possible to give perfect character descriptions of two or three people within a small story of twenty minutes. The makers of `The Red Violin' could have achieved this as well, but they were not interested in people, they were interested in a musical instrument. I don't know if I am interested in the fate of a violin.   In fact, the score of this movie is really beautiful and unusual. John Corigliano has absolutely deserved his Academy Award. It's for his music that I give this movie 4 points out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Ambitious but insufficiently concerted","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Francois Girard's film 'The Red Violin' is nothing if not ambitious an attempt to make a movie whose star is a musical instrument. Lavishly produced, it shows us a series of stories about the various individuals who own a special violin over the course of several hundred years. Unfortunately, the stories don't really come together to make a resonant whole; and the finale, centred on Samuel L. Jackson's character, is of little interest there's no underlying reason why we should care about this individual's relationship to the famous fiddle. This is not an awful film; but it lacks the edge of magic needed to make the concept work. "},{"Title":"very overrated","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  With all the rave reviews, I was extremely disappointed and, yes, bored by this overrated film.  None of the stories had a payoff, one (the Oxford scene) was laughable, and the finale was ridiculous.  A real waste of time. "},{"Title":"Out of tune!","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" Le Violon rouge, which I just caught on IFC, is gorgeous, but as lame-brained as a Jerry Bruckheimer blockbuster. But hey, if we were following logic, the film makers wouldn't have an excuse to blow millions of other peoples' money!Forget figuring out how it found its way to the monastery, I expected the teacher to take it after he learned it had been buried with his Mozart wanna-be (all that hard work he put into the kid for nothing). Instead, in a truly laughable montage, some gypsies rob the grave, fiddle with the violin, then sail to England, where it's given it to a Mick Jagger wanna-be in exchange for being allowed to stay on his lands.Our hero next pops up on a ship with a destitute Chinese seafarer. By now, I didn't bother to wonder how a destitute Chinese seafarer wound up with this priceless object for fear what was left of my brain cells would explode! So do the Western music-hating Maoists toss the violin into a bonfire when they find it at the teacher's house? Heck no, they hold onto it for at least 30 years until they consign it to a Montreal auction house! Makes sense to me, too! That's when Mr. Bad Ass Himself, Samuel L. Jackson, decides it'll make a really neat present for his kid!As if the film makers decided to see just how lame-brained they could get, what does the curator do when she realizes the violin up for bids isn't THE violin? Nothing! Here's hoping she and everyone else (especially Mr. Bad Ass Himself) can land jobs at Wal Mart after the winner realizes he got hosed big time! "},{"Title":"Maybe it's me","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film with my in-laws and my husband; the in-laws loved it, my husband thought it was okay, and I found it downright annoying -- not to mention trite, pretentious, and melodramatic. I was particularly peeved by how utterly unbelievable the central tenet of the violin's beauty and perfection was. Am I the only person aware that blood doesn't dry red? Am I the only one who knows that burial in damp ground warps wood? In fairness, I should note that (1) I very much dislike the romantic artist-as-other motif and (2) I'm not fond of violins, finding them too often shrill. Maybe if the film had been *The Golden Oboe*... "},{"Title":"Disappointing - boring drawn out plot.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" I'm a violinist, so I'd really been looking forward to seeing this film. The cinematography was good, but other than that I was sadly disappointed with this film. The plot was drawn out and hard to follow. I was left with a very unsatisfied feeling when the movie was over. "},{"Title":"Umm... no","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, I'm sorry - maybe I'm not 'artistic' enough, or maybe violinists know something I don't... but I couldn't get the LEAST bit attached to the Red Violin.  The ending, which revealed the secret power of the aforementioned instrument, was simply irrelevant after the loooong history was disclosed.The historical perspectives of different eras and locations in the world was mildly interesting but dragged on too far.And I even regret to say this, as I am a DEVOTED Samuel Jackson fan, but this movie was so slow and uninspiring that even his performance was entirely lackluster and disappointing. "},{"Title":"A poor excuse for a film...","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Mystery","Review":" This film goes wrong in so many ways. Main problems 1) Lack of a small group of characters which the audience gets to know and care about. Instead we are given tiny snap-shots of a host of characters who appear, wander about the film for five or ten minutes, then disappear. 2) The one character who we see (in small bits and pieces) throughout the film is the art expert. He turns out to be a crook. We know nothing about his life. We know nothing about his past. He is just a temperamental jerk who lies to his employers and then steals from them. My emotional investment in his character was just about zero. Why should the audience care about him? What did he do that was in any way admirable or even interesting? 3) The director lavishes vast amounts of attention on the painting of the violin and at the end the pay-off for the audience is... revolting. I'm sorry but I did not feel at all uplifted or enlightened to find out why the Red Violin is red.A film just about the violin maker might have been interesting. A film just about the life of the orphan virtuoso might have been interesting. A film about the conflict between the love of classical music and adherence to the idiotic Chinese Communist Party during the Cultural Revolution might be interesting. But a film about all of these AND MORE is not a film that is interesting. It is a mess. In trying to tell lots of stories, it ends up telling none of them.Bottom line I'm sorry I saw this film. I'm sorry I wasted 2 hours of my life watching this movie. This film gets my lowest possible rating. "}]