[{"Title":"Excellent Script, Excellent Cast","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Yes, I live in Northeast Ohio, but that's not the only reason I truly enjoyed this movie. The daughter of an acquaintance, 'Giggly Girl' Angelique Osborne, had a tiny part and I originally watched to see her. Now every time Bravo plays this movie on IFC Fridays, the phone comes off the hook, the popcorn is popped and I get good and comfy. The sentiment portrayed here, although it's roughly 15 years before my time, pulls me right in.  The struggles of wanting to feel important (or at least to fit in), where to draw the lines of loyalty and figuring out what makes any of us happy are timeless. It never occurs to me that I'm watching Kevin Bacon or Brad Renfro. They become their characters. (Kevin Bacon proves he has a range most people don't realize and Brad Renfro, although beautiful to look at, also has that un-namable quality that makes you feel you're watching a future legend. Let's pray he finds his way safely.) Just as you never think about the set or the camera during a genuinely good movie, all the components of Telling Lies in America flow beautifully.After reading some of the other reviews here, it seems some people can't be entertained with a good story and good acting. Some movies don't have to resort to the typical Hollywood recipe in order to leave a positive imprint in your mind. Too bad you have such a short attention span.  "},{"Title":"A good movie about the seedy side of the music business","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a charming movie that touches upon payola in the 60's. Bacon takes money for overplaying a song on radio, thus boosting its ratings, and uses Renfro as a go-between for these dealings so that the money never goes direct from sponsor to Bacon. After a while Renfro becomes bolder as some of Bacon's attitude rubs off on him. He starts lying about his background, car and things he's done to impress those around him. But he finally quits when he realizes that these 'white' lies hurt as well as the 'black' ones. When the FBI decide to pressure Renfro into giving evidence against Bacon by speaking to the judge during his naturalization proceedings, things take an interesting twist as the judge, before the proceedings, speak to Renfro alone and have a little chat about George Washington and the cherry tree. Won't spoil it by telling you what it is, but watch and find out, as it has a bearing on the movie as well. Calista Flockhart puts up a pretty convincing performance as well.  "},{"Title":"Liars","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Telling Lies in America is a film that seems to have gone directly to video. It certainly deserved a wider audience because what Guy Ferland, the director does with the screen play Joe Eszterhas wrote for the film. Mr. Eszterhas is a man that can write, although some of his efforts have misfired.If you haven't seen the film, perhaps you should stop reading here.The basic problem with the film is the casting of Brad Renfro as the main character of the film. While this actor is not a bad actor, he seems miscast as this Karchy Jonas. Most comments in this forum focus on the fact Karchy has no accent, but having been in Cleveland for about seven years, explain that he already has a command of the language. Yes, he might stumble upon certain words, as shown in the film, but basically the character is believable. The only thing is that Mr. Renfro looks an older fourteen, rather than the seventeen he is in the film.This fact becomes painfully apparent in his relationship with Diney, and with the older woman Billy decides to have him experience sex for the first time. We are not saying it's not possible, because it can easily have been the case, which might have been derived from an experience of Mr. Eszterhas life.The other thing that doesn't ring true is the relationship between Karchy and his father. It appears that he can do whatever he wants and it's OK with the old man. Usually in the case of immigrant families, it's just the opposite. People immigrating to this country tend to be more protective, demanding discipline and obedience that is nowhere to be seen in the film. Also, Karchy's behavior in school would have probably grounded him forever, but it never comes into play.The marvelous Kevin Bacon is the best asset this film has going for itself. Not only is Mr. Bacon the most versatile of the current actors working in films, he brings such an intelligent take to his take on Billy Magic, the DJ of the local radio station that sees right through the lies Karchy Jonas tells. Being a liar himself, Billy can pick a liar whenever he sees one, as is the case when he meets Jonas. Billy Magic has no scruples. He takes money from the record companies, but he has Karchy pick the envelopes.The cast is good. Maximilian Schell, plays the father, Dr. Jonas, a man so decent, one wonders where did Karchy go wrong. He seems to be a loving father, albeit a distant one. Is it perhaps the fact that the son has embraced the American culture with too much gusto? That might explain the difference, although Karchy is never disrespectful to the old man.Calista Flockhart is seen as Diney, the mousy worker at the poultry shop where young Karchy works after school. Ms. Flockhart is perfect as the older girl that inspires love in the young man. Luke Wilson is seen as the man in charge of the shop. Paul Dooley makes a wonderful Father Norton, the man who dares put Karchy in his place.Notable in the film is the use of the popular songs that one hears in the sound track. It made perfect sense the use of those tunes since the background is a popular radio station that catered to teenagers.This is a film that should be seen by more people because of the good work the director and screen writer have done. "},{"Title":"Ever felt like an outsider? Sure, lots of times.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Interesting and well done look at the American pop scene in the sexy sixties. Featuring a oversexed, insecure loser named Karchy who teams up with another oversexed loser disc jockey intent on preying and playing just one more gig in the nowhere business of top 40 music. The charismatic DJ, a burned out cynic, has a history of using unpopular teens to make illegal profits or to cheat them in business deals; which, of course, continues as he rolls into a new town amid a flurry of excitement and adulation. As the rollicking DJ and the impressionable teen play out their drama, another is occurring as Karchy tries to woo an older woman who, for some reason, shows an interest in the love struck teen. Different from most of the gunk coming out today well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Under-promoted Gem","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Yes, the movie deals tangentially with the payola scandals of the 50's (truly a big problem in the entertainment industry), but only as one of the many lies hinted at in the title.The two main characters (Renfro and Bacon) do *nothing* but lie. They are balanced by the purity of the other characters (Flockhart and Schell).Schell's character was a little underwhelming and the work by Renfro was, at times, uneven, but both were generally excellent. My only other quibble was with the settings of the film. As a Clevelander (where the story takes place and the film was shot), it's easy to understand the where the scenes took place and how the story was built around them, but I'm not sure that an outsider would understand the implications to the story of those different locations (the neighborhoods, the market, etc.).The real find is Calista Flockhart. She gives a wonderfully nuanced performance, sweeter and deeper than anything you'll see on Ally McBeal. Interestingly, Flockhart spent time working on stage at the Cleveland Playhouse, so was well-suited for the role in a way.Joe Eszterhas is not exactly known for his subtlety, but this movie is a small triumph for him and portends better things from his pen in the future. "},{"Title":"Pants on Fire","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" In the early 1960s, Cleveland, Ohio immigrant teenager Brad Renfro (as Karchy Jonas) struggles with adolescence and assimilation. Mr. Renfro is working on eradicating the remnants of his Hungarian accent (his th sound). Meanwhile, slick disc jockey Kevin Bacon (as Billy Magic) arrives in town (one step ahead of the law), to spin sweaty collar and dirty fingernail music on the local rock 'n' roll radio station. Mr. Bacon is a payola player, who needs an underage kid to handle money illegal exchanges. When Renfro cheats on a radio contest, Bacon offers him big bucks to serve as unwitting accomplice... Bacon swaggers through his role with perfection. And, Renfro is incredible, in a very difficult role; capturing the vulnerability of youth, as he struggles to both adopt and resist Bacon's seductive persona. Calista Flockhart (as Diney Majeski) is very effective, as Renfro's older woman love interest. Their performances should have received some award consideration. Maximilian Schell (as Istvan Jonas) would have been more believable as Renfro's grandfather, to support the obviously wider than envisioned cultural gap between the characters. A few of the scenes are silly, but many more work, due to director Guy Ferland and his convincing cast.I make things up sometimes, Renfro reveals. Don't we all. Telling Lies in America certainly breaks no new ground - but, it revisits cinematic themes in great style. The film builds to a fine conclusion, and the music is terrific.******** Telling Lies in America (8/2/97) Guy Ferland ~ Brad Renfro, Kevin Bacon, Calista Flockhart, Maximilian Schell "},{"Title":"The Rodney Dangerfield of Coming of Age Movies","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Why this little gem didn't get major studio distribution is a real mystery.  One terrific performance (Kevin Bacon)four very good ones (Maxmillian Schell, Calista Flockhart, Paul Dooley)and a solid, if not totally convincing one from Brad Renfro (where's the TRACE of an accent?) coupled with a right on script by Joe Eszterhas (rarely has the era been so well captured) makes for a surprisingly entertaining and accessible movie.  No where does the movie cop out.  The ending is convincing and slightly bittersweet.  The dilemmas faced by the underpaid, exploited disc jockeys (in fact, most members of the musical profession) of the era is thoroughly examined.  This is a great movie. Can you believe I got it as a bonus with my DVD MPEG Decoder card?Hey, see it for the CARS if nothing else? "},{"Title":"There's lying, then there's lying","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Slow to start, but gathering pace before the end, this is a coming-of-age drama with a few twists. It also stars Colista Flockhart in a role just before she became Ally McBeal.The story is based in part on Joe Eszterhas' autobiography, Hollywood Animal &#x96; the book is funny and insightful. I always remembered his description in the novel of arriving in America from Europe just after WW2 on an overcrowded ship. He was six years old, but the close proximity to hundreds of women ignited his fascination with them even at that early age.His way with words and imagination produced screenplays for some intriguing movies &#x96; Flashdance, Music Box and Betrayed. But later on his films went off &#x96; maybe it was the directors or too much interference from the front office, but does anyone rate Showgirls, Sliver or Jade as great movies? Telling Lies in America although late in his oeuvre, is more of a return to form, but doesn't pack the punch of his best work.Set in the 1950's, Karchy Jonas (Brad Renfro) is a young Hungarian refugee with a lot happening in his life. He is not doing well at the Catholic school that his father has struggled to pay for, and feels an outsider. He has fallen for a girl, Diney Majeski (Colista Flockhart), where he works part-time, but almost ruins any chance with her through bad decisions.When he gets a job working for radio disc jockey, Billy Magic (Kevin Bacon), he not only falls under the influence of the edgy DJ, but also gets caught up in illegal dealings. All the while, his relationship with his father, Istvan, is a troubled one.If the movie has a problem it's that most of the characters are not all that appealing with the exception of Diney. Even Eszterhas' alter ego, Karchy, comes across as a bit whiny and somewhat of an opportunist, while Billy Magic gives Kevin Bacon the opportunity to deliver a deeply-flawed character in a succession of neon-coloured jackets. Karchy's father, Istvan (Maximillian Schell), is a depressive character buried under a thick accent.On another level, if you have read Esterhas' book it's fascinating to join the dots and discover where certain aspects of the story have come from. Some of Eszterhas' relationship with his father is explored here; the other half possibly comes to light in the brilliant Music Box, although he claims revelations about his father's wartime experiences came to light after he had done the screenplay.There is no mention of that in Telling Lies in America, and the final reconciliation between Karchy and his father may even be the ending the author wished he'd had in real life.Although Telling Lies in America recreates the era well, and has its moments, It isn't a film I feel like rushing back to. "},{"Title":"This movie is a gem!!!","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I'll try not to repeat all of what the other reviewers have written already. Kevin Bacon is unbelievable in this role, he wears his part as a slick, sexy, supremely confident and laid-back DJ so well. He makes it impossible to imagine any other actor in this role.Every scene he appears in is to be savored. His voice is ideally suited for the broadcasts he makes. Seeing his easy charm and friendly manner is no wonder the young, innocent Kartchie idolized him. Visually, the movie is beautiful, rich, with a great soundtrack, excellent screenplay, in short, 100% enjoyment.Very nicely photographed, with very good sound direction. "},{"Title":"Telling Lies, Such Sweet Big Lies","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" You know in another time and in another age in Hollywood the story told in Telling Lies In America about the Fifties and the age of payola might have had Brad Renfro's character be a populist hero if it were Frank Capra doing it. Billy Wilder or Preston Sturges might have made Kevin Bacon's character one of their acid studies in cynicism. As it is Telling Lies In America is a good film with an accurate depiction of the times it's set in. But it falls way short of a classic.Brad Renfro plays a 17 year old high school student, a refugee from the Hungarian Rebellion with his father Maximilian Schell who would desperately like to fit in. The father who was a doctor in Hungary now working some menial job while waiting his citizenship spends a ton of money to get Renfro into some private Catholic school.Still with all the handicaps of an immigrant, Renfro who's now deep in America's rock and roll culture hits on a plan to gain instant popularity. Some radio station with disc jockey Kevin Bacon is running a popularity contest, the high school hall of fame. If someone has friends write in postcards suggesting a person they get into this high school hall of fame. So what does Renfro do, but forge a bunch of postcards and he gets his entrée with Kevin Bacon who offers him a job as an assistant, basically a glorified go-for.Of course it's all one big scam because Kevin Bacon is hip deep in the world of payola where he accepts all kinds of favors in sealed envelopes from agents to play their artist's records on his show. What he needed was a kid naive enough not to question what's going on around him and just be grateful for the relatively large amounts of money he's earning with Bacon as opposed to Renfro's previous job in a poultry market.It was the Fifties and I well remember a lot of rock and roll disc jockeys losing their careers over this, the most famous being Alan Freed. Kevin Bacon who has made a good career in villainous character parts is one cynical creep in this film. Two generations before, Kirk Douglas would have gone to town on this role.Maximilian Schell should also be praised as the wise father who because of the generation gap has different ideas about the American dream than Renfro. But there's no mistaking the bond these two have for each other. Telling Lies In America has a lot of good elements and it's an interesting story. But it's short of a master director to make it a classic. "}{"Title":"An excellent coming-of-age story.","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I definitely agree with those who think this is one of the best films of 1997.  Great for Kevin Bacon fans.  He is excellent as an AM rock DJ with a questionable past.  I cannot believe Brad Renfro is only 16!  He is already a skilled actor.  Captures the late fifties very well.  Those who remember the songs will love the soundtrack.  A great collection of classic rock hits.  Catholic school grads will also identify with Renfro's character and his predicament.  The addition of Maximillian Schell is an added bonus. This is especially recommended for people who like good stories set in accurately depicted historical settings.  I can't help but wonder if it is partly autobiographical for author Joe Esterhasz, who certainly redeems himself with this script. "},{"Title":"Worshiping the wrong idol .............","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Brad Renfro is sucked into the glitzy world of ego maniacal disc jockey Billy Magic, Kevin Bacon. It is Cleveland, 1961, and Bacon finds Renfro the perfect patsy for assisting him in a payola racket. I could have done without the melodramatic subplot of Renfro and his Father, Maximilian Schell, sweating their Citizenship Papers, as it merely detracts from the main story. The 60s atmosphere is well done, with some great cars and an outstanding soundtrack. I wish the movie had focused more on Bacon's corrupt character, because the supporting cast, other than Calista Flockheart, as a love interest, is mostly wasted. - MERK "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie About Lying & America !","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Simply lying is all over the world, all over the history, or rather it's inseparable part in the human nature (even in its most respectable figures like George Washington !). But the thing to assure here is that lying is definitely more profitable in America ! This movie makes its main character triumphs when he finishes his predicament by lying (in the trial), and gains his goal /the American nationality when he attested to the other's lies, not to mention the situation of the black singer and how he already attests to the announcer's lie as co-writer of his hit song just to be popular. The movie was such an eloquent when it paralleled the boy's insistence and bravery to lie in the face of justice, with him getting rid of his infantile innocence (the lisp) in the same time to be ultimately American Man ! Lying in any society is a way of living to achieve what do you want but with something to lose; here it was his love (logically as his highest truth). I didn't like only the confession of the announcer (the professional swindler) at the end that he didn't have anything to do with writing the black singer's song; that was sudden incomprehensible idealism !?(Joe Eszterhas) in one rare time gives us something to think instead of the regular amount of grand sex and violence. Although I'm not sure that the journey of (Karchy 'Chucky' Jonas) presented the experiment's essence of (Eszterhas) himself but I'm sure that it's his American book of wisdom. Actually the movie's philosophy proves that if you lied then you must grasp that all of the rest will lie to you, so you've got to  comprehend it, to attest it (if it gives you any profit), and the most important of all not to believe it ! As we don't lose when we lie (the boy reached the famous announcer by false letters) but we lose when we believe the lie (like the boy when he believed in the announcer as a mentor and an idol). So It's not just a movie, it's some amusing as well as toughing lesson about pragmatism !The most crafty and witty meaning this movie shows impliedly is that if you want to be an American mature then you must be a brave lair ! Sense the smartness of it while observing the success of one fat lair at one gigantic communication medium (the radio at the 1950s as the mass media), and the lie of the boy at the end which made him eventually an American citizen. So If all the people would lie then who'll going to believe ? In fact It's a world where truth is something not only rare but not that needed also !! It might be the biggest satire about lying and the American splendor from the time of George Washington to the 1950s (where the events take place) till the 1990s where this movie had been made. "},{"Title":"Nice little movie with great performance by Kevin Bacon","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a nice little movie with a great performance by Kevin Bacon. The boy from the client was OK but not much depth. No nasty words and only minor sexual comments. Coming of age drama with great music and reasonable good performances. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"A coming of age flick with a heart.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Lies... tells of a Hungraian immigrant 1960 high school boy who falls in with a corrupt D.J. (Bacon) on payola and jeopardizes the possibility of U.S. citizenship for himself and his father. The film showcases good performances by Bacon and Renfro, delivers the usual slice of life stuff, doesn't breach realism so as to make the emotional buy in impossible, and even conjures up some lessons about the importance of telling the truth...and lying. After all, we're all liars, aren't we.  "},{"Title":"morally degrading and just plain bad","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Telling Lies in America is one of those movies that has the opportunity to be something really good an interesting setting, possibilities for some period music, two strong leads.  But Telling Lies instead chooses to commend the young main character Karchy Jonas for repeated lies.  I gave the film a 3 because there are some stretches worth watching, but I must say I was disappointed by the material and refuse to give the film a good review, as most critics did, merely because of the fact that is an independent film. Bottom line good at stretches, but offensive to one's moral values. "},{"Title":"5 out of 10","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Unoriginal, but well-acted, well-photographed and likeable coming-of-age story set in the 70s about a young boy's dreams to become a radio star like the very charming and commanding Kevin Bacon. Brad Renfro is good as the boy as well as Maximilian Schell as his sensitive father, but the real revelation is strikingly beautiful Calista Flockhart from Ally McBeal-fame as Renfro's tough-minded girl. Not bad, but also not that great. Solid. "},{"Title":"Brad Renfro, RIP","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Brad Renfro's untimely death brought this movie to mind. I haven't seen Joe Esterhasz's Telling Lies in America in a few years, but I remember that it was a good movie, Esterhasz's reputation notwithstanding.It goes like this. Karchy Jonas (Renfro) is a Hungarian immigrant in Ohio in the early '60s. He has trouble fitting in with the world around him, partly due to his trouble pronouncing a th sound, and feels disenchanted with the Catholic church that he and his father Istvan (Maximilian Schell) attend. But when he hooks up with DJ Billy Magic (Kevin Bacon), his luck changes...with some strings attached.I interpret this movie as sort of the flip side of American Graffiti. In that case, they were all the same ilk and all fit in with everything. In this case, Karchy tries to fit in but has trouble doing it, and so his only option is to hook up with the shady Billy. More than just a nostalgia piece - though there are some oldies - we see Karchy's inner conflict between his desire to be a modern American, and trying to maintain his ties with his past.Overall, I recommend this one. I think that it would have been kind of fun to play that trick with the confession booth. And just remember what people tell you about Spanish flower.Also starring Calista Flockhart. "},{"Title":"Anent Soundtrack","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  When I was a performing musician in Paris, France in the 1960's I often used to play a tune entitled Night Walk. In this movie the same tune is played but is called Sleep Walk. How could the same tune have two titles? Does anyone know the answer to that? Otherwise the film was not so hot unless you have nostalgia for views of Cleveland, Ohio. How come the Hungarian refugee had no foreign accent? And I failed to understand why the George Washington question and answer session gave the judge the right to allow citizenship for both the father and son in spite of the fact that the son had obviously lied to the Grand Jury. Oh well! It's only a movie and doesn't necessarily have to be believable, n'est-ce pas.  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of 1997","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Great plot, groovy characters. This has it all! I would recommend this movie to everyone, well except for little kids. I really enjoyed it ( saw it 15 times in two days)! I am one of the biggest Brad Renfro fans and I say that this is his best movie yet. "}{"Title":"Pathetic, no; bad... no; good... definatly not","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"    Kevin Bacon is the best thing about this film. He can play anytype of role, barely human (Murder in the First), a small-timecrook (The River Wild) or a twisted DJ (Telling Lies inAmerica). Here he is believable and puts in a good performance.Brad Renfro also does well in his role, but isn't veryconvincing. Two problems.1.) He comes from Hungary, but has no accent, and sounds like hecame from New York2.) Age. A year before this was filmed, he co-starred in TheCure. There he played an 11 year old, and looked too old. Herehe plays a 17 year old, and looks too young for the role.  The other highlight is Maximillian Schell (I doubt I spelledhis name right). He is fourth billed as Renfro's Hungarianfather and is dead-on. Why Joe Esterhaus (Spelling error?) isAmerica's top paid screenwriter will never be known. He writeslame scripts that deserve to be thrown away, but are insteadmade into big-budget movies like this one.+ (GOOD THINGS)  1.) Kevin Bacon's performance  2.) MaximillianSchell's performance  3.) Plot line- (BAD THINGS)  1.) Pretty well everything else "},{"Title":"okay but potentially excellent","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I thought this movie was okay but not excellent It had the makings of excellence but didn't deliver mastery. 'Frustrating' is a word that comes to mind for my opinion of it.I liked its music, even its plot, & innocence of some of its characters. I liked too, the underlying moral dilemmas of a young man of sincere & genuine character struggling with the plight inflicted upon him & them in broader prospectives.But it has unimportant matters glossed over, without explanation or rationality, except for naivety for the gullible. Like the DJ Bacon character & his protégé (& others supposedly exacting this scenario in other cities) but so detached from the reality of their situations.LIES is the underlying motive of integrity in situations anything but far from black & white. So it could have been the title of a film disguising lies. But it was not guilty of that by truer assessment.So what about layers of LIES??? Are little white lies beyond a couple of persons, not surely to be distinguished from blatant & career or character destructive lies, layer upon layer, lawyer upon lawyer, judge upon judge, to be evaluated as lies??? So a movie that is 7 out of 10 is neither 5 or 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"...and at the IMDb","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  It seems some people consider this a neglected gem, a little movie that got lost among the blockbusters. Could it be it just seems good because it was written by Hollywood hack Joe Eszterhaus and is therefore superior to the trash that usually bears his name?That's what I think, anyway. Being from Cleveland, I looked forward to seeing this especially since I even observed it being filmed on Superior Avenue on the steps of the courthouse there (and I did see it--on video, because it never got an official release, not in these parts, anyway). Watching Kevin Bacon and Brad Renfro film one scene over and over and over again completely demolished any thoughts I had about the movie business being exciting and glamourous. It looked boring and monotonous to me.I also find this movie rather boring. Kevin Bacon's excellent performance keeps it afloat at times, but his efforts are sunk by Brad Renfro who is never convincing and is even somewhat insulting when he attempts what is supposed to be the younger Eszterhaus's Hungarian accent. He sounds like a half-wit instead of an Hungarian. Maximillian Schell as the father is just dull, and should make the director regret his decision not to hire Charles Bronson for fear that it was stunt casting (Eszterhaus relates this in his book Hollywood Animal). Schell may have an Oscar, but Bronson was just as good an actor, and unlike Schell, had presence and a box-office name that might have gotten this movie a distributor.It was nice to see the old CTS buses that I remember from my childhood, and I grinned when I heard the reference to my alma mater, Cleveland State University. But except for Bacon, this movie is lifeless. There is one other point in its favor it seems to be sincere, something I could never say about anything else Eszterhaus has written. "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon is the only redeeming feature of this Turkey","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  If you read some of the reviews for movies like Jaws 4, Jaws 3, Krull, Jaws 2, Habitat, Jaws 4, Jaws Revenge you get the drift that there are some movies that fall into a category of 'bad'.  However with movies like Jaws 4, even though the plot is a little bit silly and the notion of a lion-roaring acrobatic shark doesnt appeal to any(every)one, well thats fair enough. However there are some moments of redemption in any of these films that make them watchable.However some movies are actually very very very very very painful to watch. You know....movies like Air Force One...where every actor in it is out to make his impact on hollywood by showing us all that they can..............act?Nothing irks me more than watching movies where the two-bit actors try to outshine the main ones.........whom I generally have zero respect for anyway  (actors who do this are Dean Stockwell, David Paymer, any of those idiots from 'friends' and a multitude of others).  However there are some actors who are a pleasure to watch no matter what film they are in nor how bad their role is.  Kevin Bacon is one of them.Brad Renfro in this film sounds like a retard with a severe speech impediment (DATS DA TROOD) "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Movie -- kind of a snoozer","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Telling Lies in America... where to begin?  It has an interesting premise... and an interesting plot.  Bacon was great as Billy Magic, but Brad Renfro REALLY wasn't convincing as an immigrant.  Sorry Renfro fans, he wasn't -- unless he emigrated from North Carolina, which is highly unlikely. )This movie kind of flirts with the dirty side of the music buisness, namely the radio-end, and how Karchy Jonas (Renfro) gets caught up in it.  He wants it all -- the all American dream.  Money, Popularity, and the girl.  As for the girl, Calista Flockhart gave a very convincing role (bonus points for her reaction about the Spanish Fly!), and even though I am the largest Calista Flockhart fan, she seemed a bit.. old for Renfro.  She looked good in the poultry store, and on the date, but other than that she did look in her late twenties -- a little old for high-schooler Renfro.And of course the movie wanted to make you fall asleep sometimes.  It just became a bit too dull -- nothing very exciting happened.  Although that blasted Medium Rare song sure does get stuck in your head. *grin*So I would only recommend this movie if you're bored and have nothing to do, or if you're a big Flockhart/Renfro or Kevin Bacon fan... oh yeah, Luke Wilson, too. "}]