[{"Title":"Grouse Gorilla","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Mighty Joe Young is a big, big gorilla who gets time in L.A. escaping poachers who are after him in his home hill in Africa. This is a remake of a remake of King Kong  (1933), which was made in 1949 as the original Mighty Joe Young.This latest version is a remarkable computer and animatronic invention, justly nominated for this year's Academy Awards. He really is whiz bang and totally believable as a creature on the screen.His best friends are Jill played by the very attractive Charlize Theron and Gregg played by Bill Paxton in a pretty light weight film for him considering some of his previous films (One False Move, A Simple Plan).But take note too of Naveen Andrews who plays the screwball jungle tour guide. He was remarkable in The English Patient and Kama Sutra. Oh well. The bills have to be paid.Mighty Joe Young is a Disney film aimed squarely at the fairly young, complete with the fairly gruesome bits that today's TV bred ankle biters demand. So what's in it for the oldies.Well there's Charlize Theron who's pretty gorgeous. And then there's a truly spectacular scene when big Joe climbs up a burning (yes burning!) Ferris Wheel at a L.A. amusement park at night and rescues a little boy.But my favourite bit was Joe violently wrecking a car bit by bit because the car alarm is sounding. His self satisfied grin as he sat on the quietened nuisance was one that made me wish that I could also rock Ms Theron to sleep.  "},{"Title":"Endearing movie, way better than expected","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  King Kong must be one of the greatest animals ever to grace to silver screen, he sure is the biggest primate to do this. But there is a good runner up Joe. Once before filmed in 1956 also as `Mighty Joe Young', this story of a gorilla with a defect in his genes which causes him to grow out of proportions into a 2000 lbs primate, is a great one.The story begins with little Jill Young and her mother as they are in the jungle observing a group of gorilla's. Little Jill instantly bonds with Little Joe, a baby gorilla. At night the group of gorilla's is attacked by poachers and Jill and her mother go out there to the jungle to protect them. To no avail, because in the end both Jill's and Joe's mother are killed. Twelve years later Jill (Theron) is still with Joe and Joe has grown into this enormous gorilla weighing over 2000 lbs. Paxton comes to the jungle to investigate a myth of a giant primate protecting the area of the mountain where Joe lives. Joe and Paxton meet, poachers come to hunt him down and Paxton and Jill decide to take Joe to a preserve in California so he can have a more quiet life. But danger is not gone, even in California old enemies come to hunt him down, and Joe ultimately has to undertake a very brave action...This is the outline of a very well crafted piece of cinema, family entertainment at its best. The script is very well written, the characters are likable and convincing. You have the hero and the heroine, the villain and luckily the moronic sidekicks have been left at home this time. Joe is a lovely character, although a lot of him has been done with CGI, he is still very convincing. A lot of work has gone into creating the right facial expressions to give him a human touch. The story unfolds at rollercoaster speed, never lets off steam and constantly plunges the audiences into new surprises and endearing situations.Ron Underwood did a great job at recreating this story on screen. The performances are way above average, even Theron is good for once. Paxton is his Paxton self. The art direction is fine as well. The sets are well designed, if somewhat Disney at times. The special effects were awesome and state-of-the-art. Although some of the scenes could be recognized as being CGI, this was not very bothersome, there have been worse attempts at this genre.A lovely picture for the family, if maybe not for the smallest of the family, some of the scenes can be quite frightening for some. One must be a very big cynical grown-up not be moved by the final scenes at the fairground.9/10 "},{"Title":"May be clichéd and unlikely but that's not to say it's not entertaining and the effects are good","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A group of poachers kill a large gorilla and a female zoologist.  The gorilla's baby escapes with the woman's orphaned baby and the two grow up together.  Tears later the gorilla (Joe) and the girl (Jill) have grown up &#150; Joe himself is abnormally large but is the target of poachers.  Zoologist Gregg O'Hara stumbles upon the two on a wildlife visit to the jungle and convinces Jill to bring Joe to a sanctuary in California.  However, despite the safety, the threat to Joe has not vanished.I ignored this on video and at the cinema but on TV I gave it a go for the same of the kids.  The first thing that strikes you is how much of a rip-off of every monster movie you've ever seen &#150; from King Kong onwards.  All the clichés are there and the characters are little more than cardboard cut outs at times.  However it is still good fun and all delivered with energy that will keep the kids happy.  The film may not go anywhere that you don't expect but it has funny moments and also moments that are quite tense and exciting.Of the cast Joe stands out.  His facial expression, depth of understanding and emotional range may be a little unlikely but he looks good.  The effects may occasionally show the joins where Joe interacts with physical objects but for the vast majority he is impressive &#150; for the most part I forgot it was effects and totally bought into him being real, that's a sign of good effects.  Paxton maybe takes it all a bit seriously but does well, Theron is a bit too street smart for a girl who grew up with a gorilla but she passes.  Support like King and Paymer are underused and simply become more examples of `good Americans'.  If you're being cynical you could say that the two leads are WASP heroes and that King (black) and Paymer (Jewish) were there to cover bases!  This view is a little supported however by the hackneyed casting of white South African and Eastern European types as the bad guys &#150; their roles are caricatures at best and the actors look embarrassed at times.Overall it's enjoyable.  It's not great &#150; the plot is flawed, the acting is so-so, it borrows from every big ape movie that has gone before and it'll never be remembered years from now as a great film.  But it's good for kids without boring adults.  The effects are good and, though you'll forget it quickly, it's fun while it's on. "},{"Title":"An underrated and heartwarming film","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I've seen this film several times and have to say I thoroughly enjoyed it each time. The performances from from Charlize Theron and Bill Paxton are excellent and the Special Effects are tremendous. The film has a relatively straightforward plot, but also has some powerful emotional scenes as well. The film is well written and directed with it ensuring it appeals to children who will not be frightened by Joe. Moreover, this is not a horror film but rather a story of a misunderstood creature that wants to be at peace. Mighty Joe You is one of the better films out there suitable for both children and adults to enjoy and I highly recommended it.10/10 "},{"Title":"Superb special effects","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was anxious to see this movie as I had seen the original in 1949 and I was not disappointed.   This is one of those rare instances that a remake was okay.  This originally was an RKO Radio Picture and the new updated RKO Pictures logo at the beginning was a great tribute.   Also it was very fitting to have Terry Moore, the original star, and Ray Harryhausen, the man who made the special effects in the first one, to have a cameo.   A lot of critics did not like this movie but my 3 grandchildren did.   Why not have movie critics the same age as the targeted audience, such as having kid critics and women critics and senior citizen critics to give a real reaction of what they like and don't like.    "},{"Title":"Joe and the effects steal the show!!!","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I wasn't sure whether I would like Mighty Joe Young. I did see it once with my family beforehand and didn't think much of it. When I did decide to give it a chance again, I am glad I did. I wasn't expecting a perfect family movie, and while this movie is very dark, it also manages to be quite sweet too. I will admit that the beginning is very dark and intense even for a family movie. I will also admit that the plot is very formulaic and that the villains are rather cartoony.What made this movie though for me was Joe. He was designed superbly and acted very convincingly. Even for an ape, I found him quite adorable, after seeing films like Congo where they scared me so much. Other pluses are the superb special effects and the splendid scenery. Not to mention the lovely music score. The acting was a mixed bag; Charlize Theron was gorgeous as Jill, and Bill Paxton was very good as Gregg. The supporting actors ranged from good to so-so. The relationship between Joe and Jill was very very convincing and sweet, well to me it was. And I know the ending was more King Kong with a happy ending, but I will confess I cried. Maybe it was because I loved Joe so much, I have a habit of empathising with characters that I grow to love.Overall, it is a decent family movie. It mayn't appeal to you first time, but if given the chance as it did with me, it may grow on you. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Much better than it should be, a timeless story of a girl and her gorilla.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I can recall, though not very clearly, seeing the original 1949 version of Mighty Joe Young in the theater when I was a boy.  The 1998 remake to me is better in every way. The special effects which place the giant gorilla among people, or chasing trucks, is very realistic, as is the sound track.The story starts in the jungle where gorilla hunter Strasser shoots and kills the baby gorilla's mom, and Jill Young's (Carlize Theron) mom is also killed. Jill and the young gorilla become friends and they grow up in virtual anonymity. In a stroke of good casting for a very small part, Linda Purl, who plays the mother, looks a lot like Theron.Many years later, when Paxton's character shows up, hunting wild species for blood samples, the capture of a big cat enrages Joe and he jumps out of the trees.  That is a remarkable point in the film because, with a good sound system with subwoofer, the room literally shakes. And it continues as they case Joe in trucks.Jill is persuaded that Joe will be safer when transported to Los Angeles with his own habitat, and she agrees. The evil Strasser shows up, enrages Joe, who breaks out and runs. In the sweet climax, he climbs a tall ferris wheel to rescue a small child, survives, and eventually is put in a proper place for his safety.Most of the charm of this film is during the first half, in the jungle, with Joe and Jill growing up, then the discovery of the adult Joe. In a small part as the hunting organizer Paxton hires, Nuveen Andrews is just terrific, his delivery, his body language. And, of course, Charlize Theron, who reminds me so much of my daughter, Karen, is just perfect as Joe's caretaker and friend.I rate this version of Mighty Joe Young a solid 8 of 10.  "},{"Title":"Fantasic effects that are very realistic","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This update of Mighty Joe Young features incredible visual effects. They are so seemlessly blended into the picture that Joe seems more than real.Bill Paxton is great as usual. In fact, most of the cast is pretty good. Charlize Theron is both tough and sexy. She worked better with Paxton than the contrived relationship he had with Helen Hunt in Twister.I watched this movie with my kids and they loved it too. Definately a thumbs-up as a family movie. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of the classic 1947 film","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Mighty Joe Young is terrific family fare, and one of the better movies of 1998.  It is based on the immortal classic from 1947 of the same name about a young woman and her faithful 20-foot tall, 2,000-pound gorilla named Joe.Great special effects featuring Joe are the real highlight of the film, especially the animatronics and CGI which truly bring Joe to life.There are also good performances, especially from Charlize Theron as the young woman, Jill, and Bill Paxton, fresh from Titanic, as the scientist who loves her.But, the real star is the title character, the Mighty Joe, who brings a wonderfully gentle screen presence, and is the true hero of the film.Highly recommended for children of all ages. "},{"Title":"Seriously what is up with the low rating,I thought it was fantastic.","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Mighty Joe Young tells the tale of a young woman who's an owner of a giant gorilla named Joe and his environment is in danger. So Charlize Theron's charcther and Bill Paxton's charcther decides to go to Los Angelus so Joe can have a normal life as a bunch of poachers are out to get him as they killed Theron's charcthers mother when she was just a baby. Overall the story to this is very good,the music is very good and the cast is also very good. I saw it a few times before on TV and it was on Film 4 today. I may never know why this got a low rating cause I seen nothing wrong with it. Overall I really enjoyed this movie and I also was shocked that the gorilla wasn't a real gorilla AT ALL,he was a animatronic created by Rick Baker.Awesome effects.My verdict watch it.9/10 "}{"Title":"A Great Family Movie, A Must See!!","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a wonderful family movie. Joe is so realistic looking you would think he really exists. Its funny, its adventurous, has some action, and also a tear-jerker. What more could you ask for in a movie? All this and still great to watch with your kids. Charlize Theron plays the role of Jill superbly. The jungle scenes are terrific. Joe is so much fun to watch. The bad guys get whats owed to them. Oh, did I mention some romance in there too? The song Jill sings to Joe (that Jill's mom sang to her when she was little) is a great song. Its such a relaxing song, which I prefer her rendition over the one played at the end of the movie during the credits!! I wish I knew what she was singing, its not in English, which is probably why its sounds so beautiful. If you haven't yet seen this movie, I highly suggest you get yourself a copy. "},{"Title":"A bit too Disney for me.","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Mighty Joe Young starts in Africa where conservationist Professor Gregory O'Hara (Bill Paxton) discovers the existence of Joe Young, a huge 2000 pound giant Ape that has been looked after & cared for by Jill Young (Charlize Theron) ever since their mother's were killed on the same night by poachers twelve years ago. O'Hara is amazed by both Joe & Jill & when poachers return to try & kill Joe he arranges for him to be taken to California where he can be properly protected from poachers in a zoo. At first Joe seems happy enough but once again he comes under threat from poachers & when he runs amok at a dinner party he is considered a threat to the public, it's up to Jill & O'Hara to save Joe before he is either killed by poachers or the authorities...Directed by Ron Underwood this big budget Disney production was a remake of the same titled Mighty Joe Young (1949), while not terrible I suppose this remake is nowhere near as good as the original & at times I found it a bit of an overly sentimental bore with far too many annoying Disney-esquire touches. The script here sticks to the general storyline of the original but changes a lot of the set-pieces to lacklustre effects like the capturing of Joe is changed from Cowboys lassoing him to blokes in jeeps & the fantastic climax set in a nightclub where Joe fights Lions & then saves children in a burning orphanage is replaced with a walk around Hollywood & saving a kid on a burning ferris wheel. While the CGI effects are excellent there's a certain coldness to the action & adventure scenes while the character's are terrible with some annoying comic relief & a really sickening romance between the two leads & lots of moralising about the evils of poaching & the perils of locking animals up in cages rather than letting run free & the parallels that has with our own lives as we too are locked up in cages & it's just that we call them houses. At almost two hours Mighty Joe Young is a bit too long, there's too much mushy Hollywood sentiment including a cringe worthy ending in which random members of the public all decide to give money to rehouse Joe & this remake doesn't have the magical fantastical quality of the original & if I am honest feels lie a poor man's King Kong (1933) with it's slightly weird central relationship between a giant Ape & a pretty blonde woman. Having said that it's watchable I suppose & the effects are good.As already mentioned the CGI effects are very good as are the practical effects created by Rick Baker who was along with his team nominated for an Oscar but lost out to What Dreams May Come (1998). This being a squeaky clean Disney family film there's no violence & even the main villain doesn't get much of a send-off. Charlize Theron's attempt to portray a character who has never been to civilisation & spent her entire life in the jungles of Africa is hopeless & she comes across as some ball American blonde anyway.With a supposed budget of about $90,000,000 this had a lot of money spent on it & it show's with great effects & ambitious set-pieces although the finished product doesn't come across as exciting on screen due to the awful music & lack of imagination that isn't the fault of the effects work which is impressive. The acting is bland & I usually quite like Bill Paxton but not in a family film such as this.Mighty Joe Young is a remake that isn't as good as the original & comes across as a second rate King Kong, hell even the ridiculous King Kong Lives (1986) is better than this. Basically a King Kong wannabe that doesn't cut the mustard & isn't as good as the original Mighty Joe Young either but is still watchable on a corny level. "},{"Title":"A Very Moving and Powerful Film By Disney","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I have never saw the original, but I might need to give that a look since I watched this one when I was young back then. Mighty Joe Young tells the story about a woman name Jill Young who is looking after Joe and protecting him by poachers, since they were once young as they both lost their mothers. Now as the two are all grown up, Gregg O'Hara arrives to Africa and convinces Jill to bring Joe to Los Angeles, California so he could be away from the poachers so that no one will hunt him down. I don't think this movie deserves such a low rating, and I don't think it deserves to be ignored either. I know everyone remembers the original, but I think they need to give this movie a chance and have the respect that it really deserves. Heck, even Disney needs to give this a proper DVD and Blu Ray release with actual special features like a documentary with interviews for the cast and crew (Bill Paxton, Charlize Theron, Ron Underwood, Rick Baker, James Horner, etc.) as they take a look back on how the movie went as there were problems, working on the special effects, when it first came out to mixed reviews, and maybe why the movie will always be a great movie as it has fans that remembers it. Like me. Also, a commentary track for the cast and crew along with deleted scenes, trailers and TV spots, etc. To me, I think it is a wonderful movie for kids and adults to enjoy it. Of course, this is Disney's own King Kong but that doesn't make it a bad thing. I do love the original 1933 and the 2005 remake of King Kong, while the 1976 remake with Jeff Bridges not so much. I thought the special effects in this movie are impressive for its combination of practical and CGI. I may have notice one bad effect, but that is just a minor nitpick. The design of Joe is very well crafted by Rick Baker. Ron Underwood does a fantastic job on directing the movie as what he did with his other great movie Tremors. The story itself is beautifully well told, and I was deeply moved by it. The cast in this movie all did great, but I give most props to Charlize Theron and Bill Paxton as they both a great chemistry together. I do love James Horner's music, and I do admit that there are some parts of it where it make me think of another music that Horner did which is Titanic. The set pieces in LA are very well done as well as the Ferris wheel part. The movie does have its sad moments like both Joe and Jill loosing their mothers, and most of all the ending; the ending really did make me cry as Joe risks his life to save a boy as the Ferris wheel was coming down. Of course, Joe doesn't die because everyone love Joe and deserves to live as he is the hero in this movie. So that is what I thought of this movie, and why it deserves a chance and give it the respect it deserves. I do hope that the movie doesn't make its official debut on Blu Ray, and releasing it on DVD again in the UK or anywhere else because it deserves to be release in the United States and around the globe. What I mean is that if it was release only in the UK, then it would be unfair because everyone may want a copy of this movie in the US. I understand that some people may have a region free DVD/Blu Ray player so they can order it from the UK or anywhere else, but I rather much prefer to be release in the US and around the globe. I don't know if a petition can be done to change Disney's mind so they can release it again on DVD and have an official release on Blu Ray, but if it can, then it is possible. I hope they don't use DNR like what Fox did to Predator, which is one of the worst transfers that I have ever seen in my entire life. The movie should be remastered in 4K or something like that as long as they remain true on how the movie was filmed. Also, we should show Disney on why it needs to be release again on DVD and have an official Blu Ray release as we show them that we are fans of this movie. This isn't about the money or anything like that. It is how much we appreciate this movie, and why we will always be a fan of it. All other movies must have that. Not just the money so that studios can be so greedy about. With that said, Mighty Joe Young is a very moving and powerful film by Disney, and I give this a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"King Kong for Kids","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This movie is basically King Kong for little kids. It's about a giant Gorilla who is in love with a woman who is brought to the states and runs wild through the streets. The only difference is Joe doesn't want to hurt people. It even remakes the famous climb on the empire state building with a family fun replacement, a Ferris Wheel to save a little kid. This is a great family film with great effects, great acting, and great audio. Any family with any young children will adore this movie. It is a very very good movie for Disney to make. Highly recommended for families. "},{"Title":"Son gives it 2 thumbs way up","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Near end of film (won't specify and give anything away) My wife 8-yr old daughter and myself were crying.  My 5 yr old son pipes up, ....this movie is gweat...  2 Thumbs way, way up.  Did it bother anyone that the flames at the amusement park disappeared at the end?  It did to me !!! "},{"Title":"very good model of a real gorilla","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  good story plot had you sitting on the edge of your seat at times, better than most stories of fantasy. "},{"Title":"Making or re-Making an old, classic KING KONG WITH A HAPPY ENDING(well, sort of in a way, kind of, like.....)","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Imitation is indeed the sincerest form of flattery! When someone in Hollywood commits to doing a remake, whether or not it is wholly or moderately successful,or not at all is no matter to one truth, at least. Somebody saw something worthwhile in remaking or at least attempting to do so.When a remake comes down the pike, it's immediately up for instant comparison. How much is it like the original? How are they dissimilar? Has the storyline been kept close to the original, or has it been allowed to wander too far astray? Well all things considered, and being 49 years after the 1st MIGHTY JOE YOUNG, it does appear that just about the right balance was struck. The original overall concept was kept, albeit in a multi-faceted upgrading or 'modernizing', conducted on several fronts. Filming in Color, Dolby Sound, Digital Photography and Computer Generated Special Effects all kicked in to give a more modern look to this more modern film.All the years couldn't have passed without some tweaking of the basics of the storyline, or at least giving them a little vitamin therapy. As such, the more modern terms and concerns like, ecology, endangered or threatened species designations are introduced into the story and are done so in a low-key, soft sell. Rather than any heavy-handed preaching or finger pointing about our(Mankind's)misuse of the natural world;utilizing a veritable encyclopedia of self-righteous, patronizing 'junk science'.One little addition to the original story is found in there is never any explanation offered to explain Joe's being the biggest one in his class. This new 1998 version not only makes up an explanation, but also makes sense at the same time!The shifting of the back-drop of the Entertainment Industry with the Science Community is a major move, if not exactly not a change. The presence over the years of people like Frank Buck, Martin & Osa Johnson, Ivan T. Sanserson,Marlin Perkins,The Late Steve Irwin(The Crocodile Hunter) and folks like today's Jack Hannah, all are examples of Science crossing over into Show Business.At any rate, the one thing that all King Kong/Mighty Joe Young films have in common is an unflattering caricature of the Public. Hey, that's us!And in demonstration of the changing scene, we offer the following In the original MIGHTY JOE YOUNG movie's year of release, 1949, Walt Disney Pictures released thru RKO Radio Pictures. In the year of the MIGHTY JOE YOUNG remake, it is listed as an RKO Production released by Disney's Buena-Vista Distribution Company. The wheel has spun afull! "},{"Title":"Great try, falls short, especially after the new Kong","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" A few years back I would have rated this film higher, easily a 9, perhaps a 10, but after viewing the new King Kong, it drops a notch or two. Okay, I admit it. When I was a kid back in the late '50s or early '60s, sometime around the Christmas season, I shed a few tears at the end of my first viewing of the original Mighty Joe Young, and as a middle aged adult back in '98 I shed a few tears again. It was a good heart wrenching story in the '40s as well as in the '90s. The new Joe Young looks and feels and sounds real, and Charlize Theron is a great replacement for Terry Moore though Terry was endearingly naive. But where I think some filmmakers go wrong when making a remake is in updating the story in an attempt to appeal to a modern audience. If the new King Kong teaches anything, it shows that telling the same great story in the same time period, with greater detail and better effects will bring an audience in and pay homage to an old classic. Charlize is great to look at, but she's too hip and savvy for a gal living back in the jungle. In the original, Terry Moore and cowboy Ben Johnson were as out of their element in the big city as Joe Young was and it was no accident that all three joined together to escape civilization and attempt to return to the jungle. As remakes go, this one is better than most and worth watching again, it just falls short of what it might have been for being a bit too modern. "},{"Title":"Mighty Joe Young","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember seeing this family film at least three times when I was younger, I obviously wouldn't realise back then and I only found out in adulthood that it is a remake of the 1949 film, from director Ron Underwood (Tremors, City Slickers, Pluto Nash). Basically in the African jungle, young Jill Young (Mika Boorem) witnesses her mother Ruth Young (Linda Purl) die, and the same night baby silver back gorilla Joe witnesses his mother killed by poachers, one of whom has his thumb and forefinger bitten off. Twelve years later, eco-minded Professor Gregory 'Gregg' O'Hara (Bill Paxton) is in the same jungle, and stumbles upon the grown up Jill Young (Charlize Theron) and genetically abnormally large Joe the gorilla living relatively peacefully. Gregg is suggesting Joe would be safer from poaching if Jill agrees to come with him with her large friend back to Hollywood, California and live in a refuge with plenty of food and space. Eventually she does agree, and they do go to the United States, and to everyone's amazement Joe does like this safe haven, and the occasional visitors, including fellow eco scientists see his good progress. But then the leader of the poachers Andrei Strasser (Rade Serbedzija) with the missing thumb and finger turns up at the sanctuary and caused the gorilla to get angry and violent, and everyone is mistaken into thinking he cannot cope with his life in L.A. With this in mind preparation are made to have Joe go back to the jungle, but he somehow escapes and ends up following a light he mistakes as a signal from Jill, and when she and Gregg catch up to him they find him, and Strasser, in a carnival. Disaster strikes when the ferris wheel breaks down, and after the villain is killed Joe is the only one who can a little boy trapped near a fire surrounding it. In the end it looks like the child is safe but Joe is dead from the fall, but thankfully he is fine and is taken back to Africa to roam free in a large bit of land with donations coming in for Jill and Gregg. Also starring Peter Firth as Garth, Quiz Show's David Paymer as Harry Ruben, Jerry Maguire's Regina King as Cecily Banks, Robert Wisdom as Kweli, Lost's Naveen Andrews as Pindi and Verne Troyer as Baby Joe. Theron is obviously gorgeous, and Paxton as usual is reliable, the gorilla does steal the show, being both cuddly and sweet, and aggressive and angry, with moments reminiscent of King Kong it is an easy to follow story that will have the kids and the adults near enough hooked, a fun fantasy adventure. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Visual Effects. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Meet King Kong's descendant","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this film years ago and finally have come to comment on it. The film is a tale of a ape and a woman who decides after the death of Joes mother to take him back to the US. But Joe escapes and hysteria ensues.The film is a kids movie bringing the tale of King Kong back with a different kind of twist that works if you haven't watched King Kong; there are similarities but Joe has a softer quality almost a human touch to him that makes the audience connect.The CGI is quite convincing and the way the animal moves is brilliantly done..... A nice kids movie... "}{"Title":"A GREAT MOVIE FOR THE FAMILY TO SEE.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  From the cast,crew,special effects techs.to even the extras in the movie,they were great.They really outdone themselves, to make you believe in what you were watching.I highly recommend this movie for the whole family.My family and i really enjoyed it.Another movie to seeRudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book(1994). "},{"Title":"Interesting!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I really like that movie, the way that they brought Mighty Joe Young into another place. Particularly liked the end when the gorilla would save people in the Farris Wheel. The actors did an amazing job. The special effects were out of the ordinary!!! "},{"Title":"Very Realistic","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was not only a believable film but one I could take my 7 year old to on her birthday! She enjoyed it and so did I! "},{"Title":"First-Class Make-up/Effects","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Rick Baker outdid himself in this remake of the 40s classic. Joe is realistic - so much that many times I was sure he was real.Charlize and Bill Paxton present some of their best roles in a more family-oriented film.This *is* a family film. Definitely worth a ticket and tub of popcorn at Christmas. "},{"Title":"Fine family adventure about a Jr. Kong.","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" My Take Fine special effects and decent performances make for a passable remake. A toned-down remake of the 1949 monster movie (not that the original was violent or so) by Disney, MIGHTY JOE YOUNG is enjoyably pleasant nonetheless. There's a lot of enjoyable moments here to entice kids and adults alike. It's fun, without being too loud, too lumbering and too overproduced unlike other summer affair of the time. It could use more, but enough just seems to be enough. There's a good dosage of fine adventure movie elements. There's action, adventure, humor and even romance.The romance is created between two of the lead characters. Bill Paxton as an explorer named Gregg O'Hara and a Charlize Theron as Jill Young, a daughter of a late famous Jane Goodall-inspired scientist. There's chemistry between those two, even if it's not entirely developed. It's also a simple boy-likes-the-girl chemistry, but it works well and I bought it. Ask for the adventure, there are numerous action scenes which takes place both in the jungle in even in the city, which shows a scenes directly derived but not entirely similarly to the scene from KING KONG. The special effects by Rick Baker, who actually started doing apes in a somewhat cheesy outcome during the 70's remake of KING KONG, are fine here in the film. There's a convincing use of blue screen and the typical man-in-a-suit technique that actually is less evident here.Director Ron Underwood (TREMORS) brings a lot of excitement in this familiar territory. The film cannot escape the multitudes of clichés that marred this old genre to the ground. Some things about MIGHTY JOE YOUNG are familiar, as a toned-down kids flick. I've learned the lesson before, there's no one that harshly gets hurt in this film, except the bad guys who must get their just desserts in the end. But the film is lively and enjoyable enough for me to recommend. This is decent family entertainment.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"a fine remake","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Sweet, and faithful to the 1949 original Mighty Joe Young, this is one of the better remakes I have seen. While the original movie about a girl and her giant gorilla friend remains entertaining enough to stand on its own, this remake strives to do it justice, and succeeds. The two movies complement each other almost perfectly!A fairly faithful, straightforward update of the original plot (which itself is something of an upbeat remake of King Kong), someone definitely did their homework in re-creating Mighty Joe. The computer effects and animatronics are believable, but the facial expressions and primate mannerisms are what make him so absolutely convincing.(spoilers)While the giant-gorilla-on-the-loose-in-the-big-city scenes don't compare to their truly outrageous counterparts in the original MJY (real, live African lions being catapulted about the Coconut Grove!), they're entertaining enough for audiences of all ages.The remake also felt some politically-correct need to add bad guys that weren't necessary in the original, but by introducing poachers that leave the girl and Joe orphaned, they also seem to offer an ironic apology for what almost certainly happened in acquiring the baby gorilla for the original movie. "},{"Title":"That was one SCARY monkey (SPOILERS)","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  At the start of the movie, Jill and her mother are having fun in Africa with the gorillas, and Jill's mother can't believe how big Joe is getting. She doesn't think it's Joe, in fact.  Later, Jill's mother has to try to protect the gorillas from poachers.12 years later, Joe is (very) full-grown, and this time he is threatened by Gregg O'Hara and his men, who want to take animals into captivity.  Joe attacks them, but Jill calms him down.  Eventually, Gregg persuades Jill to let the gorilla be taken to an animal preserve in the United States.One of the poachers finds out about Joe, and he wants to get his hands on the ape.  Also, while Gregg and Jill can't stand each other, Cecily Banks, an employee of the animal preserve, believes they like each other.This is close to being a movie the whole family can watch.  However, the animal action and the violence are quite scary, and I would say not appropriate for the little ones.  In two instances, a child is put in danger.  Still, the action often included comedy, which was confusing.  Some people were really scared of the ape, while others laughed.The gorilla was quite an actor, whatever that means.  Whatever emotions the gorilla felt--anger, sadness, regret, happiness--they were obvious from his facial expressions.  Robert Wisdom (as Kweli) also gave a good performance.  Charlize Theron was typical of the activist in movies such as these.  Jill's character was overly enthusiastic about protecting the ape, and a little too confident in her own ability to regulate its behavior.This was a pretty good adventure.SPOILERS  Jill and Joe both lose their mothers when trying to protect the gorillas from the poachers.Exactly what made the ape so scary cannot be fully explained without giving away certain plot elements.  During a fund-raiser, Joe became very agitated when he recognized the poacher, and the ape escaped and made a complete mess of the event.  Joe had to be put in a special facility, which Jill believed would make him lose his will to live.  She took the poacher up on his offer, not realizing who he was, to take Joe back to Africa to a better preserve.  When the poacher's truck wrecked, Joe went wild in downtown Los Angeles, and even climbed the Hollywood sign.  Then Joe was chased to an amusement park, where he made a mess but eventually redeemed himself when he saw a child in danger and saved him.SPOILER YOU PROBABLY SHOULDN'T READDon't worry.  Joe risked his life, but he was all right.  He ended up in an African preserve where he could be happy. "},{"Title":"This is a cool film","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  We went to watch this film in Othellos Cinema in Limassol. Me and my cousin weren't that really excited about the idea of going to watch Mighty Joe Young, as there weren't any other good films to go watch.The film started quietly and then about 5 minutes into the film there was action.  This put us into a more positive mood about the film.The story is based on an over sized Gorilla which poachers are trying to hunt down.  Some came close, but not quite.  There was a poacher which got his index finger bitten off by Joe when Joe was just a baby.  And now that man wants revenge.The film is immotional, action and romantic in some parts.  It's worth going to watch Mighty Joe Young and I asure you that you will feel a little lump in the back of your throat.Dino "},{"Title":"Very touching movie about a special friendship for all ages","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" MIGHTY JOE YOUNG, in my opinion, is a very touching movie about a special friendship for all ages. I really loved Joe. If I could have, I would have helped Joe get to safety myself. It only makes me wonder where I would hide him, though. The score was good, the costumes were perfectly designed, everyone was cast perfectly, and the direction was flawless. In conclusion, I highly recommend this very touching movie about a special friendship for all ages to any Charlize Theron fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly enjoy it. "},{"Title":"terrible movie","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is a mess. It's too mean-spirited for young children,  the plot is completely lame, and the direction is incompetent. The actors do the best they can with the lousy material, but there isn't much for them. I think that the director must have thought that he was making a fast-food commercial, because he constantly includes choppy reaction shots. The worst is when the  CGI ape arrives in California and the demographically balanced staff of the preserve come out to meet the truck (like a bunch of kids hearing the Good Humor chimes -- I guess they've never seen a truck before) and the monkey gets out. We jump to what seems like a dozen faces, one after another (some of which never again appear in the film), and they all look as though it's the best chicken I've ever had. There is also a scene near the beginning of the movie where the two principal actors are expositing and you never see them in a two-shot. It looks as though the knucklehead didn't think things through during principal photography and then later needed to get some more footage. So you get these close-ups that jump back and forth, with the faces filling the screen so that they need to put less background in, and it's harder to see all of the continuity errors.It's probably sad that I saw this piece of junk on video the same week that I saw Cookie's Fortune.  "}{"Title":"How to teach racism to your kids !","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Apart from the general silliness of this movie, obviously madearound special effects with no consideration to logic  whatsoever, it is another exemple of the neo-colonialismHollywood seems to promote. Of course, the bad poachers areGermans (quite a trend nowadays) and the Africans are justcomic-relief yes bwana types or bad poachers who need aclean-cut WASP to tell them such insightful remarks likepoaching is illegal. Is this a new Ubermensch mentality orthe way Hollywood, who obviously depises the audience ingeneral, expects to gain spectators for their lame-brainedpotboilers ? Since I'm an optimistic, I'll root for the latter.The Mighty Peking Man, a Hong Kong flick by Ho-Meng Hua, was abetter remake with less budge "},{"Title":"Predictable overworked trash!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Why does Hollywood have to unimpress avid moviegoers time and time again? If you've seen many movies, you've seen everything in this film before. This film or perhaps made for video time waster, has only one thing going for it. The effects are good and the CGI character looks great!  Unfortunately they under used Joe and over used a bad romantic plot between Paxton and Charlize. Stupid comic relief characters, and boring villains top off this trite trash fest.  See the original, it has more of a fun flavor, in spite of its dated acting and effects.  If you have money burning a hole in your pocket go see a good flick!  Perhaps something hmmmmmmm.... Egyptian. "},{"Title":"what a stinker!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  That was the worst movie I've seen since The Postman.  The ape looked nice and the actors weren't bad (Charlize Theron was actually quite good) but the screenplay was just garbage.  There were some really awkward lines and a terribly predictable story.  My 13-year-old brother thought it stunk, too... kids under 10 might enjoy this one, but The Prince of Egypt and A Bug's Life are far better movies.  Why suffer through Mighty Joe Young when there are so many good alternatives?  "},{"Title":"Great for kids and adults-- GO!","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw a sneak preview of this movie-- the only movie I've been looking forward to in a long time-- and I was not disappointed at all. This is a terrifically entertaining movie that is wholesome enough for the kids but has enough action and darker aspects to interest adults. It was like Zorro in just being an entertaining, fun movie for everyone.They've done a great job of creating Joe-- he seems very real and interacts very well with the environments. They have also succeeded in giving him a very vividly drawn personality-- you really root for him and it's almost hard to believe that he's just a special effect and not a living being. Kids will fall in LOVE with him-- and the charming notion, presented in the movie, of being best friends with a 15-foot Gorilla.The first trailers I saw for this made it look like an action movie, but the current trailers make it look like a heartwarming, Free Willy-Type of film. It really does both, but without being too sweet. Many people in my audience cried and cheered at the end. I hope this film does well and I would love to see a sequel. I think Joe will become a very beloved character in kid's minds.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"King Kong All Over.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Mighty Joe Young (1998) Dir Ron Underwood / Cast Charlize Theron, Bill Paxton, Rade Serbedzija, Peter Firth, Regina King Ray Harryhausen created the giant gorilla in the 1949 classic. Rick Baker does a tremendous job at creating the creature in this remake. One problem is that the creature is seen too early and he seems to be running a similar drill as King Kong. Charlize Theron stars as Joe's companion since her mother died. Bill Paxton plays an animal tracker who convinces Theron to have Joe transported to California to be placed in an animal reserve. As predicted Joe will be threatened by a vengeful poacher and run rampant through the city until saving a kid on a burning Ferris Wheel. Typical setup followed by a massive ape but certainly not a massive plot. Theron and Paxton are pretty standard in their romantic tease relationship. Rade Serbedzija as the poacher is also pretty standard and will get it twice as bad as he does in his first encounter with the ape. Directed by Ron Underwood who previously made City Slickers. He doesn't achieve the same success here and its target audience should stick with E.T The Extra-Terrestrial. Despite its animal preservation message, the film seems more geared towards being an impressive creature feature that children will likely not go ape over it. Perhaps the screenplay should be balled up for Joe to use as toilet paper. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Fun and Charlize is nice to watch","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie was fun to watch. And Charlize Theron looked so elegant in this movie. The scene where she enters the party in the white dress was amazing. She is quite a one of a kind beauty. Her acting was great too. I knew she was going to get a project eventually getting her acclaim. "},{"Title":"King Kong does LA","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a movie for kids who haven't seen the original King Kong yet. It was very childish, and it was so obvious that the gorilla was a fake. It actually looked like the original King Kong, but in Technicolor.Charlize Theron played her part rather well, as usual, but Mighty Joe Young is not her best movie. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have seen this movie dozens of times and never get tired of it.I invariably cry during Joe's death scene. This is the first film I've ever seen Charlize Theron in and she is now my favorite actress. This is an awesome film; shows the cruelty of man compared to the innocence of animals.  "},{"Title":"The best Disney movie of the 90s!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It's quite a  good movie. I saw only once, but I think this movie is for everybody. The CGI-monkey is good. I loved the actress Charlize Theron and the actor Bill Paxton too. The only one thing is James Horner, he cannot make anything new. Ron Underwood (Tremors) is a good director. I hope Disney will not make a second episode... 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Mighty good fun!!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  My all time favourite film is the original King Kong, so I'm afraid I was sold on this from the beginning, Bill Paxton and Charlize Theron played their parts well enough, but Joe gets my vote for actor of the film. Rick Baker redeamed himself, and I found I could finally forgive him for playing a part in the 1976 re-make of Kong, in which to me he hit an all time low. Watch out for cameos by Ray Harryhausen, whose work in stop motion animation is legendary, he did the animation in the original Joe Young, and by Terry Moore, she played Jill in the original as well, they play the old couple in the tent at the reception for Joe. Effects aside the film was good fun, maybe a bit of an old storyline, poachers after a valuable creature, but well worth a watch.The music was good also, not usually my style some of the music in this, but the song that Charlize Theron, sings to Joe to get him to sleep is just beautiful. Sometimes films can get a little too effects laden, but this has a nice balance. The only minor disagreement I have with this film is the ending, but you'll have to see the film to get what I mean, but still it's a small glich in a great film. If only Rick Baker had waited 'til now to do the re-make of Kong. "}{"Title":"not so mighty","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The only good things that I can say about this film was that it had a stunning leading lady ( albeit a bad actress )and that I got it for half price, other than that it didn`t have much else going for it. Also I have never seen Bill Paxton acting so badly,his performance was so wooden that it was almost as bad as Charlize's.   "},{"Title":"Children discover a new Fidget toy for one and a half hours.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Having seen the original Mighty Joe Young many times on television while I was a young child, I couldn't resist talking my wife and 13 yr. old daughter (who brought a 4yr.old friend with her) into seeing it with me. The specials were excellent but somehow misplaced - as if the writer and Director simply needed them and continuously raked their minds in a where should we use them now fashion. The dragging the jeep scene left one laughing at it's lack of necessity and total predictability and disbelieving in the ineptitude and stupidity of the Tracker/Poacher deciding to try and capture Joe after its display of enormous strength. Most  all of the kids in the theater could not sit still and ran around and sometimes rolled around endlessly in the aisles. Though Joes' death did get their attention indicated by some crying in the theater, it seemed like most of the film was wasted on everyone, especially the young. The trust between Bill Paxton and Joes beautiful friend never achieved a sense of reality after he said something along the lines thatI can only keep the Poachers and lookie-loos away for awhile 'cause sooner or later you'll be inundated by them. Then offering Joe a chance to relocate as if he is some sort of savior. In reality Joe had lived unmolested for 12 years and it was only the intervention of Bill Paxton that seemingly gave poachers a reason for renewed interest. Mighty Joe Young wasn't a total waste; it just would have been much better if it had had any common sense or logic in the characters or situations involved.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for the Kids!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I went to see this film last weekend at a free Sunday morning screening with my two kids - aged 6 and 8.  They loved every minute of it - particularly when Joe played hide-and-seek - and want me to take them again.On a more adult note, I thought the effects were stunning, and although I've never seen Charlize Theron before she turned in an excellent performance.So two thumbs up from my family! "},{"Title":"Not a very good movie","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There were only two good things about this movie. 1. Charlize Theron gave a really good performance. 2. The special effects were there. Other than that the movie was terrible. It had no plot, storyline, the rest of the cast did terrible. Bill Paxton who I really like as an actor did okay, he didn't do as good as a job like Apollo 13, Twister. Lucky thing though I only wasted a buck fifty on this piece of trash!! "},{"Title":"Think Lost World","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Think Lost World. Okay, maybe it's not exactly Lost World but close. And like Lost World, the best thing about Joe Young is the Special Effects, I couldn't imagine that 2000 pound gorilla is a man in a suit. That's how good it was. Basically, the plot is predictable, you'll see what's coming from the start and I haven't watched the original. But it is for family fun. That's all. So don't expect much. "},{"Title":"PLEASE Rent the Original!!!","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There he was, lumbering up on the screen, knuckles dragging on the ground. He opens his simian mouth, and some unintelligible grunts and belches seep out. His eyes, half closed, show that there is *some* form of intelligence behind them, but you'd never know it given the machinations of the script.But enough about Bill Paxton, what about Joe?Add this to the list of unnecessary remakes. The 1949 original is tight, exciting, artful, and in no way in need of updating. The Ray Harryhausen effects are stunning (watch Joe's rampage in a jungle-themed nightclub, where lions are tossed to their deaths--PETA'd have a BIRD with that one today!) The 1998 repeat is dull, stupid, manipulative, loud, and even has a feel-good ending tacked on that made me want to put my fist through the screen.I realize this movie wasn't made for me--a 36 year old male with an affinity toward classic Hollywood. It was made for the under 12 set who won't watch a black and white movie if their Playstations depended on it.But what a pity.If you're interested in this story, track it down in the B&W jungle of your local video store. Otherwise, stay away from this homogenized, heartless, baBOO-O-O-On of a movie!   "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but juvenile remake of the 1949 adventure.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney has remade the 1949 Mighty Joe Young, capitalizing on the elaborate digital effects available to make the fantastic giant ape seem real. Charlize Theron portrays Joe's good friend and protector. Bill Paxton encourages her to bring Joe to civilization causing all sorts of mishaps and adventures. Children will adore the antics of this creation of the special effects team which combines state of the art CGI and make-up effects. Filmmakers said that they spent much time and effort on just the eyes of Joe, so that he would appear real and sympathetic in close-ups.  They did achieve their goal. However, some of the wonderful scenes of the original story are not included, such as Joe raising his friend (played by Terry Moore in the original) aloft while she is playing a piano. They have also varied the final sequence, switching the action from a burning orphanage to an amusement park where one boy is perched precariously at the top of a ferris wheel. What the film is missing is a spectacular central action sequence such as in the original where Joe escapes in the Rainforest-like nightclub releasing real wild animals into the audience. Of course, the movie can be enjoyed for exactly what it is. Parents will take the kids to see it because it is an exciting adventure, and then they'll encourage them to watch the original when it is shown on TV. At least, the film portrays good values and a love of animals and the environment, qualities not many films emphasize in this day of mindless action and violence.  "},{"Title":"Great and interesting site","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Love to comment on good movies. My family thought it sad, happy and exciting, all rolled into one. A little scary on times. I also liked the fact the Joe, looked so real. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Good Movie for all ages","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A great job with Mighty Joe.  The story line was more for children than that of adults but it was o.k.  I did like the way it ended.  It didn't end with a sad tearful feeling.  It was upbeat and warming.  I suggest take the whole family to see it. It would be a very good evening for you all.  Thank you.P.S.  Charlize Theron is a beautiful lady "},{"Title":"A pretty good kids' movie.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a pretty good kids' movie. It also brought a tear to this adult's eye at the end.There's no character development or dialogue to speak of. And the beginning is so corny and Disney/Hollywood hyperbolic that I thought I would gag and have to walk out. But then it became kind of like Black Beauty, and you had to root for the cute animal with deep, dark eyes. I did, anyway. "}{"Title":"Average Disney fare for families, but nothing truly special.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  While there is nothing wrong with this remake of Mighty Joe Young, it's not exceptional either. I went in expecting to find a movie aimed at at children, short on plot but with lots of eye candy. I was satisfied with the level of story, but disappointed with the special effects. The scenes which seemed to use an animatronic Joe or a costumed human were fine, but the digital creatures (not just Joe, but a lot of incidental animals) were disappointing. Apparently the software wasn't up to projecting good shadows onto grass, especially long grass. Fortunately, the African scenery (apparently all filmed in Hawaii, by the way) makes up for the flawed animation. The wilderness scenes are beautiful.On the acting side, Charlize Theron did fine as the female lead even though the part doesn't offer a lot of depth. On the other hand, Bill Paxton seemed to have a single emotion, stuck somewhere between curiosity and bemusement. He carries this emotion with his usual monotone delivery of lines. Whatever depth was provided by the script was lost on Paxton. Kids probably won't care, though - there's plenty of monkey to keep their attention.This movie falls into my see it as a matinee category - while I wouldn't warn friends away, I wouldn't suggest they pay full price. It is appropriate (and actually well suited) for families with children, but it's certainly not one of Disney's finer offerings. "},{"Title":"Very good movie.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie with my 7 years young daughter, and contrary to some other critics, (the professional ones) thought that it was a pretty good one.  "},{"Title":"Might Joe Young! big deal","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay, so the movie was halfway decent, but also halfway stupid. I think this movie should have been a direct-to-video release. From the previews, I didn't expect much. In some scenes Mighty Joe didn't even look real! I don't know if it's me, but it seems that since Jurassic Park came out in 1993, everyone is tring to make a spactaculur special effects movie; Godzilla, Jumunji, Independence day, Might Joe young... "},{"Title":"YOU CAN'T BELIEVE YOUR EYES","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I have been a weekly movie fan for almost 50 years, and have always enjoyed spotting the special effects and the stuntmen. But ever since Who Framed Roger Rabbit, it is clear you can no longer believe your eyes in a movie.  Mighty Joe Young reaffirms this point.  If John Alexander was in gorilla suit, I couldn't tell when, or if it was a model or animatronic.  Computers have given movie-making a great deal of wonderous options, but I kinda miss the good olde days.I enjoyed the movie, as did the full house of kids and adults I screened it with. It isn't too often ones hears clapping and cheering at the end of a movie.  If they make a sequel, it will be interesting to see what storyline they will come up with.      "},{"Title":"or Endings We'd Like to See","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Mighty Joe Young or Endings We'd Like to See will work just fine for this top banana movie. I really got my money's worth in seeing the big ape in shot after furry shot.A few problems develope in the picture whenever the humans thought they were the stars, namely Charliz Theron who plays the grown up Jill. The young sprung actress came this close to going over the top with her predictable lines like, Do you think Joe's all right? Plus she was squeaky clean in every shot like a Zest soap commercial. The make-up department (who obviously tried to make Jill look like Ashley Judd) could have sprinkled  a little dirt on the pretty woman and her clothes, you know, to match the continuity of the dang jungle.Danger blind jungle cowboy Bill Paxton is a simpler matter. This dude hates poachers, loves kids, and probably saw the big fire movie Backdraft about 5 times (trust me, see the movie). Mighty Joe Young himself had more facial expressions than Bill & Jill combined, and Creature Effects Ape Maker Rick Baker must be extremely proud and thrilled to do a re-make of the old original 1949 MJY ape movie he grew up with. The new version of Mighty Joe Young is tons of fun. Bring the kids, and some bananas.Your Top Banana, Tuck! "},{"Title":"Great family film","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Good special effects compliments of Rick Baker. Predictable but very enjoyable. Got a little intense at times for my seven year old, but all in all, a great movie to take the family to see. "},{"Title":"More than just a mini King Kong","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney has taken their typical spin on things by making this a family-oriented watered-down action film.  It is important not to look at this as a remake, because, truly, it isn't.  It does stand well on its own, though, and is an exciting, non-gory action flick, with some wonderful scenes, and cute one-liners.  Even the ape gets in a few good shots, and the realism created by the combination of animatronic special effects, and CGI, truly lend to the overall suspension of disbelief.  Though it will never be on par with King Kong, it does make a fine solid film. "},{"Title":"trite story tramples effects","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Joe looks great, as a matter of fact, so does Charlize Theron.  But the by-the-numbers story left me curiously unmoved. The villains are so overplayed that they are humorous.  Bill Paxton phoned in this performance.  I thought the original Joe was more charming.  This is better than Godzilla 1998, but just barely. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Incredible!! Mighty Joe Young is a special effects wonder!","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just recently took my little cousin to Mighty Joe Young and I was enchanted by this movie. I loved the original when I was a kid and I love this one even more. Charlize and Bill are great. The special effects are absolutely amazing in every scene. The movie also has a good message about endangered species. A great film for all ages. "},{"Title":"CG is AMAZING!","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Computer Graphics on this film are AMAZING--perfectly complimenting Rick Bakers magnificent Oscar worthy performance.  Kudos to Animation Director Larry Whitiker! "}{"Title":"The next best after King Kong","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I haven't seen the original, but this one is certainly a lovely and heartwarming story of friendship and unconditional love.I thought Mighty Joe Young was very well executed. The animation of Joe was realistic and they also gave him a personality that screamed loveable! Joe creates a space for himself in everyone's hearts and I think it is the way he has been portrayed, as a heart of gold in a scary exterior, that will endear him to you.A very sweet tale full of highs and lows, twists, turns, laughter and tears. Good for families - kids and adults alike will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Gloomy, depressing opening kills film early on","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  (plot spoilers)I have long been a fan of the original 1949 version of Mighty Joe Young.  It had great for it's time special effects, a charming story, lots of humor, action, and adventure.  I also had high hopes for this remake, hopes which were crushed about fifteen minutes into this movie.  Practically everything the original was, this movie isn't.Given the subject matter of Mighty Joe Young, one would expect something a little more lighthearted in tone.  Instead, in the first fifteen minutes, we are treated to a violent killing of a parent in front of her child.  It throws such a mood of gloom over the proceedings, the movie never recovers from it.  What's worse, it doesn't seem to want to try.  One would expect a villain of some type, but the one we are given here, is so horrible, so evil, that it's like he's in the wrong movie.  All you can think about during the whole movie is when is this guy going to get his pay-back, which he does, but not soon enough to save the goings on.If there had been some fun introduced into the film, it might have been resurrected.  Joe is an awesome special effect, but except when he is playing hide and seek with Jill, he shows little personality.  Most of the time,  both Joe and Jill sit around and mope and cry on each others shoulders.  You would have thought they would have had a little fun along the way to lift everyone's spirits, after all, isn't this a Disney film? There is an exciting chase sequence at the end, with some good special effects, and a daring rescue by Joe.  Trouble is, by the time it takes place, it is too late to lift your spirits, or save this movie.  After all, you just can't raise what's already dead, can you?            "},{"Title":"Leaves some happy and some disappointed","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Last week, a teacher showed this to about the whole special ed class (including me) in a special room at Stagg High School, but every so often, doors to the little room keeped opening and even lighting up the screen. I didn't catch the whole movie, I saw the beginning until I had to go to work, I missed about 20-30 minmutes of this movie and had to go back after work, to see the movie. I had a bus mate that missed the movie because he had to work at Palos Hospital. As the movie opens, a girl named Jill dedicated her life to protecting a ape named Joe. Her mother makes her protect the ape from hunters. And 12 years later Joe has grown to 15 feet tall. Jill is now played by Charlize Theron, and must protect him from hunters like Gregg O'Hara (Bill Paxton). Now I'm sure you know that this movie is a remake from the 1948 movie with the same title. Only is better than this? This movie had gotten nominated for Best Visual Effects. What is the point of this movie? This movie lacks a good time for me, and if this was hot ticket I'd give this a not vote. 1/10                 "},{"Title":"Action and Adventure","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Story of a big gorilla being sent to the city after afraid of poachers to kill him. From there, the adventure begins after the poacher hunt them all the way to the city..Very impressive effects with this big creature. I admire the movement which is simply out of ordinary. The story is excellent as well and touching at the end.Story with beginning at the end. Complete 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A mighty rewarding little adventure...and mighty overblown!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Remakes such as MIGHTY JOE YOUNG are cashing in on past glories, and the hi-tech age has nowhere else to go but advance forward. A couple of bright spots help out this KING KONG rehash with a touch of heart. Paying homage to the long-gone B-movies comes a feeling of likelihood with the black ape, who may seem perilous at times, but keeps his heart in place as a trusting hero, and a naturally redeeming character of hope, love, and friendship. Truly, these details make a family movie by providing simple lessons. Even though the minutes lasting to the end is always worth the money, it sure didn't have to be THIS violent! What is happening to the moral values of wholesome family entertainment? Surely, if this was indeed another G-rated show, we'd been under more fire after the cataclysmic atrocity of BABE PIG IN THE CITY. Either this is a simple heartwarming film, or just another pre-millennial drive-in flick, the movie doesn't always keep its balance. Disney knows how to create a lightweight movie, but they've run off the tracks this time. "},{"Title":"Decent enough effort,  typical Disney formula save for Big Monkey.","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember when it came out, never got around to seeing it save for a bit on TV years later. I liked it fine after picking up the cheapie Walmart CD of this today.What works well Mighty Joe, F/X and 'performance'. Good stuff by the CGI guys, guys in suits and puppets.Bill Paxton-plays Bill Paxton.Charlize Theron-pretty young and nothing great here, but okay. Doesn't look like someone raised in Rwanda or whatever though ya know? (Yes I know she was born in South Africa. Not in the bush though...).Fun supporting work by familiar faces ala Regina King and David Paymer.Fun Cameos by Terry Moore and Ray Harryhausen.The finale on the burning Ferris Wheel was well done too.What doesn't work? Baddie-maybe we need to see more of him? Hard to see the poaching run in the opening scenes on my DVD.Rather formulaic, right to the Zoo-guys helping Mighty Joe escape.(Paymer, King) we have seen this 1000 times.Overall nothing great but a worthy family type movie, the orig. is better though.**1/2 outta **** "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review Mighty Joe Young","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Merian C. Cooper came up with the story of King Kong first, about the 40 foot giant ape which was discovered in Skull Island, then brought back to New York to wreck havoc. He too dreamt up the story of a smaller ape - 15 foot, who lives with his human protector, and brought back to the USofA where he wrecks minor havoc against poachers.Joe is a gorilla whose parent died under the hands of poachers. Being the target, he in turn was protected and raised by the Young family, namely Jill Young, who lost her mother too on that same faithful night. 12 years later, Jill (Charlize Theron) have to find safe haven for her ape friend Joe, whose day out attacking explorer/researcher Gregg O'Hara (Bill Paxton) brought unwanted attention to itself.Jill and Gregg form an uneasy alliance as they transport Joe to a man-made habitat in Los Angeles, and the habitat and Joe come under attack from the same poachers 12 years ago, this time wanting revenge.It's a simpler tale compared to King Kong, but somehow I find the storyline a poor cousin to that of Kong's. It's difficult to live up to classics I suppose, but there are moments enough to elevate the film.Like the action sequences. The first time we see Joe as an adult gorilla taking on the research team in their jeeps was a sequence to behold. You can see the CGI-ed Joe in its full glory as it gallops(?) with incredible speed and using its wit to overcome its aggressors. The scaling of a ferris wheel felt like a weak homage to Kong's scaling of the Empire State Building. Then again, Joe is about 1/3 the size of Kong, but can it roar as loud too.Or the moments where Joe actually coos like a baby, when Jill teases him / plays games / sings lullabies. Along the lines of Kong, only a beauty can tame the primal beast.Mighty Joe Young is a remake of its 1949 debut, which featured a stop-motion animated Joe. And oh, did I mentioned I watched this also because of Charlize Theron? 'Nuff said! Code 3 DVD bare bones version. "},{"Title":"occasionally goes overboard but still entertaining","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Warm, engaging tale from Disney almost plays out like a watered-down version of King Kong. The story is about a young woman raised in the African jungle whose best friend and lifelong companion is a rare species of giant gorilla. She wants more than anything to protect him and keep him out of captivity, until she's persuaded by a wildlife adventurer (Paxton) to bring him to an L.A. zoo where he'll be safe from poachers. The story elements are conventional, but the film boasts outstanding special effects, has plenty of heart, and provides lots of fun. May be too dramatic at times for the youngest children, but by most standards it's entertaining. *** "},{"Title":"Not bad, but definitely not the Original","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think that perhaps this movie would have been a lot better had Disney not produced it...because I think the movie needed some sort of edge to it to compare it favorably with the original 1949 classic with Terry Moore.That said, the movie still is fairly enjoyable...the ape effects are something to watch for, as they are executed fairly flawlessly.  It is also nice to see Bill Paxton in a more sympathetic role than the loser/goofy guy/bad guy he is often cast as, and Charlize Therizon is very lovely, but her role is so stereotypical that she really can't do much with it or the script.  "},{"Title":"So Simple, a Monkey...","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Disney studios has a simple formula which not surprisingly is similar to Spielberg's Keep things really simple. One plot line only. Develop everything around the characters; rely on every external reference to give definition to them, do not be afraid of stereotypes. Don't make the characters work too hard to define themselves. Spend a lot of time on the score. Build everything from these two elements, characters and score. Don't take any risks with camerawork, editing, etc.The result is a manufactured product that damages children because it blunts their imagination. Not as badly as TeeVee, but nearly so.This little tale is stamped from an uninteresting mold. But I do find the craft of the score interesting. I do not know this fellow, but he does seem to get around. Perhaps Disney is the place where he can really shine.When is Ms Theron going to get to use her own eyebrows? "}{"Title":"Family Entertainment","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a typical Disney Studio's movie, and Walt himself would have been pleased with the results.  Beautiful photography and some neat graphics make this an enjoyable family film although very predictable.  It requires no thought to enjoy this flick and you come away feeling better.  Is there really anything else to an entertaining movie.  I rated this a 7. "},{"Title":"MIGHTY JOE BLUN-der","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a movie that made me question whether I wanted to see movies anymore.  It's a PG movie aimed at kids.  So why in the first five minutes is there violence, murder and mauling?  Seeing that I only spent 1.50 I almost left right then.  Now I'm a 19 year old male who likes his action movies but to bombard kids with that right out of the gate.  After that it gets pretty basic. I think that Charlize's performance was pretty weak.  There was one line I believe was Poaching is Illegal was so bad I thought I was watching late night Cinimax.  Also how many times do we have to hear her say it's ok JOE?  Some of Bill Paxton's lines early on seemed to be retread from Twister.  Which movie was it from you decide.  It's gonna comeout on the other side of those trees we got to get in front of it.  Besides that, it's more of the same EVIL man stuff.  Some of the special effects were good.  The chase scenes at the end were somewhat enjoyable but I was already too entrenched in my hatred for this movie.  In the end everybody is happy, except for me who could have saved a buck fifty and spent the time cleaning my room.  On the one to ten scale this gets a two. "},{"Title":"Not surprising...","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Considering the fact that it is a Disney movie, and I had seen the previews, the ending was a given...No surprises there.In my opinion, there is only one reason to see this movie the superb performance of Charlize Theron.  "},{"Title":"Special effects.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The new version of Mighty Joe Young is a special effects fan's dream. The film itself caters to about an 8 year olds sensibilities and I didn't particularly like it very much. The film was just plain silly in my opinion. I didn't want it to be gory and over the top. I just wanted it to take itself more seriously. Cool special effects though.  "},{"Title":"Disneyfied crap","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched the original MIGHTY JOE YOUNG recently and really enjoyed as a lesser variant of KING KONG. This full-colour, all-action, CGI-animated remake takes that premise and turns it into a soppy, unashamedly sentimental family film that lacks all of the characterisation, drama and danger of the oldie. And it proves, once and for all, that stop motion creations are much better at expressing character than their CGI counterparts.In some ways the movie is oddly old-fashioned, particularly in the early scenes of Naveen Andrews running around calling the white man 'boss' which I found oddly uncomfortable (inevitably, the bad guys in this are all foreign and the good guys all American). Then there's plenty of politically correct greenie stuff and an excruciating turn from Charlize Theron as a Jungle Jane type who strides from the bushes with a full face of make-up. Only in Hollywood! Once the action shifts to America I hoped it would start picking up, but it never does. The CGI effects are admittedly good but lack the charm of their olden-day versions and the large-scale mayhem is no different from two dozen similar, cookie-cutter Hollywood action flicks. I couldn't help but feel embarrassed for Bill Paxton appearing in such twee and childish fare, but then he did appear in the same year's A SIMPLE PLAN so it wasn't all bad for him. "},{"Title":"Totally Cheesy, Totally Fun","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" If you're a male, or maybe a female, this movie has Charlize Theron never looking more beautiful. Frankly, 'nuf said.But wait, there's more. There's the wonderfully created creature, Might Joe Young, who will take you on a fantastic tour of iconic Los Angeles locations, from the Hollywood Sign to the Santa Monica Pier.There's the wonderful link between past and present, because this film was made partly under the auspices of RKO, the company that made the original Mighty Joe Young. And there's the predictable arc of Mighty Joe Young's sympathetic actions throughout the course of the film. If I have one criticism, it's that events near the end of the film are a little too violent for the younger set.Did I mention Charlize Theron? "},{"Title":"After remembering this as a child, this is an underrated film that got me teary-eyed","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a young adult, I would look back at some of my favorite childhood movies that I've overlooked. Especially those with positive reviews and mixed reviews and this movie is one of them. Now, before I begin this review, I would like to say that I never saw the original Mighty Joe Young this remake was based on because I guess there weren't any 1940s movies for me to watch, but looking back at this as a child when it was first released at the late 90s, I simply loved it as much as anyone else. Sure, it's not a masterpiece due to it's formulaic storyline and cartoony characters, but I think it's an underrated childhood favorite of mine and I still love it ever since.The story, although formulaic, is actually faithful to the original storyline of the original Mighty Joe Young, but made some changes to the present time while being helped by the extraordinary special effects. The characters, on the whole, are a mixed bag. Charlize Theron did great as Jill Young and Bill Paxton did a good job as Professor Gregg O' Hara (I also liked the relationship between them), but the rest of the actors ranged from decent to so-so. There were some hilarious moments (despite it's dark and intense beginning) and some tear-jerking moments especially the ending scene where Joe, the gorilla, dies and comes back alive after saving a kid from a burning ferris wheel. It also has a lovely music score from James Horner and it's his best solid music score as a composer.The film did become a box office bomb when it first came out in 1998, but that doesn't mean it could not be recommended to others because this is an underrated tear-jerking movie that I loved as a kid and I still love it as a young adult now. My advice If you're looking for a movie that could leave you teary eyed, check this one out. "},{"Title":"fascinated","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember watching this film when I was a kid not just once but multiple times and being enthused and affected every time, I was so hooked by Joe and his dreamy eyes and Charlize made me love the jungle but what still fascinates me is how I still remember every detail and how I felt while watching it, and when someone asks me about Charlize this is the first film that jumps to my mind, I guess this is the kind of movie that sticks in your head with its simplicity and purity, such a joyful movie. I guarantee it'll make you laugh, cry, be angry and be very excited when the villain gets what he deserves. the most important message i got from it was to love nature and protect it with my own life because nature reserves our humanity "},{"Title":"Colourful family fun with large ape","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This remake of Mighty Joe Young updates the story to present day but keeps the same plot beats, and dresses it in state of the art special effects.The story - misunderstood ape in the city, hunted, but redeems himself by heroic action during calamity - works as well as it did in the original, and is augmented by wicked hunters.Charlize Theron and Bill Paxton are attractive leads, but the film belongs to Joe. He is achieved by a mix of animatronics and CGI (and, I suspect, the occasional bloke in an ape suit), but he succeeds as a character who displays emotion and engages audience sympathetic.This bright, colourful film is a charming and exciting family movie. "},{"Title":"A modern King Kong","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Technically film industry has developed itself very much with all new developments of software and photography. This film is one of them showing very interesting effects and enormous gorilla as big as his predecessor King Kong. Here the gorilla is raised by a family somewhere in Africa (Kenya or Uganda?) And he becomes very friendly with the lady of the family always complying with her orders. Hunters are everywhere looking for rare things and the gorilla Joe became attractive to them. In order to avoid the gorilla be hurt by the hunters, a decision taken by the lady and difficult to understand it, he was brought into a Californian park where he behave not very well when he found the persons hunting behind him in the past. The major shortcoming of the film was that the gorillas like to live in hidden green (jungle) environment, and this Joe was always running in open fields. It is a good film because of the photography and the effects, and children may enjoy looking at it.         "}{"Title":"A giant gorilla with a heart of gold !","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  It was in 1949 that the creators of the legendary `King Kong' launched `Monsieur Joe', a children's version of the classic film,  This recounts the friendship between a pretty young girl and a giant ape who saved her from a group of villainous hunters,  Despite widespread publicity, the film proved to be a commercial disaster when it was first released, although it subsequently became a classic.  Hence, when it was announced in 1998 that a new version of the film was to be made, there was good reason to believe that it would be an opportunistic venture, made by producers keen to modernise a story which had no need to be modernised.   Fortunately, it was up to Ron Underwood (`Tremors') who was charged with the remake.  A fan of the original work, Underwood began the project with the watchword `Respect the classics'.  And it paid off, because the film is a real gem, good family entertainment that is both thrilling and moving.  Here, we meet the amazing Charlize Theron and an extraordinary giant Gorilla (the most handsome ever seen on the screen!) conceived by Rick Baker, an expert make-up artist who is currently preparing the apes in the new version of `Planet of the Apes'. Truly a pleasant surprise, then, to see (as a nod to the cinephiles) the appearances of Terry Morre (the heroine of the original film) and Ray Harryhausen (the special effects guru).  Unmissable! "},{"Title":"A better Disney movie","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lately some of the Disney movies weren't that great. This one is really awesome. Everything about it is great. I liked the music, Joe looks so real in the movie. Paxton, and Theron were excellent.  I recommend this to anyone who likes a good family movie. I really enjoyed this movie.   "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of ****","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I was surprised at myself for not liking Mighty Joe Young.  I really thought I was going to enjoy it.  It has extraordinary special-effects and a lot of action, but the film seemed to have no direction; it wasn't going anywhere.  I didn't find Jill Young (Charlize Theron) to be a realistically drawn-out character.  The way her character was, it seemed she wouldn't mind spending the rest of her life protecting Joe.  I couldn't imagine her future that way.  The movie only seemed to be about Joe while all of the other characters didn't matter much.  And I also found Joe to be a frightening presence.  I spent most of the time fearing him, that I couldn't like him. The film is too violent and frightening for kids.  It should've been rated PG-13. "},{"Title":"too dark and depressing for a kid's movie","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Thanks to this movie, I am now angry with my friend, she was just raving about this movie and insisted that I borrow it. I asked her if there were any depressing animal moments, she said that I would quickly get over them, well, I have a question... why am I still crying? This movie was just too dark in my opinion and not for kids, it just was too scary and disturbing for my tastes. Which is weird coming from the girl who loves Casino.Joe is an giant 2,000 pound gorilla who lost his mom when he was a baby, including his lovely human owner, Jill. When Professor Greg comes to see how smart these gorillas are, he convinces Jill to take Joe to the city to show others how smart he is. But of course, you can imagine, Joe gets to the city and meets the man who murdered his and Jill's mother and goes crazy and on a rampage in the city causing his reputation to no more than a vicious animal.This movie was just too depressing, that's why I don't watch too many animal movies, they usually break my heart. It's just so crazy how animals are treated and I can't stand to watch it, I'm not sure if this movie could be used for entertainment purposes. So, just I guess judge for yourself, but I'm warning you to grab the tissues.3/10 "},{"Title":"How to teach racism to your kids !","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Apart from the general silliness of this movie, obviously madearound special effects with no considaeration to logicwhatsoever, it is another exemple of the neo-colonialismHollywood seems to promote. Of course, the bad poachers areGermans (quite a trend nowadays) and the Africans ara justcomic-relief yes bwana types or bad poachers who need aclean-cut WASP to tell them such insightful remarks likepoaching is illegal. Is this a new Ubermensch mentality orthe way Hollywood, who obviously depises the audience ingeneral, expects to gain spectators for their lame-brainedpotboilers ? Since I'm an optimistic, I'll root for the latter.The Mighty Peking Man, a Hong Kong flick by Ho-Meng Hua, was abetter remake with less budge "},{"Title":"Hollywood Goes Ape Again","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" In scenic Africa, pretty little Mika Boorem (as little Jill Young) promises her mother she will look after a little gorilla, after its mother is murdered by poachers. It is important to note that, during a struggle, the gorilla child bites off the thumb and index finger (in this case, well-described as the trigger finger) of dastardly Rade Serbedzija (as Andrei Strasser). The villain vows revenge. Twelve years later, the little girl grows up to be arousing blonde Charlize Theron (as big Jill Young). Due to a rare genetic condition, the gorilla grows into gigantic Mighty Joe Young...The incredibly beautiful Ms. Theron is persuaded to take her ward Joe to America where he'll, hopefully, be safe from hunters...Animal-friendly professor Bill Paxton (as Gregory Gregg O'Hara) becomes Theron's confidante. They are mutually attracted. Alas, the vengeful Mr. Serbedzija discovers Joe is in town and plots revenge. This re-make of the 1949 RKO classic cleverly includes a neat new logo for the defunct film studio. Too bad this Disney production failed to find an audience. It's a bit too violent for very small children and a little too hokey for the teen set. Mighty Joe Young is updated with personality and the film builds to an exciting climax as the big guy goes ape in Hollywood.****** Mighty Joe Young (12/25/98) Ron Underwood ~ Charlize Theron, Bill Paxton, Rade Serbedzija, John Alexander "},{"Title":"Nothing good about it.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this movie the year it came out in a cinema. It really stuck with me, for reasons the producers/writers and actors could never have guessed.I was only 10 years old, and went to watch the movie with a bunch of friends. It was the first time I had watched a movie in a cinema without my parents. It was fun, it was exciting, finding the cinema, asking directions taking the bus. All good fun.Too bad the movie was a real stinker. I remember we had two choices of movies to watch. Life is Beautiful (Currently ranked #82 best movie of all time) or this (ranked #45895890345829038 best movie of all time).Well my friends and I had a vote, Mighty Joe Young won 5 to 1, I was outvoted. They weren't interested in Life is Beautiful, it wasn't even in English.Mighty Joe Young is a TERRIBLE movie. It was sickeningly painful, I really hated it EVEN WHEN I WAS 10. I saw the middle parts of the movie recently and instantly recognised it and felt nostalgic, but was more overwhelmed in disgust for the movie and could not continue watching, no matter how much I wanted to remember my first movie outing.So thanks a lot Ron Underwood, for ruining my first movie outing. I'll never forget you. "},{"Title":"Rubish","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Joe A. Riley .... production secretary Bob Schoofs .... stand-in Mr. Paxton (as Robert Schoofs) Jeffrey Schwartz .... production assistant Don Selsor .... grip Mark Setrakian .... principal puppeteer Gary Shephard .... transportation coordinator Larry Shephard .... transportation coordinator Bruce Smith .... transportation Gregory W. Smith .... camera operator b camera Gregory W. Smith .... steadicam operator Bill Sturgeon .... puppeteer Patience Thoreson .... script supervisor second unit Judi Townsend .... script supervisor Anne Trop .... assistant Ron Underwood Kazuhiro Tsuji .... principle artist Cinovation Studios Ken Twohy .... production assistant Ian Underwood .... musician Edgar Wallace .... original idea Chad Waters .... cosmetic supervisor Cinovation Studios Larry Whitaker .... digital animation supervisor Scott Whitbread .... camera loader Gary 'Little G' Williams .... driver Mr. Underwood Benjamin Winter .... production assistant Bill Young .... precision driver coordinator Valerie Zielonka .... costume supervisor Bob Zimmitti .... musician Charles Zuendel .... production assistant Manny Chavez .... production safety supervisor (uncredited) Keith D. Fisher .... dispatcher (uncredited) Mark Gutterud .... assistant camera Hawaii (uncredited) Kenneth Hunter .... location scout (uncredited) Michael L. May .... camera operator (uncredited) Vanessa Portillo .... extras casting (uncredited) Kanani Wolf .... costumer (uncredited) "}]