[{"Title":"Chris Tucker at his best!","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"90 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan, the best comedic duo since Lethal Weapon bring us Rush Hour. A classic action movie that brings great action as well as awesome comedy that makes you laugh every minute. Chris Tucker has always been one of my favorite comedians, even before I saw Rush Hour, so it was great to see him in Rush Hour. I know a lot of people find him annoying, but I thought he was just so funny. He showed off his talents in Rush Hour. Not only him, but this is the film that is making Jackie Chan into a world wide super star. His stunts are simply incredible. Rush Hour is one of those very fun action/comedy movies that I'm sure you'll enjoy if you love movies like Lethal Weapon or 48 Hours. The story was just pure entertainment and really kept me on the edge.Lee is a body guard to the Chinese ambassador and is also a close friend, he also is a teacher to his daughter, Soo Yong. The ambassador goes to the United States with his daughter, but she is kidnapped by an evil man of the Chinese Consol. They want 50 million dollars in return, but the ambassador thinks that Lee should be involved, so he sends for him, but the F.B.I. doesn't want him near the case. So they hire L.A.P.D. screw up, James Carter, to babysit him. But together, the fastest hands in the east meets the fastest mouth in the west, they must learn to work together despite their complete opposite personalities and get the girl back.Rush Hour is a guaranteed classic down the lines somewhere, I'm sure. It's already spawned a sequel and it's been a success. Chris and Jackie are such a great team, I was really impressed with their chemistry. My favorite scene is where Lee plays War by Edwin Starr in Carter's car, and he doesn't know how to say the lyrics correctly, and Carter shows him some moves, it was such a classic scene that brought me down to the floor laughing. I highly recommend Rush Hour, it's all in good fun and it'll give you more than a few good laughs.8/10 "},{"Title":"Fast, funny and fantastic","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"54 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour is fast, funny and Fantastic. It is 2 hours of non stop entertainment. I have seen the sequel, No where near the Classic. Jackie Chan is amazing as the martial arts expert cop from Hong Kong. Chris Tucker is Hilarious as the fast talking cop from America. What happens when two people like this meet, Excitement and entertainment. This is Jackie's Best Hollywood Movie. I have seen a few Chris Tucker movie, this is his Best performance. I hope the third in the series will entertain as the First. If you have not seen this movie, then i recommend this movie. A great action comedy movie for all type of audience to enjoy. One of the best cop buddy movies since Lethal Weapon. "},{"Title":"A great Hollywood Comedy-Action flick","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is pure comedy from the beginning to the end. You will have a good laugh thanks to Chris Tucker in his role of Carter, a clumsy LA cop. The city of Los Angeles is spectacular and is a great scenario for this entertaining movie. Jackie Chan at its best kicking asses everywhere with an outstanding humble attitude. I think Americans love Jackie Chan because he's so nice and great person.The main reason why I like this movie is the wonderful duo they play, constantly arguing, while walking around exciting California, USA, about everything, but in the meantime they are loyal partners. The great diversity there is in America singles out in a city like Los Angeles when we go through Chinatown. And fortunately, the movie brings us out there. Interesting cultures melt into a huge variety of ethnicities that make anything possible to happen. This is why America is so interesting and wonderful and we from abroad love her as a beautiful land.All in all, this is a worth-seeing Hollywood movie and probably you would like to watch it several times! "},{"Title":"Entertaining film which owes its success to the chemistry between the two leading stars.","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) is a wisecracking, plays by his own rules type policeman who gets a little bit carried away with his job.  When a drug bust goes haywire and two cops caught in the crossfire are shot, the LAPD Supervisor knows it's all Carter's fault!  Not looking very highly towards Carter, the LAPD Supervisor gives him two options Either be suspended without his badge for two months, or help the FBI chase after a gang of ruthless criminals who have kidnapped a Chinese Diplomat's daughter (Julie Hsu). The choices for this egotistic, self-centered cop will not be simple...Enter Detective Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan), a police officer who wrote the book on fighting crime. Back in LA, Carter immediately gets his feet wet before shortly experiencing a chagrin moment. Detective Carter has learned that his assignment is to baby-sit Inspector Lee.    Carter must make sure that Lee does not interfere with the FBI's business.   Carter is not happy with the workload he is responsible for, but he must fulfill his duty nonetheless...Carter usually works alone...this time, he has company. Reluctantly, the Lee and Carter align together and a culture clash becomes obvious. The wonderful pair is drawn to a series of mishaps, conspiracies, and plenty of high kicking action and adventure! Carter shows Lee a tour or two around the city of Los Angeles; and the pair quickly become best buddies. However, Lee and Carter can't help but to interfere with the FBI's affairs. Lee cares only so much about the kidnapped child.  He feels that he must help track her down before the nefarious villains murder her... Meanwhile, Carter ticks off a few of the locals before he faces absolute terror. Can Lee convince Carter to focus on this mission to rescue the Diplomat's daughter held for ransom? Or will it be too late?RUSH HOUR is one of the most jamming action/comedy mixtures ever.  This film is one awesome venture with the presence of both Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker helping to create a winner for the action genre. RUSH HOUR is entertaining, a fast-paced cop-buddy flick. Part of this film's success owes to the eccentric chemistry between the two leading stars. For example, Jackie Chan's athletic capabilities are strikingly in contrast to Chris Tucker's overzealous, fidgety reactions. Chan's ability to maneuver high risk jumps, leaps, and other assorted dangerous stunts definitely keeps the energy going while Tucker's jittery silliness always creates a warm smile on the viewer's face. Tucker's motor-mouth is surprisingly compatible to Chan's martial arts prowess. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are a definite revelation!The cast in RUSH HOUR prove themselves worthy of their roles. Besides the two main characters, the supporting cast is terrific. Elizabeth Pena adds a touch of sentimentality as Tucker's unappreciated sidekick who turns out to be an asset to the police department after all. Mark Rolston (ALIENS) and Tzi Ma (CHAIN REACTION, RAPID FIRE) as a strategic FBI agent and Consul Han respectively all add credibility to their parts. Newcomer Julie Hsu is also fabulous as a hostage who proves to be more difficult for the bad guys than they can handle...RUSH HOUR has top notch stunts mixed with one-of-a-kind comical moments which help make this film an enlightening combination of action and comedy, with a dash of Chan's fantastic skill work.The Chan-Tucker collaboration is the best on-screen duo since Abbott & Costello! The duo has showed all their right moves and have proven themselves a spectacular heroic pair for moviegoers to cheer on everywhere. Again, the action in RUSH HOUR is no short of exhilarating with outrageous sequences such as Chan trying to protect a valuable vase from the wrath of the bad guys.Great dance moves by Tucker, but nobody impresses the audience like Jackie Chan leaping from place to place, mowing down the bad guys! RUSH HOUR is fantastic fun! A must-see for die hard action enthusiasts. This film is Jackie Chan's and Chris Tucker's finest hour.  Watch for the requisite funny outtakes by the film's end credits. RATING *** out of ****.   "},{"Title":"buddy comedies ever after","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Obviously, Rush Hour is mostly just another buddy comedy, but there's so much hilarious dialogue between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker, that it's all worthwhile. When a consul's daughter gets kidnapped, Tucker gets hired to take the case, but Chan gets brought in from Hong Kong to assist. Naturally, they have a very hard time cooperating.I guess that a major aspect of these movies is that you shouldn't try to take them seriously; just accept them as completely crazy. With Chan doing his martial arts and Tucker being a loudmouth, it's a great time from start to finish. Also starring Elizabeth Pena, Chris Penn, and Tom Wilkinson. I liked the sequel equally. "},{"Title":"These two have the best chemistry of two people on film in a long time!!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wonderful film! Lots of laughs and action. These two have the best chemistry I have seen in a long time. Chris Tucker is hilarious, and Jackie Chan always entertains. This film delivers in every way!! Rent today... "},{"Title":"amusing buddy film","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Chinese Consul's daughter is kidnapped and the FBI steps in to investigate the case. The Consul doesn't trust them however, so he calls in an old friend and police inspector from Hong Kong to aid in the rescue of his daughter. Not wanting to work with outsiders, the FBI pairs him with a cocky, loudmouthed street cop who dreams of becoming a federal agent but doesn't work well with partners. The formula is tired and predictable, but it's redeemed to a surprising extent by the effective pairing of Chan and Tucker who are an ideal action-comedy duo. Lots of gimmicky action scenes and big time laughs, with the added bonus of a script that doesn't require a lot of thinking. *** "},{"Title":"A fun addition to the buddy cop genre","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When a diplomat's daughter is kidnapped in the US, a Chinese policeman Lee is sent to help the FBI with the investigation.  Not wishing his help the FBI arrange a LAPD officer Carter to keep him out of trouble.  However with both Lee and Carter keen to be involved in the investigation, they set out on their own to find the girl overcoming both bad guys and cultural differences.This is yet another buddy cop movie where different partners must overcome their differences to solve a crime.  Here the difference is the black culture and the Chinese culture.  The story is very unlikely but it makes enough sense to get by, all it needs is to hang in and create lots of set pieces.  Which it does - there's not as much action for Jackie Chan as I would have liked and his fight scenes feel toned down in favour of Tucker's manic comedy (this was partially reversed in RH2).  This is a shame because Tucker is funny but his manic antics can get a bit irritating in large doses - it needed more of Chan.However it is funny and Chan does hold his own and get to show how fast he is.  His fight scenes don't feel as inventive as in other films but he has a good chemistry with Tucker.  The bad guys are quite characterless but it doesn't really matter as the lead duo manage to carry the film.Overall a good buddy cop movie that is a good vehicle for both Chan and Tucker and plays on both their strengths to good effect.  However as with RH2 most of the funniest moments come in the closing outtakes, which can't be a good thing. "},{"Title":"A good buddy movie","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Even though this movie might be a bit conventional, it's thoroughly entertaining, with nice action scenes, cool martial arts fighting & a good sense of humor. I didn't find any of it boring. It's a good concept, to combine the humor of Chris Tucker with the martial arts of Jackie Chan. This movie is for anyone who's into action, martial arts & humor. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A funny cop buddy film, with a good chemistry between Chan and Tucker","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I recently saw this movie, and I was surprised at how good it was despite some of the *obnoxious* loudmouth phrases by Chris Tucker. I think he got a little too mouthy at some scenes. But other than that the movie is pretty good.  The plot is after consul Han Solon's daughter is kidnapped, a close friend of Han's, Detective Inspector Lee(Jackie Chan) is sent in to help because Han does not fully rely on the work of the FBI alone. So an LAPD officer James Carter(Chris Tucker) is  sent in to help keep Lee out of trouble. It had some very good lines passed between the actors, and you could tell they were having a fun time together acting. Some of the martial arts/karate that Chan does in the film is impressive, just like in all his films, and Tucker does a good job playing the loud mouth(even if he did get out of hand sometimes). I'm going to definately see the sequel, Rush Hour 2. I would give this film 3/5 stars. It's a good movie to just rent out, or watch on tv some night. "}{"Title":"Foreign","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I'm a Jackie Chan fan. I really enjoy how he has expanded the film vocabulary with  choreographed fight humor. But all his best work seems to have been done before he  tried Hollywood. This is first try at working out a formula. It squarely confronts the  culture clash thing by introducing the international symbol of super-America, the flippant  Blank. But it has almost nothing of what he's good at, save a short bit with a steering wheel. All  of the various devices are trotted out on schedule the little girl, the British aristocrat  behind the cruel mercenary, the jive singing...About the only tolerable thing here is a pretty strong showing by Elizabeth Pena. The  sequel was better, but I'd recommend looking at projects older than this.Ted's evaluation 2 of 3 -- has some interesting elements  "},{"Title":"Great comedic Leads. Lousy Screenplay.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour (1998) Dir Brett Ratner / Cast Jackie Chan, Chris Tucker, Elizabeth Pena, Tom Wilkinson, Ken Leung Overrated action farce full of clichés. Title indicates my desire to leave the theatre before the presentation was over. Actually, it regards time and territory but unfortunately the plot is just an excuse for Chris Tucker to bad mouth people and for Jackie Chan to display incredible stunts. They investigate the kidnapping of a girl whom Chan is familiar with. What follows is an encore of wise cracks by Tucker and stunts by Chan. Directed by Brett Ratner with sets and locations that spark little enthusiasm. Ratner previously collaborated with Tucker with Money Talks. Chan and Tucker have an excellent chemistry together and it upholds the conclusion when they must work through crucial moments. This is a good thing since the rest of the film pretty much sucks. Supporting cast portray a host of stereotypes that are less interesting than the script their thrown within. Elizabeth Pena is featured, and Tom Wilkinson who is capable of better things than this. It exists as the umpteenth buddy flick and aside from the leads, this is hardly progressing forward. There have been examples where buddy films have worked even in the action genre but here only the two stars are left to support a lot of dead weight within a screenplay that cannot bare much. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"dare i say a decent film made by Brett Ratner","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is quite the only rush hour film that i can stand or tolerate. this film at let's try to be a good buddy cop film more so than like Bullet to the Head, The Bad Boys Movies, or The other Guys for that matter because, it want's you to actually care about the characters and you do in this film. The plot of the film is nothing special, consul Han's daughter gets kidnap by a bunch of baddie's who hold her for ransom and Carter and Lee team up to get her back. The two leads are quite fun to watch, Jackie Chan does some good fight scenes but, not no near as close as his earlier films like The Legend of Drunken Master but the fight scenes are still good. Chris Tucker is not HAHA hilarious but, he is amusing to watch.Rush Hour is a decent buddy cop film, One of Brett Ratner's better movies. "},{"Title":"Two Mismatched Cops in L.A.","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you want to see a lot of action -- dishes smashed, bullets through walls, falling bodies, bodies crashing through windows without a scratch, hot pursuits in automobiles, buildings exploding -- this is your movie.Jackie Chan is a detective brought from Hong Kong to help recover the snatched daughter of the Chinese Consule in Los Angeles. The FBI are handling the case and they figure Chan will be a nuisance so they assign a devalued cop from the L.A.P.D., Chris Tucker, to nursemaid the visitor and keep him out of the way. It all goes wrong.The plot doesn't need much description because it's of no importance. It only provides an excuse to hang the violent scenes on. But this isn't one of those cop movies that have realistic gore all over the place. For all the action, nobody shows much blood, and after they're finished swinging from fire escapes they're not breathing very hard, let alone panting, let alone dead as you and I would be.It's not a serious picture. It's an attempt at comedy. Chris Tucker is a clone of Eddy Murphy at his loudest and most grotesque. Jackie Chan has trouble with English but he makes up for it by combining the acrobatic ability of Burt Lancaster with the choreographic skills of Gene Kelly. You ought to see the guy roll and twist over furniture or rooftops or vehicles. It's superhuman, literally. He must have used wires.The gags are okay without being as spectacular as the stunts. What it is, is another mismatched cop movie, out of 48 Hours by Lethal Weapon and Black Rain. A gang bang. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun when given the benefit of the doubt","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Seeing this movie for the rest time in 2015, I can see why some might critique this film for its overly simplified plot, slightly offensive racial comedy and -at times - seemingly low budget production. But give it the benefit of the doubt. Remember that 1998 was a much simpler time. Both Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker were in their prime. And back then, putting together a Hong Kong National and a loud-mouth black cop from the LAPD was pure comedic genius. The clash of cultures comedy is atypical, of course, but it's still hilarious. I think Rush Hour is a fun watch for everybody - even families (with parental guidance of course). Don't take it too seriously and you'll laugh along. "},{"Title":"poor movie due to Tucker","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" We love Jackie Chan. We have all his movies. But Chris Tucker is just too silly and ruins Jackie's movie. Jackie should have used Will Smith or Eddie Murphy. The silliness detracts from the story. All 3 Rush Hour movies are the same for us, the worst of all Chan's movies, including Jackie's early Chinese work, which at least were consistent in the humor. Tuckers humor is High School clown and does not mesh with Jackie's. He should work with Jack Black or other silly comedians. You can not relate the movie theme to Tuckers off the wall immature humor.I am not saying Chris Tucker is not a good comedian as he has good wit, insight and humor in his own right, It is just he does not fit well with Jackie's self effacing Serious and clean movies. He acts his part seriously and Tucker is just ad-libbing off the wall jokes like he is on a talk show and it just does not fit in the movie. I give the rating 4 out of ten because of Jackie Chan and the other hard working actors doing the best they can while Chris cracks jokes that have nothing to do with the movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Movie with a Great Duo,","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour is a great movie with a well written storyline and a very talented comedic cast.The movie is filled with a ton of hilarious scenes from start to finish,most of that coming from Chris Tucker,who apparently improves most of his lines,which is so impressive because there hilarious most of the time.Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make a great team,Tucker is the comedic person and Chan is the action star,it's a great combination and it also helped that the two seemed to really enjoy making this movie together.Rush Hour is a hilarious movie that I would recommend to anyone looking for a good comedy or action.A marital arts expert cop and hapless LAPD detective must retrieve the kidnapped daughter of a diplomat.Best Performance Chris Tucker "},{"Title":"hyped up awful. boring. typical. tripe","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Huh rush hour is very boring all it is are two cops go after a crime syndicate.the film is tripe and has lame humor which is all i saw Chris tucker was awful and not even funny. The film had no martial arts in it and no action it is a worser version of lethal weapon i hate it the story was very dull and as I've said its a tripe film i don't Lister to the positive comments. These films disappoint me and Jakie Chan is another annoying character putting Chris and Chan together was the film has two sequels and they are worse than rush hour 1 absolute dreadful film i spit on it just ponce. Don't watch it for gods sake. "},{"Title":"Rush Hour stars Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan are the reason to see Rush Hour, also for the smart action that's terrifically entertaining and all of the very funny jokes and moments, but mostly for Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make Rush Hour a really fun film to watch and own. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan are a great comedy/action team. Chris and Jackie have a real cultural chemistry that clashes. * Never touch a black man's radio! * Jackie and Tucker have a very often very amusing language barrier. * Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth? * Jackie Chan and Chris share a lot of great moments through song. War! Oh! Ya! What is it good for? Absolutely nothing! * Rush Hour has so many unforgettable, classic moments between Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan and both Jackie and Chris are the greatest and both are very funny, especially Chris, and Jackie Chan. Rush Hour is a great comedy-action with a good enough story line that's entirely enjoyable for the star performances of Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan. I love Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan and Rush Hour is a really funny and really good film and all because of the great stars Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan, and also the good quality movie making! "},{"Title":"While over-reliant on the classic clichés and tropes of the 'Buddy Cop' genre, Rush Hour rises above the rest with some great performances and a nice culture-clash plot.","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 15 years ago, director Brett Ratner and stars Jackie Chan & Chris Tucker unleashed the first film in the Rush Hour series unto the masses. And it is pretty incredible that looking back over a decade later, the film still holds up not only in terms of great humor and good performances, but also from a stylistic and craftsmanship standpoint. The film has an oddly timeless feeling, adding much to its appeal and charm as one of the better Buddy Cop films to emerge in the past 20 years.Chan stars as Detective Inspector Lee, a Hong Kong Police Officer who is brought to the US to help his friend, a Chinese Consul whose daughter has been kidnapped. However, the FBI, not wanting to deal with Lee, instead trick loud-mouthed and reckless Los Angeles Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) into becoming Lee's babysitter to keep him out of trouble. However, Lee's steadfast dedication to his duty soon brings the two mis-matched officers back into the case, and they realize they may be the only one's capable of saving the kidnapped child.Chan and Tucker's performances and chemistry are the beating heart of the film, and are what makes it function and come off so well. Chan is renowned over the world for his incredible martial-arts and stunt sequences, and this film is no exception to that. (Although I will contend that this is one of his tamer films in terms of stunts, although he still does some amazing things in it) But what many people seem to ignore is that he is a great, expressive actor with a Chaplin or Buster Keaton-like appeal and style. Chan is a joy to watch in this film, and he is able to deliver the thrills, laughs and suspense perfectly. Tucker is also a lot of fun as a wise-cracking, loud-mouthed, and foolhardy detective Carter. He does have a lot of good laughs, and is able to bring a balance to the table against Chan's more stoic style. He's also a lot more zany and almost cartoonish, which balances well with Chan's almost silent-film quality. The two actors compliment each other perfectly in this film, and are a joy to see together.Other performances are good all around. Tom Wilkinson pulls a great role as British Commander. Tzi Ma is sympathetic as the father of the kidnapped child, and grounds the film quite nicely, keeping the story centered and with an emotional core. Ken Leung is great as Sang, an eerie, stoic villain. Elizabeth Pena is a lot of fun as Carter's fellow officer. Everyone meshes well in this movie.Production-wise, the film is fantastic. While director Ratner's reputation has been tarnished slightly in recent years due to some controversies and a few poorly received films, he is still a talented visual artist, and his choice of shots, compositions, etc. is top notch here. The one thing I will admit that I enjoy about Ratner's direction is that he tends to present things in a timeless, clean and well- composed way. He doesn't rely on cheap tricks or trendy camera work to tell his stories, which helps out a lot here. The music score by Lalo Schifrin is a complete and total blast, and very much aids the film's timeless quality, feeling both vintage and new all at once. And everything else, from the set and costume design to the script writing by Ross Lamanna and Jim Kouf works well. The humor is also mostly full of hits, making the film a fast, enjoyable watch.My only slight complaint is that the film never quite escapes from the tropes and clichés of the Buddy Cop genre of film. Which is a slight downfall in an otherwise enjoyable film- we know pretty much everything that is going to happen from the first few minutes, and it does rob some of the suspense. But even that cannot diminish the fun performances and good filmmaking behind this movie.Rush Hour may not be the best film ever made, but it's a blast to watch, and has excellent entertainment value. While its reputation has been somewhat pulled down by two inferior sequels, the first Rush Hour is still a good bit of fun and is well worth checking out. For entertainment value alone, it gets an 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I know this movie does not have a fresh concept but for some reason it's one of my personal favorite. I love action and I love comedy and this has the perfect combination of both.When I first saw this about a decade ago it was a laugh riot, when I viewed again few years later it was equally entertaining. Although a simple plot the pace of the movie, dialogue, situations and above all the chemistry between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker is fantastic. Though many will disagree for me James Carter is probably the funniest character ever. I have rated movies which are superior than this lower but for me its a 10/10 keeping in my mind my expectations and judging it for the type of movie it is. So if you are someone who doesn't scrutinize every thing they see and in mood for some lighthearted action/comedy this is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's first Hollywood Blockbuster","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is Jackie Chan's first big budget Hollywood movie and I think it succeeds in what it sets out to do, introduce Jackie Chan, a cult Hong Kong actor-director, into the world of Hollywood. Chan has appeared in other Hollywood movies, but this is the first that he is one of the major stars. Rush Hour successfully mixes Hollywood sensationalism with the fight scenes and the stunts we expect from Jackie Chan.Basically a girl, who is one of Chan's students, moves to the United States as her father is a Chinese Ambassador. Chan and this guy recently destroyed the assets of a major crime ring, Juntao, including retrieving millions of dollars of Chinese art. In response Juntao kidnaps the ambassador's daughter and demands fifty million dollars in exchange. The ambassador calls Chan over from Hong Kong to help, but the FBI doesn't want him involved, so they set him up with a rather pathetic cop (Chris Tucker) and keep them occupied while the FBI goes on trying to solve the case. As is typical for Hollywood, these mismatched cops decided to go and solve the case on their own.As is typical for most Jackie Chan movies, we watch it for the action, though this movie has been very Hollywoodised meaning that the action we expect from a Jackie Chan movie is not a prevalent as in something like Police Story. I liked the movie and thought that it did capture the essence of Chan, and co-starring him with a loud mouthed cop made a very interesting team. It is interesting they chose Chris Tucker because he is a relative unknown, but I guess it was so that he did not upstage Jackie Chan. If it was Eddie Murphy, which I reckon would have been even better, there is a possibility that Eddie would have upstaged Jackie. I did find that our attention was drawn more to Chris Tucker because he spoke too much. Yet, as is typical with Jackie Chan, there is generally one stunt with is seriously deadly, and it usually involves falling from a great height.The strange thing about this movie is that Jackie Chan did seem to be out of his element. When we consider movies like Project A and Police Story, Jackie seems to fall into place quite easily, but then he did direct both of those movies. With Rush Hour though he did seem to look a bit out of place. It is as if that Hollywood is not really ready for the style of movie that comes from Hong Kong, but with the exodus of filmmakers from Hong Kong to America, maybe there is going to be a change in the near future. "},{"Title":"all about Tucker Chan team","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The young daughter of a Chinese diplomat is kidnapped. He insists that the FBI use his trusted Hong Kong detective Lee (Jackie Chan). However the FBI dumps him on LAPD detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) to babysit.Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker form a great team. Their chemistry is evident right away. Brett Ratner brings out all the hilarity with some culture clash humor and loudmouth Tucker.The story is passable. There isn't anything original going on here. It's really just an excuse for Chris Tucker to make an ass of himself, and allow Jackie Chan to do some crazy fighting moves. "},{"Title":"I am not Carl Lewis.....","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Detective Inspector Lee, close friend to Consul Solon, manages to prevent precious pieces of China's history being smuggled out of the country. Two years later, Consul Solon is living in L.A with his family, but a Crime Lord takes revenge on him by abducting his young daughter. The Consul does not trust the FBI, and has Lee flown in to assist. But the FBI do not want any help and officially request help from LAPD, who are glad to get rid of Detective James Carter for a while. His assignment is to keep Lee as far away from trouble as possible. But Carter and Lee don't like being put aside in that way and start working the case on their own....Buddy Cop Movies were done to death in the eighties and nineties, and in my opinion, the benchmark is still Lethal weapon, and it's sequel. I didn't really have high hopes for this though. Chan is great, but at the time of this release, all of his back catalogue movies were being re- released for some reason, and Tucker killed the Fifth Element, so this was as good as rubbish to me.And while the film has an element of Deja vu to it, it entertains, and the two leads are pretty good in their respective roles. Granted, it's no lethal Weapon, in fact, it's no Tango and cash, as they don't need to rely on exposition to keep the narrative going, and are always good for a repeat viewing.This is throwaway stuff, tarnished by really awful sequels, but the fight scenes are great as expected. "},{"Title":"Actually a really funny movie","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't even understand why so many people give this move bad ratings. Yes, Jackie Chan isn't the best actor but 1. This is an action comedy, not a drama 2. He is still funny as f*ck 3. Bruce Willis is a pretty bad actor but die hard doesn't have a 6.8/10 This is probably one of the funniest movies i've ever seen and Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan are a great match. Although the story is kind of predictable, you'll be laughing so hard you won't even realize. The action is great, the comedy is really funny, the acting (other than Chan) is good and there are so many great one-liners. If you are looking for a good laugh and some good action, i strongly suggest you check out the Rush Hour trilogy. The second is the best of the 3 in my opinion. The other two may be a bit repetitive, but are still extremely funny. I would give Rush Hour 2 a 9/10 and Rush Hour 3 an 8.5/10. No, they're not big blockbuster Die Hard, Tarantino, Fast and Furious movies. But they are very entertaining and something you can watch, and laugh at, time and time again. "},{"Title":"Fun all the way","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I always find myself laughing hard while watching this film, because the scenes, acting and the martial art so tripped me that I just have to give this movie the respect it deserves as a nice buddy cop movie that all should see. The movie does a brief introduction of all the leads and then the movie's pace picks up and the speed at which it carries on is one that is so impressive that I myself never believed it could keep up, but it did. Brett Ratner the director was on top of the situation and the blend of Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan was masterful.The story/plot that the movie is based is one that you can point out the holes, some of the situations that these two were able to get out of were eyebrow raising, not to mention how both manage not to get killed is one thing that you must try to overlook as watch, because that is only how you can truly enjoy this movie.The movie starts in Hong Kong, when Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan) was able to recover some priceless historical treasures. After the recovery the Chinese Consul Solon Han moved to America and while there, his daughter got kidnapped by a known Hong Kong crime lord Juntao. The Chinese Consul asked for Inspector Lee to come and aid the FBI in the investigations and recover of his daughter.Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) is a LAPD cop that finds it hard to just do anything right, so in form of a punishment his captain loan him to the FBI to be a babysitter to Lee and keep him out of their way. But selfish Carter wants to solve the crime and so does Lee so together both, did all they could to recover the Chinese Consul's daughter.Much of what they did seemed like they were moving 1 step forward and 2 steps back, but in the end it all paid off.Rush Hour 1 was a hit and it was well received. The combination of both actors (Chan and Tucker), made the news as all loved the mix, and at the very end made the movie a box office hit.Later on, two other sequels were made with Chan and Carter reprising their roles respectively as Inspector Lee and Detective Carter and we get to see them take on other crime lords and cause major chaos where ever they go. Rush Hour is a fine film from the 90s that even after you watch now, you will still be laughing hard, the movie came out same year that Lethal Weapon 4 was released, which also starred a martial art actor Jet Li. So for me as Lethal Weapon stopped, this two picked up from where it stopped and are keeping the buddy cop flame burning.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Tucker Cop, Chan Cop","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chris Tucker is one of those actors where occasionally you have to stop and ask yourself, Why is this guy an actor? Then you watch his eyes, and you remember. Chris Tucker has the most expressive and chaotic eyes I've seen on film, and I love 'em. His acting is subpar, but as long as he has eyes, I'll watch his films.You also have to commend Jackie Chan for always doing his own stunts. That man has probably fallen over a thousand miles in his career, but it doesn't show in the least. Buddy cop movies are a dime a dozen, but this one that gets an award for being both funny and tolerable.And last but not least, Good God Yaw. "},{"Title":"Good action and jokes for a film based on stereotypes","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Buddy cop films are major attention grabbers for audiences who love odd pairings of individuals. For every movie that relies on this type of comedy, the two that star in this film require a trait that's totally different from the other. The other trait that these characters have is that they are both extremely good at their career. Once they recognize that they have that in common, character development occurs. Director Brett Ratner has this in the film, but it makes a point of being different from the usual.Rush Hour is the story of when two cops, from two different areas of the world, come together to solve a big case. Chinese officer, Lee (Jackie Chan), has been chasing down a crime lord until the man he works for has his child kidnapped by the villain and taken to America. American officer, Carter (Chris Tucker), has been nothing but trouble to L.A. police department. His last case almost got him suspended until he gets a call from the F.B.I. to do a special job for them. The job is the same as Lee's job, and that's how these two characters end up working together.Tucker is great as a self-centered, obnoxious, loud-mouthed jerk. Amazing enough is that his character is quite alluring for the amount of trash talk that he uses. So much of the talk is stereotypical statements Don't ever touch a black man's radio!.Sure that's funny. But replacing the word a black man's with the word my, or Carter's is just as comical. There should be no reason to generalize statements. And Carter says more than just that. How is someone like that even hired into a police department? Police departments have moral codes for their officers. It even questions the standards of the L.A.P.D.Chan is always fun to watch. His fighting techniques are well developed and they're even funnier when he has to improvise on the spot. To come up with such ways of getting his way around, it's impressive. And although Chan is known for being the master of action, Tucker has his moments too. He may not have a fighting style but it's gratifying to see that screenwriter, Jim Kouf, allowed the characters of Lee and Carter to evolve in a mutual relationship. Carter even learned some new moves and he reciprocates them and even impresses his partner.Much of these exchanges are funny. Carter's mouth couldn't be any louder and Lee's hands couldn't be any faster. But audiences may still be lost in that their exchanges are not as hysterical as they should be. I had my chuckles and small laughs, but I never burst out laughing. I wanted to but the power of these two actors just couldn't bring enough laughs to the screen and it was disappointing. Lalo Schifrin composed the film score and it slightly reminisces the theme from The Mean Season (1985) with its trumpet in the background. It is another buddy cop movie, but its marginal use of stereotypical comments gives its audiences a different experience. However, it may not generate as many laughs as expected. "},{"Title":"Welcome to 'Blackinese' Comedy","Date":"11 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Police Story meets Lethal Weapon in Brett Ratner's directorial emergence to the big time. A fairly odd couple join forces to solve a kidnapping and what a ride of endless comedy, superior action and crazy entertainment it turns into. We've seen Black movies, Chinese films, but who would have envisaged, as Chris Tucker coins it, something 'Blackinese'? It's so poles apart from convention, but that's the essence of Buddy Cop Comedy and the reason why 'Rush Hour' is a definitive chapter in this sub-genre's history. This pairing really worked because of the expectation that it was never destined to. Truth is though, this unconventionally bizarre couple sizzled. They fed off each other, giving one another motivation and inspiration for their respective characters and showing each other the ropes as they individually know it. The fun they had was so evident and that feeling came through the screen to the audience. In general, this was a really well constructed action film script. It had all the ingredients for a solid Hong Kong style action driven movie including a villain which is not just an everyday gangster, 'good guys' who aren't hapless yet are not overly capable either as well as, most importantly, a screenplay with effectively choreographed action sequences but interwoven with bouts of fitting light-hearted humour. Tucker excels tremendously as the brash and cocky Detective Carter, it was as if the role was made for him. He is gut-bustingly hilarious in his fast talking performance which will no doubt go down as legendary in the field of African - American comedy, a worthy follow up to his famous 'Smokey' in a style extremely reminiscent of one of his idols, Eddie Murphy. He in fact improvises much of his dialogue and it comes across as brilliantly spontaneous, particularly in Carter's interactions with (or otherwise known as his patronising of) Jackie Chan's Lee. He just flummoxes people with an ability to talk utter garbage (similar to the infamous Axel Foley) again and again. He talks and swaggers as if he owns this movie, and that attitude made if feel like he did. And just how great was his chemistry with Carter's self determined non existent trophy in Elizabeth Pena? They both nailed that, and it begs the query, why do you always need a stereotypical love interest? Pena's character worked wonders in conjunction with Carter the way a regular love interest never would. Jackie Chan finally brings his fantastic stunt work to the mass Hollywood audience and really forges a future in action comedy. You could really call him the more able sidekick. Much has been made of Chan's relatively shaky English but it is admirable to see a role which required that sort of casting. In other words, they needed the shaky English for the contrast in partners to work. And Jackie Chan makes it a point to let his words flow naturally and not try overly hard to make himself 'too Chinese'. He doesn't hesitate to give some of his own to Chris Tucker, even if he is outspoken most of the time. Hilarious but not treated foolishly, action filled but not action dictated, if you like African - American comedy, Hong Kong cinema and a bit of prejudice, you'll lap this up. And do hang on for the in credit bloopers. There were always bound to be many stuff ups with this formula, who doesn't find those funny? "},{"Title":"jackie chan's best American film","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" rush hour is a great American vehicle for jackie chan that is both very funny and has some great action scenes to boot, and even though neither the fights or stunts are as good as his hk stuff it really doesn't matter because rush hour is a genuinely good movie and jackie chan and chris tucker are great together, its by far one of jackie chan's funniest, but it certainly isn't his best or most action packed movies. but as an American action comedy, rush hour is one of the best. the only real criticsm i have about the movie is jackie chan bieng held back stunt wise, but don't get me wrong he still has some impressive stuff here, and i highly recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"Not better then Jackie's Hong Kong work but good for his US films","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The best movies that Jackie Chan has done of his career will always be his movies released primarily in Asia like Drunken Master II, Who Am I?, the Police Story movies, Armour of God, Dragons Forever and what not. But this movie has it's good moments and even action segments as far as what Hollywood will allow him to do. This is a far better movie then a lot of his other Hollywood flicks like The Tuxedo, The Medallion and The Forbidden Kingdom.I'm not normally a Chris Tucker fan since I usually find him to be really annoying but it works well here in this movie, Chris and Jackie have great chemistry together. Julia Hsu who plays the kidnapped girl is a charming young actress in her own right. "},{"Title":"Rush Hour amazes","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Carter usually works alone...this time, he has company. Reluctantly, the Lee and Carter align together and a culture clash becomes obvious. The wonderful pair is drawn to a series of mishaps, conspiracies, and plenty of high kicking action and adventure! Carter shows Lee a tour or two around the city of Los Angeles; and the pair quickly become best buddies. However, Lee and Carter can't help but to interfere with the FBI's affairs. Lee cares only so much about the kidnapped child. He feels that he must help track her down before the nefarious villains murder her... Meanwhile, Carter ticks off a few of the locals before he faces absolute terror. Can Lee convince Carter to focus on this mission to rescue the Diplomat's daughter held for ransom? Or will it be too late? RUSH HOUR is one of the most jamming action/comedy mixtures ever. This film is one awesome venture with the presence of both Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker helping to create a winner for the action genre. RUSH HOUR is entertaining, a fast-paced cop-buddy flick. Part of this film's success owes to the eccentric chemistry between the two leading stars. For example, Jackie Chan's athletic capabilities are strikingly in contrast to Chris Tucker's overzealous, fidgety reactions. Chan's ability to maneuver high risk jumps, leaps, and other assorted dangerous stunts definitely keeps the energy going while Tucker's jittery silliness always creates a warm smile on the viewer's face. Tucker's motor-mouth is surprisingly compatible to Chan's martial arts prowess. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are a definite revelation! The cast in RUSH HOUR prove themselves worthy of their roles. Besides the two main characters, the supporting cast is terrific. Elizabeth Pena adds a touch of sentimentality as Tucker's unappreciated sidekick who turns out to be an asset to the police department after all. Mark Rolston (ALIENS) and Tzi Ma (CHAIN REACTION, RAPID FIRE) as a strategic FBI agent and Consul Han respectively all add credibility to their parts. Newcomer Julie Hsu is also fabulous as a hostage who proves to be more difficult for the bad guys than they can handle...RUSH HOUR has top notch stunts mixed with one-of-a-kind comical moments which help make this film an enlightening combination of action and comedy, with a dash of Chan's fantastic skill work. "},{"Title":"The Best Action Comedy Movie Ever","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" rush hour 1998 starting Jackie Chan and Chris tucker is the funniest & one of the best action comedy movie ever made.the success of this spawned 2 more sequels.the story is about tow cops one from L.A & one from HongKong Team Up to free Chinese consuls daughter kidnapped by an criminal organization jun tao.there are a lot of funny moments in this film including fights,dialog's & hilarious jokes.and i tell you all for those who are offended by racist jokes guys this is a movie so enjoy it.overall rush hour is a classic film which has massive entertainment.my rating is 10/10 i love rush hour series "},{"Title":"Great Buddy Action/Comedy!","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the first American film that Jackie Chan has ever been in without English dubbing. Well he was great with his English here as well as his physical action. Chris Tucker is also pretty good as the smack-talking black cop sidekick. I haven't seen much of him but he seems pretty funny.Basically these are about two cops who don't get along and their mission is to save the daughter of the Chinese consul.As I mentioned above, the acting is pretty good. I love Jackie Chan in his latest American Movies. Chris Tucker seems to be good. I also love the comedy and action. There is plenty of that here.Overall, this is a solid action/comedy that spawned two great sequels. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"The FBI have one aim and that is to Get Carter out of the way.","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan star together in this fitfully amusing buddy cop movie, directed by Brett Ratner, that suffers from Tucker's motormouth comedy schtick but benefits immensely from Chan's athletic fighting style.The plot sees Chan coming to America to try and find the kidnapped daughter of the Chinese Consul (Tzi Ma). The FBI don't want him anywhere near their efforts to solve the case so they pick Detective Carter (Tucker) to babysit him. You can probably already guess the rest.While it does nothing new with the action comedy format, Rush Hour makes for fine entertainment thanks to some genuinely funny moments, great fight scenes and a fantastic cast (including Tom Wilkinson, Ken Leung, Elizabeth Pena, Chris Penn and Philip Baker Hall).Ratner keeps things ticking over nicely with an action moment interspersed throughout every few scenes and a perfect popcorn flick runtime of about 90 minutes. It was never going to change the field of cinema but it does provide fun for those after some simple pleasure.See this if you like Rush Hour 2, Rush Hour 3, 48 Hours. "},{"Title":"Rush, don't walk to these fantastic Hour(s)","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After being disappointed (originally) with Chris Tucker in The Fifth Element, as I was with that entire movie, I didn't want to see Rush Hour thinking it would be mainly a Chris Tucker vehicle, even though I was/am a huge Jackie Chan fan.Well, I rewatched The Fifth Element and actually liked it a whole lot more and was willing to give the 1998 opposite buddy cop movie a shot. With just the first viewing (of future many) I wasn't let down. For a single minute.I sincerely love this movie, and ranks as my second favorite buddy/cop movie behind Lethal Weapon 2. Only some slight flaws cause it to lose a full 5/5 stars, but then rarely is a movie perfect.Super Cop Lee (Chan) in Hong Kong is summoned to the USA after Consul Han's (Ma) daughter is kidnapped. Since the F.B.I. doesn't wish to use outsider Lee's help, they team him with I don't want a partner LAPD cop Carter (Tucker,) not that anyone would have such a loose cannon.Yes, I realize this is predictable and as unoriginal as it comes, however, if not for the fantastic quick wit of Tucker and the fantastic quick punch & creativity of Chan, none of this would work.At any rate, they team, Lee fights and Carter uses every available to investigate the daughter's disappearance while uncovering a conspiracy. All to an exciting finale using both Chan and Tucker's charm and talents.I'm not doing this movie much justice, but suffice to say, each and every time I've seen this, I have been rolling with laughter and excited with all of Chan's enormously original fight/flight sequences. This is a must-see for fans of comedy, heart, action, adventure and, of course, buddy/cop films. I could watch this movie a hundred times and still get the same effect. I probably have already. "},{"Title":"A new age Beverly Hills cop movie which fit like punch on the eye","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour its a basic buddy-movie but with a new dimensions what comes to action. One reason why this was so successfully that Jackie Chan's and Chris Tucker's chemistry worked a perfectly And off course both live certainly in different cultures. And they are complete different actors. Basic plot that's kind of movies but who expeted more? This isn't Oscar film so don't take it seriously. It's kind of irony that Jackie is done these kind of movies since 80s but still his breakthrough happened much later. Okay there are differences but concept is a same.Action scenes were an typical Hollywood fighting those days straight punches and kicks but a little bit humor. Overall Rush Hour is one of the action comedy movies. The cast isn't A-list but worked a very well in this movie. If audience would forget that Chan's English skills aren't that good, his acting its a pretty good.Sometimes its difficult to say about Chris Tucker. He is in same time a funny, annoying and good comedian actor but also seem that he play himself but it isn't problem. "},{"Title":"Sticks to the formula but delivers a fun movie.","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I see this movie is not getting very good reviews. However, I very much enjoyed this movie. There is no ground breaking acting or film-making here...the same formula is in place...a buddy movie of action and comedy. I really enjoyed the first movie, but Rush Hour 2 was just a little more bland. Rush Hour was one of the first that coupled Jackie Chan with an American star to fuse his martial arts skills with comedy. While I am not a big fan of Chris Tucker, I found myself liking this duo. An African-American Comedian paired together with an Asian Action Martial Arts Legend for an action/comedy worked for me. Now on its third installment seemed on face value to be an uninteresting stretch of the original and only out to make a quick buck. However,after watching this as a rental I bought a copy. This movie delivered as an entertaining reworking of the formula. This movie finds them headed to Paris to find the assassin who attempts the Chinese Ambassador's life. We find out that Jackie Chan's character was in an orphanage and has a connection of some sort of brotherhood with another boy that turns to a life of crime. Now Jackie Chan is on a mission to bring down the Triads, despite his brother's involvement. Chris Tucker continues to keep things funny with his stylish dancing, singing and comedic cop blunders...Jackie Chan continues to impress with his still agile martial arts moves. Take this movie on face value...an entertaining action comedy that puts a slightly new twist on the same formula. If you liked the other movies, then this one will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up, and rushing around for the first hour...","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the only Rush Hour film where Chris Tucker is not an annoying idiot. In the other two, he is not funny, and gets on your nerves after the first ten minutes.Jackie Chan, in his usual, paired with the latest comic, role, plays the fish out of water well, preparing himself for more of the same in Shanghai Noon. As is the case with Jackie Chan in his American films, the kung-fu does not last as long as a fight fan would like, but is adequate enough to satisfy even the most ardent of Chan fans.The overall acting of everyone in this film is good, and Brett Ratner has made a decent film in this case. It's not brilliant, but good, and it's only really good because of the film's star, Jackie Chan. He fights well, and he holds the screen well when no fighting is involved. Even though he is an old man in this film, his charm and innocence draw the audience closer to him than the brash, trash-talking Tucker.Overall, this is a good film, but not a Chan classic, as so many people believe it is. Chan's best films were made in the late seventies and early eighties, with Drunken Master 2 (1994) an exception. "},{"Title":"Rush Hour Is Better Than Rush Hour 3, But It Doesn't Surpass Rush Hour 2.","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martial arts top-kick Jackie Chan and jive-talking jokester Chris Tucker deserve better than they get in sophomore director Brett Ratner's Rush Hour, a moderately entertaining but uninspired chop-socky, action comedy about the abduction of a foreign diplomat's daughter. Not only is this jaded cop thriller thoroughly predictable, but silver screen producers Arthur (Last Man Standing) Sarkissian and Roger (G.I. Jane) Birnbaum also have scrimped on the budget. This forgettable yarn about the recovery of the Chinese consul's 11-year old daughter from the hands of greedy, vengeful, million-dollar abductors lacks both punch and momentum. Jackie Chan spends more time acting rather than fighting. The producers have consciously softened his image and relied less on the Charles Chaplin-esquire antics that made Chan's Asian actioneers so captivating and profitable at the box office.The Jim (Gang Related) Kouf and Ross (Star Trek First Contact) LaManna screenplay qualifies as abject. The shoddy storyline is a standard-issue, fish-out-of-water, by-the-numbers, fill-in-the-blanks melodrama with no surprises and few revelations. The hopelessly complicated plot interferes with the action. Kouf and LaManna have borrowed bits and pieces from Walter Hill's 48 Hrs. and Richard Donner's Lethal Weapon 4. Once again, in a role he perfected in Asian epics such as Police Story, Crime Story, Supercop, and First Strike, Chan plays an indestructible policeman, Chief Inspector Lee. Lee matches wits, mitts, and skits with maverick cop, LAPD Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker of Money Talks). As Lee and Carter, Chan and Tucker bicker and bond, and they give Rush Hour its heart and soul. The star chemistry that these two guys generate enlivens this harmless, 97-minute crime thriller. For example, Carter's story about how the LAPD is so hated that his own mother tells her friends that her son is a narcotics pusher instead of a detective is hilarious.When Consul Han (Tzi Ma), the Chinese Ambassador in Los Angeles, learns that his daughter Soo Yung (Julia Hsu) has been seized, he summons Hong Kong's Inspector Lee. Han and Lee are old pals. Together, they broke the Junteo, a mafia-life Asian crime syndicate which and heisted millions of bucks worth of firearms, narcotics, and elegant Chinese museum artifacts. Meanwhile, the Feds take charge of the kidnapping. FBI Supervisor Warren Russ (Mark Rolston of Aliens) and agent Whitney (Rex Linn of CSI Miami) have some initial misgivings about Consul Han and Chief Inspector Lee. Fearful of the consequences should Inspector Lee encounter injury, they assign LAPD Detective James Carter to 'baby-sit' Lee while he is in their jurisdiction.Obnoxious Detective Carter is the last man that the FBI wants on their side. A reckless cop like Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry, Carter is a loose cannon on deck. In his introductory scene, Carter nabs Clive (Chris Penn of True Romance), an illegal explosives dealer, in a car loaded with C-4. During an abortive getaway attempt, Clive dives out of his auto an instant before Carter shoots a hole in the trunk, blows up the C-4, and turns Clive's vehicle into a blazing meteor. Not only does Carter attract trouble, but he also prefers to work solo. He shuns his current partner, Tania Johnson (Elizabeth Pena of Transamerica), and he cracks sexist jokes at her expense. Captain Diel (Philip Baker Hall of The Rock) wants to suspend him for his destructive shenanigans when the FBI requests an escort for Inspector Lee. At first, Carter thinks that he has been rewarded for his model conduct. Later, he realizes that his captain loaned him out to the FBI as punishment. Now, everybody is laughing at Carter's expense. When he learns that the FBI is using him to keep Inspector Lee out of their hair as well as harm's way, he sets out to solve the case himself.Meantime, Inspector Lee adores little Soo Yung. She was one of his students before she left with her father for America. Lee makes finding her a personal quest, and he refuses to let Carter thwart him. You get to see the softer side of Jackie Chan in Rush Hour. When Chan and Tucker team up to interrogate bad guy Clive, Clive rats out the bad guys when Jackie melts his heart with a photo of Soo Yung. Furthermore, Jackie doesn't kill anybody in Rush Hour. What he does best is battle off huge numbers of thugs. Jackie's best scene occurs at the end when he splits his time between fighting the villains and trying to save priceless Chinese artifacts from destruction.The measure of any great actioneer is the villainy over which the heroes must triumph. Although the villains have outlandish monetary demands, they never perform mean-spirited acts of violence. Rarely do they serious jeopardize the lives of our police protagonists. Instead, Carter and Lee spend more time clashing with each other than the villains. The worst the villains do is strap the little girl into a vest stitched with C-4. Essentially, these adversaries pose a little threat. As one of Hong Kong's most powerful crime lords in the Juntao, chief villain (Tom Wilkerson of The Patriot) only shows his audacity at the end when he guns down several FBI agents in cold blood. The antagonists barely make the grade with their adversarial behavior. They are a dull and dreary lot, noting like Jet Li in Lethal Weapon 4. Brett Ratner directs Rush Hour with the brisk efficiency of a traffic cop. Indeed, Ratner keeps this East meets West potboiler on track, but he displays little visual storytelling flair. This would change with the top-notch Rush Hour 2 and then reappear with Rush Hour 3. Ratner, who shot 75 music videos before graduating to the movies, doesn't create much rhythm or punch in his film-making. Sadly, thespians such as Oscar-winner Tom Wilkerson, Chris Penn, and Elizabeth Pena are squandered n secondary roles. If you enjoy Jack Chan flicks, Rush Hour is tolerable, but it's a shame that the filmmakers didn't match the caliber of Chan's more lavishly produced pictures. "}{"Title":"Good film but action is less","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm a die hard martial arts and Jackie Chan fan. That's why I saw the film but I was a little disappointed that where is the martial arts. Jackie should be involved in long fight scenes with his humoristic acts. Fight scenes were incredibly short in this film.On the other hand it has some funny materials. I like the scene when Chris Tucker meets Chan in airport and says, please tell me you speak English. I'm detective Carter, do you understand the words that are coming out my mouth, That's really funny!! Chan and Tucker both are master comedians. Their chemistry was awesome but Hollywood should increase action stunts rather than focusing on relationship or comedy. "},{"Title":"Chan and Tucker make a great odd couple team","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this is a pretty good movie.it's an action adventure comedy.there is a lot of action and the movie is fast paced.there isn't a lot of comedy,but comedy bits there are,are pretty funny.Jackie Chan's acrobatic,over the top cartoonish martial arts moves are funny.Chris Tucker's motor mouth character is pretty funny at times.also the teaming of Chan and Tucker is a great idea.they work well off each other.one could not be more opposite from the other.i liked their back and forth banter.the other thing i like about this movie is that even though there is some violence,it's not excessive,and there is a bit of coarse language,but not very much.for me,Rush Hour is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan + Chris Tucker = lots of fun and lots of laughs","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour is the kind of comedy-action flick that I tend to enjoy above all others. It's not too serious, it's not too comical, it's right in the middle where the highest level of entertainment value can be found in a funny martial arts movie. The film is not afraid to be a little violent, but it's not calm enough to avoid it either. The two stars of the film, martial arts master Jackie Chan and comedian Chris Tucker make a great team for the big screen. Each one has their own particular and appealing quality that catches our attention. But when the two of them are put together on screen, the audience willingly embraces the film.The stunt work and action scenes in Rush Hour and magnificently done and stunningly realistic. The stunt coordinators and sound technicians combined their efforts to make every punch and kick appear to be striking the target dead on and there are some great moments where Chan would scale up walls, swing through windows from rails, use tolls in his environment for defense, and other great moments. There are also a fair share of shootouts, which look great enough. Hits look like real hits, but the violence doesn't overplay itself so that it becomes too horrifying for young children.There is also Chris Tucker's almost effortless performance at playing a funny character. Tucker's high-pitched voice, facial expressions, and well-written lines in the screenplay bring about several laughs which keep us entertained whenever there's not a karate fight going on before us.Bottom line, Rush Hour is a very effective comedy-action film that stands high above others that were made before it and still to this day try to imitate its effective style. The main point is that Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker make a great team for entertaining an audience. And under the direction of Brett Ratner, they do their job flawlessly. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film to forget your worries...","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I bought 3 DVD's at HMV for only £20, great deal for 3 great films, Rush Hour being one of them!I've seen my brother watch this on TV a lot and thought that i should watch it so while in Scotland, i bought this and let me tell you, i won't regret it!This film has everything, comedy, action and romance! The lead duo of Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan works well, two guys who never seen to get along, somehow make the world a better place!So all things considered, this is a great film, i would recommend it to someone with a bit of money in their pocket and has a night in, you won't regret it!8/10 "},{"Title":"The funniest martial arts movie ever made!","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After the death of martial arts legend Bruce Lee, the search was on for an actor who could inspire audiences to the same degree. Every young martial artist was given a chance. Jackie Chan came on top of everyone else and was destined to become the next big thing. Early on he decided to do things different than his former stunt coordinator Bruce Lee so he would be able to move out of his shadow. This very reason supported by Jackie's undying love for slap-stick and such actors as Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton, lead to the fact that his movies would always contain as much humor as possible. Fortunately the fact that his English is as bad as that of Arnold Schwarzenegger isn't a disturbing factor at all.Buddy cop movies have always been about two (or more) entirely different characters being forced to work together in a situation that neither one ever wanted. This was the case with classic action-comedies 48 hrs, Beverly Hills cop and Lethal weapon and this particular style is also used in this action-packed comedy.But even though Rush hour shares many similarities with the above-mentioned classic '80s movies, there is however one important difference. Rush hour is just as much a comedy as it is a martial arts movie. And that's why this film feels so fresh. Because Jackie Chan plays a character in this movie which looks as if they mixed Charlie Chaplin and Bruce Lee into one and the same person. This character is very agile yet in a clumsy and comical way.As usual Jackie Chan does all of his stunts himself. Thus far he remains, to me, the greatest of all martial arts actors ... I have yet to see many films by Bruce Lee and maybe in time I will change my opinion. But right now I like Jackie Chan and his ultra-fast moves a lot more than anything else in the world of martial arts business. He has done so many extraordinary things that tangle the mind. His actions are a gorgeous combination of beautiful fighting choreography and entertaining slap-stick. This mixture is both innovate as well as very successful all around the world. Simply put this extremely talented actor is a joy to watch fight. He can and will use every single item in this movie as a weapon to defend himself from several thugs attacking him simultaneously. Also be sure that you don't miss out on the hilarious bloopers after this film has ended!Of course Rush hour isn't just only about an exceptionally athletic man doing what he does best. He is only half the movie. The other half is filled up by the biggest mouth in the movie business namely actor Chris Tucker. This African-American comedian is often mixed up with Chris Rock and this shouldn't come as a surprise at all, because both these talented actors are considered the 'Eddy Murphy for the new generation.' Basically they do what Eddy Murphy did back in the '80s. Even though I think Chris Rock is the better actor, Chris Tucker is quite good in this movie and delivers ... although neither one of them will ever be as great as Eddy Murphy.In Rush hour, Chris Tucker plays the total opposite of Jackie Chan which means all talk but hardly any walk! Tucker talks and Chan fights! That's how easily this movie and its main characters have been split up. But it doesn't stay this way forever and that is one of the smartest moves of Rush hour. The lines between the one who fights and the one who talks start to blur as the movie develops. This is not only unexpected but also raises the bar on a humoristic level. It's a welcome change from the average buddy cop movie.Furthermore, there is British actor Tom Wilkinson who was one of the few main actors to keep his clothes on in the funny, British comedy The full monty. He also later starred as the brilliant doctor in Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and a notorious crime boss in Batman begins. Two other very familiar Asian faces make an appearance. Tzi Ma plays consul Han in this movie and will return for the upcoming Rush hour 3 as ambassador Han. He played a volcano scientist in the ever spectacular disaster movie Dante's speak and also plays a minor yet vital role in 24 Seasons 5 and 6. The other actor is Ken Leung. He is most famous for his role in X-Men The last stand where he played a mutant who was able to sprout spikes from his body (which obviously makes it very hard for anyone to give him a hug without getting hurt.)In short A simple yet intelligent comedy which is slightly different yet becomes a very original buddy cop movie due to the martial arts by Jackie Chan. Altogether this makes up for a very entertaining movie! "},{"Title":"One of the best buddy-movies ever ! ! ! !","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This isn't an Oscar winner, but it comes pretty close. It's entertaining each time I watch it. It is just so wacky and fun! It certainly owes a lot from 48 HOURS, LETHAL WEAPON and various other buddy films, but it ranks up there with them no problem. The company, New Line Cinema, is clearly happy to have this series of films in it's catalog, seeming how they're just as popular as their LORD OF THE RINGS and Austin Powers series. These and the Shrek movies are the most watched on my DVD player mainly due to their witty humor and they are even good party movies. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A good comedy journey","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A very good and pleasing start, to what has turned out to be a fantastic trilogy. Part 1 introduces the characters of the likes of Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker, who make a classic comedy duo. Tucker being the cocky, fast mouth from the U.S.A. and the quite but ass kicking Jackie Chan.Very enjoyable and stupidly funny, go see this. And the other 2. Chan and Tucker make a duo you wont want to forget, and you would want to see these films time and time again. MASTERFUL. The story alone is exciting and adventurous, the action is funny and cool and the comedy is genius. "},{"Title":"Very funny cop/buddy film","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rated PG-13 for sequences of action/violence and shootings, and for language.Rush Hour is a cop/buddy film in the vein of 48hrs starring Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker.Two very funny actors in one very funny movie.Rush Hour is an entertaining film with some fun action scenes.The sequel Rush Hour 2 is also great but not as good as the first.I have not seen the third film yet.Rush Hour is about a cop from china who goes to America to help in the investigation of a man's daughter getting kidnapped.He is teamed up with a loud-mouth cop named Carter.At first they dislike each other but as they investigate further they start liking each other.Rush Hour is a hilarious cop film! "},{"Title":"good action comedy.","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour is a good Action/Comedy that deserves the high rating it has on IMDb as Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker make an awesome team. This movie was better then most stupid Action/Comedy that come out now days. This movie has about 20 laughs in it altogether which is not bad at all for an Action/Comedy and even though there are not any as many as Shanghai Noon and probably as good as them it is still a movie that holds quite a lot of value to me. This movie has quite a lot of things in it that are good 1. they have all the action that an action movie.2. They keep the laughs coming and do not stop 3 quarters through like most Comedys do.3. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chans performance is incredibly good and deserves 10 percent of my rating. Overall I rate it 94%. "},{"Title":"A Kidnapping That Involves Two Continents!","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The interaction of Lee and Carter, makes this movie a really fun one, entertaining, and with great action scenes with of course, a lot of martial arts with Jackie Chan's style (a particular typo of humor). This movie gives a rating of 6/10, almost the best for this type of movie, really entertaining, but not a piece of art of course. Really good action in two continents and good one and a half hour entertainment!ABOUT THE MOVIE This movie is about two of the most rude police agents in the world; one from China (Chief Inspector Lee, represented by Jackie Chan), and the other from America (Detective James Carter, represented by Chris Tucker); in this funny movie they have to find and capture the terrorists behind the kidnapping of Soo Young (Julia Hsu), a little girl, daughter of the Chinese Consul in America (Consul Han, Tzi Ma); this girl was kidnapped by one of the Chinese mafias that looked for revenge against the consul, after he spoiled some drug operations that they where doing back in China; this mafia was leaded by Sang (Ken Leung) an evil and martial arts expert; the confidence that the consul has on Chief Inspector Lee, creates a quest of two continents in the search of the little girl, and where they start to find obscure relations between the Chinese and some people in high positions on some official departments of USA. "}{"Title":"Great Movie.............","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chris Tucker stars as Detective James Carter. And Jakie Chan stars as Chief Inspector Lee this two together make a great comedy duo. Inspector Lee is known as the fastest hands in the east while...Detective Cater for the biggest mouth in the west so it's a great duo. This movie is filled with jokes that most people will never forget such as Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth. I don;t think anyone will ever forget that line. This movie has great stunts too. Jakie Chan is more of an action guy in this movie while Chris Tucker is the funny one. Great plot great writing and great directing. This is a great movie to watch when you in a down mood. So I advise you that this movie has a lot to say. So I have to give this a 10/10. "},{"Title":"best comic movie~","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It was great. I think the director mixed with Chinese martial arts and American comics well. The story is very simple. It is about saving Chinese embassy's daughter. Lee, who was a bodyguard of the girl, came to U.S.A. and met detective Carter. In this movie, Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker's combination was really fun. They shared their cultures and got some troubles because of cultures - Lee fought many black people because he told one guy as 'sup, my meca(What's that mean exactly, by the way?)'. Nice, he totally showed what Chinese martial arts is. He used many times 'fight of Tae-guk'. It is contrast to Bruce Lee used, but his fighting shows more impactive scenes than Bruce did. Tucker showed perfect opposite side of Jackie Chan. He is always problems for all, but he defeats many enemies with Lee and his fun. I was surprised that Jackie Chan didn't use the stunt man. He and Tucker make people not to lose their views all the times. This movie is just for fun. You don't have to think about its reality, but just relax and have fun. "},{"Title":"great fun!","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you like Jackie Chan, you will have no problem loving this movie. Chris Tucker (Do you understand the words that are comin' outta my mouth?) was delightful as the LAPD cop who really just doesn't get it. And Jackie Chan was the perfect foil for his humor. The casting was pretty good. It is always fun to see Jackie Chan work his own stunts. A few parts are I know they thought that was cool when they wrote it, but it just doesn't transfer, but mostly this is a good script. This is not Oscar quality (what Chris Tucker movie is?), but it is an enjoyable experience. Sit and wait for the one-liners. The situational and physical comedy in this one will leave you rolling. My son is always quoting Chris Tucker's well-known quote (above) to add humor to any stressful situation. Watch it. Buy it. Love it. I did. "},{"Title":"Whoever 'thought'  team-up these two... brilliant","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hey and why not. A curious Chinese inspector, who is placed on a 'case' that the other law enforcement, across the water, doesn't want him near. Yes James carter or when it comes down to, too much heat, 'Jimmy Carter the chicken-hearted' is just out of the Chief's office after being in 'trouble' yet again. You just know it has happened before, with him. After Explaining to his Chief, his 'cock & bull' story about a bust gone-aye-rye, destroying property, putting lives at stake, he is wondrously given, instead of suspension, a brand new assignment. Papa's got a brand new nag! He is sent to what he thinks is a major case, with the F.B.I. Instead of course, he has been set-up to 'babysit' this kindly little inspector, Lee. Well that doesn't set right with the self-proclaimed hero, James carter, no way! He wants to take the 'lead' on the big-case. A hostage situation. Well after meeting his contact 'Lee' at the airport and trying to figure out how to tell him what to do, after picking him up on the tarmac. These guys run back and forth on the trail of the dangerous with little more than a prayer, a fast handed martial arts master and a high and verbally profuse brand new partner. They stumble and bumble through the first part of this adventure and become positively lethal together. As they stand on 'Sunset Blvd' and Lee teaches Carter the 'dismount and disassemble' method, they have truly reached the 'connection' point with their partner founded friendship. The communication and then 'miscommunication' are driving the laughs all the way! These two did a fantastic job of making a 'mess' into a romping good show! I think this is a super idea, who's time has come and what perfect timing it was. Here's to many more great adventures in naive investigative work! This was a top comedy for me. Recommended Highly! (****) "},{"Title":"Great Comedy Team","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker gave a great performance playing against each other and then deciding to join forces together and fight the real bad dudes in Los Angeles. Jackie Chan, (Chief Inspector Lee),San Wa,'05, visits the LAPD and is assigned a so called FBI pal, Chris Tucker,(Detective James Carter),Jackie Brown,'97, who finds out the job he is assigned to is like a Babysitter for Inspector Lee. There is plenty of action and car chases as Lee is trying to locate a missing little gal who gets into the hands of some very bad dudes and there is plenty of people being killed through out the entire picture. This is a very entertaining film with lots of laughs and drama. "},{"Title":"Excellent film that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and blow you away","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you ask me, RUSH HOUR is an excellent film that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and blow you away. Juntao (Tom Wilkinson) kind of gave me the creeps. You'll understand why once you've seen this movie. I got really scared when Soo Yung (Julia Hsu) was kidnapped. To me, Carter (Chris Tucker) and Lee (Jackie Chan) were very tough and funny guys. In my opinion, the performances were top grade, the direction was superior, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the cast was perfectly chosen. Also, the soundtrack is really good, too. Before I wrap this up, I must warn you that this movie is very violent if you're going to see it, so viewer discretion is strongly advised. Now, in conclusion, if you like Chris Tucker or Jackie Chan films, I highly recommend this movie. It's sure to keep you guessing from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Eh........ It was Okay","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I didn't see anything special in this movie. They just had the typical stereotype of a black person x100. Tucker was VERY annoying with his big mouth one liners. Chan did a very good job. I think this is his best role in a movie. Chan brought this whole movie together with his awesome fight sequences......... especially the one at the beginning of the movie. Tucker just gets annoying and you just want him to get off the screen for more Tucker time. I like the plot and the fact that it was in LA but the plot wasn't too strong throughout the film. It focused on the Tucker/Chan bonding. Overall if your into a good buddy cop movie with Chan doing some nice stunts as always then you'll like this. I just wasn't satisfied at the comedy in this film. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Buddy Buddy Film, That's Very Funny, With An Awesome Plot And 2 Amazing Performances From Jackie Chan And Chris Tucker!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a fantastic Buddy Buddy film that's very funny, with an awesome plot and 2 amazing performances from Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker!. All the characters are wonderful and the story was really cool, plus Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are simply amazing in this!. While i enjoyed the sequel a little bit more i still loved this and Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker have amazing chemistry together!, plus one of the funniest moments in the film is when Jackie Chan tires to do what Tucker does and says to the bartender What's Up My Nigga!. It has a couple of great fight scenes, and Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker seemed really comfortable with each other, plus the finale was awesome!.The ending is also really funny, and i thought Tom Wilkinson and Ken Leung were very menacing as the main villains!, plus Chris Tucker cracked me up throughout!. The stunts were awesome, and the scene where Jackie hanging onto that pipe from really high was awesome!, and really hilarious. This is a fantastic Buddy Buddy film that's very funny with an awesome plot and 2 amazing performances from Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker!, and i say Go see it now!. The Direction is wonderful!. Brett Ratner does a wonderful job here with excellent camera work, fantastic angles, using a great location and keeping the film at an extremely fast pace!. The Acting is amazing!. Jackie Chan is AMAZING as always,and is amazing here, he is hilarious, extremely likable, had amazing chemistry with Chris Tucker, had a fantastic sense of humor as always, did some amazing stunts as always, kicked that ass, and just was tons of fun to watch! (Jackie Rules!!!!). Chris Tucker is also AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely hilarious very likable, had a wonderful relationship with Jackie, cracked me up throughout, is as funny as all the people say he is and just did an amazing job overall!. (Tucker Rules!!!). Tom Wilkinson is fantastic as one of the main villains, he was really menacing, and quite unpredictable i liked him lots. Tzi Ma is awesome here in his role, he brings quite a powerful presence and did an awesome job overall, the scene where he breaks down about his daughter being kidnapped is especially powerful!. Ken Leung is great as the other villain, and was really sneaky and menacing i liked him. Julia Hsu does okay, and cracked me up a couple of times as the daughter, but she got on my nerves for the most part, she was okay i guess. Chris Penn,Elizabeth Peña and Philip Baker Hall all do great in there roles. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall Go see it now!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"The Beginning","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan. Well, what more is left to say? The dynamic duo started of with Rush Hour which, since I like action-comedy movies, is one of my favorites. It's a really cool match between awesome a**-kicking moves, delivered from the famous Chinese actor Jackie Chan, and the clumsiness and stupidity from one of the funniest men alive, Chris Tucker. It has it all, when it comes to comedy and dialogs. I like to let people talk, that like to talk, and when they talk I can see how full of sh*t they are Jackie spits at Chris Tucker and just that sentence gives you a glimpses of what is too come. Kapooow ! Its just rush hour danrozen,swe "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was the first movie I ever saw with Jackie Chan in it. I had high expectations, and the movie didn't disappoint me. Chan is excellent in the fight scenes in this movie. There are lots of them, by the way. He's also a really funny guy, and his typical mix of kung fu and humour is really great. Even funnier than Chan is Chris Tucker. He is really funny in this movie, and I guess that the Rush Hour movies are clearly his best. That's at least my opinion. So, when Chan and Tucker teams up that means great action scenes, plus really funny situations and dialouge. The story is not the best that's ever made, but it fits this movie 100%. "}{"Title":"Jackie Chan brings us the action, Chris Tucker brings us the loud-mouthed moron.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Starring Jackie Chan, Chris Tucker I remember when this movie first came out. Bryce and I went to see it in Swift Current. I really had no idea what to expect due to the fact that I had not seen any previews. But I definitely enjoyed this movie.What it is, is a rock 'em sock 'em action-comedy. Jackie Chan brings us his trademark martial arts skills as detective inspector Li, and Chris Tucker also give us his trademark skills playing James Carter as the world's most obnoxious and loud-mouthed schmuck.So here's the deal. Chinese Consulate Hahn and his family move to America, and shortly after moving, his daughter is kidnapped. The FBI are on the scene immediately, but Hahn wants to have one of his own men on the case. So he flies in detective Li. The FBI don't want Li's help, and they don't want some foreign agent to get his head blown off on American soil and make it a big international incident. So they decide to get someone to babysit Li. At first they plan on using one of their rookie agents, but then they decide, quote, If we're going to embarrass someone, may as well be LAPD. Carter is already in trouble down at the precinct for screwing up a case pretty hardcore, so his chief is all too eager to hand off this crappy assignment to him. Carter has no idea that he's being sent over to babysit Li. All he knows is that the FBI want him to work a case. So Carter gets there, the FBI tell him to take a hike and watch out for Li. And since Carter doesn't really want to be suspended for two months without pay, he complies.The rest of the movie pretty much follows Carter and Li around while they talk to different people, collect information, kick a few butts, and work on solving the case. Jackie Chan's martial arts skills are as good as ever, and Chris Tucker is&#133; well, annoying. How can anybody have a voice that high? Several times throughout the movie I kinda wished that he'd get his mouth duct-taped shut.All in all, the movie has some great action and some great laughs. If you haven't already seen it, it is worth a view. If you like Jackie Chan, and if you feel you can tolerate Chris Tucker for ninety minutes.Bottom Line 3.5 out of 4 (worth a look) "},{"Title":"Get ready for a rush!","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour was one of the most popular movies of 1998, and it was rightfully so.By that year, we'd already seen a myriad of 48 Hrs./Lethal Weapon knock-offs to fill an entire section at any Blockbuster Video. Almost nothing in the film is original, so we can't go walking into this expecting The Godfather. And because the film knows this, it has no choice but to shift its focus to the comradeship between the two leads, Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker.The film opens in Hong Kong, as Britain prepares to return government control back over to the Chinese, and Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan) is on the verge of shutting down the Juntao criminal organization, but his collar Sang (Ken Leung) gets away, as does the elusive eponymous crime lord Juntao.Fast-forward two months later and we're now in Los Angeles, where Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) messes up while trying to make a bust. He's later enlisted by the F.B.I. on a bogus assignment when the Chinese consulate's daughter is kidnapped, and Carter and Lee are forced to work together to solve the kidnapping.That's about all there is to the plot and that's all we need to know. The film's fun comes from the acting and leading charm of Chan and Tucker, who both make the movie all that more enjoyable and funny. The action is pretty violent (considering it's PG-13), the direction from Brett Ratner is sharp, and the action is kicking.Get ready for a rush!10/10 "},{"Title":"The one that started for Chan and Tucker!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This I say is a beginning for Chan and Tucker. These are the odd couple of buddy cops, since Starsky & Hutch, Lethal Weapon, and countless others. However it's more East& West. You got Carter(Chris Tucker), a quick-mouthed policeman who don't believe in partners. All the way from Hong Kong, you got Inspector Lee(Jackie Chan) who happens to be fast with his hands. Put those two together what do you get? Side-splitting comedy that will last you for a lifetime. First, they couldn't stand one another, but when they exchange their moves, a mutual understanding blossoms and the partnership is in the making. Though Tucker is no martial artist, he is a quick learner when his fists are not enough to tackle the bad guys. Ansd those leap kicks were good enough to wipe out the bad guys. I think going to Hong Kong would be best for Carter since he had such let downs in L.A. would best for him. This is a beginning of a beautiful friendship. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"How cool?!","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A fantastic movie! OK, so it doesn't keep you on the edge of your seat the whole way through and it doesn't leave you breathless and it doesn't make you think 'Oh my God, they're gonna get sued!' (pity...) but it is great fun and will have you in hysterics a lot of the time. Thank heavens for Chris Tucker. He does a brilliant job as Carter and no one could possibly have obtained so many laughs from such a precarious script as he did. It took skill, serious skill. Yet we all know who stole the show... Who else but the incredible Mr Jackie Chan? Does this guy rock or what?! The martial arts are amazing and we all know it inspires us to practise our high kicks in secret when we're alone. Go on, admit it... He also uses the script to it's full potential. (I think the casting director should be given a special mention since she/he picked such perfect actors to fill these roles. Without them this film would almost have inevitably flopped.) Like I said, the script was dangerous but these guys managed to pull it off. Best of all, during the end credits we get to see the out-takes. That has gotta be one of the best bits of every Jackie Chan movie... "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan is The Master","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Summary written by Julian Reischl julianreischl@mac.com Hongkong, the last night of British ruler-ship. Detective Inspector Lee, close friend to Consul Han Solon, manages to prevent precious pieces of China's history being smuggled out of the country. Two years later - Consul Han is living in Los Angeles with his family - Crime Lord Juntao takes revenge on him by abducting his young daughter Soo Yung. Han does not trust the FBI to do a good job and has Lee flown in from Hongkong to assist them. But the FBI officials do not want any help from outside and officially request help from LAPD, who are glad to get rid of Detective James Carter for a while, a big-mouthed work-alone cop who just can't be cool enough. His assignment is to keep Lee as far away from trouble as possible. But Carter and Lee don't like being put aside in that way and start working the case on their own.A great buddy comedy, with awesome Jackie Chan stunts. This movie has comedy, action and even a little suspense for good measure. A thoroughly enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"vote","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" the film was awesome!!!!! i watched rush hour 1 couple of times and i also watched rush hour 2 couple of times. i liked the bit when Jackie Chan knocked all the bad guys in the museum and the funny bit is when all the money dropped from the air and Chris tucker puts in his pocket. i also liked the end when there both on the plane and Chris tucker spec's Chinese and Jackie listens to the song loud. my vote is to give 10 out of 10. i hope in rush hour 3 there are more fighting and stunts. i also hope it comes out soon as possible so everyone could enjoy the film if it comes in cinema i will book in so i will be the first person to see the film. "},{"Title":"The interaction between Tucker and Chan really works well","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Martial arts movies come in different forms. We all know Bruce Lee's movies and in more recent times movies like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon; Hero... were a big success. But there is also another, less stylish form of the genre the martial arts comedy. What you get with this kind of movies is a lot of action, some special moves and nice fighting scenes, but it doesn't take itself too serious.Even though I'm not the biggest fan of martial arts films, I have to admit that I had a good time watching this one. I liked the interaction between Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan. Tucker is very good as the loud mouth screw up who doesn't like to work with a partner and Jackie Chan is very impressive with all his moves. Together they are very nice as the mismatched crime fighters, not only fighting crime but also the culture shock between China and America.I wouldn't recommend it if you want to see a highly intelligent movie, but if you just want to have some fun, this is worth a watch. I give it a 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are hilarious!","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is a hilarious buddy comedy starring Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker. It's about an LAPD cop who must team up with a powerful Hong Kong cop to track down a man's kidnapped daughter. Some of the scenes are very serious, and others are pumped with adrenaline action. Most importantly, this is one of the funniest action-comedies around. A lot of the scenes had me rolling on the floor with laughter, particularly those involving Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan somehow going into each other's worlds. A must-see action-comedy.Grade 8/10MPAA Rating PG-13My Rating Ages 11 and up (violence, language, brief drug use)  "},{"Title":"Chan's finest American Adventure","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SPOILERSEvery so often we get a Chinese film star who makes the switch to American Cinema and produces a few martial arts films. In the last couple of years the most important of these has been Jackie Chan. Since 1998's Rush Hour, Chan has made a living out of combining comedy with his martial arts skills. Whilst Chan's future films have been variable (Shangai Noon from 2000 being quality), it was this first buddy movie with Chris Rock which remains his finest.In Rush Hour, Jackie Chan plays Chief Inspector Lee, a member of the Hong Kong Police Force, who travels to America to attempt to stop Juntao, an evil leader of a crime syndicate who has kidnapped the Chinese Consul's Daughter. Teamed up with the extreme James Carter (Chris Rock), Chan's detective will experience policework as it's never been seen before.The beauty of Jackie Chan's work has always been the way he manages to combine amazing scenes of physical endurance with comedy. In Rush Hour, this is shown the most. With Chan fighting with a steering wheel attached to his hand, or climbing all over scaffolding in a museum, Chan demonstrates a willingness to put himself on the line for his art.In Shanghai Noon (2000) and it's sequel Shangai Knights (2003), Chan teams up with Owen Wilson to create this combination of comedian and martial artist. In Rush Hour and 2001's sequel, Chan teams with black comedian Chris Rock to produce an amazing combination of extreme black comedy with out of town guy with minimal ideas about life in America.Ultimately there's relatively little which can be said about Rush Hour. It's a comedy with an amazing double act and some excellent stunts by Chan. It might not be the finest double act ever, but it's easily Chan's best. Well worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ever read about the concerns that some media groups have aboutviolence in movies and bad language and how that effects ourchildren?  Well, I'm writing this review to remind us all that it's true. We bought this movie years ago, and on a snow day from schoolkids were out for a week here we let our oldest daughter watchboth RH 1 and RH 2 back to back for a couple of days in a row.  Wewarned our then second grader about how there is bad languageand martial arts moves in this movie that were never to besaid/repeated in public.  She swore she would never do/say suchthings.  And then she went back to school.That first day back, she completed a series of martial arts kicks onkids mostly boys on the playground.  And then she used the BWord on two boys and a girl during the school day that's ChrisTucker's favorite cuss word in this movie.  Needless to say, she was grounded.  And she also was put on adiet of G movies until she learned her lesson completely about ayear.  This movie was excellent.  But don't be fooled.  Young children areindeed highly impressionable and do not need to watch thesemovies until they are old enough to understand fiction/reality. I gave this movie a 7 out of 10.  My husband and I find this wholeseries just wonderful.  However, I'd recommend this to adults orolder teenagers only.   "}{"Title":"Hey, that's really OK!","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Whaddya expect of a Jackie Chan movie? Classical action and mild comedy, and that's exactly what you get. It's another of Jackie's zero-gravity flics, which means another 90 mins of nice and easy entertainment. There's no racism found, nothing of that sort! So what - lean back and enjoy! Take your time to enjoy a story unfolding quite logically, enjoy the different universes of Tucker and Chan as they blend and merge into one another. It may have some flaws and there may be some minor aspects of in contingencies and the like, but however - this is another movie meant to entertain, remember? It may be coincidence, but it seems Tucker is doing quite well as an imitation of Murphy. Chan is his classical self - funny but willing to accept each and every opportunity to demonstrate how easily gravity can be defeated. And I tell you, folks, that's exactly what I like about these two movies - they seem to show that two worlds, which are quite apart in real life, can work together. And they do!  "},{"Title":"A fun Action/Comedy movie!","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Star Rating **** out of 5Hong Kong was the last night of the British rulership. Detective Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan), close friend to Consul Han Solon, manages to prevent precious pieces of China's history being smuggled out of the country. Two years later - Consul Han is living in Los Angeles with his family - Crime Lord Juntao takes revenge on him by abducting his young daughter Soo Yung. Han does not trust the FBI to do a good job and has Lee flown in from Hong Kong to assist them. But the FBI officials do not want any help from outside and officially request help from LAPD, who are glad to get rid of Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) for a while, a big-mouthed work-alone cop who just can't be cool enough. His assignment is to keep Lee as far away from trouble as possible. But Carter and Lee don't like being put aside in that way and start working the case on their own. It was funny how Lee and James first meet, James was just talking and talking and Lee was just quiet and listening to him ramble. A quote I thought was funny was where James says when they are working in Los Angeles he is Michael Jackson and Lee was Tito but in the sequel it was the other way around when they were in Hong Kong at the beginning of Rush Hour 2! Most Action/Comedy movies always have a meaning to them that if you work together with the other person you might end up becoming best friends with them!BOTTOM LINE ANOTHER 1990's CLASSIC HIT!  "},{"Title":"One of the best action-comedies!----9/10","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour revitalized the buddy action flicks of the 80's and has become a modern classic. It is a movie in the tradition of 48 Hrs. and Lethal Weapon. And like those two movies, it has perfect casting. Chris Tucker is hysterical in his best performance since Friday. Jackie Chan is in top form, complete with incredible stunts, cool martial arts and hilarious broken English. The story is well-written and full of funny situations for both Tucker and Chan. Look for the scenes where Chan is in a predominantly black pool hall and Tucker buys some Chinese food from a cart. The chemistry between the two leads is probably what makes this movie so great. Tucker and Chan now go together like peanut butter and jelly. Great individually, but even better together. All this makes Rush Hour a guaranteed good time. 9/10 "},{"Title":"3 stars but they changed jackie, he was not himself","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie was very good because of the acion comedy scenes by jc and tucker. what i didn.t like about this movie was that the makers of the film changed jackie chan example his hairstle the film was hurried and the direction was poor ,the film was good just because of jackie and tucker nothung else "},{"Title":"Prepare for the Ultimate Rush!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie can be described in 4 words Hilarious Entertaining Good PlotJakie Chan and Chris Tucker prove to be the best Action Comedy team in this movie. I was always a fan of Tucker (especially in Friday) but I found him hilarious non-stop! I was never much for Chan, but after this I found him a bit more intresting. The plot was pretty Thick and the characters had good personality. I give Rush Hour a 5/5 "},{"Title":"Pretty Darn Good","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was so funny the very first time i saw it! After a while, it does get incredibly old and you get sick of Tucker's half-bit comedy lines, but it's all in good fun and you'll have a nice feeling at the end as two ends of the spectrum join forces. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan actually make a pretty good team and help reclaim a kidnapped daughter, spiting the annoying, know-it-all FBI agents. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Makes You Feel Good.","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan plays a Chinese detective who is sent to California to solve a kidnapping, but the FBI wants none of his help so they hire Chris Tucker to babysit him.  RUSH HOUR is a pure gem of a movie, and the best buddy action movie since the original LETHAL WEAPON.  Chan is in top form and Tucker's hilarious one-liners make this film enjoyable entertainment.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was one of the most funniest movies I have seen. It is filled with trash-talk, action and comedy sequences that will keep you laughing until the end. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker make a great team and they will make you laugh in every scene they are in together. Every age group will laugh at at least one scene in this movie. It is impossible not to laugh.  This one of my favorite comedies of all time. I thought it was a great movie. It was funny listening to Jackie Chan trying to speak English. That was definitely the heart of the movie right there. Chris Tucker was insanely funny in this movie as well. If you put them together, it is the most dangerous comedy duo of all time. I recommend this movie to all viewers like to laugh a whole lot. "},{"Title":"not a bad cop flick at all","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was the comedy and the action that made this film great. Chris Tucker as Det. Carter with a big mouth and Jackie Chan as Det. Lee make Lethal Weapon 4 look like a girl scout cookie. What was different from this film and Rush Hour 2 was the actually plot that made it interesting to watch, not to mention Jackie Chan kicking ass as he and detective carter try to get bad guys.3 stars "},{"Title":"Chris Tucker at his best","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is a great action/comedy. The movie is tremendously, outragously funny. The movie's about a fast-talking LAPD Cop Detective James Carter(Chris Tucker) who is partnered with a Chinese policeman Chief Inspector Lee(Jackie Chan) to solve the case of the kidnaping of the daughter of a Chinese Diplomat. A great comedy. Go and see it. It will leave you in tears. "}{"Title":"Fairly entertaining, even if it's not all it could have been.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****Rush Hour's unbelievable box office success is not surprising.  Both Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker have large fan bases, and put these two together and you've got a recipe for financial success.  And while the trend doesn't completely apply to the film's actual quality, for the most part, Rush Hour is a fairly fun, totally undemanding action/comedy from director Brett Ratner.The concept isn't novel, but I don't think it's ever been done before team up an Oriental martial artist with a motor-mouthed black man.  It's a good team-up, but the mixture doesn't work nearly as well as it should have (as far as buddy movies go, this is no match for Lethal Weapon and its sequels, or Die Hard With a Vengenace or the Holy Grail of them all, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade)(what, IJLC is somewhat of a buddy movie).A plot for Rush Hour doesn't matter much, but it involves the kidnapping of the daughter of the Chinese consul, who calls in Chinese inspector Lee (Chan) to assist the FBI on the case.  But the bureau sees things differently and they assign Detective Carter (Tucker) to babysit Lee and keep him away from the consul's house.  The two don't hit it off well at first, but decide to work together on the case by themselves.  Naturally, they're going to resolve their differences and kill all the bad guys.I watch Jackie Chan movies for jaw-dropping martial arts action and amazing stunts.  Does Rush Hour have any of that?  Some, but not a whole lot.  There's a fun fight in a bar and a terrific setpiece where Jackie has to take on a few henchmen while trying to keep precious Chinese artifacts in a museum from shattering.  But aside from those two scenes, there's not a lot of great action, and that's partially where the film disappoints.Without the heaps of adrenaline-pumping fights, we have Chris Tucker as the comic relief.  Is he funny?  While the script doesn't always give him enough solid jokes to work with, for the most part, yes he is funny (I cracked up during his verbal tirade in the upstairs of the Chinese restaurant).  I don't watch Chan flicks to see a guy run his mouth, but I'll make an exception in this case.But Rush Hour isn't a laugh-a-minute comedy, either.  While Chan and Tucker have excellent chemistry, the script falls into tired buddy genre cliches, typically those involving the differences between the mistmatched pair and how they resolve them.  Those moments are played with utter sincerity and seriousness, and they slow the film down to almost a dead halt.  It's a good thing the finale was enjoyable enough to make up for it.I recommend Rush Hour, but find its potential for comic and action gold still unmined.  Not even its sequel, which is arguably a bit weaker, has corrected on the mistakes of its predecessor (yes, there's still arguing and a need for resolving differences, ugh!).  Oh, well, Rush Hour 3 will be released soon enough. "},{"Title":"One of my Favorite Action/Comedy Movies","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Starring Jackie Chan, Chris Tucker, Elizabeth Pena, Tom Wilkinson, Tzi Ma, Ken Leung, Mark Rolston, Phillip Baker Hall, Rex Lin, and Chris Penn. 3 out of 4. My IMDB Rating 6.9/10. Rated PG-13 for Language, Violence, and Some Drug ContentEntertaining, Funny and watchable, this picture throws together a smart-mouthed African-American charmer and an older, by-the-book, white authority figure so they can bicker, spar and solve some crime that more conventional law-enforcement types can't crack. Now the straight man is martial-arts legend Jackie Chan, playing Hong Kong cop Inspector Lee. He's summoned to L.A. by his old pal Consul Han to investigate the kidnapping of Han's young daughter, Soo Yung. But the FBI doesn't want Lee's help, so they press-gang arrogant LAPD screwup James Carter (Chris Tucker) into pretending to work with him while actually keeping Lee out of the way. Needless to say, neither Carter nor Lee is into this babysitting gig, and after they're done playing adolescent tricks on each other they get down to the business of finding Soo Yung. Now, the thing that made Lethal Weapon such an exhilarating, unpredictable ride was that it took all its elements seriously The crime stuff was tough and bloody, while the mismatched buddy comedy was edgy and razor-sharp. Some 15 years down the line, the formula has gotten soft The crime story here is lazily constructed, mostly an excuse for the give-and-take between Tucker and Chan, which is shrill and raucous without being especially clever. That said, the movie skims along at a pretty decent clip -- though the climax comes about 15 minutes too late -- and gives Chan (who's concentrating very hard on his English-language lines) ample opportunity to demonstrate both his trademark skills lightning-fast martial-arts action and graceful physical humor in this hilarious Action/Comedy. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Thrills laughs and action collide as funny guy Chris Tucker and action man Jackie Chan star in Rush Hour. Inspecter Lee (Jackie Chan) travels to America in order to get leads on who kidnapped the daughter of a member of the Chinese Council. Uponm arriving to America he meets loud mouthed James Carter (Chris Tucker, in a funny yet winning performance) and discovers he must team up with him on the investigation.This movie surprised me when I saw it for the first time. I didn't expect much from Tucker because I stereotyped him as an annoying loud mouth. But he was pretty funny in Rush Hour. Chan is good (like most of the times in his movies) with his ocasional laughs and fast action moves. If only Tucker acted out his character in the sequel like he did in this film, then this and Rush Hour 2 would be a pair of good movies. Don't get me wrong, they're both good but the first has a better effect than the second.WAR! WHUH! WHAT IIIIS IT GOOD FOR?***/**** "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever made!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The plot is a buddy cop movie,but it gives tons of laughs along the way. Chris Tucker gives a really funny performance. Chan is funny when Tucker backs him up. I really like the jokes,some of the funniest in a comedy ever. Great action scenes that amaze,even though you are supposed to be laughing at Tucker,and Chan. All together excellent. One of the best comedies of the 90's5/5 "},{"Title":"Action Comedy!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a very entertaining movie. Chris Tucker is hilarious! I love anything he does. (You have GOT to see him in The Fifth Element - read my comment.) The comedy is solid, Chris is solid, the action is solid, the movie is solid e n t e r t a i n m e n t !- Zafoid "},{"Title":"An excellent comedy!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was a little disappointed because it didn't fit the usual quick-action that is Jackie Chan's trademark.  I was expecting his near-supernatural talent to take charge in this one as well.While Jackie does not use his skill as much, the excitement is recovered by the hilariously paired Inspector Lee and James Carter.  These two are so hilarious together, and the mishaps they get into are nothing less than pure entertainment.The plot is unusual for a Jackie Chan movie.  It's a GOOD one.  A Chinese consulate's daughter has been kidnapped and it's up to Lee and Carter to... take a hike.  They are in the way of an FBI investigation.  This doesn't stop them from conducting their own search for the girl, and the results are quite amusing.The humor is light and toned down.  It's not perverted like other movies--it's good, clean fun.  There are some nasty curses in the movie, which are a little detrimental, but overall it's pretty clean.The ending is an excellent way to spawn the sequel.  After getting used to Jackie Chan in a less violent role, this movie has become one of my favorite comedies.  Even the music, composed by Lalo Schifrin (the original composer of the Mission  Impossible theme!) does a decent job.  The music doesn't interfere with the movie, yet is loud enough to add some character.Rush Hour is a movie that I would recommend to even one who despises comedy. "},{"Title":"What Modern James Bond Should Be","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is great fun. Shiney cars, black suits, explosions, the evil guy and the good guy in distress, classy settings, tight action sequences. But what separates it from the million other similar movies is humour that thanks to both Chan and Tucker it's actually pretty funny and although far fetched, the cast make it seem somewhat believable. Definitely one to get on DVD and watch over and over. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not a great movie. It is, however quite entertaining once you get past Chris Tucker's VARY irritating voice. Granted, the story got a little thin here and there but Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan play off of each other perfectly. I hope to see the sequels soon. "},{"Title":"It was funny and annoying.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chris Tucker drives me insane with his constant talking but Jackie on the other hand acts much better than Chris. This film is great for any martial art and action genre enthusiast. You must be crazy not to like the stunts. But you will not be crazy if you hated Chris Tucker chatting, that makes the film annoying and less likeable. You have been warned. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie at a blockbuster store, and while I was watching this movie. It was funny and it was great. I also liked the part when Jackie Chan, use his kartie stunts, he sure does a great job on that and it was excellent and yes Chris Tuckers, was funny and I love it and I think they should be partners forever. So that is my thoughts and I give this movie a thumb up, and talk to you soon everyone!!! "}{"Title":"Funny!!!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After watching this movie I am sure Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan really make a great duet. They are hilarious and they can greatly transfer that to their characters, two cop who work together on a crazy mission - get back a young girl who was kidnapped.   Rush Hour brings us that successful combination of humour and action, that enchants audiences who look for some good time in a movie theatre or in the comfort of their living rooms. That's a great job done by director Brett Ratner.  "},{"Title":"It was hilarious!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I watched Rush Hour many times and i think it's absolutely hilarious. My favorite scene is when Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker start singing War, what is it good for? Absolutely nothing!  It contains a lot of swearing and they use God's name in vain many times.  It does contain racial stero types of how certain races are even if they're not true.  I still liked it and thoThere's a lot of swearing, using the `s' word and using God's name in vain.  The Moral Reviews said that it was not acceptable even though parts of it were entertaining. Also, it contains racial stereotypes of how a black people act and numerous drug references.  I was very surprised by the reviews because I thought that it was a funny movie.  I didn't even realize that all this stuff was in it, I just ignored it and kept watching.  I probably will see it again but I want to look at it more seriously and actually see if the reviewers are right.  I probably will use websites like these to help me choose what movie to watch because then I can find out details about the movie   "},{"Title":"It was funny...wasn't it?","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have watched Rush Hour many times and I think it's hilarious! I decided to look around and see what other people's opinions were about it and was surprised by what I found. Many people were offended by the language, felt there was racial stereotypes and that it used God's name in vain excessively. I think most of these things are true but some also thought that it wasn't funny or entertaining. Personally, I liked the movie and thought that it was really funny, one of my favorite scenes is when Tucker and Chan sing the song, War, what is it good for? Absolutely nothing! I couldn't stop laughing.  Some people said that it didn't have any value and I disagree.  The relationship between Tucker and Chan portrayed how two guys different in every way would still work their differences and make a great team.  Although the movie did have swearing in it, it still was excellent. So if you get offended easily I would probably watch the edited version and laugh 'till you drop "},{"Title":"Great two 'hours'.","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Jackie Chan, Chris Tucker, and Tom Wilkinson.Two mismatched (used many, MANY times) cops have to save the world from a backstabbing American and a bunch of Chinese guys.  Sounds good?  It is.  The chemistry between Chan and Tucker fits in with a large amount of comedy.  The only problem is some lame jokes. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a pretty good movie.  Chan and Tucker equal Nolte and Murphy, I think.  The fight scenes were fun, the stunts made better by knowing Jackie Chan did 'em his own self, and the plot didn't suck.  I almost didn't watch the movie; I am glad I did.  It was just fun.  This is a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"LAPD Detective Tucker Teams with HKPD Detective Chan in A Hilarious Action/Comedy!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSThere's been a kidnapping. The 10 year old daughter of Consul Han. Han wants one of his best detectives on the case but the FBI doesn't like the sound of that, so they assign someone to babysit him while they work on the case. Who do they get? LAPD Detectives James Carter. Carter meets Detective-Inspector Lee later that day. They don't get off to a good start. Lee is determined to see Consul Han but Carter won't allow it. Carter is humiliated from being given the assignment, so he vows to solve the case himself.Pretty soon, Lee and Carter follow the FBI downtown to a possible lead on the kidnapper. The man's name is Sang. He's working for a man named Juntao who's got connections all over. Carter finds something that Sang had dropped. He takes it to a friend on the bomb squad, Tanya Johnson. She identifies it as a C4 detonator. So Carter goes to see Clive, a C4 dealer who gives Carter and Lee another lead. They go to a Chinese restaurant in Chinatown, L.A. They screw up big time! But they get it together to battle Juntao and his men at the Chinese Expo the following night. Juntao is no more and Consul Han's daughter is returned to him. As a way of saying thank you, Han let's Carter come to Hong Kong with them. As Lee put's it, we can hang in my crib. I will show you my hood.A funny movie! The outtakes during the credits are hilarious! Also, the continous use of the SH-word by Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan is timeless! James Carter was a real motormouth, but that's the kind of guy Chris Tucker plays in his movies. Which are funny! So, if you like martial arts action and slapstick comedy, this is your movie! Rush Hour 2 wasn't as good. I mean, it WAS good, but not as good as this one. I hear there will be a Rush Hour 3 and 4! Can't wait for'em!-- "},{"Title":"Loved the movie!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is bloody hilarious.  Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan are great together.  A wonderful movie to sit and chill and laugh your butt off!  The movie also has a good amount of action, and the comedy is well placed. Tucker is great as an insensitive LA cop.  A definite must-see! "},{"Title":"The film is not *that* great...","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Prior to watching this film I had heard about how wonderfully funny and brilliantly acted it was, maybe for this reason I was expecting too much of it, but I can't say that I found this film to be all that funny.The jokes were very typical and although it was well acted to a certain degree, that was definitely not enough to save the film. And even though this is probably irrelevant, I was told the outtakes were incredibly funny, and let me assure you they were not!This film is not worth paying money to watch - you're probably better off watching it on TV as I did. "},{"Title":"Excellent action comedy","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an excellent movie.  This is a hilarious movie.  This is the best movie of 1998.  I could be going on and on but this movie is awesome.  The chemistry between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker is excellent.  Those are probably the two most mismatched partners in a movie ever.  A fast-talking, cocky black man and a fast kung fu Asian man.  Very different but they put it down perfectly.  I have never seen such a good movie withe excellent chemistry.Overall the movie is great and I recommend this to everyone.  Rating BIG 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A new action duo has stand up","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mel Gibson and Danny Glover were a great action duo in the Lethal Weapon movies and so are Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker in Rush Hour. These two make Rush Hour a funny action movie which will entertain you for almost two hours. Great action, great interaction between Jackie and Chris and a couple of memorable scenes. One of the better action movies of recent years.  "}{"Title":"A classic movie which is funny as hell","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan is at his best and Chris Tucker is hilarious as his sidekick. Ive seen this film 6 times and i can still sit all the way through it and enjoy it again and again. Also the bad guys are very good they are very convincing and made it even better when the good guys kill them. "},{"Title":"no-brainer","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An entertaining action-comedy for mostly one reason any idiot can figure it out. You don't have to spend the entire movie looking for any type of logic or credibility. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker make a hilarious team and the movie has a good buddy film script. Sit back and enjoy. 3/4 "},{"Title":"The first installment of the funny Rush Hour movies.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is the great comedy directed by Brett Ratner, who's a brilliant director. This is the first installment of the Rush Hour movies and it's really good. One of my favourite scenes in the movie has be the part when the young girl, Soo Yung is sitting in the car and she's singing away to Mariah Carey-Fantasy. It's really funny. If you want to see a good comedy, then I recommend this movie and  of course the second Rush Hour movie, Rush Hour 2. "},{"Title":"About time Jackie receives due respect!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie C. has been around for a very long time entertaining the Asianside of the world.  His skill of martial arts is second to none.  Do Ineed to remind again that he does NOT use stunts?  And of course, he'sbroken almost all the bones he's got in his body while filming.  Thespeed, the skill, and most of all, the wit!  He is the only guy whosuccessfully made a mockery out of THE Bruce Lee and got away with it. Forget Chuck Noris, forget Jean-Claude Van Damme, and yes now we canforget the action aspect of MATRIX all together.  Lo and behold,Jackie's on his way!  Be amazed, be startled, and be entertained. Jackie's the real thing. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is an action comedy no-brainer enjoyable enough to pass off for entertainment. Combination fish out of water movie, combination action movie, and combination buddy movie works well if you don't demand lots of logic. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is a good action movie that keeps up the pace.The TV format just kills the movie though, so only watch the letter boxed version. Otherwise you will only be seeing half of what is going on and in an action movie that is not a good thing as the creative choreography of the fight scenes is lost along with the characters' reactions to each other in the more comedic scenes.   "},{"Title":"jackie chan finally gets his due","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  its jackie chan all the way - despite being past his prime and infact not a shade of the genius that he has displayed over the last 2 decades in his asian movies. however, he still has enough tricks up his sleeve to steal the show. the surprise though is the solid contribution from chris tucker who complements jackie very well.the movie is typical jackie chan stuff - only not as good as it has been in the past. simple story. lots of scope for action. funny lines throughout. wish he had gotten the recognition he deserved earlier.the jackie chan - chris tucker combination works very well. the chemistry is good. jackie chan still excels in his acrobats, although its obvious to see that age has taken its toll.a cool 7 "},{"Title":"A good and funny action movie about 2 totally different cops who team up","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is a good comedy movie.  The plot is good and the action is fair, and Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan is a dynamic duo.  These 2 cops team up to find and rescue a Chinese counselor's daughter who was kidnapped. However, Chris Tucker is Detectice James Carter, a hotshot cop who has a big mouth and likes to fool around a lot.  Jackie Chan is Detective Lee who is a cop from China who can do some kung-fu ass kicking and has the fastest hands of the East.  Both of them hate each other in the beginning, but they gotta work together to find the girl.Rush Hour has some funny scenes like when Chan walks into the African American club and asks the bartender wazap, ma nigga! and he learns the hard way of what he said means.  Also when Tucker walks into the room with Sang and his gang saying that hes the half brother of Juntao.  Hehe, funny.However, Rush Hour still is not as good as expected.  I expected much more laughing and much more action.  Most of the time in the movie, Tucker and Chan are b*tching to each other about something.  The bloopers are funnier than the movie sometimes!  The action isn't much except for the restaurant fight and the final showdown at the embassy, but thats it.  You can count the bar incident too, but it still isn't enough.  As I said, most of the movie they b*tch about some things.Rush Hour wasn't as good as I expected, but its still worth a ticker or rental.Give it a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Weak Villain","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A good movie at times with some good scenes and some boring scenes.  One of the main problems with Rush Hour(1998) is the villain Sang is not a formidable heavy nor does he go toe to toe with Jackie Chan.  The team of Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker do well together once their characters get used to use others.   Both actors make the film into a good film in spite of the average direction of Brett Ratner.  Water down Jackie Chan film which is typical of the Hollywood system. "},{"Title":"Fun On The Run!!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I decided to watch this on TBS a month or so ago, I did so because I had only recently been introduced to martial arts by seeing and loving Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  I knew this film had one of the best action stars from Hong Kong and I knew nothing about Chris Tucker.  Imagine my surprise to find such a funny, fast talking, jumping, madcap film.  These two guys are just one of the best teams to come along in a while. The set up of the little girl being kidnapped and also being a special friend of the cop Jackie plays is cute.  She punches and kicks him when he doesn't do as she wants but it's all because she likes him.  So Jackie has to find and rescue her.  His problem turns out to be his assigned partner (Chris) and the kidnappers.   They finally work it out and the big chase and fight at the end is spectacular.  Especially the slide down the long curtain in the hotel atrium.  That had me truly amazed.As an older woman, I have to say I loved the film and this duo.  "}{"Title":"Really good","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie so much. This is an awesome movie. But the second one is better. If you want to read about the second one just click on my name. But I'm here today to talk about the first one. Now it's been a while since I've seen so bear with me.  This is about a rich family and their little daughter is kidnaped and turns out to be Inspector Lee's (Jackie Chan) case since the kidnaping was in Hong Kong but they traced him back to L.A. Thats where Chris Tucker comes in as Detective James Carter.(But every one just calls him Carter, even in the second one.) He is assigned to be Lee's partner but takes matters into his own hands. Soon he starts bossing everyone around and it's his show.Thats all I'll tell you because frankly that's all I remember. Well it is a good movie and I hope you like it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An 'Hour' and a half of laughs!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  RUSH HOUR is a hilarious action-comedy that has great comedic performances, funny lines, and good music. It's a movie that action and comedy fans should see. It combines classic formula with new formula. The combination is absolutely brilliant. It's gold!! The writers should be praised for their work. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker rule!","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i love this movie! Chris Tucker is hilarious in this great action-comedy.Jackie Chan does a great job playing chief inspector lee.this will always be one of my favorite movies.i recommend this movie for everyone who is Jackie Chan fan or a Chris Tucker fan. "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny, average action","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chris Tucker is one of the best comedic actors on screen right now and Jackie Chan is the best action star ever.  You mix them up and what do you get? Quite a rush. There are not as many or as long kung fu fighting scenes like in Jackie's good old Hong Kong classics like Drunken Master II or Project A. But on the other hand, those movies don't make you laugh like Rush Hour. This is without a doubt the funniest movie Jackie has ever appeared in. The movie does never have a dull moment, it's action and laughs, action and laughs throughout the whole thing. This isn't a movie for everyone but anyone who likes Jackie Chan or Chris Tucker will probably love it. I know I did. "},{"Title":"jackie chan and chris tucker are hilarious","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  so in this movie chris tucker is a fast talkin wise crackin cop, who loves his job but hats it's rules. Jackie Chan is an all business chinese inspector sent to america to help find a chinese consulate's daughter. Carter (Tucker) is his hired by the FBI (he's already working for theLAPD) to keep Lee (Chan) out of the way. soon, they form a friendship as they try to solve the case and Carter shows Lee how things work in America. With Chan's high-flying stunts and Tucker's wit, Rush Hour takes two very different actors, and makes a chemistry you simply can't resist. This movie is reflected in Shanghai Noon with Chan and Owen Wilson, but it really works better here. There were some small details of the movie that made me take down the rating, but it is still a great movie with great action and even better comedy. I can't wait to see the sequel wich opens tommorow!9/10 stars "},{"Title":"Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth?","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a really good, entertaining movie. You can pick it a part for having a tissue thin plot, or pick it apart for having a unoriginal plot, or pick it apart for not having Jackie Chan's best action scenes, or you pick that stick out your patoot and be entertained. Chris Tucker is hilarious, but not for everybody, he might come off as very annoying in the film, but to those who like him he is a laugh riot. Chris is the one who get Jackie into trouble, taking him places where he will obviously be a fish out of water. Jackie sort of has a side role in this film, most of the talking is done by Chris, Jackie takes care of most of the action. It's pretty obvious why Jackie didn't have the invincible, martial arts god character in this film, this was in a way his first real introduction to America, so if the film praised him like a god, we would probably hate him. The film is a comedy first, action film second, and is the best buddy cop film in a long while. The chemistry between Jackie & Chris makes this well worth rental price. So go see it, and get rushed! "},{"Title":"Great fun; like a martial arts 48 HRS","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker bust heads and crack jokes in RUSH HOUR. The duo plays two mismatched cops from different worlds that learn to cope with each other's differences and manners as they work to save the daughter of the Chinese counsel. The chemistry between the twostars are reminiscent of classic buddy-cop movies such as 48 HRS,an odd coupling of sorts. With Chan's fast and furious martial arts, and Tucker's motor-mouth, you can't beat a combination like that. "},{"Title":"Fun buddy cop movie, although Jackie should have been let off his leash.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nice to see Jackie in a well-produced Hollywood yarn, although there's something a bit wrong with the billing if the two stars are considered to be equals. One's a respected stuntman actor, producer and director, the other is a bloke with an irritating voice. Doesn't seem quite fair, somehow.Still, it's a funny film, although most of the fun is derived from Jackie's rubber-limbed flailing with whatever comes to hand (pool cue, steering wheel, bomb, etc). It does seem like his fight scenes were restrained unfortunately, perhaps to make sure Tucker didn't seem superfluous?The out takes over the end credits and on the DVD are good value, showing that all concerned had a great deal of fun making the film. That the infectious good-humour carried over into the movie itself is a relief, because otherwise all that remained would have been one of those tiresome buddy-cop movies. And there are more than enough of those already!For all my indifference towards Tucker, his by-the-numbers rebellious loner LA Cop shtick does at least give rise to some of the movie's funnier moments, especially against his long-suffering former partner.Things bode well for the sequel then, when hopefully Chan & Tucker will be able to pick up where they left off.   "},{"Title":"Really good movie","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen this on TBS a few times now and I love it every time I see it. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan have EXCELLENT chemistry between each other and they both pull off great performances.The plot(a consulate's daughter is kidnapped, two policemen have to find her) is simple but this is an action movie, what were you expecting?Great comedy, great action sequences, and a great cast make Rush Hour a MUST see!  "},{"Title":"7 out of 10","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  although rumble in the bronx was jackies break into america, this was his first huge HIT in america. a lot of comedy and some good fights, especially considering it was MADE in america. check it out for a good laugh. "}{"Title":"it should be on the hall of fame","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you hear the name Jackie Chan you would expect nothing but action and brutal fights. The truth is Jackie is much more that that. In Rush Hour Jackie Shows his normal enjoyable behavior. For the first time Jackie is acting more like a normal cool person not a crime fighting super cop. Although Jackie Chan's movies are all great action movies and I think everyone should agree. Chris Tucker is a very funny person, he never shows an expression of frustration or bitterness. Instead, he tries to make a funny comeback and it has succeed. Tucker will have a good acting and comedic career ahead of him and I think everyone should agree. Chan tried to show Tucker some kickass moves and Tucker tried to show Chan how to be cool and hip. I am planning to go see Rush Hour 2 on the 3rd of August when it comes out. I say go see Rush Hour 2, this time for some disappointed people, this movie will satisfy their lousy needs. For people who liked Rush Hour get ready for a much better comedy and action. Peace Out and you'll love Rush Hour 2!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Laugh-a-minute movie","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is very funny. If you like comedies, you'll love Rush Hour. It has a good deal of action in it too; if you're a Jackie Chan fan, you'll like this movie (though it doesn't have quite as much action as some of his previous films). I use quotes from this movie in my everyday speech now; it's very funny stuff. You'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Really Funny!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of Jackie's latest films. Jackie And Chris Tucker are great together. This film has action but it's not something we haven't seen Jackie already do. But I did like a fight in a pool place. Also there was a cool explosion. And in the beginning you get to see the guy from Who Am I who was fighting Jackie on the roof top, he was wearing red. Chris Tucker made this film look really funny. But when it camed to action Jackie was the man to call for help. But this film didn't have a big fight scene at the end, which we usually see at the end of Jackie Chan films. But Jackie did proof that people will laugh from this movie. This film is great for comedy, but not as good when it comes to action. I also can't wait till Rush Hour 2 will come out. I watched the preview and it looked even more funnier that Rush Hour. I hope Jackie will make more and more funny film but with more action in the future. So go rent this film today and experience the comedy with a action twist.       "},{"Title":"Better than The Protector.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yep, it's Jackie's first truly good American film.  Some of the humor's too silly, and I like to see more fighting, but I think Chan and Tucker work well together.  Plus, I think Chris Penn is pretty cool, especially in these types of roles.  The main problem for me though, is that the villains weren't as interesting as they could've been...This is where I look toward Zhang Ziyi in the upcoming sequel.....An entertaining film no doubt.... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I watched this film with high hopes being a Jackie Chan fan, but was left feeling disappointed. To me the film seemed like it was based around Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan was almost there as a side kick. This was a poor use of Jackie Chan's talents in one of his first major US films. I found the film was lacking in the action department with no stand out scenes that you come to expect in a Chan film. Hopefully these things will be rectified for the sequel and it will be a true Chan film with Chris Tucker taking a back seat. Not bad but could have been much better. "},{"Title":"JACKIE CHAN IS AMAZING","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan is amazing and absolutly awesome throughout. Chris Tucker unfortunately is possibly the second most annoying person on the planet after (Tony Blair) and ruins the entire film. Fast forward the parts with Chris Tucker and it's a good film. Jackie chan however has made so many better films (Police Story, First Strike, Shanghai Noon etc) "},{"Title":"Two Cops From Different Worlds Try Their Best To Get Back A Kidnapped Daughter !!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One's all talk... the other's all action... Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker mix punches with punchlines in this action-comedy movie.Chan is a tough Hongkong cop in los angeles to solve the kidnapping of a Chinese Diplomat's daughter.But the FBI wants none of his help and recruits a fast talking LAPD detective (Tucker) to babysit him.Cultures clash and tempers flare as these two cops from different worlds quickly discover one thing in commonthey can't stand each other.With time running out,they must join forces to catch the criminals.If they don't kill each other first!  "},{"Title":"ACTION + COMEDY = ONE GREAT MOVIE.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nothing much to say.  This movie KICK ASS. Jackie Chan at his best.  Action scene is great.  Chris Tucker does his normal job, fast mouth of the west. I really like the scene that Jackie Chan first arrived at the U.S. airport and Chris Tucker picked him up.  Watch this scene and you know what I mean.See it, you'll like it.  "},{"Title":"THE FIRST JACKIE CHAN MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved it.  Chris Tucker has to be one of the funniest comedians in movies of all time.  Jackie Chan knows how to get laughs himself, so I was very glad to get comdy relief from all the action.  The action was great, the plot thickening was cool and how the two stars got along was even better. I think the funniest thing was when 'Mr. Lee' took out the entire F.B.I. at the house and then 'Carter' rolled up in the tow truck with his stingray dragging behind.  Chris Tucker trying to do martial arts and Jackie Chan trying to get down with some beats was great as well.  This is a definate rent to see, or if you have already seen it, buy it!! "},{"Title":"Awesome!!, but with flaws.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is awesome with the two lead characters Jackie and Chris, there was some great connection between them in the film. the acting was awesome, the plot was awesome, stunts where awesome, but the directing was ummm well, not the best compared to jackie's other great films. I noticed that during some action scenes that it was hard to get a glimpse of what was going on. also the director wasn't creative enough, he needed to put some creativity into the film, more camera movement and wide angle shots. I'm sure that if the director got this far he'd have a bit of creativeness in him! "}{"Title":"very funny","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  chris tucker is at his funniest and chan is his usual funny self with some great come back lines. rush hour is a great film. watching chan and tucker try and get along is really entertaining and once they team up, the action is awesome. the out takes are reallly funny and worth seeing. this is a definate keeper on video. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Romp","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very Entertaining, Great Martial Arts (as one would expect from Jackie Chan) and a young Eddie Murphy (in the shape of Chris Tucker) Enjoy this Movie with a bottle of bud and a Chinese takeaway.  I did !!!!Watch out for Chris Tucker when he meets the brothers in the pool hall. Its a very funny scene. "},{"Title":"A very funny action movie","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan with his stunts, and Chris Tucker with his wild sense of humour, you guessed it, f-u-n-n-y, funny. I thought this was a very funny movie, I enjoyed it a lot. Chris Tucker did an awesome witty way of acting. I recommend this movie greatly. "},{"Title":"It's So Funny and hilarious!!!!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love Rush Hour! It's so funny!! Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker did a spectacular performance! The writing was absolutely magnificent. It a must see movie. If you never saw this movie, you gotta see it. It's so funny!!! "},{"Title":"GET READY FOR RUSH HOUR!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the first Jackie Chan movie that I ever saw IN ENGLISH! Every now and then, I switch to SBS to check out Jackie Chan in some of his Mandarin speaking Martial Arts films which are really good. This one takes the cake. There are brilliant stunts, hilarious comedy, thrills, spills and a great plot. Chris Tucker is hilarious as the BIG MOUTH James Tucker! LOVED IT! **1/2?*** - VERY GOOD AND A HALF (* - OK & *** - EXCELLENT) "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan makes it a bit different than similar movies","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is a kind of movie that we`ve seen a million times before.  What makes this movie a bit different from other cop-movies is the fact that this is Jackie Chan`s first film in Hollywood. As in Jackie Chan`s other movies, Rush Hour is low on plot-evolution and character-development, but it`s got plenty of action and humour.  This is not Jackie Chan at his best.  He has done funnier and more actionpacked movies in Hongkong, but this is a good start for Jackie Chan in Hollywood. Also see Shanghai Noon, Chan`s second American movie. 7,5/10 "},{"Title":"Tucker and Chan save an otherwise mediocre film.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is your typical Hollywood style cop-buddy flick, which recycles one of the oldest plot  devices in the book The Chinese Consulate's daughter has been kidnapped, and it's up to a lippy LA  cop and a Kung Fu Hong Kong detective to rescue the kid before it's too late.Obviously the writers weren't taking their work too seriously--I was half expecting someone to retire  in three days! And why is it that every British character in an Hollywood film (9 times out of 10)  mutates into the villain? Despite these nits Rush Hour is a rather enjoyable flick which combines two  very charismatic and talented actors in the best cop-buddy dual since 48 Hours and Lethal  Weapon. Chan and Tucker's off and on banter is humorous and never gets trite. In addition, the fight scenes  are well timed and choreographed. All in all one of the best cop-buddy films around these days!Rating 8 "},{"Title":"An action comedy classic","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour, when it came out was the sleeper hit of the fall and for very good reason. This is like a homage to the action comedies before it (Lethal Weapon, 48HRS). It has everything an action comedy needs and much more. Jackie Chan's first American film stars him as a Hong Kong cop in the opening sequence busting the biggest crime lord in Hong Kong. Enter two months later, the daughter of a Hong Kong counselor is  kidnapped and he sends for his best man to come to Los Angeles. But when he's met at the airport by one of the LAPD's finest James Carter (Chris Tucker) he doesn't realize what he's just gotten in to. This is Jackie's film from the start and he has now officially become an American action star. He's so funny and so amazing at the same time you can only think Is he human?. This film also makes Chris Tucker a full fledge movie star. This man is like a mix of Eddie Murphy and Chris Rock. His is just a great comedian and proves that he can do the action too. Him and Jackie are a one-two combo. They're like Mel and Danny but maybe a tad bit funnier to watch. Because they're so different it makes their chemistry so great. Brett Ratner's direction is perfect. His music video background has helped him out very much. There are bright colors and loud music emphasizing that this is an action film. There is a lot of action too. Of course this is American so there are lots of guns and explosions but the fights are superb. They take care of the eye candy for this film. If you haven't seen Rush Hour you really need to. In the spirit of Lethal Weapon and 48Hrs, Rush Hour is a buddy cop action comedy that has great chemistry, loads of action and will keep you laughing for hours on end.         "},{"Title":"another great movie","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i've seen almost all the jackie chan films, well, the one's that are tranlated at least, and this one is one of the best. chris tucker and jackie chan are definently the best duo. the action, special effects, plot, and stunts were wonderful. i hope they make another movie together, i would defiently watch it. "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    After Brett Ratner's hit Money Talks (not sure by how much it's a hit) he again teams up with fast talker Chris Tucker for another buddy movie. This time with the stunt supremeo himself, Jackie Chan.  The film starts after the handing over of China and the story has some top rich Chinese bloke moving into America. Sorry, he's the Eastern city's US consul when he moves into America with his daughter. On his daughter's first day at school she gets kidnapped by Oriental gangsters who obviously seem to know how rich her father is as they ask for a ransom of $50million. The FBI come in to help but are told that one guy from China is already coming in to help (Chan). The Feds want him as far away from this case as possible because as they say they don't want this thing to get international. They decide to assign the worst LAPD cop (Tucker) to baby-sit him. This is what connects Tucker to Chan. Although they're both told to keep away from this case they end up becoming heavily involved as they decide to take matters into their own hands. It's here where the excitement starts to kick in.  The plot really is below average. But that soon becomes forgettable. This is one very entertaining action comedy buddy movie which is just so good that it puts the Lethal Weapon series to shame. You're given just the kind of over the top entertainment that you demand. Comedy from the fast jive talking Tucker and action from the fast stunt fighter Chan. You will be laughing out loud and you will be wowed over the stunts. Though the stunts from Chan aren't up to scratch as his earlier films, which might be due to age. The &#145;buddy' element between these two is just highly unlikely which is probably what makes it work so well. We also see the two of them gain things from each other with Tucker learning a few martial arts and Chan learning to be a little more cool and relaxed. The combination is just excellent. The weak plot really is just a silly excuse to see these two actors doing what they do best. The film also moves at quite a pace from one scene to the next to ensure that you aren't bored for a minute.  It may not be a masterpiece in many ways but with two actors on fine form, some stupendous action sets, quick-fire comedy, a great soundtrack and the chance to hear Chan utter a rude word, then this comes highly recommended. Plus stick around at the end, as there's some out-takes at the credits.My rating - 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Funny","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The antics of Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make up for this entertaining comedy/action flick. Sure, it's not very deep, but who cares! Almost every line Chris Tucker utters is good for a laugh. Jackie Chan, of course, does great with his stunts. An entertaining way to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"what's the fuss about?  it's a passable 2-hour escape, but no more.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i don't see what all the fuss is about.  jackie chan is visually stunning in motion, of course.  chris tucker's 48 HOURS-eddie-murphy-imitation is just ok.  it manages to innovate through a perplexing mix of ungainliness and NBA-style physical resolve and coordination.  the kid, julia hsu, has the best scene.  but when all is said and done, the stereotyped support characters, the vapidity of the plot, and the contrived forcing of each action sequence make you want to scratch your head.  i'll happily watch mr. chan again, ms. hsu, and even mr. tucker. but rent the movie again?  no sir. "},{"Title":"Hype overload","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Judging by the amount of hype that was generated by this being Jackie's first American feature since 1985 (barring his cameo in 1997's An Alan Smithee Film Burn Hollywood Burn), this was a big let down.Not enough Jackie, too much of Chris Tucker playing dumb black guy, and no big fight scene with the villain/henchman.Elizabeth Peña is wasted in an awful stereotypical Hispanic role. Why she has to push her chest forward every time she speaks is beyond me. It certainly does not suggest attitude. Considering her role in Jacob's Ladder and The Waterdance, this must have been a bill-paying role.Chris Penn turns up in a pointless minor role, looking inbred rather than tough. Looking at his usual roles, more could be expected of him.As for the actual script, dreadful dialogue and plot devices abound. The set pieces are good, but hardly earth shattering. Police Story and Project A easily outshine this effort.All is not lost, however, as John Woo took until Face/Off to get his feet steady in Hollywood, so let us all hope that Jackie comes up trumps next time. "},{"Title":"Action/comedy culture clash.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A Chinese Diplomat's ten year old daughter is kidnapped. The FBI doesn't want visiting Chinese cop (Jackie Chan) to be involved in the investigation. They employ an LAPD screw up,(Chris Tucker),to keep the visitor away from the case. Not only do the mismatched crime fighters get involved, but they actually rescue the girl and expose an art theft ring.Chan and Tucker are funny and entertaining together. The funny quips and banter is blended with the action scenes to make for a fast moving film. Chan's stunts are amazing. Fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Action-Comedy","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is an entertaining action-comedy, Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make a good team. This film is more a comedy than an action movie but the movie does have it's action scenes. This is an entertaining movie that I reccomend, It bears similarity to the Lethal Weapon movies but it is more like Beverly Hills Cop. It's a funny movie. "},{"Title":"Not Since Die Hard...","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I haven't enjoyed an action-adventure movie this much since the original Die Hard.  Rush Hour is entertaining and funny, the plot is interesting, and the stunts are fabulous.  Chan and Tucker have great chemistry.  I hope this cast and crew (writer, director) make another cop movie together.  I'm ready for Rush Hour 2. "},{"Title":"Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan?  I think so!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The interaction between Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan carries this film far beyond it's expectations.  They are just a thrill to watch.  The movie and plot itself revolved around the chemistry between the two, and they handled it with real poise.  Christ Tucker is an actor who's lines get me laughing every time.  The soundtrack to this movie rolls, too.  Get this movie if you want a great blend of action and comedy mixed together perfectly.   "},{"Title":"Don't you ever touch a black man's radio, boy!!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make a tough and hilarious team in their monster-hit flick Rush Hour. The stars play two cops from two different worlds, and they must find the kidnapped daughter of a Hong Kong diplomat. Along the way, they kick bad-guy ass and listen to tunes, even though that they obviously don't share the same tastes. (Lee likes the Beach Boys, while Carter likes Jay-zee. You get the picture. Rush Hour is a great blend of action and comedy. This movie had to be Lethal Weapon 4's toughest competition in 1998, and you can tell that this duo had a lot to offer than the aging Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. "},{"Title":"The funniest film you could wish for!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you haven't seen this film, forget about doing anything else until you have!!!  Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make an outrageous pair which furnish this film with most of its jokes.  The action by Jackie is as normal outstanding.  This is comedy at its best!  There could not possibly be any complaints about this film.  You will want to watch it over and over again.  "},{"Title":"Great entertainment","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is really great fun! Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are really good together. That´s what makes this movie good. The action scenes are really great, although i would like some more fight scenes. The acting is good and there is a lot of humor. Highly recommendend!9 of 10 "}{"Title":"Sensational!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a hilarious movie based on the chemistry between the 2 leading roles.  It really kept me going.  Jackie Chan did not do his best fighting skills out there, but he acted well, unlike 'Rumble In The Bronx'  Chris Tucker just mad me fall into histerics.  Honestly, this film is superb! "},{"Title":"A great Funny, exciting movie","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The best and funniest movie i have ever seen.  Chris Tucker is the best actor i have ever seen and jackie chan is just the best comedian ever.  I found this a great comedy that everyone should see.  Please, go to your video rental store today and rent it.  "},{"Title":"Not the best...","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film holds the attention of the viewer but fans of Chan will be disapointed.  There's hardly any action, about 3 fight sequences and not very long either.  Lets face facts, the main reason we watch Jackie Chan is because he is number 1 and choreographing fights and stunts and he always delivers with eye popping routines.  The film is toned down and makes way for character development and story. Chris Tucker spoils most of the film but has 1 or 2 good scenes.  The film has a predictable ending.  Chan has made much better(and much funnier)films that this such as Twin dragons.  I'd recommend that you see them instead.  "},{"Title":"Decent, but seemed like a cliche of Lethal Weapon 4","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour was a decent buddy movie, but when I saw Rush Hour when it first came out I remembered seeing Lethal Weapon 4 about 2 months ago and it seemed like a rip-off.  Both of these movies plots are real different, but it has a lot of the same things Lethal Weapon 4 had Chris Rock, Rush Hour had Chris Tucker Both movies had Chinese People Lethal Weapon 4 had Jet Li, Rush Hour had Jackie Chan.  Chris Tucker has one of the most aggravating voices I have ever heard, but he does have a couple of funny parts in this movie.  The plot of Rush Hour is about the dumbest thing I have ever hear of, but its Jackie Chan's wonderful action scenes that save this movie. Jackie Chan is the best when it comes to action, because he does it all by himself.  The chemistry between Chan & Tucker is good, but not how it was between Gibson & Glover.  If your a huge fan of Jackie Chan's movies you might be a little disappointed in Rush Hour, but if this is your first time watching one of his movies you will be extremely impressed.  Chris Tucker is mainly a Chris Rock rip-off which brings the movie down by his abnoxious voice.  **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to see how this movie was such a big hit. As a Jackie Chan movie, there isn't really a great deal of his usual inventive comedy martial arts, which suggests that Chris Rock is the key to making this buddy-buddy movie work. Rock is one annoying fella, not nearly as bad as he was in The Fifth Element, but still pretty distracting.There is nothing original on offer here, which means all we are left with is the occasional funny line, and very occasional action scene. Jackie Chan has made far better movies than this, but with this success comes the probable sequel - yes, you guessed it Rush Hour 2 - Bumper to Bumper!4/10. "},{"Title":"too good for words","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What to say?  What to say?  I laughed the whole way through this film. And I am not a big fan of Jackie Chan or Chris Tucker.  My favorite part has to be when the consul's daughter is in the car, being taken to school, singing way off key to Mariah Carey's 'Fantasy'.  I have bought the soundtrack to this and it is just as good if not better than the film itself.  I give this film 9 stars for making my sides ache the whole way through. "},{"Title":"Good action-comedy","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My age 13On the last day of Hong Kong being under British rule, Detective Inspector Lee, played by Jackie Chan, a good friend of Consul Han, prevents priceless pieces of Chinese art from being smuggled out of the country.  Later, when Consul Han, played by Tzi Ma, is in America, his daughter, Soo Yung, played by Julia Hsu, is kidnapped in retaliation.  Lee flies over from China to help in the investigation, but the FBI don't want his help.  So they enlist the help of Detective James Carter of the NYPD, played by Chris Tucker, to keep him out of the way.  Carter takes the assignment reluctantly, but decides to try and solve the case himself.This is a surprisingly good action-comedy, with good action and good comedy, but it did have a lot of violence which was irrelevant to the story, for example, Lee trying to get to Consul Han and in the bar when he fights the guys near the pool tables.  Good plot and good ending with the secret identity of Juntao revealed, Rush Hour is never boring.  It will keep you entertained from start to finish, and I would recommend this film.Australian Classification M 15+ Medium Level ViolenceRating 70 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Very ordinary movie","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, there's nothing new in this movie. In fact, it is a relatively weak effort all around. Chan has been rather limited in both his ability to showcase his fun personality and his impressive fight choreography. If you like Jackie Chan's fight scenes you won't see enough to entertain you. If you like his sense of humour, you won't see enough to entertain you. If you find Chris Tucker extremely annoying, you will see plenty to reinforce your point of view. In all, this movie was a waste. Apart from a few good parts it takes a classic story idea and a master actor in the genre and produces something limp and lame. My vote 6/10 and mainly because I'm a Chan fan! "},{"Title":"Great View","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really love this movie. I liked all the action and thrills with Jackie Chan and his moves. Chris Tucker was the big mouth of all, also a headache. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you have Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker in a film, you know it's gonna be fun. It was fun, to the hilt, because the stars keep everything interesting although you know you've seen this before and know the outcome within the opening credits. I think this film is like candy, not exactly great for you, but it was great while it lasted. I also heard that Chan wanted Martin Lawrence for the Tucker part, and I think that would've made it a little bit better, but still, in the long run, the film was still great. Check it out! "}{"Title":"Really liked this movie","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't expect Rush Hour to be this good! It's one of the best Jackie Chan movies I've seen. Jackie and Chris Tucker are excellent. There's plenty of action, and non-stop comedy in this very very entertaining movie. Better than First Strike definitely. "},{"Title":"Plot?","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yes, it was funny.  Yes, the fight scenes kicked ass.  But really, why is it that every cop movie has to have the same plot?  I mean, I'm just glad no one in the movie had two days until retirement as I expected.  Anyway, if you're not concerned with a decent plot, this movie is fun.  "},{"Title":"Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan-The perfect mix!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of my favorite movies. Starring a kung-fu movie star and a funny man. (That's the secret to the perfect movie!).  It's a funny and action-packed movie!!Go watch it, You'll love it! "},{"Title":"A very funny comedy-action movie","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw many Chan movies before seeing this one and also knew that his previous American movies were crappy. Those movies, including the two Cannonball run movies, did not let Jackie BE Jackie. Those directors must have seen Jackie showing his stuff in his movies but they treated him like an ordinary Michael Dudikov. Rush hour director Brett Ratner changed that by letting Jackie choreograph his stunts and action movies, but don't expect 10 minute fights or breathtaking stunts.That dangerous final stunt was obviously cheated (you SEE it when Jackie uses bluescreen and the stunt was not shown in one shot).For some reason the filmmakers were afraid that American audience would not accept the long fights, but every body who has seen this movie, including people who were introduced to Jackie with this movie, felt they wanted to see more of the action! So most of all this movie is a comedy a very funny comedy! Chris Tucker is hilarious, Jackie Chan is funny as always and the two as a team is as hilarious as Mel Gibson and Danny Glover in their best funny moments.Whereas all other Jackie flics have great action scenes to remember this movie has great verbal action(you see still action).Jackie saying Wassup my niggah with that funny accent is just hilarious. And you just want push the pause-button when Chris shows his badge. But I won't spoil any more of the comedy. There are some short but REAL action scenes which I can write down, because you can talk as much as you want about Jackie Chan fights but you have to see them to get it to be impressed!! Those action scenes are fast funny and the best is the one where Jackie fights the bad guys while trying to save some antique vases. And there are those how did he get there and he's so fastmoments. So check out this movie and for the fans or people who became a fan after seeing this movieI read some stuff about making Rush hour 2, with more fights, stunts and with a budget of 100mln dollars!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Something like an international Lethal Weapon.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You might not be sure if this movie would be good if you rent it, at first glance. I'll put it like this, GO RENT THIS MOVIE NOW! It's a classic case of east-west culture shock with a lot of zaniness thrown in for good measure. I can hardly wait for the sequel (there will be one), in review, if you at least remotely like the Lethal Weapon series, you'll most likely like Rush Hour. "},{"Title":"Chan was exciting again, but not as always.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching Chan`s stunning material arts skills and Tucker`s jokes. They made a good pair although Jackie isn`t as funny as in his Hong Kong Movies. But who cares? What comes out is an entertaining movie, I could have been watching for days. A must for Chan fans and people who love easy and good Action movies with a kick... I gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"Beauty and the Bore","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I like to pan movies.  It's fun. But today that's not my plan.  I think in Rush Hour, I got half my money's worth.  And that half was Jackie Chan.  Seriously, those of you who like Jackie Chan will like his part of the movie.  Unfortunately, Jackie Chan is a *CO*star in this movie.I don't think Christ Tucker is that funny.  This movie didn't help much. Okay, I laughed a bit, but he's a complete waste of time next to Jackie Chan.Jackie Chan doesn't fight nearly enough (he has two scenes, both of which are pretty good), but his choreography is definitely up to form.  On the other hand, Chris Tucker comes off as nothing - he's not an action star, he's not that funny, he's not some stone-cold cop, he's just kinda silly.Even worse, Jackie Chan is kinda silly too.  He's always been silly.  Thus, there isn't chemistry, because there's no contrast.  Chris Tucker and Bruce Willis had chemistry in The Fifth Element.  That was chemistry.If you want to see this, make sure you watch something more solid afterwards, because you're going to come away from it wishing there was more Jackie Chan.  I give it 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Man, was I concerned when I found out that one of my favorite actors of all time was to star in an action comedy with, of all people, Chris Tucker! But it turned out to be great movie, with stunts, fights and a wonderful Enter The Dragon-ish score by Lalo Shifrin. This is a great introduction to the wonderful world of Jackie Chan. "},{"Title":"Chris Tucker is phenomenal...","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan had an excellent collaboration in this movie. It was very refreshing to see their chemistry in Rush Hour and the movie was as dramatic as it was comedic.  I would have seen this movie more than once if I wasn't so cheap! This is one that I will definitely get in my home for entertaining purposes!  Brett Ratner couldn't have done better. But wait, will there actually be a Part II...?  I'll be there!  "},{"Title":"One of the most hilarious movies ever!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Who would've ever thought that Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker, the most diverse people partnered up in a movie, would do it?  I didn't.  This movie is so funny!  It is also filled with action, too, so don't miss out on that, either.  The part that gets me most is when the father of Soo-Yung says America is a great place and then they cut to Los Angeles and Chris Tucker yelling out Move out of my way, ***hole!!  That got me laughing so hard. The outtakes at the end were hilarious, also.  I recommend this movie to anyone.  If you don't laugh, than you are pretty boring! "}{"Title":"You could do much worse","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you're looking for a fairly interesting diversion, Rush Hour should fit the bill.  The action sequences are excellent due to Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker keeps the mood comic, which is smart because this film could never be taken seriously.  Rush Hour is a good formula picture.  Put either actor alone in a movie and it wouldn't work. (I've seen other Jackie Chan movies, when he's not kickin' ass, it gets boring real quick). Tucker, who is an acquired taste, fills in nicely between fights.  Pretty good for a buddy movie, even better than 48hrs.  6.8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am completely dumbfounded as to why this film has been such a success. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan unintentionally come across as the two most incompetent, bumbling detectives in the world. Worse still, the FBI are portrayed as being even more stupid. And as a demonstration of how cheesy the plot was look no further than the doh...do I disarm this bomb by cutting the red wire or the blue wire cliche.It is supposed to be a nobrainer action buddy movie you may say, so who needs a plot right? Well fine, I would have no problem with that if the action was good. However, Jackie Chan only gets to demonstrate his talent (ie. kicking ass) a couple of times and even then they were poorly choreographed. He does get to do one stunt where he falls off a ledge, but you could almost see the string lowering him to the ground. As any Jackie Chan aficionado knows, he normally does his own stunts with very few (un)special effects - this is one of his trademarks.And how about all those quotes from 'the general public' which said how hilarious this film is. If your idea of funny was DJ Ruby Rod from The Fifth Element, or Dumb & Dumber then perhaps. The only bit I found hilarious was the bit where the little girl is in the back of the limo singing along to Mariah Carey's Sweet Fantasy, although I know not why.I suppose the biggest disappointment was the fact that this was NOT a Jackie Chan Movie©. If you would like to see one of these then I would thoroughly recommend Police Story. "},{"Title":"amazing movie!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of 1998 I guarantee! It's just plain fun! I'm considering going for a third time !!!!This movie does not rely on plot, nor realism to make it work. For all you ppl commenting on that well then don't go see an action/comedy if that's the way you think! It's supposed to be FUNNY, not super-realistic! Since when do hong-kong cops go arresting people using karate moves?Chris tucker and Jackie chan make an amazing pair! I was laughing all through the film, so was the whole cinema. True there are not many action scenes but there doesn't need to be! I recommend this to EVERYONE except those serious people who are never pleased at anything! "},{"Title":"Maybe it's not a proper Jackie Chan movie, but it's good enough for me.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan has been handled badly by American directors in the past, including James Glickenhaus, who tried to make him an Asian Clint Eastwood, and whoever did that Big Brawl film. I didn't know that much about Jackie Chan when I went in to see Rush Hour. I'd heard of him, and I knew he was supposed to be a cross between Bruce Lee and Buster Keaton, but I didn't really watch his movies before. Besides that, Chris Tucker really got on my nerves in Fifth Element, so I honestly felt the movie was going to suck. But it didn't. It's a natural variation on the genre 48 Hours made so famous, the kind that only depend on the chemistry of the two stars to save it, and thankfully both Chan and Tucker are handled well by director Brett Ratner, and they make a surprisingly good pair. After the movie, I went to rent Chan's Operation Condor. I discovered then why his movies are so appealing. He's an action star, but unlike every action star here, he has his own way of doing things. While this isn't a real Jackie Chan movie, it is a good movie, and unlike The Protector, it at least allows him to be himself.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was an excellent movie. Jackie Chan is one of the few actors that can be said to have created his own genre, and this didn't disappoint. It had the ability to appeal to Jackie Chan fans, and yet also the mainstream public. Chan and Chris Tucker displayed a great chemistry which I think is the beginning of many films to be made together. The only criticism is the action wasn't as full on as his other films, but I think this is purely because Chan is starting to wind down the intense action a little. The famous out-takes also showed mainly bloopers and not the action out-takes that most fans look for. A highly enjoyable movie which you can take the whole family to.  "},{"Title":"What's wrong with just pure entertainment?","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have seldom enjoyed a film as much as I enjoyed this.This was pure entertainment. The fact that the actors had such fun was transmitted to me. Don't talk about credibility of the story line and some of the improbable action. No messages here just a continuous laugh.I hope they can put together a good sequel to this movie. "},{"Title":"Chris Tucker is more annoying than funny.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What I liked about this movie - The fighting and other stunt sequences (Jackie Chan was great) - The sweet car that Chris Tucker drove - The two times that I laughed out loudWhat I didn't like about this movie - Chris Tucker's annoying character. - The stupid way the LA police were depicted. - The unfunny jokes about Chinese. - If you've seen the preview you've seen the movie.A disappointment at the rental store and I still don't understand why it grossed so much at the box office. "},{"Title":"Very funny, a laugh a minute.","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this film was brilliant, it had me in stitches. The jackie chan relationship with chris tucker was excellent, they worked so well together. I especially liked the 'war'scene where they were both singing the song. The whole audience was in fits. Not only is the film brilliant the soundtrack is also worth a listen. It includes Jay-Z and the talented Dru HIll. I recommend this film to anyone who likes a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Hey, Beverly Hills Cop is back/d?","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sometimes, one sees a movie without any expectations. This happens in planes. I didn't recognise Jacky Chan and was surprised by all the action in this bad Beverly Hills Cop remake.Chris Tucker isn't funny at all, and there's too little action to really enjoy Jacky Chan. The story itself is as boring as the BHC's but since there's no humor, the story drags on and on. And on. "},{"Title":"Nothing new.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is nothing new and not really very good. Jackie Chan has made movies in America before and this one probably comes closest to his Hong Kong films in the action sequences. Even though Chan's movies don't usually have a plot, this film could have been a little better thought out. Chris Tucker is very funny in the film, but it is a stretch of the imagination to believe he is a cop of any kind. This is just another formula buddy picture, although Tucker's performance was entertaining. Watch Chan's Hong Kong films for real entertainment.  "}{"Title":"pretty good movie","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can honestly say that I enjoyed this movie. However, the previews were misleading (as they are with most movies). The plot was different from what the previews said. The movie was fun to watch though. Charis Tucker and Jackie Chan make a hilarious team. Mostly because they're from different worlds and have nothing in common. Most of the time they didn't understand each other. I give this film a 9 out of 10. Good movie. "},{"Title":"the best movie for 98","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is the best movie for 98. It's hella funny and there's a lot of action. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan worked good together on this movie. i rate a 10. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie. It was a good viewing experience, with a blend of action, comedy and story that we have come to expect from Chan.Its not an Oscar winning piece on the morality of man or some other, hoity-toity load of garbage that Hollywood usually inserts into a gorefest or 'art' movie. Its nice and simple - girl kidnapped, must be rescued.Jackie Chan is primarily an entertainer. His consummate skills in martial arts are evident throughout the film, but unlike his early movies relies on more than just his physical prowess (which has slipped only slightly since his youth).Chris Tucker is funny, but slightly annoying as the black cop trying to fit into Eddie Murphy's Beverly Hills Cop skin. I found his performance irritating at the start of the film, but managed to ease myself into it, with his wise-cracking and typical afro-american charisma. However I would warn directors off continuing this style of typecasting for these characters, it is becoming a little tedious.I gave it 8 out of 10, for sheer stunt, kick and action work. "},{"Title":"Best Chan Yet","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan movies vary tremendously in quality; the new generation Chan, post-kungfu, range from lots of fun to merely stupid. Rush Hour is to some extent less of a Chan vehicle than most, and perhaps that's one of the reasons it's so much fun. Very funny, very fast, and full of energy. Great intro to Jackie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour is, in short, great. The film is formulaic, Chris Tucker is the wise cracking cop, while Jackie Chan is the more serious, kick-the-crap-out-of-everyone cop.  It works well, very well.  It's a different change of pace for the normal Jackie Chan movies.  Highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Rush Hour is beter then Legionn Aire","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour has good action in it. It has good karate, Stunts, good comedy, Jackie Chan is really good when he does his stunts and karate.Rush Hour is beter than Legionn Aire becouse Van Damme dosen't do any karate in it. "},{"Title":"The end of an era","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, this movie did entertain me...but no more than any bog-standard Hollywood action film.  Jackie Chan is so reserved in this movie.  There is the odd stunt and some fighting but Jackie is obviously just getting too old for this lark now.Even his more recent efforts were miles better.  Rumble in the Bronx, Mr Nice Guy, we'll forget about First Strike.  This was bordering on lame.I'm sad to say this but Chris Tucker does steal the show and I found myself being entertained more by him than Jackie.  I'm a massive Jackie Chan fan  but...come on in Jackie, your time is up. "},{"Title":"Light hearted Action","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Enjoyable action film starring Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan.A Hong-Kong detective (Chan) teams up with an LAPD Cop (Tucker) in an attempt to rescue the daughter of a Chinese diplomat; who is being held at ransom by an illegal artificats collector. Great Action scenes and a lot of laughs from Tucker (who definitely seems to be a cross between Eddie Murphy and Jaleel White - aka Steve Urkel). But one can only cringe when Jackie Chan opens his mouth.  Most humour is wasted on him, but he can be funny in an innocent way.  Luckily, his martial-art skills make up for it.  This one scores a 7.  "},{"Title":"Woohoo!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has to be one of the funniest duos since Bad Boys. Both Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan were great. I think the film was everything they wanted it to be. Loose on plot, quirky team up, good fight scenes and most of all, a great laugh. I'd give it 10 just for the entertainment value. Everyone with me now...WAR! HUH! What is good for?! Absolutely nothin'!! "},{"Title":"A great action buddy, buddy film","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've always liked Jackie Chan movies. I'm not especially a martial arts/kung fu movie fan but there's something about Jackie Chan that shines to the max in this film. When I'd read that Chris Tucker his partner in this movie was a wannabe Eddie Murphy with an annoyingly twangy high-pitched voice I must say I was put off a bit but I went to see it regardless and.......It's EXCELLENT, Jackie Chan's best 'Hollywood' film by far. Chris Tucker is not an Eddie Murphy wannabe, he's just the next generation Eddie Murphy. And don't forget you have that with everything. Matt Damon is supposed to be the next Brad Pitt, Matthew Mcwhatsit! (From A Time to Kill and Contact) is supposed to be the next Paul Newman, Skeet Ulrich is the new Johnny Depp, Neve Campbell is a young endangered Jamie Lee Curtis and of course the new generation brat packers (Christina Ricci, Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, Jennifer Love Hewitt etc) but back to the movie it's quite a simple plot Jackie Chan a cop in Hong Kong  runs some dangerous gangstas out of Hong Kong to America. There they kidnap the daughter of the Chinese Diplomat. He sends over his trusted Cop Chan to cover the case and the FBI wanting full control of the case get a local LA cop to babysit Chan In comes Tucker and the two themselves after a shaky (but funny) start decide to bust the case themselves with hilarious results. This is a superb film to watch and the fight sequences are amazing as usual when you have Jackie Chan on board. This is a great film to watch if you haven't seen Jackie Chan yet. And for the truly devoted Chan fans there are the usual hysterical out-takes at the end when the credits are rolling. Go and see it now, you won't be disappointed "}{"Title":"Slow down !","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film is definitely Jackie's best effort in Hollywood and is watchable. For a diehard Chan fan (ahem) like myself I didn't see anything new from his Hong Kong films but I enjoyed his more subtle, yet still hyper-active, role.I gave it a seven because half way through I didn't feel like getting up and leaving. The storyline was bog standard but was helped along the way with huge helpings of Chris Tucker. Soon we will all become tired of Chris' brand of shouting through a fight scene, but for now he is very funny.Go and see it now.  "},{"Title":"Much better than you might think!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At first the thought of Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker teamed up for a (relatively) big budget no-brain action film sounded scary....but it's so much fun you've forgotten all your doubts by the end of the opening credits and Jackie's first salvo of moves!  Sit back, enjoy - and make sure you stay for the out-takes on the end credits! "},{"Title":"Chan and Tucker make an amazing duo!","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The tagline of Rush Hour was The fastest hands in the East meets the biggest mouth in the West. And it was true. Jackie Chan, the wizard of martial arts with some of the greatest moves in martial arts history always was a great fighter in bad movies. He always was a little short of having a really good movie. Chris Tucker on the other hand hasn't had the best career. From his debut in House Party 3 in 1994 up to Money Talks in 1997 his career hasn't been all that great. Then when brought together in Rush Hour...they suddenly become a amazing duo! First of all Tucker is amazingly funny with his odd high voice, slick comebacks and his oddball dancing. As for Chan he puts the Action in this movie with his slick fighting, his hot shot stunts and Chan even throws some comedy out there such as We can chill in my crib. I will show you my hood which is so funny in his accent. Chan and Tucker become great friends and stick togheter to try to recapture a daughter of a rich Chinese man. Also the movie features a cameo from the star of the musical Footloose, Chris Penn. From Tucker's jokes, dancing and surprisingly good action moves to Chan's lighting quick moves and stunts, Rush Hour is one the of the funniest movies in 1998 and for sure will boost Chris Tucker's career to better roles. As many critics said Rush to Rush Hour! "},{"Title":"chris tucker is eddie murphy in the coming","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this movie was good, a 7 on my scale.chris tucker is so funny, he makes you laugh till you are blue in the face. he has the potential to be one of the funniest men. i see eddie murphy, but funnier when i see chris. in his movie Money Talks, he was so funny and original. he had a small part in The Fifth Elemrnt, but showed he can still be funny. this movie is different because jackie chan is not funny, but they try too hard to make him comedian, just like they tried to make charlie sheen a comedian in money talks with Tucker. Chris Tucker belongs with actors/actresses who are funny, who sound funny and who can grab the audiences attention.  "},{"Title":"FBI Watch out!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My favorite scene was the whole movie! "},{"Title":"Comments on a funny movie","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a hysterically funny movie.  I don't think I've ever laughed so hard in my life at a movie.  Since I heard about it, I thought it might be interesting combining the physical comedy of Jackie Chan and the loudmouth hysteria of Chris Tucker.  They WERE the movie.  If there was just a movie about these two sitting in a room for an hour and a half, it would still be funny.  The jokes they got on each other were extremely witty.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the funniest movie I have ever seen!  Chris Tucker does a great job with his racial slur lines.  He manages to make them funny, yet not offend anybody.  Jackie Chan sounds a little awkward with his English, but that's okay.  There could have been a little more martial arts fighting in the movie, but the comedy makes up for it.  I give it a 10 "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My husband is a Jackie Chan fan.  I was not.  Until now!  This movie is funny and exciting.  Mr. Chan is just amazing!  Mr. Tucker is hilarious! Altogether, a good flick! "},{"Title":"Decent entertainment, carried by Chan's antics","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was an enjoyable action flick. The basic plot is pretty thin, and the dialogue is nothing to write home about -- but who sees a Jackie Chan movie for those? Chris Tucker was a pleasant surprise; I was afraid that he would be blown off the screen by Chan, but he (mostly with the help of his motor-mouth chatter) seems to hold his own. Chan also stretches a little, as his cop actually has an emotional investment in solving this kidnapping. And the stunts, as usual, are incredible -- especially the last one. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was great. I really loved it. Chris Tucker is such a hilarious actor. I was laughing the entire time. He played his character great (the dancing, the way he spoke, and the idle sarcasm and humor).As for Jackie Chan, in this movie it actually looked like he was talking. In a lot of movies it looks like someone is dubbing in for him and that he is actually not even speaking English. However, there was nothing that spectacular about his acting.The stereo-types in the movie, were written and acted in such away that nothing seemed offensive but instead were funny. All in all I think the best part of the film was the comedy and Chris Tucker. Two Thumbs Up! "}{"Title":"Average plot, Average movie, Average acting, Average effects","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie is funny (at times), suspenseful (at times) and predictable in plot. Car chases, explosions, gun battles occur with predictable regularity and with the patented Hollywood special effects. None of it is memorable or outstanding, but in general fairly entertaining. The movie will lose impact on a small screen, so see it in a theater.In my personal opinion, this is a prime example of the kind of violent entertainment Hollywood is producing by the truckload... The villains are shot, killed, mutilated, while the heroes run through hails of bullets with minor injuries. I really question what this kind of movie teaches our young, impressionable children and teenagers...  does it tell them shooting up people is OK?  Does it tell them that if you are the good guy you cannot be hurt or killed?  I suspect that for SOME of our younger generation(s) this is the perceived message....       "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air...","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this flick.  Even though the plot was formulaic, the characters and performances made it work.  Chris Tucker is in top form here, however, he would have been a lot funnier if this were R-rated.  This is Jackie Chan's best American film because he actually speaks.  The really bad dubbing was getting on my nerves.  This was almost as funny as There's Something About Mary and The Big Lebowski. "},{"Title":"surpisingly fresh","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan gives the formular action hero a touching and fresh sense - some Keaton and Stooges, while he does his own stunts like a monkey.  I liked this more than I expected. "},{"Title":"A Great Combination","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make the perfect team in this movie. It's like a cross between a Kung Fu flick and a Comedy. Being two genres I love, it was like the best of both worlds. It's funny as hell, but has some kick ass stunts too. Overall, I loved it. Go and see it right now. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie of the Year!!!!","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved every minute of it, it was by far the funniest movie I have seen this year..Chris Tucker was wonderful as usual..Jackie Chan giving a surprisingly good performance in English and I highly recommend this one to anyone looking for laugh-a-minute . There is a laugh in every scene!!! "},{"Title":"It takes two","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First I would like to say, I did see the movie on the opening weekend. As stated before the chemistry between Tucker and Chan was great. Overall this is one of the best movies I have ever seen, and I don't have any complaints about the movie. I do feel like this is a family movie, my 8 and 6 year old sons enjoyed it very much. I think that Chris Tucker should be given more credit for his outstanding performance. One without the other (Tucker & Chan) the movie would not have been as succesful as it presently is. "},{"Title":"If you are looking for a great movie, see Rush Hour.","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one heck of a good example of what a great movie should be. It is not only a comedy as it is advertised as but it has a great plot too. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are the best team in an action flick since . . . well for a long time. The movie is hilarious and packed with action including explosions, gunfire and all that stuff. You don't even have to be a Jackie Chan fan to like this movie. Not even an action movie fan do you have to be. I can pretty much guarantee if you see this movie that you will enjoy it. Thank you.Alec-2 "},{"Title":"This a great action movie!","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen Jackie Chan's other movies, and honestly, I was bored.  I had nothing against him personally, but the movies just seemed to be corny and never ending.  I was wary about seeing this one.  I was very glad I did though.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  It had the usual kidnapper/hero plot with the cop theme, but I really liked the way it was put together. Way to go Jackie!  Now you've finally got it the way we want to see it! Chris Tucker was wonderful as well.  I really enjoyed this pairing and hope that they will make a sequel.  The length of the fight scenes was kept down so that the audience just got the intense blast of Jackie's fancy footwork, and the dialogue was witty and entertaining.  These two gentlemen seem to have a good rapport, and the chemistry really came off well in the movie. This was one of my very favorite movies this year!   "},{"Title":"Da Most Bangin Movie Ever Made","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour was the best movie I have seen in a long time.  The acting was great, the plot was great also.  Chris Tucker was mad funny.  He had me laughing from beginning to end.  Jackie Chan was also funny.  This was the first time I have seen a movie with Jackie Chan.  He does banging stunts. The little girl was cute.  All in all, Rush Hour was the most banging movie ever made.  I suggest everyone go to see this movie.  ***** stars out of ***** "},{"Title":"Funny cop movie moves quickly through formula","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok, so its basically a formula buddy cop movie.  But it is very funny. Jackie Chan provides the usual fighting, as well as good lines (he plays the straight man to Chris Tucker.)  If you laughed at the preview, you won't be disappointed, even though a lot of the best jokes are in there.  Fun and action packed, don't expect anything else (character development, subtext, etc) and you'll be happy. "}{"Title":"Well-executed action movie formula","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan is at his best in this one, and Chris Tucker isn't as annoying as he was in _The Fifth Element_.  They work together almost as well as Danny Glover and Mel Gibson in the _Lethal Weapon_ movies.  The scene in the pool hall is one to remember.  If you're a fan of Jackie Chan, you can't miss this movie.  If you're any kind of an action fan, you'll find a lot to like, too. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan's best, but far from original.","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In viewing this film, I enjoyed Jackie Chan's stunts and Martial Artwork (as I normally do, he's one of my favorites),but I couldn't help but notice some glaring similarities between Rush Hour and the long-forgotten (except to me) buddy flick Collision Course starring Jay Leno and Pat Morita. One example  In Rush Hour, Chris Tucker's character handcuffs Jackie Chan's character to the steering wheel of his car, which Chan promptly escapes from.  In a similar scene in Collision Course, Jay Leno's character handcuffs Pat Morita's character to the steering wheel of his car, which Morita escapes from. There are more bits and pieces of Collision Course scattered all throughout Rush Hour.  Though I thoroughly Rush Hour, I think it would have been much better had it been more original. "},{"Title":"Jackie & Chris are awesome!","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First off, I am a huge Jackie Chan fan!!!  I loved almost all of his real movies..  I was worried that this might turn out to be another PROTECTORS. I was worried that the US might turn Jackie into that same guy in the eighties. Boy was I glad I was wrong!  This movie Rocks!  The fighting was awesome(it wasn't slowed down too much)and the humor made this movie a truly awesome buddy picture!  Jackie seemed to fit into this role really well.  He looked so comfortable working with Chris and they seemed to go so well together. Jackie had his share of humor but it was Chris Tucker who was a total riot! I really liked him after watching this movie.  I've liked him in all his other movies too (His role in fifth element, for me at least, saved that show).  But this time his character made me really like his work even more...  Just remember cigaweed!  His off the top of his head lines were just awesome! RUSH HOUR is one of those movies that you have to see with a good crowd! Everyone will get into it and it makes you laugh out loud even more and you find that you are having an awesome time!  I know that I will see this movie again at least 2 more times!  Go see it in a really good theater too!  SDDS minimum! "},{"Title":"Social commentary with a humorous (literal) kick!","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush on out to see Rush Hour!  Jackie Chan's latest English language work is his best to date.  The humor is rampant and audiences stay entertained.The expected east-meets-west angle is raucously hilarious without being overdone.  Chan's strait-laced Hong Kong detective and Tucker's streetwise LAPD loose cannon complement each other beautifully as they race to recover the daughter of the newly installed Hong Kong consulate, kidnapped by the minions of a shadowy Hong Kong crime boss.This is basically a buddy sort of movie with a 90's sensibility to it.  Tucker and Chan are much more than just an updated Axel Foley and Billy Rosewood (from Beverly Hills Cop); Rush Hour introduces true diversity into the mix. Early on, after Tucker all but shouts himself hoarse, asking if Chan understands the words that are coming out of my mouth, Chan eventually speaks to him in clear English.  When Tucker reveals his shock at Chan's knowledge of the language, Chan replies that Tucker only ASSUMED that he didn't speak English. This sort of interaction is representative of the assumptions that we sometimes make about people whose cultures we may not be familiar with, and it lends a wonderful sense of realism to the film.Aside from being a quasi-social commentary, Rush Hour is a rollicking treat.  The action is without much of the cartoonishness that was present in previous Chan ventures, but remains just as entertaining, if not more entertaining than, his earlier works.  Practically every bit of this movie screams, FUN! FUN!  FUN!, from the opening scene to Chan's signature outtakes montage during the end credits.  Rush Hour is one slick package.  Don't let it pass you by. "},{"Title":"Somewhat of a letdown.","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was very excited to see this movie, because I really like Chris Tucker. However, he was limited in this role by the typical cop-partner-black sheep scenario.  There were definitely some funny parts, but most of them were shown in the previews. "},{"Title":"Good, but not typical Jackie Chan movie","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My wife and I enjoyed Rush Hour a lot, but we were somewhat jarred by the Hollywood influence of foul language, and more bloodiness. For us, it was no big problem, but it means we can't take our friend's 5 year old Jackie fanatic to see it. We have both greatly enjoyed the lightness of Mr. Chan's own productions. "},{"Title":"Way Above My Expectations","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although early ads on TV had made me want to see this one real bad, after reading a few reviews I was ready to chalk it up as another cookie-cutter buddy cop film. I was very wrong. This movie has a great plot, is well directed and shot, has great sets, and is just hilarious. You must see this now. "},{"Title":"Jackie deserves better","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Weak, weak, weak script. Jackie Chan is given nothing to do, not even any decent fights. American directors don't know how to stage or cut fights - they put the camera in too close and they cut too often. Any of Jackie's HK stuff puts this to shame from an action standpoint. For the first time, you're not even sure it's him doing the stunts! (And the stuff up in the rafters of the L.A. Convention Center is obvious digital compositing.) Chris Tucker seemed restrained, also - in order to be funny, he needs to be let loose, with profane dialogue that isn't afraid to offend. His lines here are timid - he gets most of his laughs by bugging his eyes. And why'd they give Elizabeth Pena such a lousy hairstyle? "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan Is Back!","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After watching Jackie Chan fall into a slump with his last picture, the dreadful mess that was Mr. Nice Guy, it sure is a relief to see him back on top with a very entertaining picture like Rush Hour. He's paired with motormouth comic Chris Tucker, and, as a pair of mismatched detectives, they must try to rescue a young 11-year old girl who's been kidnapped. Besides the hilarious script, what makes Rush Hour work so well is the great chemistry between these two, and how well they play off each other. Chan is delightful, funny, and STILL the undisputed king stuntman. And Chris Tucker is, well, Chris Tucker, but he IS funny in his over-the-top, eager-to-please performance. My only criticism is that Tom Wilkinson, the lovable older stripper from The Full Monty, isn't given very much to do as the villain. But otherwise, Rush Hour is a highly entertaining film, and not just another run-of-the-mill buddy cop flick. Check it out and have fun! -) "},{"Title":"More than what I expected, less than what I wanted","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  <mild spoilers>If you are a traditional Jackie Chan fan, then you'll be interested to note that there is a lot less fighting/stunt work in this movie.  The story line is still very good, and some of the stunts are just so totally amazing that you'll be glued to the edge of your seat (the final stunt, particularly, would give someone with a fear of heights something to cringe about).Chris Tucker is funny, but to the point of being annoying.  The few comical lines given to Jackie actually come off much funnier, especially the part where they are singing outside the Chinese restaurant.All in all, it was a better movie than the previews led you to believe it would be, but still not up to the standard that most Jackie fans will be expecting. "}{"Title":"Hilariously funny and packed with plenty of action","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Chris Tucker was at his funniest and damn it if he didn't look good too. Jackie Chan was his usual dynamic self with plenty of powerful kicks, punches and hilarity. Sure, there were some illogical plot twists and the other characters weren't too strongly developed, but none-the-less this flick was terrific escapism and entertained me quite adequately. "},{"Title":"Action and Comedy...who could ask for more?","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you are looking for action and comedy...this movie is a good choice.  I think that Jakie Chan wasn't able to do all the exciting things he usually does...but the action is plentiful, and enjoyable.  8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Laughed so hard I had tears in my eyes.  If you've seen the two stars anywhere before, you know what to expect; but together, they're a riot! Don't miss the cut-scenes during the closing credits!! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Surprisingly, this is effective and inventive casting. The tag line proclaims Rush Hour as The fastest hands in the East meets the biggest mouth in the West, and then actually follows through on that promise. Tucker is nowhere near as annoying as he was in Money Talks (1997), and he works well with Chan, at one point holding one hand in his while using the other to hold his own against more than a few baddies. He is certainly a better partner than Danny Aiello made in Chan's last US film (1985's ill-advised The Protector). Chan is also in good form, doing much more than would be expected from him in an American film under an American director. True - he never does any major stunts, but I'll watch the man shimmy up a wall any day (and there are several terrific variations on this theme throughout the movie). The only negative thing I can say is that the camera needed to be back a bit during action sequences. Jackie moves fast enough; the camera shouldn't have to. This made it difficult at times to see who was doing what to whom.  In short, Rush Hour is terrific fun, and it will do just fine until Drunken Master 2 is released here in the States. "},{"Title":"Entertainment value 8, Critical value 2 - Good fun","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Very entertaining. Jackie Chan is always worth the price of admission for the stunts and nimble physical stunts he pulls. Chris Rock is a good counter part. Generic action film otherwise, but the relationship between Chan and Rock is good and I could foresee the 2 teaming up again.  "},{"Title":"THE RUSH IS ON","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Call it Lethal hour or Rushing Weapon or what ever THIS MOVIE IS GREAT. Its Lethal weapon for the next century.  This movie wes genius.  Who ever paired them up should be paid well.  With this thing breaking records  and people rushing  in by the hour (sorry) new line has a franchise on their hands and Chan is finally a superstar in the states. except for maybe Armageddon this was my favorite movie this summer. the action is great and tho it does lack some of the more spectacular Chan stunts it makes up in comedyits a 9.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dialogue in a US made Jackie Chan film!","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For many Jackie Chan's best work was the non-Western made films (Drunken Master I and II, Project A to name three). Sure there were some good action scenes in Mr. Nice Guy but the lack of plot and the general acting, well, to put it nicely, sucked.Rush Hour, to me, proves the Jackie can make a good film in the US. Okay so at times the plot is dead obvious but there is dialogue to make up for it. Chris Tucker is a much toned down (but still outrageous) and thankfully fails to steal most scenes from Jackie (but when he does its well deserved). And the song outside the restaurant needs to be seen to be believed!To my mind however there is one thing left that needs to be carried over from the earlier Chan movies more actions scenes. Thats the only reasons I gave it a 9/10 and not a 10 "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i thought that it was a good movie but they could have used Jackie Chan more and not made him as stupid when it comes to America, but was a good movie. "},{"Title":"Fun, light movie","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very fun movie.  Chan and Tucker had great chemistry. Great martial arts and even a plot surprise. "},{"Title":"Worth rush hour traffic to go see","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A fresh comedy with a hilarious performance by Chris Tucker, who keeps the theater filled with laughter. Jackie Chan fans may be disappointed the few fight scenes, but the extraordinary stunts near the end make up. Although predictable, the comical chemistry between Tucker and Chan will keep you into the movie, awaiting to see what disaster they are going to cause next. Lightning quick action by Jackie Chan and Tucker's very funny character make this movie worth the watch.  "}{"Title":"Finally Jackie Chan earns what he deserves in the USA.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Perhaps this film will earn Jackie Chan the popularity he deserves in the United States.  Good action, chemistry and photography. "},{"Title":"Did what it was supposed to do","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie did what it was supposed to do--it made me laugh, it amazed me at Jackie antics, and it entertained me. I wouldn't call it the best of Jackie's recent movies, the best cop movie of the year, or one of my ten best for the year, but it was well worth $7, and that's my ultimate measure. "},{"Title":"Fun filled, action pack","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a fun filled, action packed movie that never proves dull. Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan make an excellent team. I had never seen an Jackie Chan movie before and now I see why he's so popular.  "},{"Title":"Rush Hour (3.0) has all the right moves.","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   From such cinematic progenitors as the 48 HOURS and LETHAL WEAPON movies, we all know that such a strategy is a sure-fire way to ensure that the maverick detectives will eventually end up knee-deep in the investigation.  But, despite its creaky passage down well-worn tracks, with Chan and Tucker at the wheel, this formulaic vehicle yields  the maximum mileage for action movie fans.Without a doubt, the performances by the male co-stars of this movie make RUSH HOUR, even though many of the secondary roles are dispensable (for instance, the Elizabeth Peña character adds little to the dramatic content of the movie other than plot device).  But, in a movie like this, we just need the good guys to be lovable and the bad guys to be despicable, and such is the case here.  In the case of the good guys, the charisma and chemistry of Chan and Tucker get the mission accomplished and, in the case of the bad guys, a clicheic turn-coat play by an affable, respectable gentleman who turns out to be a villain completes the touchdown.  "},{"Title":"The film succeeds with a BELIEVEABLE odd-couple pairing!","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To all of those people out there who didn't like this film because it was a by-the-numbers, unoriginal, buddy-cop movie, LIGHTEN UP!!!  Yes, the script may be a little weak.  Yes, Jackie Chan's stuntwork is not as extensive or awe-inspiring as in his Hong Kong films.  Yes, Chris Tucker has Eddie Murphy's shadow looming over him.  But the fact of the matter is, this is a HILARIOUS film with some of the best actor stuntwork seen in an AMERICAN film in quite some time.  Those two elements COMBINED are what make this a great film.  Tucker by himself in this film wouldn't have worked, because Chan was the necessary straight man to set up all of Tucker's jokes and make the reactions just that much funnier.  Chan by himself wouldn't work, because the stunts given to him were not enough to carry the whole film, but when coupled with Tucker's looks of amazement at what Chan was doing, the stunts gained so much more.  Tucker was doing on-screen what so many audience members (who haven't seen a Jackie Chan film) were doing in the audience.  The nicest thing about this odd-couple pairing is that it's entirely believeable.  The two actors really did confuse and astound the heck out of each other, and it translated on screen.  I for one, hope a sequel will be in the works.  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've seen in years","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was so funny, I was in stitches.  I haven't enjoyed a comedy like Rush Hour a a long time. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not bad at all","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Finally, Hollywood is letting him cut loose for a change!  After subduing his efforts in his first American outings (Battle Creek Brawl, The Protector, Cannonball Run 1 & 2), they finally let him cut loose in the film.Still, he's kinda held back, because there are a lot of conventions that must take place in Hollywood cinema.  But, at least you don't have an annoying whiny female co-star like in half of his other films.Not perfect, but just a fun film, and it does not aspire to be anything more than just a fun film.  Could've used a bit more action, but the humor kinda makes up for it. "},{"Title":"Movie review","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's been over a decade since THE PROTECTOR, the last American-made Jackie Chan vehicle, hit North American theatres and underwhelmed hardcore Jackie fans and neophytes alike.  Undeterred, Chan tries again to strike Hollywood gold in New Line Cinema's RUSH HOUR, a buddy-cop picture that teams him with the highly energetic and very funny Chris Tucker.Chan, while amicable and charming as ever, is more the straight man in this pairing, playing -- what else? -- Hong Kong supercop, Detective Inspector Lee.  He goes to the U.S. at the request of his friend, Consul Han (played competently by Tzi Ma), whose 11-year-old daughter (the high-spirited Julia Hsu) has been kidnapped by a Chinese crime syndicate.  The FBI, however, have already launched their investigation by the time Han informs them of Lee's imminent arrival.  Not at all pleased that an international incident could develop with a foreign policeman getting involved, the Bureau agents ask the Los Angeles Police Department to supply someone to lead Lee on a wild goose chase to keep him out of the way.Into the picture comes Detective James Carter (played with zeal and relish by Chris Tucker) who is less than thrilled at having a babysitting assignment.  Determined not to be shut out of the big case, Carter calls upon his own resources to find leads while trying to keep Lee out of trouble.  This plan falls apart, however, when Lee escapes to find Han. Pretty soon, the two detectives who were not supposed to be involved with the case find themselves in the heart of it, much to the dismay of the FBI.This rather familiar story could have quite easily failed in the hands of the screenwriters.  It would have been too easy for them to use ethnic stereotypes as the source of friction and humour between Chan and Tucker. They, however, wisely avoid this route and come up with some truly funny dialogue, such as when Carter talks about how the L.A.P.D. are the most hated police force in the world and how even his mother is ashamed of his job.  She tells everybody I'm a drug dealer, he quips.At the comedic level, RUSH HOUR is a success, delivering one hilarious gag after another.  As an action picture, however, it is very ordinary, especially when compared with Chan's previous efforts.  Even MR. NICE GUY, with its insultingly bad script and horrendous acting, had some brilliant stunt choreography and truly original physical comedy.  By contrast, RUSH HOUR is very pedestrian and shows blatant signs of the rumoured restraints put on Chan by the production's insurers.The problem with the action sequences isn't confined to choreography, however.  The camera, true to the MTV style which is now so commonly used in American cinema, cuts away too much.  In Chan's Hong Kong productions, stunts are filmed with unbroken shots to give them a greater sense of reality.  Switching camera angles makes stunts look like they were camera tricks edited together, a sleight-of-hand done in the editing room rather than the no-stunt-double daring-do that Chan promises to his audience in every one of his movies.In the end, it would be fair to say that RUSH HOUR is not a true Jackie Chan film, even though it has his charm and his trademark outtake reel at the end (and a rather entertaining one, at that).  This is more of a showcase for Chris Tucker who, according to interviews Chan has given, injected his brand of comedy into the movie by ad lib-ing lines.RUSH HOUR may not be Jackie Chan's magnum opus but it's witty, lacks excessive violence, and, above all else, is a heck of a lot of fun.Rating  8.0 out of 10.0 "},{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In my opinion this film is nowhere near as good as other Jackie Chan movies(Who Am I? and Police Story). Chris Tucker just weighted Jackie down in this movie. His comic attitude didn't fit in with this action genre. The fights were good but not nearly as numerous as in other Jackie films. "},{"Title":"Haven't seen one this good in a while!","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There's so many serious movies out lately that I'd forgotten what fun a movie could be 'till I saw Rush Hour.  I haven't laughed that hard for a flick in a loooong time!  Besides all the humor, the action was excellent and the storyline well done for an action flick.  I'm definitely going to see this one again! "}{"Title":"Yippeee!!!","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is Jackie's best American movie (though it's not saying much....!).Tucker made me laugh out loud (which I didn't think was possible after viewing The 5th Element!!!).High entertainment value, go see it.Hope that Jackie will pursue his North American career with more and more success... "},{"Title":"Brett makes a hit","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour was very, very, funny.  One of the best films to make fun of different cultures by far.  Even though it's full of sterotypes, racism, bigotry, and down out bad humor, Chris Tucker combined with Jackie Chan's innocent stylistic pose make for a very entertaining while thrilling movie. This is one you should pay 7.50 for.- The Mad Prince of Denmark princeoden@aol.com "},{"Title":"A terrific blend of action and humor","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found this to be one of the most entertaining movies in a long time. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are both at the top of their form, and they have great chemistry together.  The dialogue kept me laughing all the way through, and the action had me on the edge of my seat.  I look forward to seeing it again, and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"This is a very well done action movie that combines well choreographed martial arts scenes along with well written humor.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.   The martial arts expertise of Jackie Chan is superb.  He is truly a master, and it is displayed well in this movie.  Chris Tucker does a terrific job of playing the off the wall LAPD officer who is assigned to keep Chan's character out of the way of an investigation, but ends up helping him solve it in the end.  Chris Tucker is an extremely well disciplined actor, and seems to go very smoothly with the styles of Jackie Chan.  Not only is the action part of the movie good, the now common jokes in martial arts movies are all there, including many racial/cultural difference jokes (not necessarily making fun of races, but the cultural differences.  Ie; a scene where Tucker and Chan's characters go into a bar to get some information, and Tucker's character says to another person Wusup my nigga?.  Chan's character not realizing what this would mean from a non black person to a black person says that to a person in the bar, and a whole chain of events ensue, which might I add was a well done bit.) and a whole array of other funny parts, a lot having to do with the communication of the languages.  I gave this movie a 9 rating, as it is a good movie, with few flaws, yet they are there.  The major flaw is that it is an action movie.  Action movies generally cannot be scored as 10's  as they do not contain the material that make a truly incredible movie.  I do recommend you see this and have a good laugh. "},{"Title":"A great mix of Action and Comedy","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What Rush Hour has best going for it, is the teaming of Chan and Tucker. Jackie Chan, Arguably the greatest Hong Kong Mega-Star, has a great on-screen rapport with Chris Tucker, and that makes this movie work.  From start to finish, this movie had me laughing.  I expected it to be funny, but not THAT funny.  Jackie Chan really shines in this, I think mainly because he didn't have to carry the film by himself, which most of his Hong Kong movies seem to need.  Chris Tucker is extremely well cast in this, and shows off his talent for fast-paced humor once again.  All in all, this film is well worth going to see, especially if you are a fan of Action/Comedy.  I give it four stars, and hope to see more movies like this in the future!  "},{"Title":"A great mix of Action and Comedy","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What Rush Hour has best going for it, is the teaming of Chan and Tucker. Jackie Chan, Arguably the greatest Hong Kong Mega-Star, has a great on-screen rapport with Chris Tucker, and that makes this movie work.  From start to finish, this movie had me laughing.  I expected it to be funny, but not THAT funny.  Jackie Chan really shines in this, I think mainly because he didn't have to carry the film by himself, which most of his Hong Kong movies seem to need.  Chris Tucker is extremely well cast in this, and shows off his talent for fast-paced humor once again.  All in all, this film is well worth going to see, especially if you are a fan of Action/Comedy.  I give it four stars, and hope to see more movies like this in the future!  "},{"Title":"Great action movie, enjoyable to watch","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a really enjoyable movie.  There is a lot of action and a great deal of humor throughout.  It is a movie that allows the viewer to escape from reality-based movies and have a good time.  I strongly suggest that everyone who enjoys action movies laced with humor to go see this one. "},{"Title":"What a Great Match-up!","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are a great match-up in this action/comedy that will both impress you with the acrobatic stunts of Chan and will keep you ROLLING the whole time with Chris Tucker's hilarious lines.  The two play off each other very well, and the out-takes at the end of the movie are definitely worth staying around for.  I would love to see these two do another movie together! "},{"Title":"Chris Tucker runs his mouth and Jackie Chan kicks butt in the best buddy-cop movie since the Lethal Weapons.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour, Jackie Chan's first American movie, is a perfect vehicle for the Hong Kong superstar.  It's also a breakthrough for Chris Tucker, whose high-pitched comedy makes this one of the funniest action movies ever. Together, Chris and Jackie are so fast and so funny that the movie should catapult both of them into stardom, maybe even a sequel. Once American audiences get a look at Jackie Chan in Rush Hour, a lot of second rate action heros like Steven Seagal and Van Damme are gonna be on the unemployment line. There's not much to say for the story, it's a standard kidnapping and ransom plot. But there's plenty of room for Chris Tucker to do his thing, and he gets more laughs than Eddie Murphy has in the past ten years. There's also lots of Jackie's unbelievable stunts. Just watching him take a guy's gun away is more fun and more exciting than seeing Stallone blow something up. "},{"Title":"It's like seeing Lethal Weapon 1 all over again.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's easy to accept Mel Gibson and Danny Glover as partners after a hit movie and three sequels, but the whole basis of two people who are opposites fades after that first movie. This is a chance to see a fresh and hilarious buddy movie that allows the two stars to show how different (and alike) they are. This is no typical Jackie Chan all-action-no-plot movie, and it isn't even a total Chris Tucker laugh-a-thon. It's an excellent mix of both without either being dominant.  "}{"Title":"A hilariously funny comedy (non-spoiler review)","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film starring the well-known Jackie Chan and the comic Chris Tucker, is a great movie. It could be classified as a great comedy but also has a very well plot packed with a lot of cool action and adventure, such as Jackie Chan using his martial arts expertise to dispose of bad guys. Chris Tucker is a great laugh, as always, with Jackie Chan and others supporting. I recommend this movie to anyone. You will be in for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"It's a Chris Tucker movie","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This, unfortunately, is not a Jackie Chan movie. It's a Chris Tucker movie co-starring Jackie Chan.  Chris steals the spotlight whenever he possibly can.Why do people keep casting Chris Tucker in movies?  I mean, why doesn't someone realize that when you have to seriously consider how long the audience can TOLERATE an actor, the actor just might be miscast.Otherwise, this movie is tolerable... not many fight scenes, and the few (there are 4) that are there are pretty lame.  In the first one, the music totally screws it up, and the rest are pretty bland. If you want a good Chan fill, go rent Rumble in the Bronx, Who Am I?, Drunken Master, or Police Story. Pass on this. "},{"Title":"This Movie isn't all it is cracked up to be...","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went and saw Rush Hour on Friday because I am a fan of Jackie Chan's. Unfortunatley, I was rather disappointed. His performance seemed to me to be forced as though he really didn't want to be IN this movie. I have never seen Chris Tucker in a movie before, but he did a very good job in Rush Hour. I also felt he worked rather well with Jackie Chan.Not only was this movie ruined because they showed all of the good parts in the trailer, but it was rather predictable. Chris Tucker's wit and charm saves this from being a rather drab and boring movie.Hopefully Jakie Chan and Chris Tucker will work on another movie again sometime, and maybe they will even make a movie to fit Jackie's talents.Overall the Movie was OK... I would give it a 7.5. "},{"Title":"One of the best Jackie Films!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Lets face it, Jackie Chan's movies are never rated that high with critics, and they never make as much money as they deserve.  But Jackie makes his films for the fans, and man did he come through on this one! Jackie teams up with Chris Tucker (he was really funny in this movie) and all the fun starts. Rush Hour has a pretty simple plot (a child kidnapping) but it manages to keep you interested and entertained (there's more to it than that, but I'm keeping it short).  For a Chan film, there aren't that many fight scenes, but they are very good and the same goes for the stunts.  This is the by far the funniest of Chans movies (thanks goes to Tucker here!) and the out-takes at the end of the movie are worth the price of admission alone! See it and have fun! "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment.","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'll state right now that I'm a tad biased towards any Jackie Chan movie just because I like to see martial arts and awesome stunts, and everything that goes with a JC flick.  But this movie, although not the best for JC action, is certainly one of the best.  The mix of humor and action is done just right and the movie is extraordinarily entertaining.  Sure, it's not going to win any awards - but it's an hour and a half (or maybe a little more?) of pure enjoyment.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, Chan and Tucker work well with each other","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is very funny, and of course with Jackie Chan in, it is full of action.  I think this is Jackie Chan's best movie in the United States. I think a lot of people should find this movie very entertaining.  Especially if you are into Jackie Chan movies. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Tucker and Chan make such an excellent team! It was sooo hilarious! I loved Money Talks, but I thought this one was better because it had much more of a plot and Chan was a much better co-star than Charlie Scheen.  The whole theatre couldnt stop laughing and when they weren't laughing they cheered Jackie Chan on.  When the movie ended everyone clapped for like 3 minutes and pretty loudly too! Thats how good it was! I definitely recommend it if you like comedy!  9 of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny Drama","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Once Chris Tucker enters the picture the movie takes off. His humor keeps the movie going. There is a lot of good kick boxing and action of that nature, but the humor keeps the movie fun to watch.  It is a movie that will make good at the box office. It's one that you can watch more than once.   "},{"Title":"A fun, engaging comedic-action romp","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is an extremely funny and pleasantly entertaining action comedy. Chris Tucker (who stole the show in The Fifth Element) and Jackie Chan play mismatched police officers who must work together on an international kidnapping case. Plots are largely irrelevant in this type of picture, so what the movie amounts to is an above-average treatment of the Hollywood buddy cop comedic-action formula. It is billed as Chan's first lead role in an American production in 12 years. This shows in its superior production values and script. While maintaining a boisterous sense of comedy, it doesn't resort to the outright silliness of the past string of overseas Chan movies. Chan and Tucker have an easygoing, natural chemistry and make a delightful pairing. Both leads are charismatic and provide abundant energy. Their differing styles are a good match of well-executed physical stunts and verbal play. Tucker's stylish, motor-mouthed delivery and eye-popping mannerisms are a nice complement to Chan's high-speed moves and affable disposition. If someone ever paired Tucker in a film with Jim Carrey, an 80-foot screen could hardly contain the miasmic presences of these two. Popping up in supporting roles are an almost unrecognizable Elizabeth Peña as an LAPD agent and Tom Wilkinson of  The Full Monty. As always, stay for the credits to see outtakes featuring stunts gone awry as well as many botched lines. The lively score is provided by notable composer Lalo Schifrin, perhaps best remembered for the Mission Impossible theme.  "},{"Title":"Rush Hour","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought Rush Hour was funny as well as exciting.  I thought that Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan made a nice chemistry of comedy as well as great action. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was very nervous with the idea of a Jackie Chan movie made in Hollywood, as he has been badly handled by some American directors in the past... but this movie was great. Chan has very good on screen chemistry with his partner, his humour really comes through, and they actually seemed to enjoy making the movie. A nice blend of an American buddy style movie and Chan 's Asian, fight and stunt oriented movies. It even included an outtakes reel, which every Chan fan knows is the highlight of his films. All in all, the best Western Jackie Chan movie made, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A rush-paced and quick-action comedy!","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one fast-paced and quick-action comedy, where Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker star as detectives where their cultures clash. Big-mouth and overly confident LAPD Detective James Carter (Tucker) thought he was working on a classified case to find the kidnapped daughter of the Chinese Consul with the FBI, but instead found out he is supposed to keep Hong Kong Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan) from interfering in the case on his own term. What follows is a hilarious game of mismatch and quick humor as Carter and Lee try to get along with each other and attempt to join forces to save kidnapped daughter Soo-Yung.There is an endless supply of racial and racy comments coming from Tucker's all-talk and wise-cracking mouth but it's funny to see Lee counteract with his all-action and no-nonsense personality. But, both have great chemistry on screen together and will give you endless laughs and entertainment. This movie has a solid plot that I find enjoyable and good acting that keeps the film interesting.Overall, one of the best action-comedies I've seen and one that will keep you laughing and holding on your seat at the same time.Grade B+ "},{"Title":" I Never said I didn't speak your language, you only assumed it ","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rush Hour  is based on a story written by Ross LaManna and directed by Brett Ratner. It's a simple story about a newly appointed Chinese Consulate named Han (Tzi Ma) who's 11 year old daughter is kidnapped by Mr. Griffin (Tom Wilkinson, great acting) a disenchanted, scheming and manipulative former Consulate. With the help of Sang (Ken Leung) a Chinese crime Lord, the two conspired to hold the daughter for $50,000,000 ransom. Not trusting the F.B.I. to insure his daughter's life, Han recruits his own Chinese Police Officer named Lee (Jackie Chan). Assigned to rescue the girl, the American F.B.I tries to prevent the L.A. Police from interfering by selecting an obnoxious, loud mouth, street smart detective (Chris Tucker) to go on a wild goose chase with Lee. The two cops although begin as bickering partners, soon realize they must work together to save the kidnapped girl. There is much drama and suspicious intrigue between official law enforcement and the criminal gangs and this leads to an equal amount of distrust, violence and exciting confrontations by all. Indeed, there are fights, shootings, car chases, explosions and an abundance of physical confrontations. With Jackie Chan supplying his amazing mystical stunts and Tucker providing the wit and humor which he brings to the film, it's sure to create a memorable movie which should be enjoyed by all audiences. Recommended. **** "},{"Title":"One of Jackie Chan's best!","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched Rush Hour (1998) yesterday, and yes I certainly found this movie extremely entertaining. It had such great acting by both Chris Tucker and our beloved Jackie Chan! They shared such amazing chemistry and both their characters were lovable. The plot remains very basic and this is one of the strengths of this movie. Its a lot like 'Die Hard (1988)' where the plot is simply rescue the kidnapped/hostage against overwhelming odds. The action in this film was purely amazing and the dialogue was well written. I pretty much enjoyed every aspect of this film, in particular the comedy. **SPOILERS**I, in particular laughed hard at the scene where Lee is like 'Wassup,my **** It was hilarious and the action sequence that followed was breathtaking. I also laughed hard at the scene where Lee is trying to stop any of the things being broken and then as soon as he walks away, it explodes! ***END OF SPOILERS*** Overall, highly recommend this movie to all comedy/Jackie Chan fans! "},{"Title":"Rush Hour delivers some really funny laughs . Great Movie!!","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Do you enjoy funny movies with a fresh style of comedy from a great cast and crew? Well if you do then I think that you should watch this. Rush Hour is a great comedy that is full of laughs and action. This was in my opinion the movie that made Jackie Chan known by fans. And this movie also made Chris Tucker(which was a rookie at the time)a good comedy actor. With Chris Tuckers fast and non-stop running mouth,having to team up with Jackie Chans impatient and know-it-all sense of humour. This is what makes the movie a great one. As the movie is recognized by Jackie Chan fans will be marked down to be one of the greatest buddy-cop films. So next time you go to BlockBuster then I suggest that you rent Rush Hour! "},{"Title":"Not quite a Lethal Weapon, but a good film.","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lethal Weapon and Rush Hour are two film series' that have the same theme. They are both buddy cop films. I personally prefer The Lethal Weapon series for mostly one reason. Both lead characters, Riggs and Martaugh are likable. Lee and Carter aren't that likable. I mean I like Carter(Chris Tucker)but I hate Lee(Jackie Chan). Now I mostly hate Lee because Jackie Chan can't act. So he proved in every film he is in, like Rush Hour 2, which is the weakest in the series because Jackie Chan can't act. I think Chris Tucker is funny in both films, but Jackie Chan sucks. Jackie Chan is meant to do action, but there is the word act in action. So perhaps the studios and Brett Ratner, who is a bad director, mixed up acting and action. That means that you are a total idiot. The Rush Hour series would be perfect, almost, if Jackie Chan wasn't in it. Rush Hour is a likable film that is funny at most times of the film. I know it could've been better but it's the best in the Rush Hour series. It's silly at times but don't blame Chris Tucker or any of the other people, blame Jackie Chan and Brett Ratner.The Plot Lee is a tough cop from Hong Kong. Carter is a loud mouthed cop from L.A. The two are brought together when Counsel Han's daughter is kidnapped. "},{"Title":"Outrageous Fun!","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Buddy films can be great fun, if done well. There are a few things that need to happen (depending on what kind of buddy film it is), but the most important thing to have in a buddy film is chemistry. In other words, do the buddies work well with each other. Rush Hour has it, and that's why it works so well. Granted, the action is exciting and the comedy is hilarious, but Rush Hour wouldn't be as much fun as it is if Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker went together like oil and water.Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) is an LAPD detective whose ego is as big as his brain is small. When a Chinese diplomat's (Tzi Ma) daughter (Julia Hsu) is kidnapped, the diplomat wants one of his countrymen (Jackie Chan) to work with the FBI. The FBI doesn't like the idea, so they get the biggest dupe they can find to babysit the Chinese cop. Guess who they pick...The plot may be a set up for Chan's action skills and Carter's comedy (all though to be fair, they each get to do both), but the movie sticks pretty close to the plot. In general, Rush Hour switches between comedy and action, though they frequently come at the same time.Describing the film's methods would be pointless if it didn't work. But there's little (if anything) in the movie that doesn't work. Chan and Tucker work brilliantly together. While the supporting characters do good work, this movie is all about Chan and Tucker.Tucker came to fame with Friday (unseen by me), and first worked with Rush Hour director Brett Ratner in Money Talks (also unseen by me). Actually, this is the first movie I've seen him in, and I'm a fan. He's hilarious. According to IMDb, most of his lines were improvised, and if so, it worked. He never fails to get a laugh, whether big or small.Jackie Chan is a lot of fun, with his great martial arts capabilities, and his penchant for mixing it with comedy. Although Chan may be famous for his action movie skills, but he also knows how to do comedy (which is why he's frequently associated with Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin). Fortunately, director Brett Ratner understands that, and allows Chan to show this.The supporting actors are also good. Elizabeth Pena is great as the frustrated bomb squad member (who also has one of the best lines). Tom Wilkinson got his biggest break with role, and watching him here, it's no surprise why. Philip Baker Hall and the late great Chris Penn also have small roles.This isn't a classic film. It's never heavy and it NEVER takes itself seriously. It's simply a great movie to watch on a Friday night. "},{"Title":"What did you just say?","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jackie Chan before Rush Hour was already a cult phenomenon, an icon of Kung-Fu movies and a figure capable of standing toe to toe with Bruce Lee as one of the greats.Rush Hour is unlike any of Jackie earlier movies, here he combines his physical comedy with Chris Tuckers verbal and a force to be reckoned with is created in the process. Rush Hour is a buddy cop movie with tons of laughs; Lee is a Hong Kong detective who has been flown over to the USA to help the FBI in rescuing his friends daughter; a girl who is almost like his own. Here he is placed in the care of Carter, a cop with disregard for rules and so the two combined comb LA for the girl and the Triad responsible for kidnapping the girl.The laugh come one after another and will never cease to stop, Jackie Chan is almost out shone by Chris Tucker who is just plain hilarious with his one liners and his kung-fu impression....However Jackie does not disappoint, he wows the western audience with his amazing martial art choreography that made him an international star.This film is just plain hilarious and works.....The greatest Jackie Chan movie of all... "},{"Title":"it has two features many movies are missing these days unbearable comedy and amusing stunts and fights.","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this movie is beyond great. Chris Tucker and Lee are two opposites, so its basically comedy with action. and those two guys fit in very well in this buddy cop film. the storyline actually makes perfect sense. a British/Chinese crimelord and his men kidnap the consul's daughter and ask for a large sum of money in return for the girls life. the FBI help investigate on the case, while lee and carter do some investigating on their own; in bunches of hilarious laughs and kung fu stunts. the storyline actually makes perfect sense, the movie has something that makes u want to watch it over and over again. the point of this film is actually not the crime, but dialouge, comedy, and fights with the buddy cops. 10/10 excellent "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Detective Carter (Chris Tucker) who has the fastest mouth in the L.A. police force has an assignment to track down a Chinese consular's daughter with the help of Hong Kong detective Lee (Jackie Chan). The two aren't getting along quite well as Carter thinks everything is his own way, for Lee it's very important that he finds the lost girl from an International criminal mastermind.Phenomenal and entertaining action-comedy that was a major success in 1998 and was one of the most popular movies of that year! Chan and Tucker made a good team together. This movie has a great mix of humor and action with Chan performing his own stunts, it's still Brett Ratner's best movie! if your into action and comedy flicks then you must see this movie, i also recommend the sequel.Also recommended 48 Hours, Commando, Rush Hour 2, Lethal Weapon Saga, Bad Boys 1 & 2, Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Beverly Hills Cop, Rumble in The Bronx, Supercop, First Strike, Mr. Nice Guy, Enter the Dragon. "}{"Title":"Not half bad, even with Chris Rock","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Chris Rock, or Squealer as I often think of him, is not one of my most favourite actors. His insistence on high-pitched nasal whining and eye-rolling wear thin quite rapidly in most films he's in.However, in Rush Hour he's not too bad. Or at least bearable. Plus he does get some genuinely funny lines and scenes to play out and doesn't have to rely on his manic expressions to get him through.Of course the presence of Jackie Chan makes even a dull film enjoyable, if only for his ridiculous stunts and fight scenes. They can never be considered boring. Coupled with Rock's madness this movies comes together quite well as an actioner and is never dull.Despite the enjoyable nature of the film I watched it with a little sadness also, because I can see, in Chan's stunts, a downgrading of the craziness from his earlier works (esp. Police Story, Armour of God etc.) in favour of safer stunts. Safer for him that is, but insane for anyone else. Nevertheless, this toning down surely marks the end of a great stunt career as Chan gets older. He's still great to watch, and funny as hell, but there will come a time when he just can't do the stuff anymore.In fact, a couple of recent films, Around the World in 80 Days and The Tuxedo surely mark the low-point of his career in terms of stunts, though the comedy is still there in abundance. I hope he is able to make the transition from action to comedy (if that's his plan) better than Arnold did with his attempts.But as for Rush Hour, it's a pleasant enough way to spend 90 minutes or so. "},{"Title":"Classic film that regenerated the action comedy genre.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  RUSH HOUR is the most classic and impressive action comedy ever filmed. No question about it, Jackie Chan's impressive action stunts and Chris Tucker's smart-@ss attitude combine to make one of the most entertaining films of the decade. But, there is a bad side to the legacy of this film, the horrid sequel RUSH HOUR 2 and then the soon-to-be trilogy, and all the many films that try to be just like this film. Example would be SHOWTIME. The film is highly entertaining and gives you some hard-core action sequences. The film is destined to keep everyone on the edge of their seat. Chris Penn, Philip Baker Hall, and Elizabeth Pena all deliver good performances. It is sure to entertain audiences for many years to come. Many of the jokes come off as racial or too crude for the liking of many over-protective parents who also complain that Tucker swears too much. I, myself, am not bothered by this but there are many people out there who feel that a film of this nature should have not been made. I feel that it should have been made by all means. People have the right to express themselves. And some of them do so through this film. RUSH HOUR gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan is at it again!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"     This time Jackie Chan teams up with Chris Tucker who plays a wiseacre LAPD officer to save a kidnapped daughter of a Chinese diplomat.  If you love action/adventure with a lot of humor then Rush Hour would be perfect to see on a Friday night or whenever.  I loved the scene where Jackie and Chris Tucker try to get out of the building about to explode and the part where they were dancing to the Edwin Starr song, War! I thought this movie was all funny that I didn't really have a favorite scene!     Also the way Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker interact and play off each other is so hilarious that it's uncanny!  There's some great acting in this, a worthy plot, and very innovative fighting scenes that just keep you wanting for more.  You will root for the good guys in Rush Hour!   I give it 5 out of 5 stars!  In fact, this is my favorite Jackie Chan movie so far!  I can't wait for Rush Hour 2!  "},{"Title":"Good  Action movie, Bad Comedy","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sadly, I didn't laugh at Rush Hour. There's still some good action from Jackie Chan. Too bad, I can't said the same thing about Chris Tucker. He wasn't funny in this movie like he was in Money Talks.This film is still good, if you watch this movie for the action instead of the comedy.** "},{"Title":"Standard, no surprises.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Take Jackie Chan out of this film and you literally have nothing. Gung Ho Jackie Chan fans (who worship his earlier work) will be disappointed, making Rush Hour aimed to a more large scale Hollywood audience. There was very little fight scenes, most of the film consisted of a culture clash between Chan's and Tucker's character (albeit, a racist one. There are a lot of offensive stereotypes in the film. What's up my nigga?... This an't no food, this is a box of grease!). If they put Will Smith instead of Tucker the film would probably be a dire improvement. If you were annoyed by Tucker's performance as Ruby in The Fifth Element, you're bound to feel the same way about him and this. (Especially with that high pitch voice.)Paper thin plot; Just an hour and half of entertainment, not a whole lot of thought involved, and that's it. "},{"Title":"Worth every penny!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First, I am not a martial arts film fan.  I am however someone who enjoys being entertained and this film does just that.  Wrapped around a thin plot it is a buddy/buddy film that works.  Just as Mel and Danny made the Lethal Weapon films work, Jackie and Chris fit together just as well.  The clips they show you in the trailers are not the only good scenes in this movie, the films full of them.  All in all, well worth the time and money. "},{"Title":"8/10","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you're a fan of Jackie Chan, go see this movie.  If you're a fan of Chris Tucker, go see this movie.  If you're neither, don't bother.I'm rating this 8/10 but you have to keep in mind that this is rated against other movies of the genre action-comedies.  Or, mismatched buddy-cop movies.  Whichever.  Whatever you call the genre, this is a relatively strong entry.  The dialogue is funny as hell in parts, and the action is swift.  (In fact, I found the action sequences better than in most Chan films, because they were played at what I believe is real-time, as opposed to the slightly sped-up action bits in most Chan films.)I wasn't expecting much out of this film.  Jackie Chan is a light-minded pleasure of mine.  In any case, the movie turned out to be a bit more fun than I had expected. "},{"Title":"Do you understand the words coming out of my mouth?","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am not much on action films, but I found this quite tolerable because of the humor.  I especially liked how Chan got into the song War-- and the outtakes at the end.  If an action movie can be funny- this was because the 2 main characters played well off each other.  and I liked the running joke about taking guns away from each other.  Also the way that the officers seemed to really care for the welfare of the girl made the movie appealing.  "},{"Title":"Tucker wins over Chan in action thriller! Yeowwch!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan may still prove himself as the action-packed stuntman, but this time, things have reversed. RUSH HOUR is a reasonable combination of a suspense thriller with touches of hip comedy. Plus, it teams up both Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker, the two whose attitudes are by no means the same. It looks like I'll have to give credit to Tucker, whose smart-ass superior personality is the reason to enjoy this. The movie wouldn't have been so much fun without him, as his comedic charms lighten up the action-style mood we're witnessing. As for Chan, well, don't expect a whole lot of his potential this time. It isn't that he still performs a few killer stunts, but there is relatively little that was done. You've seen Chan in kung-fu brawls before, so nothing is very special or different. Speaking of action, RUSH HOUR suffers from little of it anyway. Nothing is absolutely ground-breaking even with a couple of big explosions and gunfights. Tucker's blabbermouthing takes a huge chunk out of over one hour until the climax opens with Chan's daughter strapped with a bomb. The conclusion is stylishly amusing, though, and once again the outtakes are an added bonus for extra fun. Chan fans may be disappointed by the scarcity of his signature action routines, but the humorous magic remains. RUSH HOUR is an entertaining combo of all sorts, but don't take this one too seriously if you're into heavy high-impact action thrills. You may enjoy Tucker a lot more than anything else in the world. "},{"Title":"best comedy movie so far..","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I never thought i would like this movie but this is one of the best comedy movies I have ever seen. I thought it would mostly be about action and crime with little comedy but I was literally laughing so hard in the middle of night when I was watching it.I have never seen any Jackie Chan's movie before but his acting was so good and the fighting scenes were so perfectly choreographed that I will be looking forward to watch more of his movies.Chris Tucker was mind blowing.His face expressions were so hilarious.Who would have guessed but he was actually the most entertaining part of the movie.These two really had a great on air chemistry.In short, those 98 minutes were worth spent. "}{"Title":"The funniest film of the late 1990s","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This happened to be on cable last night and as I haven't seen it in a very long time I decided to check it out. The film is about a Hong Kong detective played by Jackie Chan,who teams up with a fast-talking FBI agent named Carter played by Chris Tucker(who I swear is the love child of Eddie Murphy btw)to catch the mastermind who kidnapped a 10 year old Chinese girl who ended up being taken by two Chinese guys. So its up to Tucker and Lee to save the little girl from the two baddies. But someone else could be behind it too?Overall I found this film hilarious. The cast was great especially Jackie Chan who is one of my favorite actors as he is an expert at martial arts and Chris Tucker literally stole everything in this movie with his high-pitched voice and his witty persona.The action sequences were great and bottom line I enjoyed it.If you haven't seen it be sure and check it out. "},{"Title":"Other Guys Meets 21 Jump Street","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Yes, it did take me this long to see the movie. I was hesitant for so long because these movies are not my niche. I don't normally like goofy buddy cop movies, but this along with the 21 Jump Street series, has been an exception. With comedies, you need to feel fresh with your bits, and create a unique bond of chemistry between your leads. We have seen it fail too many times before so I was glad to see that Rush Hour nailed it for its time.Coming out in 1998, I'm not sure we had seen any black male and Asian male take the leads in a film together. Usually its a risk financially for studios (it shouldn't be, but it is). But Jackie Chan, being the international star that he was, and Chris Tucker being at the peak of his comedic stardom, it was definitely a good fit. And they ended up having a lot of chemistry. It was really funny watching the two learn about each others ways of living and the endless amount of inappropriate racial jokes. Some can definitely be considered offensive, but knowing its just a movie, I couldn't help myself but laugh a few times. I honestly didn't see myself liking the film after the first few scenes with Tucker. His voice is exaggeratingly high pitched and it was hard to get over at first. I think you just cant take the movie too seriously. If you just have fun with it and turn your brain off for 90 minutes, it can be an enjoyable time.Knowing that there are two more, and possibly a third on the way, of the franchise, I will watch the others shortly. There's nothing special about the film, but I had fun with it. Not to mention the fact that seeing Brett Ratner's name in the opening credits as the director was a big turn off (thanks for X-Men 3), but hey it was better than I expected.+Chemistry between Chan and Tucker +The dynamic creates funny moments/jokes +Mindless fun -Nothing too original -Tucker's voice7.0/10 "},{"Title":"Comedic and Action","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this movie. I didn't know how it would be at first. Because of the huge difference between Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan. Well after watching it I realized that the two are perfect together. One is a serious cop who's only goal is to solve crimes that has been committed. While the other one is a cool, slick cop who likes women and having a good time. This is a movie I always have fun watching. Jackie Chan does the fighting, Chris Tucker does the talking. Chris Tucker was just hysterical and Jackie Chan was brilliant with his incredible stunts. If you want to see a brilliant action comedy, I recommend you get Rush Hour. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I heard so many people talk about this movie, so I had to see what all the hype was about. And folks, let me tell ya, it was a HUGE disappointment.This is, without a doubt, Chris Rock's worst performance. At no point did I believe that he was one with the role, and his lines were terrible. How can a comedic legend of his stature be so bad at acting? His shrill voice got under my skin. I bet for most of the fight scenes he used a stunt double.With that being said, I am glad Bruce Lee went out on this note. This was a great way to end his acting career. He will be sorely missed. R.I.P. "},{"Title":"2 totally different cops go hand in hand","Date":"8 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rush Hour is one of the best action-comedy films ever made. The story is about 2 cops Lee (Jackie Chan) and Carter (Chris Tucker) who despite not sharing any traits, having no common interest and having completely different personalities, still decide to work together to solve and get back the kidnapped daughter of the Chinese Consul and bring down the group responsible for it. Rush Hour is a massive-hit film which is packed with entertainment. The film has a ton of action and lots of comedy and together, makes it a stunning film. It even keeps you thrilled in terms of the plot, as its difficult to be exact who was responsible for the girl's kidnapping and for what exact reasons. The performance of Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker is what makes this film excel and are the right actors in playing their respective characters. For sure Rush Hour will not disappoint you one bit and is certainly a worthwhile film to watch. The success of this Rush Hour film has resulted in 2 more sequels being made that were also successful, so Rush Hour is certainly a must see action-comedy film, if you haven't already seen it. I gave this film a 10 because it was literally perfect in all aspects. The stunts were brilliant especially by Jackie Chan. Rush Hour involves lots of chasing and fighting and both Jackie and Chris were awesome at that especially together. Rush Hour is a great film with lots of action and comedy, has a good storyline and a brilliant cast. You won't find many films like Rush Hour. The closest must be the Lethal Weapon series but even then it is inferior to Rush Hour I feel even though Lethal Weapon was also a very successful action-comedy film series in its own right. Rush Hour takes it to another level in terms of action-comedy. "},{"Title":"Glad that I finally watched it!","Date":"12 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Pretty much loved all of it. I watched for the comedy but some of the martial arts stuff was fun to watch, too. Always interesting to watch Jackie Chan in movies like this. Some say he truly shines in his Hong Kong films but I'm not that interested in seeing those. Sometimes a big Hollywood movie is very much welcomed! Chris Tucker is really good and the two of them together are quite entertaining. Amazingly, because of the variety of films I watch and the shortness of life, I had not yet seen but glad I finally did! It's quite funny!7.1 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"Silly, but hugely entertaining film!","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed Rush Hour very much, yes it is a little silly, but what it is really is harmless fun. The two leads, Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are an inspired double act, though I will say, that sometimes Tucker's mouth runs away with him, so I didn't always understand what he was saying at times. The clever plot, involving an international kidnapping, actually allows Chan to do what he does best, but I did wish there was a little more of it. The script is irreverent, if only let down by what seemed like some improvisation from Tucker, that sometimes got off target. There are some excellent camera work and stunts, making this a hugely enjoyable film, not as good as Shanghai Noon, but a delight for fans of Chan. 8/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough thanks to the odd couple.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This - as the original film - coasts by on the chemistry between its stars with nary a thought about plot or invention between all the hi-jinks, so what hope for any of the sequels? Chan has an immensely likable persona, and even Chris Tucker proves he can be sporadically funny when not playing the likes of 'camp-as-a-row-of-tents' DJ Ruby Rhod.There's a whole lotta noise, a whole lotta silliness and not nearly enough stunts for Chan to wow us with, while Wilkinson and Penn are criminally wasted, but it's amiable enough watching the two leads 'spark' together. The sequels can be explained by the fact that this was such a massive hit, for there is nothing here that warrants exposition, and Ratner's direction is colourless.It's vibrant and undemanding enough entertainment though, when the leads are on form. "},{"Title":"Lame & Silly","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A cross between the comic antics of many Jackie Chan films and The Protector(1986).  Half heartily uses the talents of Jackie Chan to his full capacities.  Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker make an average comedy team.  Det James Carter at the beginning of the film is almost an unlikable person until mid way through the motion picture.  The direction of the film is not good at all.  The fight scenes are alright but its the scenes of humor with Jackie Chan that prevents the film from being a total disaster.  Rush Hour(1998) would be remade as a Western almost shot by shot as Shanghai Noon(2000). "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable buddy cop duos ever","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Take the two non-Caucasian lead actors and combine it with New Line Cinema's hype train that ran full force and what you get is Rush Hour. A once in a lifetime buddy cop film that mixed the fish out of water tale against a strictly formula kidnap ransom story and still managed to come out very entertaining. You might have been convinced that this is the best thing since Lethal Weapon. It's not, but don't discount it all the same.There is no denying Jackie Chan has the right stuff and all the broken bones to prove it and its nice to see him getting his North American due. While Chris Tucker with his loud-mouth all too smooth fast talker routine brings back memories of Eddie Murphy's rise in the 80's. From 'Friday' to 'The Fifth Element' to 'Money Talks' and now 'Rush Hour' - it has always been the same act. Time will tell if he can pull a career out of it, but he's brought his best game here. Some of Tucker's banter in particular is priceless. He almost steals the show. With such good chemistry and vastly different personalities, Chan and Tucker carry the movie. The story as I mentioned before is very pedestrian with little in the way of surprises or standouts from the supporting cast, but the action bits deliver and the laughs come at a good clip. This is Chan and Tucker's show. Fans have a bevy of moments or dialog bits to remember the film by, but it's real feat is its run away success. What was the last time an action comedy did so well featuring an Asian and African American duo? Exactly. "}{"Title":"It was okay","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought the movie itself was pretty much garbage - I don't think any kind of racism is acceptable, and this movie contains quite a bit - but I did enjoy the chemistry between Chris Tucker  and Jackie Chan.  I think they are both great comedic actors and I hope Chan is not limited by his martial-arts background, because he was very funny when the moment called for it. "},{"Title":"Barely Enjoyable","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love Jackie Chan movies, and this barely squeaks into this category, Jackie Chan's actual presence notwithstanding.  Detailed plotting is not a requirement for JK movies, but this non-story is so bad, and in times insulting...the FBI and LAPD cannot be this mean and stupid...couldn't anybody think of anything better...?  And Chris Tucker, what an annoyance, each time he was on screen I winced.  It did seem that Chan and Tucker really didn't like one another.I vote this a 7 for marginal enjoyability if you like Chan, but please no Rush Hour II!!    "},{"Title":"Jackie Go Home Please","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jackie Chan fans beware. Rush Hour isn't a Jackie Chan movie. It's been stolen by Chris Tucker and Hollywood and that's a shame.Chris Tucker was the strange, wildly camp, futuristic D.J. in The Fifth Element and the profane, ass kicking element in Money Talks. He's a live-wire for those who like him, but he's no Jackie Chan.Chan has a fun filled innocence about him, not to mention his fantastic stunts. Chris Tucker to me is no more than just a distraction in a Jackie Chan movie.And what about the political questions raised by black comics like Tucker? I would have thought that playing black Americans as eye rolling, loud mouthed, high energy idiots with nauseatingly pitched wailing voices would be offensive to many; a throwback to the dumb slaves and house boys of the films of two generations ago.But these modern cinematic black fools, unlike their predecessors have power. They might sound like the dimwit victims of yesteryear but when the action heats up they can shoot, fight and above all talk, dress and dance much more eloquently than any white man, even Jackie Chan. Every teenager in a basketball outfit, Rush Hour's audience, will attest to that.I suppose that Eddie Murphy started this modern trend, but Chris Tucker makes Eddie Murphy look like Bill Clinton!So why would the well mannered Chan let his film be usurped by the foul mouthed Tucker? Is Jackie Chan getting too old for his legendary stunts? There are less of them in Rush Hour, although there is a very nice, very Jackie Chan quick slide into a window early in the film.Could it be the director, the funding? Brett Ratner was also Tucker's director in Money Talks as well as in Rush Hour.Chan in the past has often directed and produced his own films, siting them often in Asia and memorably in Australia.  Let's hope that Jackie Chan rediscovers his innocence. But he might need to get back out of  Hollywood to do that.  "},{"Title":"It was good, but...","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I enjoyed it, but will only give it a marginal recommendation. I expected Chris Tucker to be funnier. There were many scenes where I wanted to laugh, but was only amused. Some of his acting seemed a bit forced, as opposed to The Fifth Element where I thought he did a better job. As always, Jackie Chan was delightful -  he's just so much fun to watch, very endearing. I loved his fight scenes, and the bit at the end with the banner. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm not a fan of Mr Motormouth Chris Tucker, but decided to watch this movie because I was interested how Jackie Chan would do in an American movie. Jackie Chan plays second fiddle to Chris Tucker in this movie and this does not do the movie any good.  I really wonder what Jackie Chan is doing in this movie as he has almost nothing to do except playing a cliché fish out of the water character.  There is only one Jackie Chan Moment in the movie (the fight with the vases), so I really don't understand why he decided to be in this movie in the first place. "},{"Title":"Quite good fun","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was quite good fun, if you can get past Chris Tucker's grating voice, and not understanding half of what he says because he speaks so fast.  Good stunts from Jackie Chan, a few laughs, but not much else.  Oh, apart from the always watchable Tom Wilkinson.  The sort of film to watch if there's nothing much else on. "},{"Title":"Hollywood at its worst just about saved by Jackie Chan","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you've seen 48 hours then don't bother, this is the same film but with an even more annoying LAPD 'maverick' cop. Unlike Eddie Murphy, this guy gets played off the screen by Jackie Chan and an excellent supporting cast.  Tom Wilkinson as an Englishman in a Hollywood film predictably plays a villain, all be it very well. From the moment of the first explosion, you know you should have left your brain at home. Very missable save Jackie's excellent fight scenes. "},{"Title":"Rush Hour Don't.","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed the prequels, and found the relationship between Tucker and Chan previously hilarious. RH3, however, was a re-hash of the first two without the charm or humor. I think I may have laughed once - and it was during the NGs. Tucker was exceedingly annoying in this film, and his character didn't seem to have any purpose other than to bungle everything up in the most irritating way possible. Chan is always likable, but he seemed tired in this film. I was able to predict EVERYTHING - who the villain was, who the girl was, (SPOILER ALERT) who the good-guy-turned-bad-guy was, etc. I hope to see more movies from Tucker and Chan in their separate endeavors, but not in any more Rush Hour sequels. It's just too tired. I recommend a rental, but not a purchase. "},{"Title":"Predictable and occasionally funny.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Based on R1 DVDBuddy movie where the buddies are forcibly paired and come to like each other. Aside from the odd giggle at Tuckers' antics; both verbal and physical; it's pretty average stuff. Rent it or wait for the TV version. "},{"Title":"Feels rushed...a disappointment!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK. This is Jackie Chan's highest grossing film, but that does not translate into goodness. Rush Hour is a disappointment overall, and it always has that rush feel into it, like the makers did not bother to add more quality or essence. RH lacks a lot and needs work. Example, the story's main frame just does not have enough events and character development to it. Chan and Chris Tucker are unwilling partners mostly, a la Lethal Weapon, and if you look closely, they don't do well in terms of chemistry. The Fastest hands in the East meets the biggest mouth in the West idea was obviously forced. Chris Tucker is NOT a good screen partner for Jackie since he's so annoying and his act is corny. The medicine for the sickness Chris Rock. Rock's a better partner for Chan. Jackie Chan on the other hand, has a lackluster role here since he has to share the spotlight with the ever-blasted Tucker. He's got action but there's a huge lack of it. His stunts are obviously lessened or toned-down, and this hurts his appeal. Chan is the man to watch here, although expect a major drop of his exposure.RH obviously is a Lethal Weapon rip-off, and the story simply lacks originality or fresh concepts. RH is best viewed only when you like minor entertainment, but if your taste is for high-enjoyment, ignore this film. Better watch Shanghai Noon or any other Jackie Chan film instead of this. "}{"Title":"Chan makes it worth seeing","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I got exactly what I was expecting from this movie...a great performance from Jackie Chan, but not very much good action.  Jackie is best when he's the whole show, and although Chris Tucker was okay, he isn't in Chan's league for comedy, and he can't possibly match Chan in action sequences.  Jackie is the sole reason that the film is worthwhile, but it's still weak by his standards.  If you already love Chan, this will likely be a disappointment, but if you are new to him, do yourself a favour and watch some of his other films. "},{"Title":"Pretty  dire.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was pretty disappointing stuff .I was expecting a more hollywoodised affair than this,but this is just shot in typical Chan style. In preference between this and his previous film Mr.Nice Guy,the only thing I preferred about this was that Chan's voice was'nt horribly dubbed.The central story was pathetic. Everyone had a jokey,unbelievable and implausible attitude towards a young girl's life being held at stake.The moral banter was also crap,we even have to listen to Chan sing. In fact,about the only thing in this pitiful tripe that really clicks on is the end outtakes,hilarious as ever. I wonder what the name of the respected British actor who played the lead villain was.I've seen him before , featuring in movies playing charecters with more depth and insight than this. "},{"Title":"Simply awful.......Room 101 stuff","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't believe just how bad this film really is. It was given some good reviews and i thought it would be funny and action packed. It was so awfully unfunny they made a guy say in thirty years he has not had chinese food ever, just for the sack of a poor joke. It doesn't get any worse send it to room 101 if we could. "},{"Title":"An action, thriller, suspense, comedy that falls flat!","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is obvious, judging from the out-takes at the end of this movie, that the cast had more laughs making the film than I did watching it. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker do deliver a few humorous moments but not enough for me to recommend Rush Hour. Teens, especially those that like car crashes, karate fights, and thrilling, though unbelievable situations might enjoy it. Chris Tuckers ramblings were entertaining at first but got old very early on. Do yourself a favor and pass on Rush Hour. "},{"Title":"A disappointing waste","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hugely disappointing waste of Jackie Chan's talents, this film should be avoided like the plague.  Being an enormous Jackie Chan fan I had very high hopes for this.  It has absolutely no redeeming features whatsoever.  Chris Tucker is the most irritating man on the planet bar none and unfortunately Jackie is reduced to the role of amusing little foreign man which is unforgiveable.  The stunts and action sequences are forgettable, coming as secondary to the dreadful interaction between the two main stars.I feel quite gutted that Jackie Chan's bit Western break has come to this and it is sad that most people will be introduced to his vast talents with this truly awful film. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I must say, this was by far one of the worst action-comedies I have ever seen. Chris Tucker becomes extremely annoying in the first 15 minutes of this pathetic film. This film was WAY too much like MONEY TALKS (also directed by Brett Ratner and starring Chris Tucker). The title is very misleading (had nothing whatsoever to do with rush hour). This was definetly not a Jackie Chan movie, for his fighting scenes were lame and tiresome. See Jackie Chan's First Strike or Rumble In The Bronx for some good fighting scenes, but definitely miss this movie. My review * star out of **** "},{"Title":"Rush Hour","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" From director Brett Ratner (Red Dragon, X-Men The Last Stand), this is one of the most recognisable cop buddy movies ever made. Basically the daughter of Chinese official Consul Han Solon (Tzi Ma), Soo Yung (Julia Hsu), is kidnapped by villain Sang (Saw's Ken Leung). Solon's close friend, Hong Kong Chief Detective Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan) is being brought to the US to help get her back. To make sure Lee doesn't get in their way, the FBI hire loud mouth and glad to be rid of LAPD Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) to keep an eye on him and not allow him to get involved. For a little while, Lee not speaking English is trying to get away from Carter as much as possible to get his own way, but eventually they both form a little understanding. They realise they are both being cast aside from the real case, and they join forces to follow all connections to stop the bad guys themselves, including traitor Thomas Griffin aka Juntao (Tom Wilkinson), and save Soo Yung. Also starring Reservoir Dogs' Chris Penn as Clive Cod, Elizabeth Peña as Demolition Specialist Tania Johnson, CSI Miami's Rex Linn as FBI Agent Dan Whitney and Philip Baker Hall as Captain William Diel. Chan with his martial art skills and Tucker with fast trash talking both make a fantastic comedy duo, and one of the highlights is their rendition of Edwin Starr's War. Filled with plenty of action, chase and fight sequences and an admirable double act, this is an enjoyable near thriller martial arts action comedy. Jackie Chan was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Very good! "},{"Title":"Hollywood sell-out!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wonder why people rate this movie so highly, for this isn't a Jacky Chan movie or even a decent action/comedy. It's a Chris Tucker movie and Jacky came along for the ride! And if you know Chris, you know the movie. I think he is an annoying bag of hot air with a faggy voice and Eddie Murphy style humor I don't like him so I don't like the movie. As for the action in this picture DON'T FILM ACTION SEQUENCES WITH A HANDHELD KEEP THE SHOT STATIC (if they didn't, then they've moved the camera too up-close and too much)! Why? Because I couldn't follow the action except from the first scene that one was quite good.  "},{"Title":"Well, the trailer was good ...","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An awful lot of people seem to like this film. I can't really see why. Maybe they never saw the trailer beforehand and consquently anything that took place in this film was a new feature for them.I can't say the same.Any redeeming features that the film had were packed into this trailer of normal length. Sure, Tucker is funny and Chan performs his stunts. I just expected Tucker to be funny more often and Chan ...well, okay, there was a lot of fighting, none of it particularly original.All this is hung over the averagest of average plots. The daughter of an official is kidnapped (there's no mystery to who the kidnapper is, nor do we really care) and they must rescue her. Not a single twist in sight.In my opinion, this could have been a good film and the pairing should have had some potential. Instead, spending my money on this was a waste of my time and a fiver.  "},{"Title":"Has anybody ever seen 'Beverly Hills cop'?","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My subjective (as opposed to an objective review) comment is as follows J.C's 1st big Hollywood mainstream film is bad. Please oh please Jackie go back to Hong Kong and amaze with talent such as your last and only worthwhile film Drunken Master II. Everything Jackie has been involved in since this 1994 film has been a waste of everyone's time. As for Rush Hour the 1984 film that appears in my one line summary is still worth viewing today 15 years later, as opposed to Rush Hour which seems as if it was written in 1983 and was only dusted off the shelf to make a quick buck. "}{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was bad. Really bad. And that is too bad, too, for with Jackie Chan aboard a lot could have been done to make a good movie out of it. Beside the fact that the story is abysmal, the action sequences are not that good either, to say the least, and with Jackie Chan one can expect more.The greatest failure is the casting of Chris Tucker, who is not only an annoying sidekick, but also NOT funny. Shame on him for letting Jackie down like that. But it should have been clear that after the Fifth Element Tucker should not have starred in any movie again. Vote 1 "},{"Title":"Feature Length Misery","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had pretty high hopes for Rush Hour, partly because of all the positive reactions it got in the States.  I even heard claims like the best Jackie Chan ever.  I was suspicious of Tucker, but as long as it was the new Chan movie it ought to be okay.Right ?Wrong !I found myself forced into one of the most annoying fake interracial buddy-buddy action/comedy blockbusters I have ever had the displeasure to had to sit through.Rush Hour is nothing more than a Chris Tucker Star Vehicle with Jackie reduced to a Chinaman sidekick.  That's all good and fine if you're under such heavy medication that you think Tucker is actually funny but after two minutes of him doing his little Eddie Murphy rip off routine I was ready to climb on a rooftop with an AK-47 and let justice rain from the sky.Throw in a mentally challenged plot, bad acting, the old where did all the money from the big budget go ? complaint and a director who couldn't direct an action scene to save his life and you got this feature length misery.If you're ready to see a real Jackie Chan movie, go to your local video-shop and rent Operation Condor.  Better still, you can rent any Chan title, it'll be better than this bowels loosener.Vote 1  "},{"Title":"Rush Hour? Boring Hour!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw Jacki Chen's movies since I was a kid. However, after he went to Hollywood, his movie style changed. His movie is no longer funny and has his style. This movie is awful. It just like all other movies which contains two characters - a white and a black - to create funny plots (this time it becomes an Asian and a white). Nothing special, except Chen has lost his typical style. I think it is reasonable for Western people to buy tickets to see Chen's show, because it is new for them. However, if you have seen his movies from his early time, you will find that his movies do not have new idea anymore. I think he has to come up with some new ideas to broaden his movies or he will not be popular in the next few movies. "},{"Title":"80's drivel ironically made in the late 90's","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Oh the humanity, this film is incredibly dire. Chris Tucker was bad enough when he was in the Fifth Element but someone's decision to put him in another movie and pair him up with Jackie Chan was certainly a wrong one. It's cool to see and hear Jackie speak English but every time Tucker opened his mouth everyone in the audience squirmed. I haven't seen such nausea since THE CARE BEARS MOVIE 2.The plot (?) in this film is pure, unimaginative and uninspired trash and the title is also completely meaningless. There is NO rush hour and just because Jun Tao's sidekick says that it's rush hour in a very short scene (even when there's no traffic) there is no reason for this film to have such a useless name. The writers (did this have any) didn't care much about naming there baby.I would need 10 hands to count the amount of movies that I have seen that end with the bad guy's suitcase full of money (highly clichéd) raining down on the hero. The action is clumsy and badly handled. Even Chan's acrobatics lack the edge they have in his Cantonese movies. This may have been a cool movie if John Woo had directed it and dragged it out of the gutter but Brett Ratner cannot direct even traffic. Especially at rush hour. "},{"Title":"good? great? funny? what the f**ck!","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't understand why ALL the comments of this movie are soooooo good, i mean... it isn't!!!! it's the typical movie why typical stupid jokes with the worst actors! well.. Chris Tucker isn't that bad (in The Fifth Element he was cool).. but Jackie Chan?? I HATE HIM!! he is good with karate and stuff, but he definitively  is NOT an actor!! I dont recommend this movie to anyone who likes GOOD movies.. this movie is just another really stupid action comedy (i hate action movies, are all the same) with a stupid plot. i really didnt like it and if you wanna see a good comedy, go see As Good As It Gets ,South Park or There's Something About Mary, but this one.. NO!!! I can't believe that there's a second part and even a third one.. i wouldn't see them for anything of the world!! anyway i think that is very probably that you'll like it, because most people like stupid movies with stupid situations... it's just my opinion that it's bad, and this is and advice for all the people who likes good movies, DON'T WATCH IT!! "},{"Title":"Boring Film","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was the most pointless film I'd ever watched. Jackie Chan was so fake in his acting. The only up of the film is Chris Tucker, who is hilariously funny. "}]