[{"Title":"A work of genius","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't expect Knock Off to be the film it was. I thought it would be another lame bit of Van Dammage, just like all the others, but wow! This is in a league of it's own. First of all, let me say this it's not a good film of course, it isn't! The script's diabolical, the acting is dreadful and the plot has got to be one of the silliest ever written.Oh yes, but Knock Off works because it is truly bonkers. Truly out of its mind. Tsui Hark is a great director (check out the insane Zu Warriors of the Magic Mountain, as well as the Hark produced A Chinese ghost Story, which is truly wonderful) and his irreverent approach works wonders here. Some of the camerawork here has to be seen to be believed here, we have a shot from the inside of a shoe, the camera moving through a wall and through a computer...while, the action is wildly OTT and hilariously preposterous. Rough around the edges it may be, but the action is genuinely imaginative stuff. Like Van Damme's Hard Target, Knock Off has been blessed with a director who can stage great action, but unlike the irritatingly melodramatic john woo, Hark directs as though he's having a great time even the dramatic (!) scenes border on intentional parody. And then there's Jean Claude Van Damme, easily the funniest out of all the Schwarzenegger/Stallone/Seagal crowd. Funniest? Why? Cos he really looks like he's trying, bless 'im! The scenes where he gets all emotional (check out the bit when he confronts Hendricks on the roof top 'YOU LIED TO ME!') are painfully funny because he just can't act at all. And because of his accent, lines like 'Don't you understand what you do....i-fax me?' (the 'i-fax' is supposed to be 'affects') sound highly amusing. Unlike that dullard Steven Seagal, van Damme's limitations as an actor are precisely what makes him watchable. Then there's the deeply stupid Rob Schneider, who plays EXACTLY the same role in everything he's ever done, and Paul Sorvino, who continues to destroy whatever credibilty he gained starring as Pauly Cicero in GoodFellas.Plus, what's with the green explosions? The walkie-talkie dropping into the gangster's hand from nowhere? The bullet-shot that goes through the can of beans? Rob Schneider whipping Van Damme with a fish? The song at the end of the film? It's a complete mess! Knock Off is easily Van Damme's best film, without a shadow of a doubt. It's utter rubbish, yet it's one of the funniest films I've ever seen. Of course, you need plenty of irony and an appreciation for stupid action movies to really get the most out of this. there are some people who will think that Knock Off is absolutely atrocious. And you know what, they're probably right too. But what's also correct is that in some deeply disturbing, dangerously perverse way, it is a work of genius.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Van Damme film!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Knock off is Van Damme`s second movie to be directed by Hong-Kong director Tsui Hark. The story and acting of this movie is not important at all, because it focuses mainly on its many actionsequences. Van Damme is good as always, and the movie contains many well-directed actionscenes. Don`t watch it if you prefer quality acting, realistic characters and stunning special-effects, because this movie is a low-budget action-flick made for the fans of Van Damme. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pure Genius! A modern epic!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  How can anyone hate such a beautiful film?  The combination of poor dubbing, Van Damme's acting and grasp of English, Schneider's queer-ass jokes, and Lela Rochon's breasts, I thought, would make Knock Off an Oscar contender for sure.  In addition, it is a valuable tool for young amateur cameramen.  They clearly just bought a new camera before they started filming, and were trying out all the new gadgets (when Van Damme reaches into the box of watches, or when they go into the barrel of the gun, or when they pan up from everyone's feet, or use multiple exposures to create the illusion of a quality film).As for the soundtrack, Ron and Russell Mael deserve a Grammy, or, at eh very least, a Source Award.  I mean, It's a Knock Off emerges as the single that will truly be the soundtrack for the lives of teens in the new milennium.  All-Star Sam Hui also contributes to the album.  His ground-breaking Ten Girls ,which goes a little sumthin' like thisSal pon ass hi cow go yang si ming ming hi lo how wow bom hi sam chung gay yeah chop hay bing si ching chun may li chow mo so pli ...is sung by Van Damme.  It speaks to you. It tells you to leave the theater.Another interesting aspect of this film is that it was the only Western film allowed to be in production in Hong Kong during the handover to China. They try to work this into the first action sequence (which is 90 minutes long and followed by the credits)by making sporadic, frenzied, obscure references to the ceremony that don't make sense or have any effect on the outcome of Van Damme's struggle against the Russian mafia.Ultimately, if you want to see green explosions, Paul Sorvino returning from the dead, Rob Schneider and Van Damme engage in S&M during a rickshaw race, Lela Rochon's breasts, and a Russian with bronchitis chop people up with his eyeglasses, Knock Off is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Needs to be taken in context to be appreciated","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"35 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Tsui Hark's career took a serious down turn when he decided to try his chances in Hollywood. To be fair though, this seems to be true of pretty much everybody that decides to try a career in Hollywood. Tsui got off to a bad start when he was teamed up with Jean Claude Van Damme (an indignity every HK director seems to have to suffer on arrival in the US) to make the movie DOUBLE TEAM. I haven't seen DT, but it seems to be universally despised. However, so is KNOCK OFF for the most part, which I find to be very unfair as it has a lot to offer.To properly appreciate the film, however, one has to take it in the proper context. One has to realise that Tsui Hark realised he was not going to be taken seriously in Hollywood, and would probably be consigned to cheesy action B-movies for ever if he stayed. I have no doubt he already planned to return to Hong Kong when he made KNOCK OFF, and decided to have a little fun first - and channel a lot of Hollywood money into Hong Kong hands at the same time. Keeping this in mind whilst watching the film reveals a whole level to it that I suspect most viewers do not appreciate.It's clear that the script for the movie is rather absurd, but quite cleverly so. The concept of the Russians trying to take over the world by fitting miniature bombs in knock off children's toys is not one that was ever meant to be taken very seriously. Having the Russians as the main villlains is a quaintly out-dated set up, but the real interest is in the backdrop, where Tsui shows a little love for the people of Hong Kong and worries about the hand over to China in 1997.He also decides to have a little fun at the expense of Van Damme, who is given a rather ridiculous role that makes fun of his usual image (perhaps this is why Van Damme fans don't like the movie? Though VD himself seems quite a willing participant in the fun-poking).Rob Schneider is quite amusing but dangerously annoying as the comedy side kick, whilst Lela Rochon is particularly attractive as the primary glamour interest (who also kicks no small amount of ass). Few woman sharing a movie with Carmen Lee could come away looking good, but she manages it. The rest of the cast are an assortment of anonymous alleged russians and CIA agents, and some familiar Hong Kong faces round out most of the rest of the cast.Tsui Hark handles the script tightly, sticking close to its B-movie heart but using it to set up some fun and playful scenes. It should all be taken a little tongue in cheek - those that have seen Tsui Hark's better works should appreciate that straight away.As well as fun with the script and with JCVD, Tsui Hark also decides to have a *lot* of fun with his camera. Hyperkinetic camera work has always been his trademark, and here he decides to hold nothing back. There are some amazingly sophisticated and inventive shots and movements, giving the film a unique visual style (that Tsui revisited and expanded on when he returned to Hong Kong and made TIME AND TIME). It is for the visionary camerawork that the movie should really be seen.There's also some pretty good action though, well above the average for Jean Claude Van Damme - thanks to Sammo Hung and Yuen Bun's involvement as the 2nd unit crew, no doubt. JCVD is usually something of a one-trick pony, and has barely a 10th of the physical agility and skill of his Asian contemporaries. The action directors manage to use him well here though, and the camerawork makes him look far better than he's ever done before.It's a sad fact that most of the people that watch KNOCK OFF will probably be Jean Claude Van Damme fans, because to be honest anybody that thinks JCVD is a good martial artist probably doesn't have the experience to appreciate a Tsui Hark film. On the other hand, many Tsui Hark fans will avoid KNOCK OFF because of the presence of Jean Claude Van Damme. This is a shame, as it's really more a Tsui Hark film than a Van Damme film.Whilst it may be Van Damme's best movie, few would dream of arguing that it's Tsui Hark's best, despite his inventiveness being in pretty good shape. It's still broadly bound by the limits of a Hollywood action movie, though, and no match for works like ONCE UPON A TIME IN CHINA or THE BLADE. It would be nice to imagine that his time in Hollywood would lead to more Americans appreciating his groundbreaking Hong Kong movies, but I doubt that it has.Still, the movie is recommended for Tsui Hark fans. Not his best, but delivers plenty of entertainment none-the-less.  "},{"Title":"Really fun action movie gets no respect!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I can understand why people would like to knock Knock-Off  but as an action film it is brilliant.  There are some really well planned out shots and the fight scenes were top notch as well.  The movie starts at a fast pace and keeps it up for the whole picture.  The supporting cast is wonderful here the movie actually has some good character development.  I like the fact that Van Damme isn't the only hero here.  Rob Schneider is very funny plays the part well as does Lela Rochon, Paul Sorvino, and Michael Wong.  That's a good cast right there!  The movie is also a good take on the ever-present knock-off artists that flood Hong Kong, as well as most big cities with cheap brand name crap.Lets put bombs in the knock-offs so we can threaten the entire world! Not a bad idea for an action movie.  I thought that the Russian bad guys were aptly stereotypical and I especially liked the Coughing Guy character.Visually, the movie is crazy.  There are some innovative shots here, like the inside the shoe shot, the inside the gun shot, and my favorite, the what's inside of the box shot.  It makes me love this movie even more! So don't knock down Knock Off until you give it a chance.  See it for the humor and the wacky plot, appreciate it for the cinematography and fight scenes, and enjoy it for all it's worth.  There's a lot going on in this movie. Tsui Hark's direction is always fresh and fast paced, so if you liked any of his other movies, you'll appreciate this offering.  One of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"didn't like it? didn't get it.","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Formulas are good. Be it the DIE HARD clone, or the buddy-picture. Action formulas win. It's got to be by the book. Or it dies.Action movie directors rarely break the mould. Instead the mould breaks them. Ringo Lam and John Woo both came to the US when the Hong Kong action style was in vogue. But action movies need more talk and less action to satisfy American audiences. So in trying to replicate THE KILLER, they make a mess like REPLACEMENT KILLERS.Until now that is. KNOCK OFF got abysmal reviews and audiences hated it. I don't dig that many action movies. And I loved it. Director TSUI HARK injects such enthusiasm into things it is almost impossible not to enjoy.Hark treats us to an unrivalled, and insane array of camera tricks to liven up proceedings. Entirely unpretentious, it is action to the power of ten. Bad guys defy gravity and inertia, and the same hooded goons get beaten up time after time. There is even one character who dies, and returns inexplicably not once but twice.Ridiculous? Yeah. But gloriously unapologetic. KNOCK OFF promises action and delivers. If you want to take it seriously then do so, vent your rage and kill it on the sliding scale. The joke is on you. KNOCK OFF invites ridicule. It also defies it. For that reason I'll give it a ten.  "},{"Title":"Avant-garde Hong Kong Action","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  American audiences failed to appreciate one of the first serious attempts to bring pioneering Hong Kong cinematic techniques to Hollywood standards. John Woo's complete selling-out of originality to the lowest common denominator of American action films has emphatically NOT been followed by Taiwanese genius Tsui Hark. Twenty years from now, critics will look back and wonder in dismay how they could have ignored the MOST cutting edge film to be released in the 90's. Knock Off is this decade's Blade Runner.Jean-Claude Van Damme shows amazing acting range and comedic talent-at times he is reminiscent of Stoney Face Buster Keaton himself. Hark clearly learned from his weaknesses in Double Team, this time willingly emphasizing them to get a laugh and then showing Van Damme's strengths as we've never seen them before. Rob Schneider manages to get some real acting in, a much superior sidekick role to the similar one he played in Judge Dredd. Paul Sorvino literally chews the scenery as the mastermind Johanssen.The camera-work is incredible. Arthur Wong takes us inside of a doll's eye, allows us to see from two angles at once, shows us x-ray shots of a sneaker's soles and utilizes freeze-frames to maximize suspense. At one point a tiny doll on a desk seems to be holding the two principles by their necks. Later their boss seems to grow to a superhuman stature as she chews them out for wasting company money.It may take a while for this movie to be appreciated in the States, but word has it it was better appreciated in Asia. It's little surprise, this is one of the most Asian films ever to star Western actors. "},{"Title":"Simply Genius","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Now I 'm sure there are some naysayers out there, but this film is total genius. It is one of my favorites from the 1990's. There is such mastery and control here, that though the line readings are sometimes awful the film's surreal nature saves that from being a flaw, and turns it into an asset. The chaos of the film is mirrored in the chaos of the story, and Van Damme our cipher, stuck in the middle with no one to trust. Chance is more likely to solve problems than force is, and the film is dizzying in it's sense of spacial relations. From the foot car races to the end this film never stops. More so than The Matrix, this is the future of film making.  "},{"Title":"Genuine Hong Kong action from Hollywood!","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Sure it's bad. If you aren't expecting a bad film, then you really don't like HK action films, do you? Tsui Hark is the only HK action director I've seen to get a Hollywood cast to perform action sequences with a real HK sensibility! John Woo's Hollywood films are trying too hard to be good, and the action suffers. With Knock Off, Tsui Hark delivers just the sort of dizzying, senseless, impeccably-timed, and frenetically-paced action we've come to expect from Hong Kong directors. "},{"Title":"Seriously. This was a great movie.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't mean to offend the few people out there who enjoyed this movie, but when I first saw this film, I didn't like it. But I was at my video store, and I was still attracted by the cover of the movie so I decided to rent it again. And this is after I read the positive comments. I felt so different from the last time I watched this movie. I was enjoying it. I thought Man! I was stupid! This movie was funny. I didn't like Rob Shnieder at the beginning, but I liked him this time. He was playing his role as the comic relief guy right this time. I like Jean-Claude Van-Damme. I think he's a cool actor. The only reason why the movie haters don't like him is because of his accent. I think his accent's cool, After this, I'm gonna start sending my comments to Van Damme movies. The action sequences were awesome. The chases, fight scenes, gun battles, all great. I loved the direction by Tsui Hark. His camera angles, the zoom-ins, the stobes, tracers, slow-motion, it was so cool. I was like Woa! That was cool that zoom in on the inside of electronics and stuff! This movie was so much fun. This is the kind of action movie I wanted to see. I loved it. I've totally forgotten how I didn't like this movie in the past. I like a good movie. I like movies such as Titanic, Schindler's List, L.A. Confidential, Citizen Kane, and The Godfather.  "}{"Title":"The first Hong Kong action-movie to be made in Hollywood","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  John Woo failed, so did Ringo Lam, but Tsui Hark did it. He made a movie in Hollywood, as good as his previous Hong Kong-movies. This is easily the best Van Damme movie to date. The story is actually pretty good(and funny), the acting is great and the action kicks ass. Very stylishly directed by Hark, this is an outstanding effort from the Van Damme/Hark-team(who also worked together on Double Team). I can´t understand why so many people is putting this movie down. I think it is a very enjoyable action movie, and for Van Damme-fans, this is a must-see.  I give it 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"PERFECT movie if you are looking for goofy entertainment.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Most importantly, Knock Off is unlike any other Van Damme movie.  It is much more like your Hong Kong action movie, and is actually quite better in the action respect than any of his other movies.  Rob Schneider is really funny, and the acting (even from Van Damme) is pretty good.  Probably the best thing about this movie is it's cinematography, which has such great shots as the foot-cam, the shoe-cam, and the box-cam, in which a little window opens up so you can see Jean-Claude's hand as it's reaches into a box!  This movie is great for one goofy laugh after another, while not beeing too bad to watch.  If you see it, rent it!  If you like it, buy it! "},{"Title":"Positive reaction","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I still don't understand that most people think that this is a bad movie. Up to now I think this is Jean Claude his best. The action is much faster (thanks to Sammo Hung en Tsui Hark), and he's (van Damme) finally making fun of himself. Ok, the special effects are pretty bad and cheap, but inventive. The humor is kind of slapstick humor sometimes, but what do you expect in a Hong Kong movie ? I rated it 8/10. When you like Jeane Claude van Damme, but think he's too slow, then watch this movie! "},{"Title":"A+ material","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent movie. The plot is great. The bringing of Rob Schneider and JCVD to one movie might have seemed like a bad idea at first, but they really pulled i off. THis movie is one of the funniest I've seen with JCVD, but it also retains the classic gold material of JCVD's films, the asskicking, and the you so crazy plot twists which make this movie worth watching. It'S GREAT!!! "},{"Title":"Van Damme's Best!!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, but 3.7, people?  I own this movie and I just watched it the other night and I can't get over how good it was!!!!  Okay, I'll admit, Van Damme can't even talk let alone act, but let's be honest, no one watches his movies for an oscar performance.  The action sequences were great (I really like the race at the beginning), the plot was a little confusing, but still pretty good and Rob Schneider was hilarious!!!!  I think this movie deserves ATLEAST a 6 or a 7.  I think it's great that Van Damme did a movie where he didn't take himself so seriously and just had fun!!!  That's one thing that Jackie Chan could always do that Jean Claude couldn't.  I also thought it was a great idea to have the movie in Hong Kong, the background to every great martial arts action movie.  Oh, and could Lela Rochon BE any hotter!?!?!  I would highly recommend this movie to any fan of Van Damme or Rob Schneider.  Great director and a great cast. "},{"Title":"Far underrated, this Van Damme film is superb action AND a plot","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Knockoff was surprisingly enjoyable.  I'm not a huge Van Damme fan in general, but in this one he shows some clear improvement in his acting abilities.  As for the martial arts, he isn't slowing down a bit with age. There's a particularly well choreographed fight on a ship at the end.  All in all, this is one that really deserved more fanfare than it received. Rent it today. "},{"Title":"Great Action Flick!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised to see this film get such a low rating, sure Van Damme has had his share of bad movies (what actor hasn't?) but this is NOT ONE OF THEM! This movie borders on genius, great directing, great cast, the plot and script could use a bit of tweeking but most of all this movie is exciting. A little chaotic at times, but meant to keep you guessing. As far as action flicks go, this is a first-rate film! 9/10 "},{"Title":"This is truly amazing!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  For the first time in history, there's a movie starring Mr Van Damme that not only does it NOT suck big time, it's actually quite good. It is probably the Hong-Kong influence. Hollywood is incapable of doing decent action.  This is a should-see for you who appreciate action movies. "},{"Title":"Better than you think","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw it with no prejudice, meaning i'd never heard off it before, seen no trailers or anything. I switched on the TV and saw Rob Schneider and Jean-Claude Van Damme in the same film. Interesting. Grant it there's not much in the storyline. But the cinematography especially and special effects were very good. There was comic relief from Rob and action from Jean-Claude Van Damme. And it had the beautiful Lela Rochon thrown in on top. Overall, I thouroughly enjoyed watching the film becasue of it's smooth and comical style! "},{"Title":"Instant Classic !","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Wow ! What a movie!  Van Damme is at his utmost best and gives one of the finest performances of his career playing a down and out knock off jeans designer. This film has it all action, danger, intrigue, comedy etc. The best of it's kind. It ranks up there with Cyborg and Street Fighter ! The Triple Crown of Van Damme films. IT's a must see !!  "}{"Title":"Best Damme movie of his since Bloodsport!","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  So it's not the best movie ever made.  Knock Off at least accomplishes what too many movies these days fail to do--entertain.  It made us laugh.  The filming was unusual.And Jean-Claude's departure from the usual character portrayal was refreshing.  He should try losing the ego and do comedy more often.  "},{"Title":"Van Damme's best since Universal Soldier","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When I rented this movie I had really low expectations but it gave me a pleasant surprise. I have to say that the plot sucks real bad, but the action is superb. "},{"Title":"Switch your brain off and enjoy!","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the cinema to see EXISTENZ, but my train was late, so when I got there, this was the only film that hadn't yet started - so I went into the cinema having no clue as to what to expect...Film snobs will probably turn their noses up at this film - but I thoroughly enjoyed it - and that's coming from someone who usually hates Van Damme films!Whilst the recent Hollywood movies directed by or starring the leading names from Hong Kong cinema - John Woo, Ringo Lam, Jackie Chan and Chow Yun-Fat, have been rather inept, watered down KNOCK OFF's of their oriental predecessors - this film works as it is still, in essence a Hong Kong Action movie, - just one that happens to feature a largely Western cast.It has little of the usual Van Damme hallmarks - with far less emphasis on the usual high circular kicks, and low sliding punches - the action scenes instead work on brilliant cinematography, good use of slow motion, and post martial-arts gunfighting.  It's no THE KILLER by a long shot, but still a competent action movie, and perhaps the first Hollywood film to successfully marry the US and Oriental styles of movie action.The plot is rather daft, and at times rather confusing - whilst this does let the film down - the alternative would have been to let too much story get in the way of what is primarily an action film.If you're looking for a film to get out the Oscars for, then you'll be solely disappointed - but KNOCK OFF is an entertaining film to unwind in front of after a busy day. 7/10Simon "},{"Title":"A Great Action Manifest","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It must be said that recent Van Damme movies (with the exception of Double Team) have been a little odd and without plot. Knock Off appears to start this way but swiftly moves on into a stunning flow of tantalising action sequences. Van Damme is back to his best. Keep it up Jean Claude.P.S. This comment should only be read by true fans of Van Damme and other explosive action movies. If you're after a good drama and Oscar worthy acting then this is not for you.Note Other comments from obvious Kate Winslet fans.  "},{"Title":"Why trash Van Damme?","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Did Richard Simmons make you cry? Communism got you down? Why not trash Van Damme? Sure, no one gives a damme that this movie was incredibly directed. The fight sequences are amazing, and van damme hasn't missed a beat. He rocks. "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Just like Universal Soldier II, this film gets bad reviews from you guys. Can't understand why. It was pretty good. Van Damme is not a hollywood actor, but he's still a cool actor. When I first saw this movie in a cinema I was pretty surpised. There was action from the beginning till the end. And when you go to a Van Damme movie you just want a 1.5 hour of fun, So don't expect more than that. I also liked it when I rented it for a second time. Now - this movie has some really cool camera angles and special editing, so it would look like a Hong-Kong movie. As for me, I saw couple of HK movies, and this one 's no different, in fact it was quite refreshing. Maybe Tsui Hark wanted this movie look like a Jackie Chan movie, but he did some real great work. The plot is quite hard to follow, but after seeing it twice you'll catch up.One of Jean Claude Van Damme best movie. 9/10  "},{"Title":"it is an ACTION flick! no thinking required!","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Knock Off is a great movie, if you are into Hong Kong action flicks. Because it is an action movie, it does not require any deep thinking, just sit back and watch the action roll.The movie also seems like an experiment in filmography because the filming is a bit quirky and unusual, but that is what makes this movie such a unique action movie.If you like action, you have to see this movie. It is one of Van Damme's best movies (which unfortunately doesn't say much for the guy's acting skills).  "},{"Title":"Best Van Damme movie ever!","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This was excellent movie! Great action from Hark and Van Damme. The plot wasn't any special but better than ever before. I have seen every Van Damme movie and this was the best. In his later movies there was only this this serious guy with big muscles and karate/kick and thai-boxing, but in this movie there's little bit comedy which is good. Knock/off reminded more of a Jackie Chan movie then a normal Van Damme movie because of the comedy and the action sequences. Van Damme has never climbed a wall or used a shirt or chain and what ever to kick some butt, but in Knock/off he does and its OK! If you have never seen a Damme movie, rent this.     "},{"Title":"Not All Jean-Claude's Fault; A Team Effort","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I have liked Jean-Claude VanDamme over the years but I really haven't seen much of him in the last decade. Maybe it was because of films like this, which totally turned me off. I guess I figured (I might be wrong) that VanDamme's career had gone down the dumper, if this was any indication. However, you can discredit all of the people involved in the film for its failings, not just Jean- Claude. It was a team effort. For instance, this film had some of the dumbest dialog and worst acting I've ever seen.It also had a convoluted plot. Can anyone make sense of this story? Would anybody want to? It looks like a cheapie Hong Kong flick imitation but one that is trying to be intellectual at the same time. It's all way too much. Actually, it is a Hong Kong flick, with director Hark Tsui in charge, but filmed in Hollywood. One look at the plot line listed here on the IMDb home page should tell you something fashion designer....joins forces with CIA....to stop terrorism. Yeah, right!!! What's next? Oleg Cassini playing Rambo?Actor Rob Schneider (Tommy Hendricks) once again shows he was smart enough to switch from villain roles like in here to comedy where he has done far better. Not everything is bad. Some of the camera-work was interesting; some of the action scenes decent, but of those categories also were overdone. How many zoom shots can you do? Some of it is inventive but not when it's done repeatedly in the same film. Also, isn't a 20-minute action scene at the end overdoing it just a little bit? "},{"Title":"An Accidental Classic","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" After having Snakes on a Plane remind me what a cult classic is supposed to be (which Snakes did by not being one) I wanted to re-visit a true classic, of the accidental variety. I believe Tsui Hark set out to film a fun, action adventure but it's tough to believe that he knew going in how hilariously wrong he'd get it. From the ridiculous plot about counterfeit jeans, to the wildly surreal green explosions and the leaping frogs that accompany them, to Paul Sorvino's now classic delivery of now classic lines Knock Off has everything a cynical, sarcastic snark wants in a GOOD BAD FLICK. Knock Off has THE BEST death scene ever put to film. Which involves a rocket. And, I can't in good conscience spoil it for you, but it's hilarious. It also has camera angles that give Sam Raimi a run for his Quick & The Dead money (from inside a shoe!?). It also has the much beloved Rob Schneider whips Van Damm's a$$ with a live eel scene. This is pure trashy joy from the first scene which has exploding baby dolls, to the bizarre dialogue snippets that precede the awful awful theme song. This is required viewing for high schoolers, college parties and anyone who likes watching film disasters. You owe it to yourself to see it. "}{"Title":"It's a knock off...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" A jeans manufacturer finds a conspiracy among triads that places micro-bombs in the jeans he sells. Of course the first shipment were slipped with knock offs but now they must make sure that the new shipment of clothes isn't shipped with the micro-bombs. Knock Off is the type of movie that would be right at home in a James Bond thriller. The movie is utterly ridiculous however this makes it strangely watchable and the whole confusing camera angles to which we see the inside of a phone, the inside of the bomb and even Van Damme's foot going into a sock all make this a very strange movie indeed. The action sequences are filmed with such crazy angles once can't tell what the hell is going on and it's not until the movie is over, where you realize what the hell you had just saw. Knock Off is one of the most surreal movies you could ever see, seriously. It's one of those movies that years from now may be looked at as a camp classic due to it's stylish excess. I for one, still can't tell you what the movie was about.* * out of 4(Fair) "},{"Title":"Pretty darn good for a JCVD film , but Hark loses something in translation","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't expecting (or asking) much when I originally saw Knock Off. I had decided to take in a Sunday afternoon matinée purely as a way to kill a couple of hours, and Knock Off was on the marquee as I drove up to my local multiplex. Either I had already seen everything else or couldn't stomach the idea of watching what was left, and so I went in, not expecting to see anything more than Van Damme doing what Van Damme does. When I saw on the credits that Tsui Hark was the director, I perked up considerably. I'm not a hardcore Hong Kong cinema fan, but I was marginally aware of Hark's reputation in Hong Kong. John Woo's first American effort a few years previous also starred Van Damme and Hard Target turned out to be the best Van Damme film to date (or ever, depending who you ask).Well, it wasn't as good as Hard Target, but it still turned out to be the 4th best JCVD film I've ever seen - Time Cop and Sudden Death are better written, better acted, more accessible mainstream American movies - and a decent piece of action-oriented entertainment. I think in fact that Knock Off had the potential to be a minor classic, but the writing ( a typically over the top HK cinema plot about micro-explosives and terrorism ) doesn't really translate well to American tastes. Hark and his film crew have the gift of conjuring striking images and camera work and crafting astonishing action sequences, but story-wise, they can't really get beyond the surface froth to give us some characters we care about or actual emotion (chewing the scenery doesn't count as 'emotion'.) Also weighing in against Knock Off is that it features far too much of Rob Schneider. He's actually much better here than in the cinematic tragedy that was Judge Dredd, but dude, it's ROB SCHNEIDER. I actually like Schneider better in the stupid comedy movies where he plays the lead, for some reason...I think it's because his 'irritation' factor is actually a PLUS in a comedy movie, but he just is out of place and stupid in any kind of sidekick role in action or science fiction vehicles. Van Damme's problems with drugs and partying at this point in his career are common knowledge, but he still looks good in tight fitting clothes, even if he is a little rough around the edges. In some ways it makes him somewhat more believable for the role - his character is a semi-legitimate, slightly seedy hustler and party animal, and he looks the part (instead of the super hero he played in porn-fu fare like Blood Sport and Kick Boxer.) He's still no actor and Hark can't make him one, but he goes through the motions, and there's enough frenetic action all around him to make him look really good. He holds up his end just fine. For better or worse, he does what he does, and it's framed differently enough that it makes for a nice change of pace from his usual macho kick-boxing antics. I could swear in a few spots that they were going for a kind of Jackie Chan vibe, especially in the rickshaw race and in the scene in the knock-off factory where JCVD has a running fight with dozens of employees who are trying to kill him (because they think he murdered their boss). So yes, I like Knock Off as enjoyable eye candy and acceptable action oriented entertainment. I even picked it up (used) on DVD at my local Sun Coast a few weeks back for $7 to add it to my collection. I imagine that even some who didn't care about martial arts, HK cinema or Van Damme might get some enjoyment out of it. Call it a weak 7 stars (7.1) or a strong 6 stars (6.9) as long as you don't ask for much actual human emotion in your cinematic entertainment. "},{"Title":"Best Van Damme movie since Hard Target","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyed the movie, Van Damme was excellent but the camera effects were a little heavy and why did everyone have to be flying around so much?  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably dumb plot, but great action makes it worth watching","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Action star Jean Claude Van Damme plays a fashion designer who must join forces with a C.I.A. agent to combat terrorism. That is the plot outline from this movie's main page, and possibly the funniest sentence you will ever read. It's hard to believe that someone once sat down and said, You know, I bet the counterfeit jeans industry would make a good action movie, but they did, and the resulting screenplay is a big, dumb mess. However, the movie redeems itself with some incredible action sequences. Tsui Hark's fast-paced direction is at a level of insanity comparable to, if not better than, the martial arts flicks of John Woo. In some of the later scenes, such as the wild chase through some sort of warehouse/factory place, I was wondering how on earth they managed to film something like that.The movie also has some downright weird elements that make it very memorable. For instance, during the climax on the barge, Van Damme is taking out the bad guys while sliding down long, oil-slicked corriders. And no, I don't mean sliding a little bit on his feet, I mean he's ACTUALLY SLIDING AROUND ON HIS REAR. It's as if the director was watching his kid play on a Slip 'N' Slide and thought, I wonder if I could incorporate this into the movie. Also, what was with all the green explosions? I thought there was something wrong with my TV set, but then I came here and read about it in the other user comments. I don't know what kind of pyrotechnics they were using (St. Patrick's Day fireworks, apparently), but it's pretty distracting.It's a silly movie with some real oddities, but the frenetic action is very entertaining. If you're looking to just turn your brain off and enjoy some karate kicks and car chases, you can't beat a good Van Damme movie like Knock Off. 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Actually Pretty good","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I must say this film isn't the regular Van-Damme film. Most of the stars get their own action suquence with outrageous stunts and some Jackie-chan like acrobatics this films most definitely is not be taken too seriously.The camera shots are inventive and quite unique! I found this film quite a laugh. The plot was involved, the characters likeable, this film is a break away from the seroius more mainstream classics Van damme has made. If you are willing to give this film a chance I believe you'll enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Dissed way out of proportion!","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This flick is not as bad as the reviews would lead one to believe. It's a harmless frolic in much the same vein as the Jackie Chan movies. I feel the action direction was as good as Hong Kong gets and I still don't feel Van Damme is as bad as everyone says. He gets absolutely no respect. The camera techniques were gimmicky but interesting,in fact, I enjoyed the movement. Tsui Hark will make a great English-speaking film someday. Might not be worth $8.50 but compared to what? Lets say apples to apples! "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie (not many agree with me).","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Judging by the other comments, not many people like this movie. But I thought it was quite good. Even though the plot doesn't make much sense, the important thing is that there's action, and there's plenty of it. If you like Tsui Hark's movies, you will like this.   "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It's a cool movie, with nice special effects. I have never seen anything like it.I can't wait to C it again, I think it will be tonight... "},{"Title":"Not Bad For A Jean-Claude Van Damme Movie","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Recently, Jean-Claude Van Damme's movies just keep on getting dumber and dumber. But I was pretty much surprised when I saw his latest role in Knock Off. Marcus Ray (Jean-Claude Van Damme) lives the good life in Hong Kong with a good job, good money and beautiful women. But his peaceful life is shattered when he gets wind of a terrorist plot and discovers that he's the only man who can stop it. I really liked this film, and the camera shots were filmed just superbly. So in addition, I give Knock Off an 8 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Really not that bad...","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Well, granted, the plot is hopeless, the acting is never more than average, and nag, nag, nag. What is it with everyone, why demand that every film have every ingredient ? Knock Off is great if you're in the mood for well-choreographed and creative action scenes, not to mention a film that keeps experimenting with very unusual camera angles etc throughout the entire movie. And they have GREEN explosions. Turn off your sophisticated, complaining brains for an hour and a half and have some fun.  "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Knock Off is good. There is nothing wrong with it. It has lots of action in it. It's funny.  Tsui Hark did a good job filming it. I like when the Chinese direct action movies. "},{"Title":"Van Damme, the master of all things returns! Give him some FREAKIN' credit!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, number 1 Van Damme is the man. this movie ROCKED, I just don't get all the bad reviews. Every one of his movies keeps getting better and better. I saw this four times, and it never fails to get my adrenalin going. BORN SUPERMAN, HELL DIE SUPERMAN, AND ALWAYS LAND ON HIS FEET! "},{"Title":"It's pure fun.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best Van Damme films ever. If you are a Van Damme fan, than you will love this. It's pure fun, it's like a Jackie Chan movie, but with Van Damme. "},{"Title":"ANOTHER AMAZING FILM FROM JEAN-CLAUDE","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  HE IS BY FAR THE MOST INCREDIBLE ACTION STAR TO GRACE THE SILVER SCREEN. THIS MOVIE HAS IT ALL.  INCREDIBLE ACTION AND AMAZING STUNTS.  IT HAS HUMOUR FROM THE KING OF COMEDY HIMSELF ROB SCHNIEDER.  THE TWO ARE A GREAT DUO. THEY EVEN HAVE BETTER CHEMISTRY THAN RODMAN AND VAN DAMME IN 'DOUBLE TEAM'. BUY THIS MOVIE AND WATCH OVER AND OVER.  YOU'LL BE WANTING TO SEE IT TIME AND TIME AGAIN!!!  "},{"Title":"It bears an authentic brand name. Underrated","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Though the jokey lines seem out of place, the somber tone of this 1998 action movie makes the political subtext more sincere and less grandiose than usual , One of Van Damme's best movies ever..Action-packed , cheesy , Whatever you think of Jean-Claude Van Damme's acting skills, there is no denying his acumen when it comes to career-development choices. Graduating swiftly from his early, funnier films (Black Eagle) to martial-arts contest movies (Kickboxer), there was even a brief moment following Universal Soldier when stardom beckoned. But then he chose to anchor his place in the mainstream by turning to Hong Kong action flicks, a sub-genre which largely supplanted the Schwarzenegger-Stallone heroics of the 80s. Knock Off is the fourth movie in six years in which Van Damme has teamed up with cult eastern directors, and his second outing for Tsui Hark after Double Team. It is of interest only in that this is far more the director's picture than his own.Tsui's imprimatur is apparent in both the convoluted plot (involving nano bombs and Russian gangsters) and the staging of the fight sequences. It has long been accepted that Van Damme's fans don't come to his films wanting the labyrinthine complexities of The Big Sleep, but they do expect plenty of roundhouse kicks, splits and at least one 'butt shot'. Knock Off has none of these, Tsui seemingly preferring to show off his own techniques rather than his star's. The fight sequences are often filmed in disorienting close-ups, while slow and fast motion, freeze frames and Evil Dead-style crash zooms whip up plenty of sound and fury to camouflage the central emptiness. "},{"Title":"Knock on Wood","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS**Mind boggling action movie that takes place on the eve of the British colony city of Hong Kong being handed over to the Red Chinese. The movie is about this group of Russian international mobsters who plan to blackmail the world with thousands of button, or micro, bombs. The Russians hide them in knockoff, phony high priced and name item, clothes and electrical equipment as well as toys. Then threaten to detonate them if they aren't paid, like cable TV, a monthly fee of 100 million dollars. Jean-Clude Van Damme is Marcus Ray a shady businessman who exports knockoff running shoes and jeans who gets involved up to his neck in the action. This happens when it's found out that his partner in crime the lovable and wise-cracking Tommy Hendricks, Rob Schneider, is an undercover CIA agent planning to get the goods on him, as well as his associates, in the illegal knockoff business.It soon becomes evident that knockoffs aren't the only headache on the minds of the CIA. It's found that their, the knockoff clothes and toys, are being used as explosives by the Russian mobster and suddenly Ray becomes a good guy in stopping, together with Hendricks, that from happening. Still Ray is hamstrung by ambitious CIA agent Karen Lee, Lela Rochon, who's playing double-agent in the film. This confuses both Ray & Hndricks to the point where all thee almost end up shooting each other.***SPOILER ALERT***It turns out that the person behind this evil and grandiose plan is non other then the CIA chief in charge of covert Hong Kong operations himself chubby Harry Johnson, Paul Sorvino, who together with even chubbier Hong Kong crime kingpin Slim, Glen Chin,are working together with the evil Russians in this crazy and off the wall criminal venture. The mindless action is almost non-stop in the movie with Ray going from rickshaw races to food fights and warehouse shootouts and finally a showdown with the Russians. This happens on an outgoing freighter loaded with bomb laden ripoffs headed for US Pacific port cities to unload and, by remote satellite control, activate them.People in the movie seem to be killed over and over again coming back for more like walking dead zombies especially the Russian mobsters. Who have, for what at first seems like no reason at all,hoods over their heads. Later you realize that it, the hoods, were just there so you won't see or recognize them coming back to get themselves killed, by Ray & Co, all over again sometimes as much as three or four times. The leader of the Slavic mobsters himself is done in a number of times by both Ray & Lee only to come back for more. Thats until Ray, out of sheer frustration, finally finishes him off much like he would have done to a vampire. But not with the usual wooden stake driven through his heart but with a ten ton steel cargo container dropped square on top of his head!All kinds of wild and far out zany camera angles make you dizzy following the non-stop action scenes with bad guy CIA turncoat Johnson getting the worst of it. Johnson gets knocked around all over the place then set on fire, with a bottle of deadly sulfuric acid, and then killed in a freighter explosion. Just when you thought the movie and Johnson were history he again killed in another explosion in his Hong Kong hideout. Johnson who at that point seemed to have come back from the dead has the same crazed and manic look in both scenes in both scenes that he was killed. "},{"Title":"Damme Comedy","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I saw the first few minutes of this and almost turned it off altogether! This looks like a poor attempt at comedy drama, or 'Dramedy' by the actor, however it takes a turn a little ways into the program. Rob Schneider is a sort of wacky addition to the cast as the buddy of Van Damme's Marcus Ray, Tommy Hendricks. Paul Sorvino is a solid member of the Knock-Off cast as Harry Johanson. Along with Lela Rochon, as Karen Lee, the one you suspect, is a information 'leaker' type double agent in the 'company'. But all is pretty well in the story for me as a viewer of a movie I was about to 'axe'. You know that Jean Claude Van Damme has a pretty limited 'range' as does a lot of action stars, unfortunately. The good thing is, to those who hate him, fine for them but to the other half he can put on an interesting to intriguing performance depending on, story and director.Van Damme has made some good movies in his time, along with a couple that tanked. This happens even to the biggest and best of the Hollywood players though. The best that you can hope for is a movie that will do better than just break even or lose money.Knock-off, isn't a comedy that delivers the laughs to every viewer, however it ain't bad if you stick with it. I would recommend this for Jean Claude fans, it will come out in good order. (**) "},{"Title":"Superb (2nd)Teaming of Hark and Van Damme.","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I cannot understand why Knock off is one of Jean Claude Van Damme's most ripped apart movies.I mean the critics and fans were not nice to this movie.I think it had a lot to do with how JCVD was perceived to the public back then.If they look a little closer they will see it is not the steaming pile they say it is.I also think there was shock as to why Tsui Hark would make another movie with Van Damme after Double Team got the shaft by critics.Van Damme is Marcus Ray also known as the king of Knock off's in Hong Kong who has just went legit with the help of his partner Tommy.(Rob Schinder)They have a devil may care attitude until running afoul of the Russian mob,Covert CIA agents,and the local mafia in an effort to stop the distribution of Nano-Bombs.Van Damme does a good job in Knock off.Don't mistake him for Anthony Hopkins yet.It's just that Knock off gives the fallen karate man something he's rarely offeredComedy.His timing is okay.Its a nice character change for him.He delivers very well in the action department as usual.He also gets a lot of help from the multi-layered casting of Rob Schinder as his Quirky partner,Gorgeous Lela Rochon as a take-charge Clothing executive who is not what she-seems,and Paul Sorvino offers a lot of Menace as a CIA boss.Asian Actors Wyman Wong,Glen Chin,Carmen Lee,and Michael Wong also show up.Let me just say that Tsui Hark goes all out with the action sequences here.Over-kill might be the word.A dazzling Rickshaw race through the streets of HK.A violent frenzy-like fight for life at a fruit market. Lots and lots of shoot outs,stabbings,fist-fights,explosions,and a surprising death scene that rivals the latest James bond flick for sheer lunacy.Also we get to see Schinder kick ass.Rochon has the Pam Grier Moxy working well for her.The camera-work is totally over the top here.The Hong Kong back drop is a nice contrast to the on screen events and is awesome to behold.Nice touch to set this against the handover of 1997.The pacing is non-stop and barley lets you breathe.There are the obvious problems in the seemingly rushed idea of the plot.Green Explosions?Paul Sorvino is kind of wasted here as just another stock villain.Knock Off is a true Hong Kong-styled movie in every sense that people seem to forget.However Its nice to see that it is gaining a better rep of late. "},{"Title":"but the cameraman was excellent","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The camera handling was unlike anything I have seen before, and I liked it. Also, a man with his own view of Hong Kong directed this movie, or so it seems. There is definite atmosphere in it and you actually feel like you are there - unlike most of the **** that hollywood produces.  "},{"Title":"a surreal action film","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It seems obvious that Tsui Hark isn't interested in making a coherent Hollywood-type action film. He already did it for DOUBLE TEAM and he push his film technique ( wild camera angle, speed up stop-motion kinda-like action sequences, bizarre point of view shots! ) one step further with KNOCK OFF and the result is a wild surreal romp that sometimes work. I just can't stand Hollywood action films and this movie tries to both make it look different and new and satirize the entire genre. Well, even though it is erratic and painful at some point, i must admit that i enjoyed it for those particular reasons. "}{"Title":"Gets better over time","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" when I first saw this when it came out, I wasn't impressed. I thought Tsui Hark was selling out to Hollywood, and getting unnecessarily flashy in doing so.Seeing it again some ten years later, I have to admit I'm impressed. It's not just the story or the action scenes, or the integration of humor into the thriller storyline. But what once looked like flashiness now reveals itself as careful restraint. Tsui is working hard here to avoid any unnecessary frame, creating a film that admittedly jars visually, but does so tightly, with almost no excess imagery or story element. The film still looks fresh after a decade; while not great art, it's just supremely professional movie making. And in keeping with that, Tsui also manages to get restrained performance by two slices of Hollywood ham, Van Damme and Rob Schneider, the latter being one of the least tolerable comic actor I've ever had the misfortune to encounter on film. But here he seems almost at home in a Hitchcockian spy thriller with Jackie Chan flavored sense of humor - exactly where you would least expect to find him.Over all, although only a B-movie thriller, remains a neat accomplishment for Tsui Hark. "},{"Title":"pretty funny for a Van Damme movie","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Normally combining comedy with Van Damme movies isn't a good thing but in this one it was actually decent. I mean the overall plot of microbombs and crooked CIA Agents are played out these days but the stuff leading up to the climax was downright hilarious. We get Van Damme and Schneider in a chariot race of some kind and Van Damme runs so fast his shoes rip off.The highlight of the movie is one thing....a fat man named Skinny.Hahahahahaha are you laughing yet? No...well then don't watch the movie If you can stand humor in action movies this isn't so bad.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Poor Van-Damme","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  What a pity for Mr. Van-Damme. Supposedly this film was to revitalize his dying career. The entire plot is silly and brainless. The countless twists tossed into the movie were unnecessary and tacky. The fighting choreography itself is a joke. I've seen Van Damme done alot better with the Quest and Hard Target. Rob Schneider plays once again another pitiful/comedy relief character, his only source of paycheck, with a lame coverup. The movie did not intrigue me and I'm sure not too many of his fans. Knock-Off should be more of a message to Van Damme and his scriptwriters. Knock it off with the lamers.  "},{"Title":"Another film that will KNOCK OFF Van Damme's carrier","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know if Van Damme will stop hitting and shooting people in his films one day, but he did not stop in Knock Off! Van Damme did not many good movies and this one is not an exception. The story is bad, the actors too and the terrorist's goal is so stupid because it has no reason. This is free action and free violence. Van Damme's performance is limited to the three lines of text he says in the whole movie. I give it *out of *****.  "},{"Title":"An abandoned warehouse. Not.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know much about Van Damme but I warmed to him after he demolished half of France in a previous film. The last twenty minutes of 'Knock Off' are gobsmacking. What is going on? It's 'The Chaos Factor' again, only without the extraordinary eloquence, literacy and penetrating philosophical and political nous of that film's script. Kudos for the big climax not taking place in an abandoned warehouse for a change but on a dock with frenetic freights. Have you seen them, the frenetic freights? You haven't lived if you haven't seen frenetic freights. And Van Damme almost doesn't live when he gets caught between some frenetic freights. People say this film is worthless but it does teach you one thing and that is you don't want to get involved with frenetic freights. No, don't even go there. The setting is appropriate as Van Damme has spent the entire film looking as if he's just got off a choppy ferry journey in which he suffered serious sea sickness. His lips look pursed, as if concentrating on not throwing up. He is as white as a sheet and looks at least sixty. He does not look well but as the film progresses a grin appears constantly on his battered features. His eyes seem to stare into another dimension, as if possessed of a strange inner calm. It's as if he has accepted the cosmic absurdity of his existence and is prepared to go with the flow. He has achieved Karma. Next stop, Nirvana. Falling freights cannot harm him. Frenetic freights to the right and left of him cannot harm him. Bullets do not faze him. Buildings blow up just behind him. Falls from great height do not injure him. He has entered a state of zen, and the bodies seem to fall before his gun as if written in the stars. Nothing comes between this man and his jeans except a nuclear explosion but he is unconcerned. He has achieved oneness. It's all terribly moving.But someone comes along who may puncture this karma. It is a villain with tiny glasses and a beard that makes him a dead ringer for the British comedian David Baddiel. I was totally convinced it was him, the likeness is that uncanny. Unfortunately, like the real David Baddiel he will not go away and comes at Van Damme time again, seemingly impervious to punches, although there is some pleasure in watching those. Finally though, to everyone's relief he is first decapitated and then a freight is dropped on him from a great height. This is what happens when you don't look out for those frenetic freights. Now, why didn't they hire the real David Baddiel? That is something I would pay good money to see. If the stunt co-ordinator could 'accidently' get locked in a trailer too, then you're really talking. Either way, it's nowhere near the end of the film. And what a film it is. "},{"Title":"Weird forgettable, strange Van Damme flick!","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" *SPOILERS* Knock Off (1998) is very forgettable Hong Kong action movie. I still don't know what the hell this movie is about? This film is completely a Jackie Chan Movie. Van Damme moves like Jackie Chan. Mostly action scenes seems to be dubbed from Jackie Chan and Stanley Tong's movies that they work on them together. The action in here is good, but not that good. If they were playing an Chinese Action movie, they could came up with Van Damme action style movie flick, or better script and better storyline, but no! I realized that Sammo Hung was the second director for Van Damme's scenes, that is why they made this movie like a Jackie Chan movie. It is sort of a good-bad action movie. I don't hate the movie, but I don't like Knock Off either, but in my opinion Double Team is just way much better movie than this. I still like that this movie is made in the late 90's in Hong Kong and I think Van Damme did a solid job in here.Jean-Claude Van Damme, Rob Schneider and Michael Wong trio action stars on the ship did a terrific outstanding job, but I would replaced three or two actors in this movie, in the Van Damme support team. I would replaced Rob Schneider with Hong Kong action star Donnie Yen, he would be much better choice for play Marcus Ray's (Van Damme) partner. I would replaced Lela Rochon with Cynthia Khan, because Lela is black and can not act or kicking ass. I would rather put Cynthia Khan in this movie. Donnie Yen and Cynthia Khan worked together with Michael Wong in my favorite Hong Kong martial arts action film In the Line of Duty IV (1989) one of the best Hong Kong action martial arts movie, I have ever seen. Donnie Yen and Cynthia Khan did return one year later in another action film Tiger Cage II (1990), this time Donnie Yen was the lead star in that movie and Cynthia was only a support co star, who was only in a few scenes, because her character was telling her own side of her story. That is why I liked about those Hong Kong movies.I liked Van Damme and his martial arts, when Van Damme in the factory put a chain around his knuckles and kicks those triads ass, trying to kill him, that was awesome. Asian cinema was coming strong like Jackie Chan and Jet Li so Van Damme teams up with Tsui Hark an Asian director marking their second collaboration together (the other was Double Team). It was something new for JCVD cause you had comedy with Rob Schnieder co-starring made the movie a decent action comedy, but I recommend the Rush Hour trilogy over this one. This is one of the strange movies , and the storyline is all over the place , its quite funny though , it's crazy in parts. I mean I never heard about counterfeit jeans? I thought this movie is more about smuggling Heroine, or cocaine. In the opening scene you see Michael Wong chasing someone, than some explosions and you see a lot of dolls in the water. I thought in the dolls where hiding drugs in it, now I know they weren't. What did Michael Wong chase at all? This movie to me, makes no sense I don't know what the hell the CIA was doing in this movie at all?, what they try to do with the story line? I blame Steven E. de Souza for this flick, It is his fault for making a terrible script, Van Damme has not even one good line in this movie at all! Other Chinese actors voices where dubbed. Why was an Afro-American Woman in this Chinese movie? Why? If Tsui Hark would have replaced Steven E. de Souza with Chi-Sing Cheung, Wing-Fai Wong and Kwong Kim Yip who made a script and storyline for In The Line of Duty IV (1989), this movie would not be a disaster! I don't like this movie for what it is, and it is not my Van Damme favorite film and I keep forgetting what this movie is about at all? Btw the acting from the cast and crew is terrible and laughably bad, the dialog is really dull and pretty stupid! Rob Schnieder is not an action star, stop putting him in an action movies guys! Anyway this movie get's by me a 4, because I liked the action scenes, but the explosions where bad CGI's. I like Van Damme a lot in this movie, he did a great job, but I will not seeing this anytime soon again.Knock Off is a 1998 Hong Kong action crime film starring Jean-Claude Van Damme as a sales representative who deals in counterfeit jeans who along with his partner find themselves mixed up in a conspiracy involving Russian mafia, terrorists, and the CIA. Knock Off was the second film collaboration between director Tsui Hark (A Better Tomorrow III) and Jean-Claude Van Damme, following 1997's Double Team.2/10 Grade E- Studio TriStar Pictures, MDP Worldwide Film Workshop Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Rob Schneider, Lela Rochon, Michael Wong, Paul Sorvino, Wyman Wong, Carman Lee, Glen Chin Director Tsui Hark Producer Nansun Shi Screenplay Steven E. de Souza Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 31 Mins. Budget $35.000.000 Box Office $44,000,000 "},{"Title":"A For Effort.","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" They tried. They tried to make a an intelligent and original action-comedy. It is very apparent that they made a solid effort and most of it is passable. Problem is, most of it is amateurish. If it was directed by a college student for a film class, I'd give it an A+. But since the director has done many movies before this, I understand the rating on this site.Jean-Claude Van Damme plays Hong Kong fashion designer Marcus Ray who used to be a counter-fitter and is attempting to go straight by managing V-Six Jeans along with Tommy Hendricks (Schneider). Rob Schneider is hated and said to be unfunny, but he is what makes the movie successful in the comedy portion. He is also very serious as well as providing most comic relief. When their latest shipment of jeans prove to be phonies, they dig deep into Hong Kong's underworld and soon find out that micro-bombs are planted in soon-to-be shipments. They whole story with the mafia and the bombs is totally confusing and requires multiple watches. I liked that it had that. Throughout the course of the movie, every character switches roles and has a twist to them. I liked that too. Thing is, the characters switching roles and the complex plot do not mesh well together. But I like that they tried. The movie also provides some really cool camera tricks that, unfortunately, are just there. Either way, I love the camera shots. They are legit. "},{"Title":"Knock It Off, Van Damme!","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Knock Off (1998) Dir Tsui Hark / Cast Jean-Claude Van Damme, Rob Schneider, Lela Rochon, Paul Sorvino, Carman Lee The title is absolutely correct. Everyone tries to knock each other off while viewers struggle to stay awake. The story is simply an excuse for Jean-Claude Van Damme to physically beat the tar out of bad guys and further prove that acting isn't his strong point. Tiny button shaped bombs are placed in dolls and phony salesman Van Damme and Rob Schneider get involved after a friend is murdered. Tsui Hark handles the action but he fails to drag a good performance out of Van Damme or Schneider. Hark and Van Damme previously collaborated to bring the world another action embarrassment called Double Team. Together, these films can be strapped together and sold cheap in the bargain bin at the local supermarket. Schneider does as expected and that is to provide horrible comic relief. Lela Rochon has the misfortune of playing damsel in distress because she just happened to be within arms length of the producers during casting. Also wasting time is Paul Sorvino. No point but to entertain senseless violence. Double Team was a stupid movie so it should come as no surprise that Knock Off is just as dumb. I wish they would knock it off and write a decent script, or at least give viewers the option of knocking the film off with several blows of a baseball bat. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"It's the real deal.","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Hong Kong director Tsui Hark (Once Upon A Time In China 1, II, III and V) first worked with Jean-Claude Van Damme on the incredibly daft Dennis Rodman vehicle Double Team, which was about as insane as action cinema gets. Knock Off sees the director and martial arts star once again teaming up to deliver a movie that simply has to be seen to be believed.Van Damme plays 'King of the Knock Offs' Marcus Ray, a shady businessman based in Hong Kong. When he and his partner Tommy (Rob Schneider) accept an order of counterfeit jeans to be shipped to the U.S., they become unwittingly involved in a plot by evil Russians to hold America to ransom, each pair of trousers containing a tiny micro-bomb that can be detonated by remote control.Knock Off rattles along at breakneck speed, the daft plot becoming more and more ridiculous with each and every scene, and with numerous characters switching sides throughout, the film can be a little hard to follow at times; thankfully, Tsui Hark compensates for his unnecessarily convoluted narrative by ensuring that the action is as exhilarating as possible, with brilliantly choreographed fight scenes and death defying stunts galore, including a wonderful rickshaw race through the streets of Kowloon and a breath-taking battle on board a freight ship where the massive metal containers prove to be just as dangerous as the enemy.Hark enhances his already bonkers action further with highly innovative visuals, the viewer presented with a dizzying array of impressive sweeping camera-work, inventive POV shots and creative camera angles that ensure maximum excitement. As far as the acting goes (as if that really matters), performances range from the good (Lela Rochon as sexy, sassy CIA agent Karen Lee), to the irritating (Rob Schneider doing his obnoxious comedic sidekick schtick), to the forgettable (Paul Sorvino phoning it in as CIA boss Harry Johanson), to the wooden (JCVD displaying his usual limited range).Sadly, Knock Off wasn't too well received at the box office, fans of the Muscles from Brussels obviously struggling with the film's crazy Asian style&#x97;a shame, because I would have loved to have seen Hark and Van Damme work together at least one more time.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"If it's one thing Knock Off has, it's style,","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Set in Hong Kong, Knock Off is the tale of how the fashion industry intersects with the Russian mafia and the CIA. As if you didn't already know. Tommy Hendricks (Schneider) is a fashion designer and his pal Marcus Ray (Van Damme) is shocked when he discovers knock off goods on the streets of Hong Kong, such as Pumma sneakers. But it's all just a ruse to smuggle high-tech weaponry such as extremely dangerous and destructive bombs that explode with green flames. When the marketing manager for V-Six jeans, Karen Lee (Rochon), gets involved - as anyone might if they were somehow embroiled in a scenario that involved Exploding Counterfeit Jeans (or ECJ's, as we like to call them) - they meet the mysterious Harry Johanson (Sorvino) and the stage is set for a lot of high-octane fights, stunts, chases and battles. Will these knock off products finally get our heroes...knocked off? Find out today! The purpose of movies, especially movies like this, is to entertain. And Knock Off certainly does. It seems to work overtime to please the viewer with all sorts of fast-paced and off-kilter scenarios, and the vibe becomes infectious. Just as director Tsui Hark did the previous year with JCVD in Double Team (1997), he teams him up with a wacky American sidekick. With Double Team, unforgettably, it was the one and only Dennis Rodman. Here, it's with unlikely action star Rob Schneider. We even get some brief Schneider-Fu, and, unfortunately, he also appears shirtless. Both Rodman and Schneider were hot in the 90's - which is easy to forget these days - which just adds even more to the nutty feel of these movies.If it's one thing Knock Off has, it's style, and we're not just talking about fashion. Hark's direction is filled with energy and overflowing with unusual camera angles (such as shoe vision) to the point where it can be described as cartoonish. Far from a bad thing, the whole venture seems very Hong Kong and he probably figured, after Double Team, 'to hell with the American market, I'm doing this my way.' What reinforces that are the fun, Jackie Chan-style stunts and fights. Sammo Hung is credited as Second Unit Director, and this may seem insane, but you can actually tell. It's his action style all the way. JCVD gets a great intro to his character in the film, and both he and Rob Schneider both wear zany Hawaiian shirts for most of the movie's running time. Clearly they are the height of fashion. JCVD also has his typical funny faces on display, adding to the charm of the movie.While it was nice to see Paul Sorvino on board, though he seemed a tad bit confused (though wouldn't you be?) - especially in the scenes where he, Rochon, Schneider and Van Damme are all together (talk about powerful casting) - truly the biggest coup were getting the Mael brothers of Sparks fame to do the music. Their closing credits title song is very slick, clever and catchy, like most of their other work. You'll be singing It's a knock off... for weeks. Yes, weeks. Varouje Hagopian did additional music, and we've seen that name before (he seems to do the music for a lot of Billy Blanks movies). In the end, if it's zany, colorful, well-choreographed action you seek, Knock Off is a great choice. "}{"Title":"One of JC's Finest","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The movie is kind of like the self parody of a Hong Kong movie. Even the theme of the movie is the Fake merchandise going through HK. But there's nothing fake about the movie's quality. From the very opening sequence where Michael Wong goes after the smugglers, the movie has high quality action all the way to the very end.In between the hard core action, John Claude Van Damme's character puts in comical performance that's pretty funny, getting into all sorts of trouble while trying to make money on fake Nike shoes, and designer jeans. The charming insincerity seems to fit JC's character perfectly as the fake merchandise dealer / accidental good guy.While this movie is not made by any notable HK movie studio, it's easily one of the best movie to come out of Hong Kong. It's a great movie for Asian and action movie fans alike. "},{"Title":"Top Notch Van Damme Dazzler!","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Knock Off is a knock-out! The title of this Jean Claude Van Damme actioneer refers to cheaply made goods sold as counterfeit versions of designer brand name products, such as watches, baby dolls and track shoes. Asian action movie maestro Tsui Hark, who helmed Double Team, has teamed up again with the Muscles from Brussels and they have forged a first-rate, rock'em, sock'em yarn about global smuggling and terrorism set against the scenic backdrop of exotic Hong Kong. While previous Van Damme vehicles have rarely strayed from their sober, straight-up storytelling strategies, Knock Off delivers its karate chops with comic kicks that boost it far above the usual kung-fu fare. No, Van Damme is not trying to imitate Jackie Chan with his Charlie Chaplin-esquire martial arts antics. Instead, Hark and Van Damme finally appear to be having fun sending up a genre where plot and character take the backseat to body blows.Street hustling playboy Marcus Ray (Jean-Claude Van Damme of Maximum Risk) once specialized in knock off merchandise, but he has reformed recently and gone legitimate. Paired with abrasive business partner Tommy Hendricks (Rob Schneider of Judge Dredd), Marcus lives life to the hilt in Hong Kong as a sales representative for V-Six Jeans. He races around town in his sleek BMW singing his favorite tunes while Tommy struggles to keep their business afloat. The bubble bursts for Marcus abruptly when he learns that his adopted brother and long-time competitor Eddie (Wyman Wong) has gotten caught up in an evil conspiracy to smuggle knock-off wares with miniature explosives.These micro-bombs resemble harmless wristwatch batteries until they are detonated. Although the KGB developed these easy-to-conceal explosive devices, the Russian mafia somehow got their grubby paws on them. Joining forces with another sleazy knock-off artist, Skinny (Glen Chin), they plan to inundate the U.S. market with their imitation inventory. Eventually, when enough stuff winds up stateside, Skinny, the Russian mafia, and a mysterious mastermind behind the plan aim to extort huge sums ore trigger the fireworks.While plot bristles with incredible, hyperbolic action sequences, explosions, and tough-guy gab, the filmmakers deviate from the usual obligatory set-pieces. Instead of a car chase, a nifty rickshaw race through heavily thronged Hong Kong generates excitement and comedy. A nerdy looking Russian villain sports spectacles whose lens double as razor-sharp blades. The acrobatic gunfight take on added suspense because they are staged on ships whose heaving decks hurl giant cargo containers perilously toward our heroes and villains.When Eddie uncovers these tiny mines in his staples, he scuttles the shipment to the bottom of Hong Kong Bay. The greedy villains retaliate and set him up. Actually, Eddie dies when he rifles his own safe and finds it booby-trapped with a small rocket that turns him into a Roman candle. Meanwhile, the bad guys prey on Marcus and Tommy. The Hong Kong Royal Police question our protagonists about poor Eddie, but Marcus and Tommy play dumb. Dumb buys them with the fuzz, but dumb fizzles when the feisty international sales vice president, Karen (Lela Rochon of Waiting to Exhale), shows up and demands answers. Confronting them about shipments of bogus jeans, she accuses Marcus and Tommy of cheating V-Six out of $4 million.Matters grow complicated when Marcus discovers that Tommy works undercover as an agent for tip-lipped CIA honcho Harry Johansson (Paul Sorvino of Goodfellas) in Hong Kong. The CIA operates out of an elaborately disguised headquarters, concealed in James Bond fashion, in a gigantic Buddhist shrine atop a mountain on Lantau island. Somehow, Marcus and Tommy stay one step ahead of the fleet-footed, gun-toting Russian henchmen and manage to lay their hands on a videotape that implicates Karen in the black market.The rousing Steven E. De Souza screenplay is the stuff of which formula melodramas are forged. Having written hits like 48 Hrs and Die Hard, De Souza knows his craft by heart. Several elements distinguish the De Souza screenplay. Indeed, the story boasts a beginning, a middle, and an end. The ending is especially cute with its O'Henry flavor. Not only is this yarn well-woven, but Knock Off also packs a surprise or two. Marcus and Tommy defy an endless gauntlet of danger. Happily, Van Damme impersonates a civilian instead of the usual cop hero who headlines such sagas.Although the action gets a little confusing at intervals, Knock Off emerges as a lively, top-drawer action opus. Budgeted at $35 million, this Van Damme dazzler benefits from its tongue-in-cheek storytelling and the signature visual genius of veteran HK director Tsui Hark. Hark rivals Hong Kong colleague John Woo of Face/Off fame. Hark supercharges the high octane antics of Knock Off with his neat bag of cinematic tricks. Clocking in at a trim 91-minutes, this polished adventure epic careens along at a kinetic, whirlwind pace. Hark uses slightly speeded up footage (like the vintage Sean Connery James Bond movies) to give the hand-to-hand combat action a giddy, light-hearted edge.Despite his highly self-publicized cocaine addiction, Van Damme looks in tip-top form, though he performs fewer bone-crushing stunts. Moreover, the Belgium martial arts sensation is either getting more comfortable in front of the camera or director Tsui Hark goaded him into acting rather than making faces. Rated R for its big-screen violence and profanity, Knock Off should satisfy hardcore Van Damme devotees. "},{"Title":"Knock Off Is A Knock Out","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Yes! This is more like it! Guns, kicks, punches, bombs and there's even something for the ladies as the plot centres around the pointless world of fashion and of course Van Damme spends most of the film naked. This time he teams up with NFL star Dennis Rodman to take on some evil fashion designers who have been weaving their clothes from hemp. Once worn these clothes will instantly intoxicate the wearer, send them into fits of laughter, make them hallucinate and 'trip', and eventually descend into a spiral of addiction, crime, and murder that every drug user ever has suffered. Van Damme is a former model turned super cop and decides he is the best man to infiltrate the group, kick them in the face, destroy the clothes, and save the world. Unfortunately his boss decides to send a more flamboyant character along as a more modern partner. So they go undercover (sometimes literally!) as a gay couple pretending to want to buy a large shipment of these wonderful summer outfits. This leads to some jolly moments as Van Damme and Rodman attempt to 'out camp' each other with scenes reminiscent of the parties Oscar Wilder and Noel Coward used to hold for each other. Rodman keeps wearing shorter and shorter skirts, while Van Damme tucks his socks into his shoes and ends every sentence with the word 'sailor'. 'The only thing worse than not having any clothes is having too many' says Van Damme. 'The only thing worse than having no clothes is yo momma' replies Rodney.Of course the main focus of the film is the fighting and we are not disappointed. Famous Japanese director Sue Hark shows her trademark style with flashy camera movement, bullet tracking shots, cameras attached to Van Damme's sandals so that we can see a foot eye view of someone on the other end of The Mussels From Belgium's brutal attack. It is truly rewarding, as rewarding as throwing a dart into Jim Bowen's left cheek.Dennis Rocksmarth's moves are OK. Being a big lad we assume he can look after himself and he throws a few left hoops and upperclamps. His attempts at kicking are hideous and made my cat cry, I've seen better kicking from Peter in Dawn Of The Dead. Sue goes one further though with her interpretation of what would happen if you wore a cardigan of drugs. One character begins to giggle and roll about the floor, and we see what they see; we move to split screen a le Mario Kart. The top half is normal colour vision but spinning around 350 degrees, while the bottom half becomes black and white with blasts of neon colours. This eventually blurs into one and the character enters a world full of spinning knives and shoes being thrown from room to room. It reminded me of playing Doom naked with a live mouse and synthesiser instead of the usual keyboard/mouse combination. The floors and walls are melting and being sculpted by invisible artists into bewildering phrases such as 'Burt's Beans are Number 1!', 'If you sit in my kitchen you will become a-', 'Jacob the Chicken knows more than your Spleen ever will', and of course 'Carry your Turnip with Pride, Brain'. None of this makes much sense and it got a bit irritating after 7 minutes. Eventually the character reaches a help desk made of fire (which itself is made of water) and asks the Sheep in a Tux what is going on. 'Baaaa' replies the sheep. 'Well, that's what I though but I sought clarification'. As she turns away a large bubble engulfs her in slime and pops loudly. We cut to a wide shot of the women splatting against the ground and realise she has thrown herself off a building.In the end the co stars work well together and would go on to star in several more films together, including a theatre version of this film. I haven't seen it but if it's half as good as this it'll be average. If it's the same quality it'll be great! Best Scene When VD and the DR are lying in bed together and Rodman feels something prodding him. 'Those aren't pillows you're hands are between!' "},{"Title":"JCVD's attempt on Jackie Chan?","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Upon seeing this one, you get the feeling that Van Damme wanted to move into a slap-stick comedy/adventure type film that Jackie Chan has immensely been known for, Tsui Hark really brings that comic book look to life, nobody nor anything is being taken seriously.Although this one actually has some decent memorable scenes, (Van Damme's intro driving the beemer and singing to oriental pop music or the fights at the rain soaked port of freighter cargo...) still it fails because it seems like a movie that was rushed along to complete. The writing here also is poor, (writer Steven E. de Souza is no stranger to that as he previously did Street Fighter) leaving us without any humor it was supposed to have.This is not a highlight in any of the cast or filmmaker's career, miss it. "},{"Title":"ppl who claim to be put off by his butt and biceps secretly yearn for his flowy hair","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  What is it with JCVD critics? It seems that only the movies in which he has long hair have any relative success in comparison to his other movies. Hard Target, Timecop, Replicant, if he doesn't have the flowy hair, he gets ripped apart Universal Soldiers, The Quest, Sudden Death, Street Fighter, Knock Off, if it isn't hair, he has to have that flowy thing beneath his cap in Legionnaire.  I made my dad watch this movie at the theaters (I think this was the first movie that made me think there are actually movies that are not formatted for the big screen) with me instead of going to see Dark City--which I haven't seen to this day and kick myself in the foot everyday for it.*********SPOILER ALERT But that said, I mean, when was the last time you saw leathal glasses? The Godfather? And that pillar scene just boosts up the value of the movie. You can question my taste all you want for giving thumbs up for Sudden Death, but at least I don't settle for flowy hair. And just to think that this movie put Tsui Hark in hibernation just to cook up Time and Tide in his come back from hermitage makes this movie pretty important and special. Without this cause, how could there have been the Time and Tide effect?  "},{"Title":"Bad Acting, Bad Writing, but i still liked this movie!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  First you have to realize, Van Damme will NEVER do a good movie!!  As for the script it wasn't that bad, for a Hollywood action movie i was kinda impressed, but the dialogue was awful, i mean it was so cheesy!!  And who's idea was it to bring in Rob Schneider as comic relief?? And don't get me started on the acting, it's Van Damme!! Am i the only one to think that Michael Wong is the worst actor to come over from HK, i mean he wasn't bad there, but in engish he's brutal!Now the reason I liked this film, it's simple... the cinematography! It was simply amazing, classic Tsui Hark!  He has gotta be one of the most artistic director's doing hollywood action films next to Woo (i'm praying for them to get together agian, maybe a remake of A Better Tomorrow? as long as Marky Mark goes no where near it!) Hark is simply a genius, with his dizzying zooms from the top of a sky-scraper right into someone's eyes, or having mutiple screens to show what's in side the crate while holding the same shot.  Mind the foot entering the shoe left no sense of subtlety, and the constast close-ups of Van Damme's shoe during the rickshaw race, it was so easy to see what was coming. Also the look and feel of the film was a real breath of fresh air compared to these huge budget hollywood crapfest's!  Am I the only one who thinks this film felt like it was produced in HK?I'd have to say Van Damme's 2nd best film only to Maxium Risk, but that's only because i love Rigno Lam more then Tsui Hark! Now if Tsui Hark will only get back to doing his suspense/thrillers and stop doing Van Damme movies!! "},{"Title":"Van Damme's worst","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is, by far, the worst film of Van Damme's career. If you want something similar to The Colony (and I am not saying that The Colony is good, it was also a bad film, but when you compare it with this mess, The Colony is like Saving Private Ryan)forget it - there are few action sequences and a lot of boring and pointless talking - and if you want to watch a good story, go find somewhere else. It's impossible to figure out the plot of this garbage, it has something to do with terrorists, corrupt cops, the Chinese mob and jeans!you will get a lot of style, slow-motion shots and cool camera angles, and that's all.It's like Crazy Six, that film directed by Albert Pyun and that now deservedly is on the bottom list of IMDb. Seems that the director Hark just worried with his camera and forgot plot (a complete mess), actors (Van Damme is terrible, Rob Scheider tries to add some comedy here, but he is so annoying that you want the bad guys to kill him fast, and Paul Sorvino should be ashamed, after having worked in great films like Goodfellas, to be a part of this bomb) and quality.  "},{"Title":"ok, not his best, but close enough","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  In this film, Van Damme was at the worst of his cocaine habit so said by him. you can tell that he looks a bit bad in this film, but by no means was this movie that bad. When I first saw it in the theaters, I didn't like it at all. Only Rob Schnider, who was the thing going for this film, was funny. But after watching it on video a couple of times, it grew on me. Noting that this is Van Damme's second film with Hong Kong director Tsui Hark, I feel that it pales in comparison to Hark's Double Team, but Knock Off is on it's own with a very bad and confusing story. But you can tell that all the actors do their best with the limited script, and it shows. As always, the action is top notch and will please Van Damme fans. The most prize scenes are the first race scene and at the end when Van Damme is sliding around on the boat shooting the bad guys. As many bad comments that people give this movie, I bet that they only gave the movie one chance. Go see it again and get that second opinion! 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Average Hong Kong action, far above average cinematography","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  A knock off, as the film will soon tell you, is a cheap imitation marketed as the real thing. How a propos after all, the film itself is largely a knock off of Jackie Chan's brawling choreography. As such, it is not all that bad, and if you can be mildly entertained by Jackie, you'll probably like this film. But there is more to this film than Chan-ism it contains many brilliant moments of fascinating, hilarious and imaginative cinematography. Although he clearly has spent a bit too much time immersed in some digital realm, Arthur Wong gives us numerous, sometimes brilliant glimpses of where the film is probably heading. The ingenious (if completely pointless) use of a pop-up window early in the film is an example, as are the visions of eyes through telescopic lenses and the visually enacted cellular call (I won't bother to explain here; just see the film). Some of these tricks are not new, but Wong brings a captivating panache to them. He also, unfortunately, carries some of them much too far (shown once, blurred, staccato figures create a cruel beauty to the violence; twice, they become thought provoking; ten times, they are just annoying). Still, despite his failings, Wong has shown us where the computer is taking film. His daring forays into cybernetic cinema deserve an audience. "},{"Title":"Poor Jean-Claude","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ohhh boy.I saw this on opening night with high hopes. I see most of Van-Damme's movies in the theater because, I'll admit, I like him. After '97s Double Team I left the theater and said good, he'll never make a movie THAT bad again. I hate it when I'm wrong.This was terrible. I didn't even laugh at Schneider! who, I think is very funny.Van-Damme really is a guilty pleasure for me. With Hard Target being at the top of my list and this garbage on the bottom. "}{"Title":"Where's the Plot?","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Knock Off was the most boring movie I've ever seen. I am disappointed in Jon Claude Van Damme for even considering a movie like this.  There was not a plot. It jumped from one air head scene to another.  The movie was not well filmed, it looked like amateurs filmed it because of the jerky camera movements and fast forward speed in some of the scenes. Then there were scenes where there was picture in a picture to let the audience see what was being looked at. This movie is terrible. It is a poor excuse for a movie.. a waste of time and effort on anyone who sees it.   I see many movies on preview night the day movies are released for the first time.. I wish I hadn't seen this one at all........ "},{"Title":"Pick Something Else Or You'll Be Sorry....","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I was thoroughly dissapointed. The camera work was shabby and the explosions seemed superimposed. The movie had me shaking my head the whole time because I saw so many bad things. The movie had a bad plot, bad explosions, bad writting, but had some good named actors/actresses (unfortunate for them). Nowadays, movies are up in the 2 hour range or longer. This movie was only 1 1/2 hours long, but because it was so bad it was a blessing in disguise. I wished for my money back. Sorry.....  "},{"Title":"Dreadful movie. There is no substitute? Good. Great.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I wouldn't be able to summarize this movie since i left after 35 minutes. I  was there on a free pass and my friend and I both decided to leave. It was  free, which meant it was still too expensive to merit our further  attention.What a pointless, poorly acted, poorly written, poorly shot (all those  stupid video-esque slo-mo effects!), poorly edited piece of cinematic caca.  "},{"Title":"Rotten movie!!","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I have been a HUGE fan of Jean-Claude.  I see all his stuff, yet I don't know why he did such a rotten movie as Knock Off.  It was a B movie.  JC looks awful in his black wig.  The plot was stupid.  I see him trying to compete with Jackie Chan. Jean-Claude, I still love you, but I hope you'll think before you sign next time!! "},{"Title":"Unintelligible","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Me and a group of friends went to see this movie over the Labor Day holiday. We didn't expect too much, but what we did see was TOO MUCH. After about 20 minutes, we could take no more. There was no discernible plot, silly camera shots, choppy editing, and unintelligent dialogue!  We had to leave and get a refund of our matinee level admission. "},{"Title":"Good name for it.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  There is no substitute Sure there is... Anything other then this flick is a winner. This has got to be the worst performance i've EVER seen in a movie. Although I don't think it was all Van Damme's fault this time, as the other actors also exibit the same cruddy acting ability. And what's with the zooming/slo-mo effects every two seconds? (No kidding!!) Come on, get's OLD WAY to fast!! I would give it a 0 but 1's as low as you can vote! Save your money...!! "},{"Title":"Bad Acting, Bad Script","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I was hoping to see a good action flick, but the acting, film editing, and the special effects kept getting in the way.  There is a scene where our hero is sliding across the floor shooting at someone, and you can see the cable which is pulling him.  Even though everyone is speaking english, it looks like it was a badly dubbed foreign film.  I definitely cannot recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Even big action sequences can't save a bad film","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  There is something quaint about bad acting, cliche lines and predictable plots that make up the Asian film genre.  When Hollywood comes in with more money and tries to do the same thing, only slicker, it comes across like a grandmother trying to be a sexy cute so she can pick up a young man. It can really turn a person off, and that's what this film does.  I can forgive the predictable story line but the failed attempt by the director at trying to be a little stylized and the choppy and bad editing ruined this film beyond the standards of even what I'm used to seeing when it comes to Jean-Claude Van Damme.  There were points when I couldn't figure out which bad guy was getting beat up nor how he came to be in the fight.  It also is strange that a minor character introduced half way into the film gets all the good stunts in the final scene.  It just makes me wonder if the director had a thing for her and had the script re-written to highlight her.  A great waste of time, money and an insult to my film intelligence. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be the worst movie for Jean Claude Von Damme - ever.  The acting was horrible.  The martial arts was really non-existent compared to his other movies. The dialogue was lacking any substance and the slow motion scenes were distracting. When you try to compare this movie with one of Jean Claudes earlier movies (Bloodsport) - you can't. Knock off just can 't be compared to his other movies.I walked out after about 45 minutes.  Saw no reason to stay any longer.  My family left with me.  "},{"Title":"Worst Van Damme ever.  Lousy film work","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Van Damme movies have been getting better over the years however this one is a set back.  This movie had all the attributes of a cheap Hong Kong movie. Stay away from this movie. "}{"Title":"Knock IT off would have been perhaps more appropriate!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The ONLY thing this pile of crud has going for it, is Tsui Hark's frenetic directoral style, Woo-esque in origin certainly! Some innovative and imaginative action sequences, most notably at the end, unfortunately when most everyone had left the theater.Dumbass plot which has Van Damme as a clothing manufacturer in Hong Kong who finds himself up to his cufflinks in pirate labels and who ends up working with the CIA (or CHAOS more likely!!) to stop the flow of knock-offs! Well thats as good as any other overview!If Van Dumb is determined to consign his talents now to straight-to-video garbage, this is most certainly the way to go! INFERNO, his last flick was not much better! I do believe his TIMECOP days are way behind him. One might also ask why he is taking ageing tablets?  He looked sick as a dog and wrinkled all to hell in this loser of an action flick!  "},{"Title":"A movie that needs to be knocked off every shelf","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I really should of had my head read. I knew what I was in for. By the poster, I sorely misjudged the film, which looked intriguing. Van Dammne's films are like fodder, they're all the same. They don't get better. Believe me, this is the worst film I've seen of his. What's disappointing to also learn, is it's writers, are the same ones responsible for making some great 80's hits. Even though Paul Sorvino as a shady figure is wasted in this, he'a actually a relief, after all the misery we tolerate here amidst all this bologne. Get this, Van Damne is a fashion designer who teams up with an agent (Schneider who at least throws some comedy into this mess) to counteract these terrorists who's used these sneakers as knock offs (detonators) where these two have to separate the good shoes from the bad ones, while protecting above all, mankind. The best thing to come out of this is it's title song, that conveniently plays over the end credits. What a film of absolute bull. Van Damme ought to be knocked off for makin' it. Trivia. Knock Off almost took a year to hit video. I wonder why. "},{"Title":"Pumma?.......","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Marcus Ray and Tommy Hendricks are sales reps for V SIX Jeans, and they are enjoying life in Hong Kong.While Tommy busily prepares for the latest fashion show, Marcus is off looking at knock off goods imitation watches, jewellery, and baby dolls, in which his longtime friend Eddie Wang is involved.When Marcus and Tommy's supervisor arrives and informs them that much of their last shipment of jeans was filled with knock off imitations, the two can't believe her, but they agree to help in raiding a warehouse to prove their innocence.After a violent encounter, Marcus eventually learns that Tommy is an undercover CIA agent, and so is Karen.Meeting with their boss, Johansson, Marcus learns of a conspiracy involving the Russian mafia and their attempts to smuggle tiny, but highly explosive microbombs to the black market.Any film that features Van Damme in a movie about exploding designer jeans, has to be seen to be believed.Is it plausible? anything is really, but is it any good? Well it's so absurd and silly, it's very very enjoyable and furthermore, a lot of fun.This was Van Dammes last proper big screen outing that wasn't a sequel, or docu-drama, and it feels like the studio has given up on him, which is a shame.Harks direction and camera-work is frenetic and downright bizarre and you can see where Neveldine and Taylor get some of their ideas from.The action is well paced and there is obvious wire work involved, but it's all comic book in tone, and it's tongue in cheek throughout.With a great supporting cast, this film is unfairly despised, thanks to movie snobs who just dismiss the actors work.A great piece to watch with Double Team.. "},{"Title":"The Worst, Funniest Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" When a friend and I can't find any movies that interest both of us at our local video store, we usually just try to find the worst action movie we can and get a few chuckles. Naturally, anything with Van Damme is instantly a contender, and after reading the first line on the back of the box and seeing the words counterfeit jeans we were sold. In no way were we prepared for the cinematic abortion that we would witness. Van Damme's character appears to be (I say appears to be because the plot was nonsensical, even with obvious overdubs contained to explain gaps in the narrative) a salesman who pushes blue jeans. His business partner Rob Schneider is on first appearance a patently offensive mincing homosexual, though for some reason in all his later scenes he no longer displays any of these tendencies (other than a ridiculous scene where he smacks Van Damme's ass with an eel from the back of a rickshaw). In the early scenes, characters show up with no attempt to explain who they are and we move from a warehouse full of counterfeit goods to, for some reason, a rickshaw race. Here one gets a full sense of just how thoroughly his senses are about to be assaulted. Tsui Hark jams this puppy with as many unnecessary camera tricks as he can, including one in this scene where we see Van Damme's tennis shoe blow out from the inside. There is no way I can do this film justice by describing it, but suffice to say that many ludicrous, idiotic action scenes follow. Anytime someone dies it's especially hilarious. Lela Rochon and Paul Sorvino show up, the former basically just pointing her tits at the camera and the latter appearing to recognize how idiotic the movie is and hamming it up; listen to his scream in the second of the three scenes in which his character is apparently killed off. Do yourself a favor and check this movie out. "},{"Title":"Van Damned if he does, Van Damned if he doesn't...","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Well I liked this movie, it was FUN. The whole movie was JCVD making fun of his whole macho, stiff image! I mean ! Jean Claude as a fashion designer ! Just this alone is funny. The fighting scenes are great because Van Damme is trying to pay homage to The Master - Jackie Chan. Of course he is nowhere near as good, and he looks as clumsy as a pantomime horse and has the comic timing of verucca, but this is part of the movies' unpretentious charm. The Hong Kong setting is also fantastic!! Top marks to JCVD for laughing at himself. "},{"Title":"Unforgivable","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Not all that bad. Pretty cool directing and some good fighting-scenes. But one thing spoiled the whole movieIn the end, when van Damme was sliding around between the crates, you could clearly see the rope dragging him in one clip. I'm not talking about a single frame here - more like 10-20 frames. How could they have missed that one!!!Note The movie was only released on video here in Sweden. "},{"Title":"Action movie?!...nah, its a comedy.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is a classic example of a movie SO bad, that its actually funny.  I wouldn't go so far as to say I'm a fan of Van Damme, but his movies never fail to entertain.  Knock Off is no exception.  Lets face it, the script is pure crap, the performances aren't going to earn these actors any Oscar nods, but if you view this movie with no pre-conceptions, you'll enjoy it. The plot itself should give you a hint of what you're getting into.  A counterfeit jeans operation.  Oh my god!  Van Damme is a hong kong fashion designer?!  Wow.  You know you're in for some good laughs.  Reprising his career role as side-kick extraordinaire, Rob Schneider is as one dimensional as ever, but pretty much nails the role as only he knows how.  Just like every other Jean Claude movie, there are the gratuitous ass shots that you just know he demanded be included.  Not to mention the money shot where his bulging biceps tear through a puny hawaiin shirt.  Classic.  All in all a brainless, action packed, cartoon.  Just try not to take it seriously, afterall it IS Van Damme. "},{"Title":"It wasn't all that bad.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this flick.  Usually I don't get into the Van Damme flicks because of slow motion shots and double takes. Although this film had some quirky cinematics going on, its by far the best Van Damme flick I've seen since Blood Sport. Van Damme even does some pretty good stunts. The action is fast, the plot is confusing and minimal, but what you want is that John Wu action thing anyway, so its not a big loss. Rob Schneider again plays a goofy side kick ala Judge Dredd, but with a few good lines, and some action of his own.  What can be said about Lela Rochon?  She's fabulous to look at, and her acting is great for this goofy flick.  If you like big dumb action, watch this. I didn't pay for this flick, but it was worth my 90 min. "},{"Title":"Why... Oh Why","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie last weekend on video and boy... I was more than disappointed. Tsui Hark may be big in Hong Kong but I don't think he should even look at Hollywood.In my opinion it's quite too obvious that he tries to make films like John Woo does. The slow-motion etc. special sequences in John Woo's hands are cool and they make the movie look good. Just because he knows what he is doing. Tsui Hark just can't make them work. The tasteless incommon camera angles with too many slo-mo clips, made this film very amateur-like piece of crap.I don't know if it is the director's fault or what, but the acting stunk too. Van Damme is not so bad an actor that he lets people understand according to this movie. If this really was supposed to be Van Damme's come back (I don't know where he had gone anyway... joke) Tsui Hark was not the perfect choice for the director's job. I wonder if the actors knew how bad a movie they we're making during filming it.Tsui Hark... Go home and don't come back until you have learnt how to make movies without embarrassing yourself and even more important - the other people who have anything to do with the film.I just keep hoping that John Woo and Van Damme get together again some day.Bad, bad, bad... "},{"Title":"The murky depths of Van Damme's career","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The only reason I rented this movie was to see a friend of mine who acted in it. Otherwise I would not have touched this one!I will say this for the movie, there was some very interesting camera work done in this movie. Was it me though, or didn't Van Damme's shoes blow out twice during the Rickshaw race?For the most part though this was a poorly acted, poorly written movie with only mediocre action in it. It was disappointing to note that van Damme had a stunt double in a majority of his fights scenes (can't this boy do it himself anymore?)All I can say is if movies like Timecop and Sudden Death are the pinnacles of Van Damme's career, this one represents the murky depths. Personally, I think van Damme needs to act in another Peter Hyams film, they seem to fit him well. "}{"Title":"Wha???","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst damn films I have ever seen, and I´ve seen many. Everything is bad about this, the acting ( I knew that before I saw it ), plot ( exploting jeans???? ), characters, cinemaphotography and action.  I don´t know what Tsui Hark is thinking. He should stick to Hong Kong cinema. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Hello I have seen Knock Off but I am warning you it's not worth watching it at all because of too many slow  motion pics. It makes it all boring and it's hard to understand the point of wasting money to make such a movie! "},{"Title":"Weirdo","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is so weird!The movie is not a good one, but has some interesting things, it´s camera movements are different, and make the action strongest, but in some scenes this camera makes you crazy and you don´t understand what the hell is going on.Jean Claude in his common line of actuation.There´s no more ! "},{"Title":"Very badly made film, save your money","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Save your money!  Don't go see this movie...I saw it on opening night as this was to be a comeback for our beloved Jean-Claude.  Tsui Hark and/or the execs at Sony have chopped and mangled the film to where it is incomprehensible.  The plot is difficult to ascertain, the characters are poorly written and the action sequences aren't action at all.  Jean-Claude is one of the most visually interesting martial artists on the screen, and this film even manages to make the martial arts choreography & sequences boring!!So much for a comeback!  What a shame...we fans wish J-C  well in his retirement... "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is basically a knock-off of a lot of Hong Kong and American action movies.The funky camera-work is interesting at first and becomes annoying quickly.There are two scenes in the movie that make this worthwhile The rickshaw race sequence and the end sequence on the freighter. Catch this at a matinee or your local dollar theater. Do not pay full price for this Knock-Off! "},{"Title":"I can't beleive I paid 6.25 for that tripe","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  ProsThis film used some very interesting and unique camera angles.ConsAn incredibly lame and inconsistent plot.  Most action movies emphasize action over substance, and in some cases this is alright as the fight scenes are fun to watch.  This movie's muddled, incoherent fight scenes leaves you disoriented and screaming at the sheer lunacy of it all.  This movie won't score points with the most dedicated of Van Damne fans.Bottom lineA slick and interesting directorial strategy doesn't even come close to making up for an ineffective and ill-conceived plot. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad its reputation, but it's still nothing more than a below average action flick","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This gets some vile hate from not only Van Damme fans, but action movie fans as well. I can see why as well. It's got a really poor script, and a half-assed story to go along with it. What I can't grasp, is some Van Damme fans calling this his worst movie. Get real! Have you watched Second in Command, Derailed, Double Team, or Black Eagle, among some others? I'm a big Van Damme fan, and this movie isn't as bad as those I've listed. It has some excellent cinematography, as well as some expertly done, staged action sequences. One thing I'll give a lot of credit to this movie is some of the action scenes. The director Hark Tsui shows off plenty of flair and style, whether it was some slick POV shots, or the effective zoom-ins. It was really cutting edge stuff. The finale on a boat is absolutely wild, filled with great fight scenes. The Green explosions, which are assisted by CGI were pointless, though. I don't normally care about story when it comes to action movies, but the story is, so incredibly poor that it's impossible to ignore. The acting ranges from solid to poor. Jean-Claude Van Damme is fun in this film. He's got energy to spare, and isn't afraid to ridicule himself in some scenes. Sadly, in a couple scenes, especially the scene involving a parkade, you can tell some of the kicks are being done by a stuntman. Van Damme is very quick, but not THAT quick. Van Damme is a legitimate martial artist, so that was a bit discouraging to see. Aside from that, he was fun. Rob Scheider doesn't convince as the CIA type. He's the comedic relief, and he isn't all that funny. I just didn't buy him in that role. Lela Rochon is gorgeous and gives a very seductive performance. Remember those legs, wow! Paul Sorvino is slumming it here, no doubt about it. He was merely OK. Final Thoughts It's definitely tolerable and keeps your attention, but the fights are nowhere near enough to bring this film up to proper coherency. It's not as bad as people say, but it's far from a good movie. Watch it once if you're a Van Damme fan, or an action fan, and then forget it even exists 4.8/10 "},{"Title":"Even a fan can tolerate so much.","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie had good moments but the cheesy acting and Schneider made this one worse than Double team.Yes Double team was bad but at least there was better action scenes.The problem with it was the script,even Paul Sorvino sounded b-list.I dislike the fact that the studio's kept on giving JC movies to Hong Kong directors.It's o.k, if you catch it on the tube, but don't take valuable DVD time for this one.There were some cool moves,it kinda had a Rush hour vibe but that ended in the first 20 minutes.As a loyal JC fan i can tolerate this movie but i wonder some times what was the average viewer was thinking when they saw this one? this one ended his long run in theaters,i thought that this was going to revive the JC legacy but it ended up demoting him to direct to video. It's true folks you don't know the good times when there happening. "},{"Title":"seriously this is the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" the summary says it all...its head to head with Garbage Pail Kids for the title of worst ever!!! i had a very hard time getting through it. i rented it because of the people in it. even writing these minimum 10 lines about this movie is making me very very very ill. hmmmmm lets see what else can i put on here?? i even lit up a joint with some of my peeps and that didn't even improve it, not even a little...okay maybe a little. there is not one part of this movie that is able to save it. there are some movies that you can burn one with and it makes them classics like pink floyd movies or the wizard of oz or hell even the wiz but nope not this debacle!thats it on this classic crap. "},{"Title":"Boring beyond belief","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen many a silly and stupid action flick, and would have even given passing marks to some of Van Damme's work. But this is way too stupid and boring. I watched it in a bus on my way to a skiing holiday, and even with absolutely nothing else to do, this movie could not hold my attention for more than 10 minutes. "}{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The script is awful, the acting is painful. I specially loved that part where Johanson was supposed to be dead and later returns building bombs. Before I watched this movie I saw someone buying a ticket to Knock Off and I thought to myself What a lucky guy . He's going to watch what could be a good movie. After I saw it I felt sorry for that person and for myself for watching this horrible movie. If I could give a 0/10 this would be my first choise. Trust me YOU'LL HATE THIS ONE, AVOID AT ALL COSTS.    "},{"Title":"Knock it off!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  'Knock it off' seems to be the best way to describe Jean Claudes run of bad movies.  We all know he can do better than this, but for some reason he keeps making the same bad movies over and over.  I hope for his sake, and all of us who enjoy his style of fighting, he comes to his senses soon and makes a good movie like Universal Soldier, Time Cop, Nowhere to Run, Maximum Risk.  Granted these are not Oscar worthy films, but I don't expect that from him.  I just want an action movie that does what an action movie should...blow you away.  This one just makes me blow chunks. "},{"Title":"Why is Paul Sorvino in a movie this bad??","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I would just like to point out that a bunch of friends and myself went to see this movie, not expecting to see anything great, but just to spend $2 to get some form of entertainment.  Well, it turned out to be the worst $2 I have ever spent in my life.  During the movie, my good friend Ian threw his shoe at the screen.  That basically sums up how we feel about it.  All 5 of us that went agree that it is THE worst film we have ever seen.  And what was up with the picture in picture shot??  Those kind of new techniques should be used in good movies, not crap like this.  And lastly, why was Paul Sorvino, such a great veteran actor, in this movie?? I know he has kind of a small role, but with resume` that includes Goodfellas and Bulworth, what was he thinking when he decided to be in this??  I will always wonder... "},{"Title":"Baaaad movie","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was really bad.  First of all, lame plot which is hard to follow. Second, tell the director to stop trying to make Van Damme look like Jackie Chan.  And third.....well, I don't have a third point, but this movie was horribly, stinkingly, putrifyingly, ridiculously BORING!  This is, of course, my own humble opinion.  Don't waste your money on this film.  "},{"Title":"Van Damme Knock it off","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  First of all what is Buddy doing a movie about fake jean rings for? Is good material so scarce? Secondly what the hell is the director doing? There can be an art involved when doing different pan shots but some of the angles and camera directions used had me scratching my head. I thought this movie was done by a very drunk John Woo! "},{"Title":"Could it suck anymore?...","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Now before I start panning this film, let me clarify that I am a fan of Jean-Claude. I don't even think he's a bad actor. I mean Hard Target, Universal Soldier, and Double Team, which was made by the same director of this mess, were good action movies. Now with that said, let me say that this is one of his worst to date. The filmmakers must have been high as a kite when they were filming. Those thousands of critics who unfairly panned Armageddon for being too frenetic in its editing should take a look at this. Plus, what is Paul Sorvino thinking? Here we have an extremely talented actor who was so memorable in such films as GoodFellas and Money Talks, and now he ends up in worthless films like this and Most Wanted. This film requires that he play a very cheesy villain who lets out one of the lamest screams in history when he gets it in the end. God, MST3K where are you????? "},{"Title":"Pick Something Else Or You'll Be Sorry....","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I was thoroughly dissapointed. The camera work was shabby and the explosions seemed superimposed. I was shaking my head the whole time because I saw so many bad things. The movie had a bad plot, bad explosions,  bad writting, but had some good named actors/actresses (unfortunate for them). Nowadays, movies are up in the 2 hour range or longer. This movie was only 1 1/2 hours long, but because it was so bad it was a blessing in disguise. I wished for my money back. Sorry.....  "},{"Title":"A confusing 1.5 hour yawner.","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is bizarrely confusing and if you make it through the entire thing, your neck will be sore from all the head-shaking you'll be doing.Jean-Claude Van Damme has embarrassed himself with this latest venture and the rest of the cast should also be ashamed.  With a plot that was almost as hard to follow as it was improbable, the second (third?) rate acting was just par for the course.  It was surprising to see Paul Sorvino and even Rob Schneider acting so badly or even appearing in a film of such incredibly low quality.This is yet another Hong Kong style film lacking the continuity, production, dialogue, acting, and common sense that North American audiences demand in movies.It is sad to see Van Damme moving in such a negative direction.  With some of his promising earlier films I had hopes that he would let ridiculous dogs like this pass him by.  He hasn't.Do yourself a favour, don't waste your money on this film -- even on video.  "},{"Title":"Oops. Another miss...","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  No offense to Jeane-Claude, but he needs to judge better next time he picks  a script. It's written poorly and the plot itself is so predictable. The fighting sequences are horrible (What happened with the Quest? He did an excellent job there). Plus, all the double crossing and pointless twists are ineffective. If this is his come-back film, I am extremely disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Just plain bad.","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie that I have seen since the Postman. I like Van Damme, but I don't understand why such a bad movie would be released in theaters. I mean direct to video maybe, but this isn't even worth that. Please don't waste your money, not even when it comes to video.....which should be about next week. "}{"Title":"Words fail me","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Just as plot, acting, and any semblance of artistic endeavor went up in a horrid soul-sucking ball of flames in this movie.  What was he (Van Damme)thinking?  WAS he thinking?  To say that his movie was bad, is an understatement.  I love Van Damme and own most of his movies, but Holy Christmas!!  I couldn't even follow this movie because the plot was too convoluted and underdeveloped.  Was he a bad guy or a good guy?  DO NOT, I repeat, DO NOT, waste your money, or more importantly your time in seeing this movie.  It was free to me and I still feel cheated. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Knock Off is clearly one of the worst movies I ever seen. The action is tepid and the performances are even worse. The direction in this film looks like it was done by a five year old. Horribe Horribl movie that shouldn't have been made. "},{"Title":"Knock Off - a cheap imitation","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big fan of action movies, and although this one claims to be such a movie, it is a knock-off, a cheap imitation. First of all the cinematography left me reeling.  Inane zoom shots that came off a cheesy, not informative, closeups during fights scenes which made the fight impossible to follow, are just a few examples. The special effects consisted of the aforementioned zoom shots and (wow) green flames.  Oh, there was also the silly missile incident, but that hardly counts. The action seemed quite reminiscent of Hong Kong Action films more than the old (BloodSport era) Van Damme.  But it seemed to lack the crispness of HK films. The warehouse scene was the high point of the movie.  But again the camera work did it's best to destroy the scene.  Oh and the closing scene was almost worth watching as well. Knock Off is not all bad...  but if you want quality look elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"I quite liked it.","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Knock Off is set in Hong Kong during June 1997 as it is returned to Chinese rule after over a century of British rule, as the festivities are about to start V-Six Jeans executives Marcus Ray (Jean-Claude Van Damme) & Tommy Hendricks (Rob Schneider) are paid a visit by V-Six Jeans American corporate executive Karen Lee (Lela Rochon) who says that half of their last shipment they sent to the States were knock off's. They get the local police involved & decide to raid a factory belonging to Eddie Wang (Wyman Wong) who was storing the consignment before shipment, it turns out that the Russian mafia have counterfeited V-Six Jeans with small bomb devices in the buttons which can be detonated at any time by remote control & intend to black mail the Government with the threat of blowing millions of innocent jean wearing Americans up after flooding the States with the knock off's...This Aruban, Hong Kong & American co-production was directed by Hark Tsui who had made the awful Double Team (1997) with JCVD but one year earlier & I have to say that I quite liked Knock Off, it's no masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination but it's fun if nothing else & much, much better than the aforementioned Double Team. The script by Steven E. de Souza definitely doesn't take itself too seriously with many comical & light hearted moments, both during the action scenes & the dialogue. There are some neat one-liners as various character's trade insults, argue with each other & try to be sarcastic, Knock Off might make you smile on a few occasions which is probably a good thing since you can't take it seriously at all. There's plenty of action although it's rather silly at times but one could say that's more down to director Tsui than Souza's script, it moves along at a nice enough pace but it can also be a frustrating film. The storyline is weak & the disjointed plot is a pretty poorly strung together excuse for various oddball action set-pieces. Most of the character's are very underdeveloped, the Russian mafia angle in particular seems almost like an afterthought, the various twists are a bit underwhelming too & the main bad guy at the end just comes from nowhere & has little or no motivation. Having said that JCVD & Schneider's character's are likable & Rochon's feisty CIA agent with attitude is memorable.Director Tsui does a decent job here, he certainly injects the films action scenes with a degree of energy & visual flair. From high camera angles he has the camera spiral towards the ground to focus on JCVD, from placing a camera actually inside knock off trainers to see the glue & steams tear apart to various other cool little tricks & camera positions Knock Off looks pretty good & has had a fair amount of imagination put into it's visuals. The action scenes are undoubtedly silly, from JCVD holding off an entire mob of machete wielding thugs to a scene when he drives a car out of a second storey car park window which then hits a metal container, flips over & JCVD them drives off! The fights are OK but maybe not violent or bloody enough, all this comedy stuff is fine but when it comes down to it I'd have liked to have seen some proper action violence. There are many scenes which don't really work, many scenes which look silly, in reality wouldn't be possible & really do stretch the films already very thin credibility.With a supposed budget of about $35,000,000 Knock Off is well made & has good production values & stunts although the green CGI computer explosions look awful. Mostly shot on location in Hong Kong while the 2nd unit stuff was shot in the Philippines. The acting is alright, JCVD is up to his usual standards, Schneider is OK as the comic relief while Lela Rochon steals every scene she's in.Knock Off is a decent & fun action flick from JCVD, it's better than a lot of his recent output & much better than Double Team but it's maybe a bit too silly & the story is rather weak for it to become any sort of classic. Good harmless if forgettable & very far fetched fun. "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible - even for Van Damme fans!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This truly rates as one of the worst films I have EVER seen, and I usually like Van Damme films. The camera work in this flick is so bad, I turned it off halfway through. The best I can describe it is someone with a new camera testing all the cool functions on it. The effects are extremely distracting and don't add anything to the film. It seems as if they're just randomly added in various points of the movie. This one is a category three - I wouldn't watch it again even if someone else rented it. "},{"Title":"Green Explosions Almost a parody of itself. Almost.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this on Channel 5 in the UK the other day, and boy I was glad I didn't pay for this movie.  I thought it was very, very bad. From the green explosions to the ridicilous ending with multiple clones of some bad CIA guy getting killed off to the fakeness of Van Damme's tan...this was all too much, even for me.Sure the plot isn't bad - microbombs, its possible - I mean there's missing nuclear briefcases all around the world, so why not microbombs - but why oh why do they have to be GREEN explosions. I thought at first it was meant as a parody especally when Van Damme see's some building exploding and he starts yelling and jumping out of the way of the CGI explosion (for some reason the other people in the distance don't seem to react).Perhaps it was a indirect tribute to Ed Wood, I dunno but this is a very bad film. The fight sequences and stunts are pretty good, but what's with the dynamic camera tricks and what's with Van Damme's character jumping/climbing on walls?Pretty bad. Avoid it. "},{"Title":"Convoluted story line hampers what could have actually been a fun film.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  No doubt that this is a bad movie but it has some pretty well put together action scenes (thats if you can suspend disbelief long enough to enjoy how snazzy they look). This film does appear as if its been edited with a chainsaw but in the case of this film it does actually help the pace and match's the bizarre directing style. They could have done alot more with the comedy side of things with the actors they had but I don't think the screenplay was really priority one with this film. If you see it for free on TV you may just enjoy but if you paid to see it...lets just hope you really like Jean Claude. Watch for this director to become the next John Woo. Maybe. "},{"Title":"So Very Bad","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Tough guys Jean Claude Van Damme and um, Rob Schnieder. Fight tough guys in this rather dismal movie, the acting is bad and there are a few too many fights. There is very little I can compliment this film on as it is on of the big Turkeys of 1998. Jean Claude Van Damme should know better. Rob Schnieder can go to hell becuase I have no idea who he is.4/10If you like this trySoldierDiscloser "},{"Title":"Good actors, good director, exotic locations, why is it so bad?","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Good Stuff.Great cast. Some good special effects. Dynamic fight choreography. Lela Rochon.The Bad Stuff.Ridiculous plot about micro-bombs. Sometimes-too-Dynamic fight choreography.The Verdict.I was invited for free at the premiere, thought it was bad manners to leave before movie finished. Watch it (for free!) on cable, DO NOT spend your money on it, not even on video. "},{"Title":"please, no more Hong Kong films","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I had 2 watch this movie twice 2 figure out what was going on. VD looked like he was stoned in some scenes. R. Scheinder was alright as the side kick, he was hitting VD's a$$ with a fish. Well, at least u didn't see VD's stunt double(DOUBLE TEAM). There was the samw rapid camera work which was ok but sometimes, the director made u feel, he was on drugs. It was ok but could've been better. worth seeing. p.s. Watch 4 the gay guy who gives VD a gay stare in the race.  "}{"Title":"The Post Production Nightmare","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I'm watching this now. . . And I feel for the editors. Besides the streach that the treatment is, and knowing how many times the editors will be forced to watch this I can tell that they lack the raw materials to even make this worth while.Everything is stylized. . . i.e. they didn't have coverage. It is interesting to watch how the sound design (which is terrible) was manipulated to make up for what had to be a total loss of native sound. The action scenes are a mishmash of manipulated time and strobe effects that attempt to make up some sense of flow. . . not that the whole premise isn't botched by Van Damme cast as fashion guru, who just happens to be an expert at martial arts. Yeah if there is any industry that just breeds the discipline that it takes to get you black belt it's the fashion industry!Save the 2 hours of you life, don't waste them on this flick. "},{"Title":"Insulting.","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I actually like Jean Claude Van Damme but this is one of the worst movies I've seen all year. Does Columbia actually expect this to be a hit? If this is the best material Van Damme can come up with, he needs to embark on another career path.No sequels please! "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme stars as Marcus Ray The King of knock offs who tries to go straight but must first fight off a group of terrorists sneaking tiny micro-bombs in jeans in this outrageous yet strangely entertaining actioner. This one is full of unintentional comedy, cool actionscenes, horrible comic relief, laughable special effects, cool yet misused camera angles, that add up to an experience that will sure to leave you thinking, What the Hell?. "},{"Title":"Amateur Hour","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  A tragic mess of a film.What a waste of money.I couldn't believe how bad this film was.I only sat through it as I am a fan of Ron and Russell Mael who composed the score.The are better known as Sparks.It was incredibly boring and incoherent.Plotless,lots of explosions,extremely bad acting etc.....AVOID!! "},{"Title":"Holy Hell...","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've ever seen, and I've seen some real clunkers.  I saw it in the theaters because I have always been a JCVD fan, and I figured mixing him with Rob Schnieder would make for an entertaining afternoon.  Nope.  The movie looks like it was shot by pre-schoolers, with absurdly inept, unwatchable editing, along with a god-awful script that should be buried in the core of the earth and never seen again.  The hazy green explosions, the nonsensical plot, and the terrible action scenes add up to the biggest pile of donkey feces ever seen by the eyes of humans.  The only worthwille aspect to this tripe was the jiggle-fest provided by Ms. Rochon.  At least the filmmakers couldn't mess up her body.  The only reason for you to see this movie is if you are a masochist.  I would rather gargle a bucket of vomit than watch this again.  0/10, and I'm not exaggerating. "},{"Title":"Laughable movie with no redeeming quality.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Knock Off has Van Damme as a fashion buisnessman who must fight russian mobsters who plan on sneaking microbombs in a jeans shipment.Knock Off is truly awful,It offers unbelievably awful dialog and truly atrocious acting. The directing is flashy but belongs in a better movie. Overall Knock Off is an embarrisment for all involved.The bottomline is that Knock Off should be avoided like a can of rotten sardines.1/2* (Out of four) "},{"Title":"Really, really stupid plot - but worth watching for Lela Rochon!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Marcus Ray is a fashioner designer trying to go straight.  He is the king of counterfeit goods in Hong Kong.  However when a counterfeiter friend is targeted by a Russian mob, Marcus finds that fake goods are the least of his worries.  He uncovers a terrorist plot to put tiny but powerful bombs in counterfeit goods and ship them around the world, soon he's up to his ears in CIA, mobsters, bombs and fake goods.The plot in one line - Van Damme saves the world from exploding jeans.  It's as stupid as it sounds... at every step the sheer ridiculousness of the plot will stay with you.  The plot tries to move away from the exploding jeans idea by introducing lots of double crosses, confusion and explosions - building to a visual showing the whole US being destroyed by exploding jeans.  But the daftness never goes away - in fact all the mobsters and CIA agents constantly showing up and switching sides just makes it all the more silly.The direction however is pretty good.  Tsui shows plenty of nice touches - zooming into and through electrical components etc (although it gets old quite quickly), and is good at handling action scenes.  In fact most of the fight scenes are pretty good - the final 20 minutes on a barge are good.  But the special effects in some of the scenes are poor - those big green explosions don't look right at all.  But Tsui does many to bring the fun out of some of Van Damme's skills - although there is some very bad wire work on the barge as Van Damme climbs up containers etc - twice he looks like he's being thrown around by invisible forces.  However, despite the fun action scenes - you'll still struggle with the sheer stupidity of the story and the laziness of some of the action, for example Van Damme walks out of a building just for it to explode killing everyone - and this happens several times!  Thrills like this are quite lazy considering.The cast are uniformly good - I'm surprised how many well-known names and faces were in this piece of rubbish!  Mind you, both Van Damme and Schneider are used to having to work with poor material - but even they struggle with this, Van Damme appears to be laughing at himself some of the times while Schneider (usually funny despite the material) is poor.  Paul Sorvino is another one capable of so much more who finds himself with a thankless role.  Similarly Michael Wong (you'll know his face) seems to turn up for a few action scenes but have nothing else to do.  Lela Rochon has the best role in the whole thing - she's sexy and dangerous and appears to be having fun, but even her material is a bit stale and she has to go through all the 'is she a good guy or a bad guy' stuff at some point.  Having said that she stills gives the best performance in the film (and well done for not doing a nude scene - you're sexy wearing whatever!)Overall the action scenes are quite fun to watch but the plot really sucks.  The performances from famous actors are mainly poor because of the material and the plot twists they must endure are stupid.....and after this I really don't want to see another person just manage to jump out of a building before it explodes! The blame for this must lie with Mr de Souza - he once wrote big hits like Die Hard, 48 hrs and errr...Commando.  However his current run includes Street Fighter, Beverly Hills Cop 3, Judge Dredd and this.  Please Hollywood - stop sending this man cheques! "},{"Title":"??? what's the plot?","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most confusing movies I've ever seen. I have no clue on what's the story behind the movie...not until I saw it twice and read numerous reviews about it did I get a basic understanding of the movie...It appeared that Jean Claude Van Damme was living in Hong Kong for quite a while at the beginning of the movie(yet we would not know much about himself other than that he was staying Hong Kong illegally? -Wow, that's interesting). Anyway, He and his partner were somehow involved in a criminal scheme set up by the Russian Maffia..(and surprise, the CIA as well!). Of course, being a Jean Claude Van Damme movie, there were loads of action;in fact I dare to say that 75% of the time the movie show-cased Van Damme's Martial Art skill, having him fighting every single person in sight.I think this movie attempted to be a complex, action-packed thriller; except that it instead drove everyone crazy since no one had a clue of what the movie is about since all of us could see is Van Damme fighting on the screen for 90 minutes-that's probably the problem; you see, with only one and a half hours, it must be hard on the director to try to fill in information for audience while NOT LOSING ANY ACTION SCENES so to satisfy our need to see Van Damme show-off his martial art skill...too bad this time it back-fired! I guess the movie isn't absolutely unbearable, but at the same time you'd just wonder how the actors feel when they filmed the movie... "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be the absolute worst movie I have ever seen. This was supposed to ve Van Damme's come back role. I was actually hoping that this film would be good because I like Van Damme. But Van Damme and the rest of this movie are absolutely horrible, I could have walked out in the first half hour, but my friend wanted me to stay. Don't even bother renting this movie, it will just be a waste of your time. "},{"Title":"The Worst Van Damme Movie EVER!","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  A truly horrid movie.  Bad from its weak beginning to the bitter, bitter end.  From the strange cinematography to the lousy acting and weak sound track, this movie asks for little and gives back little in return.  It's only redeeming quality was its special effects, and even they were not good enough to make this movie passable.  The only reason to see this movie is to watch stuff blow up. "}{"Title":"The movie that killed Van Damme career in theaters!","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" It's so sad because Van Damme was a good actor on Hollywood. Without this piece of trash who only made 1/4 money of the budget of this movie, Van Damme will still be on theaters right now! Shame on the director, Tsui Hark, he never took time, he's always too fast when he's directing a movie. He blame his run on Hollywood but if he will have took the time to make this movie and built the movie in a strong way, it will have work easily. The main problem of the movie is the jokes, they aren't funny like Dumb and Dumberer or Harold and Kumar (highly overrated on IMDb). The casting is not too good either, a unknown Rob Schneider at that time, Lela Rochon, she's way too bad in this movie. Paul Sorvino is just plain bad, so as of right now, 3 out 4 actors who have nothing to do in a movie like that, you see the problem now? Van Damme is not himself in this movie, it has to be his worst performance of all time. PLUS, the action sequences are in slow motion. This movie lack of everything, a personality, sense of humor, good action and specially, a soul! "},{"Title":"Oh my Lord, Oh my Lord, OH MY LORD!!","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie rates right up there with the worst of the worst! The main things that makes this movie so bad are the Directing and the Editing. I know, I know, two very small details right? Shah!! Right!! The director has absolutely no clue about camera angle and no idea about continuity. The editing is sloppy, choppy, and almost makes me physically ill to watch. Almost like being on a bad ride at an amusement park where you just wish the jerking and bashing around would stop. This movie is supposedly about Nanobots in Knock-Off jeans that explode with Green, that's right, Green explosions and fire. What the movie lacks in cohesiveness and direction it more than makes up for in it's pointlessness. AVOID THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS!! "},{"Title":"How was this ever allowed to see the light of day?","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Normally, a really bad movie is slightly redeemed by being so bad that it's funny.  Not this one - it's so bad that it's just sad (not to mention boring).  Don't waste your time, unless you get a kick out of wooden acting, green fireworks for explosions, and fight scenes that are so badly cut that they don't even make sense. "},{"Title":"Rip off","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Well its a rip off if you paid to see this movie. Easily one of the worst Van damme movies. Poor Action Scenes. poor jokes a Pathetic ending all add up to a true Turkey.please dont waste your time on this.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"this movie hurt.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  where to start with such a bad film? the plot was muddled, if not non-existent. and the acting was just pitiful. i didn't expect much from van damme but i got even less. rob schneider almost matched van damme's horrible portrayal, which is just sad. the voice dubbing was also pretty awful, the actors never looked like they were actually talking. and the special effects of looking inside shoes and cellular phones was the stupidest thing i've ever seen. if you enjoy bad movies (as i do) then this is a good one to sit back and make fun of, especially if you're stumbling home drunk and this movie is on hbo or something, you'll probably get a kick out of it. "},{"Title":"So bad it's BAD","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I heard how bad this movie was, but I was lead to believe it was so bad it was good. So I decided to rent it when it came out on video. Boy, was I wrong! This movie is so bad, it's BAD. Oh, there are a few unintended laughs here and there (the now legendary point-of-view shot of a foot entering a shoe being the highlight), but this movie gets so bad it's surreal. Especially with the frenzied camerawork and ludicrous editing and visual effects! Director Tsui Hark has directed some excellent Hong Kong movies, and DOUBLE TEAM, while overall bad, had some moments. But you'd never know it by watching this movie! (Also surprising is that Sammo Hung was second-unit director). At least Hark can't be blamed for the script, which is so confusing that I was completely lost right from the start! Movie also contains possibly the worst credit song of 1998 - maybe even the worst credit song of the 90s!Van-Damme, a message for you pick better scripts and directors, or find someone who can! "},{"Title":"Poor Judgement","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I feel really bad for Jean-Claude. This is suppose to be his comeback film! Overall, the plot was poorly written and their attempt to spice it up by throwing unnecessary and pointless twists proves even more how incapable the writers are. The fighting choreography is no less than a joke. I've seen better fight scenes with The Quest. Rob Schneider plays another pitiful/comic-relief character, his only act in these past years, with a really lame cover-up as a CIA agent. Not to give the plot way, one charcter turns traitor against another, and then another, and then more charcters reveal their true colors. Ever since Hard Target (My opinion his best film), I have been looking for Van-Damme to break out with a stunning movie. Knock-Off really hits rock bottom for me and I'm sure many of his fans. "},{"Title":"The worst action movie I've ever seen.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Though common sense bid me to stay away from Jean Claude Van Damme's new movie, Knock Off, I was lured to the theatre by the vague promise of high-octane, Hong Kong-style, chop-socky action, guided by the experienced hand of John Woo associate Tsui Hark. What I found, instead, was an unintentionally laughable collection of lame action set-pieces (featuring a contrived and over-long rickshaw race) feebly strung together by anemic dialogue, delivered with all the refinement of a group of high-school drama club rejects. The wafer-thin plot, clumsily bogged down with predictable plot twists and double-crosses was about as riveting as a recitation of the phone book. Even this may have been forgivable if the film was visually appealing.  But under the decidedly, shall we say, odd direction of Tsui Hark, the film was quite visually jarring bizarre camera techniques obviously designed to be stylish came off looking simply amateurish. But even if all else failed, it would have been nice to fall back on the strong foundation of the lead actor's abilities as a thespian.  Alas, Mr. Van Damme seems to have only two settings (not including his smarmy, oil -drenched grin) unintelligible mumbling and unintelligible shouting.  In one of the more ludicrous scenes, after he has just felt the blast of an exploding Buddha (don't ask), he actually stops to say, Ooh.  Hot!  Hot!  Although the fault originates with the screenwriter, Jean Claude must accept some responsibility.  Olivier he ain't.  Come to think of it, Stallone he ain't. The bottom line is that as an action movie, Knock Off is a pretty good comedy.  You'd be better of renting one of Van Damme's previous classics like...Hmmm. Oh, the humanity.  "},{"Title":"Erractic...at best (Avoid this, and instead watch the more recent Van Damme films)","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I'm a big Van Damme fan but I have to say this is by far his worst (update actually...its better than Derailed!). In fact, and I say this without exaggeration, I have never seen such a confusing, pointless and absolutely ridiculous plot ever! It really is that bad. The editing seems incredibly rushed and adds to the confusion of the plot by pretty much jumping between characters etc way too quickly and erratically.However, its not a complete disaster (no, really). There are a few decent action scenes that are pretty original and exciting. Van Damme does manage to execute a few of his trademark kicks as well, which unfortunately,is not sufficient enough to save the films integrity.Overall a poor effort. EVER SINCE 'IN HELL' (2003), VAN DAMME HAS IMPROVED DRAMTICALLY...PLEASE DO NOT JUDGE HIM BY THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Yeah, It's Bad","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I was in the mood for a fun, retarded action movie last night so I rented Jean Claude Van Damme's final theatrically released blaze of glory, Knock Off. It was sad seeing him enjoy his mainstream status, knowing he was destined for videostore shelf obscurity in the years to come.Retarded, yes. Fun? Maybe not...The direction was hilariously bad. The director established nothing in his scenes so you could sometimes be left in the dark as to who is doing what and where the scene is taking place. Not to mention there were bizarre dubbing problems for an American movie! Not saying I usually much care about those things when renting a brainless action movie, but I found those flaws quite irritating.Anyway, the real point of the movie is the action. What really made me want to cry is that even that wasn't done right. For whatever reason, the hack who directed this felt the need to use uber close ups and extreme angles which muddled the action and, well, genuinely p*ssed me off. There's even a shot where Jean Claude puts on a sneaker and he felt the need to follow his foot into the shoe! If you still care about what it's about, I'll try to be brief. Van Damme plays a co-owner of a fashion industry that specializes in selling knock offs of some other big company. Rob Schneider is there for the comic relief, but trust me he doesn't help a ton. Then come the ludicrus twists that are there for twist's sake and thereby make absolutely no sense at all.What has the world come to when I can't even enjoy a retarded action movie with Jean Claude? Even the joint he did with Dennis Rodman was somewhat fun. "}]