[{"Title":"A sad and beautiful movie","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"47 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two French girls who are not the chosen ones (to recall Cyndi Laper) befriend one another after meeting at a sweat shop where they operate sewing machines. One of them, Marie (Natacha Régnier) is apartment-sitting for a mother and her daughter who are in the hospital, victims of an accident. The other, Isabelle (Élodie Bouchez) has been living day to day with her backpack on her back, sometimes selling handmade cards on street corners. Almost immediately there is an affinity, and they find joy and adventure in one another's company.Part of the power of Erick Zonca's forceful and precise direction is to make us not only identify with his two heroines, but to force us see the world from their point of view. They are tossed about by strong emotions, powerfully projected by both actresses. Their lives and happiness are at the whim of forces beyond their control, the most powerful of which are their own feelings. When I was a little boy and went to the movies I would see three films, bang, bang, bang, one after the other, and when I came out, five or six hours later, I was transformed. I had grown, and I could see the world in a different way. Of course I was a little boy and every little bit of experience was amazing and added to my knowledge of the world. Now, such transformations, like moments of Zen enlightenment, are rare and precious. The Dream Life of Angels is one of those rare and precious films that has the kind of power to make us see the world afresh as though for the very first time.Bouchez and Régnier shared the Best Actress award at the 1998 Cannes Film Festival for their work in this movie. Indeed it is hard to choose between them. Both are wonderful. Bouchez's character, Isabelle, has a gentle, fun-loving, child-like nature, tomboyish and sentimental. Marie is cynical, uptight and wired. Her emotions swing wildly from deep pessimism to a tenuous hope for something better in this life. When she is seduced, rather forcefully, by the arrogant and predatory Chris (Grégoire Colin) who owns nightclubs and is accustomed to having his way with women, she is stunned to find that she wants him, needs him, loves him. But she knows (and is warned by Isabelle) that he is just using her and will dump her. She hates herself for loving him and therefore lashes out at Isabelle who is a witness to her humiliation.As a counterpoint to the raw animal love that Marie finds in Chris, there is the tender, dreamlike love that Isabelle finds for the daughter of the woman who owns the apartment. The mother dies from her injuries, but the daughter, Sandrine, lives on in a coma. Isabelle finds Sandrine's diary and reads it, and is touched by the sentiments expressed by the girl, and falls in love with her. A nurse tells Isabelle You can talk to her. She's sleeping, but she can hear you. Whether she can or not, we don't know, but to show her love Isabelle visits the comatose girl in the hospital and reads from her diary to her.In a sense we feel that the dream life of angels is the dream of Sandrine, who is dreaming the life of the young women who are living in her apartment.She is an angel and they are her dream, a troubled dream of raw emotion contrasted with her state of quiet somnolence.The Dream Life of Angels is beautifully shot in tableaux of pastel interiors in which the characters are sometimes seen at offset as in portraits. In one scene we see one of the girls in the apartment while in the right upper corner is a window through which we see in clear focus a car pass in front of a picturesque building, so that the scene is seen in layers, so that we experience the inner life and the outside world at once. In another scene, Isabelle is reading Sandrine's diary, which we see over her shoulder. Just as she reads the words that excite her passion for the girl, there is just the slightest quickening of tempo as Isabelle flips the page to see what Sandrine writes next, and in that small gesture, we feel the emotions of the girls, the one who wrote the words and the one who reads them.As a foil to the smooth, but bestial Chris, we are given Charlie (Patrick Mercado), fat motorcycle dude who is gentle and wise. This enlightened juxtaposition of character is part of director Erick Zonca's technique. We see it also in the contrasting characters of Marie and Isabelle.Obviously this is a work of art, but it is also a triumph of film making in a directorial sense. Zonca's careful attention to detail and his total concentration throughout turn something that might have been merely original into a masterful work of art.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Remarkable simple and honest","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Think of desperate couples in cinema and you conjure up Joe Buck and Ratzo from Midnight Cowboy or Thelma and Louise.  After seeing the beautifully done French film, Dreamlife of Angels, you must add Isa and Marie to that list.  Dreamlife of Angels triumphs because it is a story simply told and acted with such real-life honesty that you feel intimately tied to the main characters by film's end.  It also helps that it is filmed mostly with a hand-held camera giving close ups and studied portraits of two people's alienated lives.   Isabella is twenty-one, moving from town to town with all her worldly belongings on her backpack, intelligent yet strangely without much of a future.  Marie is the same age and in the same rut, seemingly without any anchor herself although she does have a flat she is 'house-sitting' since the mother and daughter occupants have been involved in a tragic auto accident.  They want to chain smoke their way through life, devoid of wealth and ambition.  There is much insight into their broken lives when Isa remarks that her father left her mother for another woman when she was young while Marie counters that having separated parents is better than to have an abusive father living together with her victimized mother.  The title of this film suggests an angelic life but it is clear from their bleak existence that it is a wish and a yearning rather than reality.  Isa and Marie do get to share each other's misery.  And their desire not to follow the cookie cutter mode does unite them for awhile (the film makes pointed references to a sewing factory and an electronics workplace where everyone is doing the exact tedious chore).  However Marie falls prey to her blind passion to love and be loved and cannot tolerate the conscience personified by Isa.  For it is Isa that nags about loyalty to friends,  about the scoundrel boyfriend Chris who will only break her heart and about a bond of fidelity toward Sandrine, hospitalized in a deep coma and someone Isa knows only from reading her personal diary.  Dreamlife of Angels could have passed as another soap opera if not for the genuine performances of Elodie Bouchez as Isa and Natacha Regnier as Marie.  Their smiles and grimaces are heartfelt  and it is their portraits which illuminate a most telling story of love, betrayal, and finally resignation.  "},{"Title":"simple but great","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"24 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dreamlife Of Angels best exemplifies why I enjoy foreign films.  It is not dependent on star power, computer generated images, overt violence, or scenes with fantastic stunts.  What it has are characters which are richly developed, believable, showing emotions which are palpable and for whom we can care.  What we find out here is simple is sometimes best.  The plot is the life and death of a friendship.  It is an interesting character study of two poor, young women.  One is outgoing and carefree while the other has been abused is more withdrawn and insecure.  The set is a small, very plain town in France which was filmed simply and often with hand held cameras.  The performances by Elodie Bouchez (Isa) and Natacha Regnier (Marie) in the title characters were outstanding.  Gregorie Colin (Chris) as the boyfriend, club owner, and heel was great as well.  The film as also provides food for thought in its title especially considering the last few scenes.  I'll let you make those conclusions.  If you don't get to see this film in the theater, rent it.  Caution the film's rating is due to a rather explicit sex scene.  Three plus stars!!!   "},{"Title":"French do it better","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film confirms my long-held suspicion that their films are the best. They may not make as much money as US films but at least they offer something of substance. Clearly, this is not a feel-good movie. And no, it's not about beautiful people living ostentatiously in palatial houses and wearing designer colthes. It's about the real life of two normal people and, although that might not appear to be a recipe for a particularly fascinating film, I was enthralled. It is so rare nowadays to see a films that conveys emotions and human relationships so powerfully and I have no hesitation in putting this film in my short list of the best I've seen in recent years.In detail, two girls whose lives are drifting nowhere are staying rent-free in the flat of a family all but one of whom have been killed in a car accident. One of the girls has a family background that we never learn more about but which is clearly unhappy. She pins her hopes on a rich boyfriend whose father owns the nightclub they frequent. The other girl is more of a thoughtful type and becomes obsessed with the only survivor from the car accident whom she regularly visits in hospital, where she is lying in a deep coma. The girls' lives start to take different directions, their relationship breaks down and one of them starts to lose her mind. Any further detail would spoil the plot but the final scene shows one of the girls working in a clean and efficient-looking factory which is in marked contrast to the tacky sweat shop where the girls were working at the beginning of the film. For all the tragedy, the film's message is ultimately one of hope however hard life is, don't give up. "},{"Title":"The Dreamlife of Angels, a Haunting Slice of Life that Features Acting At Its Finest","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The reason to watch The Dreamlife of Angels is to see how an accomplished and talented actor makes a movie come to life and seem absolutely real, for that is what both Elodie Bouchez and Natasha Regnier achieve in this film. Which performance is better? Upon several viewings, one must conclude that it is a draw. Bouchez's Isa opens the film as a wandering street urchin searching for a warm place to spend the night in Lille, a town in northern France. You feel sorry for her because she has no one but herself upon which to depend and roams around trying to find a decent situation, but her appearance and behavior are a tad off-putting and you can understand why no one is falling all over themselves to help her out. Once she does land a place to live with her alienated and terminally pessimistic workmate, Marie, she begins to blossom, gradually at first, ultimately being transformed into a lovely, sensuous, introspective, and vastly intuitive young lady who is a pleasure to watch. The key to her transformation is the security she has found, her budding friendship with Marie, and the comatose patient, Sandrine, whose apartment they share while she is in the hospital recovering from the accident that killed her mother. For the helpless Sandrine, Isa fully expresses her generous, optimistic nature, and with her care and attention, ultimately saves the girl's life. Sandrine, for her part, has given Isa exactly what she needs -- a secure place to live, the companionship it provides in housemate, Marie, and someone worse off than she had been who needs her help to survive.The high point of the film is one scene between Isa and Marie, wherein the two young women are discussing Isa's relationship with Sandrine after she confesses that she found the comatose patient's diary and had read it to her aloud in the hospital, hoping to wake her up. More than at any other point in the movie, we now see how beautiful these two unexceptional girls really are, the depth of their characters, and the poignance of their perceptions, despite their youth. Watch Bouchez's facial expressions closely. This naturally attractive actress is so subtle, but no doubt the cameraman should be given some of the credit, too, for it is he or she who captured it all on film.Regnier's performance is of an entirely different sort. She is such a sad young woman, so full of anger, pride, dignity, and spirit but utterly defeated by the world going in. She fully understands and appreciates the scope of its cruelty and has almost resigned herself to never being happy, yet she keeps trying. The last time she tries is when she pins all her remaining hopes on the stinking, arrogant little bastard, Chris, whose perennially smug expression practically demands a well-deserved punch in the face. He is the quintessential spoiled brat who has been totally sheltered from the seamier realities of life and always gets what he wants (or he will throw a tantrum). I've known many people of this sort, for they are an all-too-common breed, and am always appalled at the depths to which they will sink, their absence of shame, and the complete lack of insight they possess concerning the simplest of life's enduring truths. Nevertheless, they populate this earth like a bunch of selfish, sadistic cyborgs, ruthlessly dominating the less-advantaged and the underprivileged in the pursuit of shallow (if widely-recognized) achievements, seeking relief from the inevitable pressures they encounter with transient, ephemeral pleasures. They remain convinced that their money, their homes, their cars, their jobs, and their perfect children somehow totally define their worth, which of course, just ain't so, yet at any suggestion of this inconvenient fact, they may become truly dangerous and are capable of almost any turnabout or betrayal, however low and despicable. This winner Chris, therefore, is a corrupted, suppurating sore on the ass of humanity, although nobody but the losers Isa and Marie have the guts to put him in his place. Unfortunately, Marie falls in love with him, despite her knowledge of what a crumb he is, and is thus rendered powerless to defend herself against his predatory nature, sacrificing herself in his stead. Isa finally rebukes him soundly for the thoughtless way he has toyed with Marie's emotions before casting her aside. Like a total coward, he actually expects Isa to inform Marie that their affair has ended because he cannot face her, and the slap he receives is little more than a slap on the wrist. He slinks away wearing the same stupid, self-satisfied grin we have come to expect. In the scenes where Marie seeks his company, knowing full well that she likely will be taken down yet another notch, the distraught, pained look in her childlike eyes is intense. Probably her best scene is when her competition, a pretty but shallow French snob (the sort of conceited blonde tart one used to see in ski lodges flirting with the owner), dares to insult her right in front of Chris. Marie suddenly jumps her and gives her the all-too-brief ass-kicking she so richly deserves. Regnier is dead-on as the spirited, take-no-sh** Marie and her untimely demise is very sad. At least Isa, who isn't so proud about what she must do to make a meager living) is able to carry on, and just before Regnier is sacrificed, Sandrine emerges from her coma and is going to live. The ending is therefore mixed but hopeful, and a haunting song is played as Isa starts a new, more promising job and the credits roll. This is a poignant movie that demands repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"The Struggles of the Young","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dreamlife of Angels is an absorbing film about two young French women struggling to find their place in life. Both are solidly working class, unskilled and rootless. Circumstance has thrown them together and the film describes a two-month period as they housesit the apartment of a car accident victim. Their prospects are not great, and each deals with the hand life has dealt them very differently.  This is not an uplifting movie, but not a downer either. It tells it's story straight up and unflinchingly. Everything about it is top drawer; the screenplay, the directing and especially the acting by the two young leads, Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier. We'll definitely see more them in the future.  This movie is highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"First feature absolutely stunning","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the risk of sounding like a quote whore, if I see ten films better than this one released this year, 1999 is going to be an excellent year.  First time director Erick Zonca has made an absolutely stunning debut, which not only resonates while you watch it, but gets you thinking afterwards (for example, I didn't get that last shot right away, but after thinking about it, I did).  And while there's a philosophical point to be made, this is not what I would call a nothingness of being movie, where the primary interest of the filmmaker would seem to be either lecturing the audience, or in self-indulgent symbolism.  Instead, Zonca makes his points lightly and carefully, allowing them to build up for us later.Of course, it also helps that he has the services of Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier, who deservedly shared the Best Actress Award at Cannes last year(and if there's any justice, will be nominated for an Oscar this year). Bouchez's Isa is hooked on life, in a dreamy way, and is open to all the possibilities, yet she sees how fleeting it all is.  Regnier's Marie, on the other hand, doesn't expect much from the hand she's been dealt, and enters a bad relationship because of it, but there's enough there that we desperately wish she could find the peace Isa wishes her near the end.  I forget who said great acting is in the eyes, but Bouchez and Regnier certainly qualify there; you can see the life in Bouchez's, and the cold resignation in Regnier's.  This is an outstanding film.    "},{"Title":"Endearing, but savage, heart-rending story","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This touching and compelling story is another one of those films which year after year drive me further and further away from Bollywood pot-boilers. In Europe we make films in Hollywood they make spectacle turn-gate busters. This is a simple but sensitive story of two girls somewhat adrift in life, somewhat lost in the hopes for life, somewhat floating from day to day without much to go on or go by. But so refreshingly and carefully enacted and directed Eric Zonca is indeed one of those directors who put great power into simple stories, so that the resulting film is captivating, beyond the story per se. Here is excellent European theatre, among the best. Mixing tragic moments with joyful experiences, mixing friendship in the deepest human values. La Vie rêvée des anges is a film for the intelligent and sensitive viewer who wants to see real life human drama at ground level.If you like this film, do not miss Fernando León de Aranoa's Princesas (2005)(qv). "},{"Title":"Wonderful romantic drama a la Kundera","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A very strong movie, concentrated on the lives of two girls who share an apartment. One of the girls, Marie, is one of the most dramatic characters I've ever seen in a movie  she falls in love with a man who only uses her - she realises this but cannot resist him despite herself. The other girl, Isa, gets entangled in Marie's life. The story reminded me of the atmosphere of 'the unbearable lightness of being' of Kundera (the book rather than the movie). An additional strong point of the movie is the very persuasive acting. "},{"Title":"I disagree with your disagreement","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was one of the most moving, intimate, insightful movies I have seen in years. It is one that I have gone back to in my mind many, many times since. I would recommend this movie to anyone and have in fact!The final piece of music, the song Rue des Cascade by Claire Pichet is a fantastic piece of art. The music is emotional, gripping and flowing, I love it, but the ending with Claire's voice makes it all the more better, as her voice truly sounds like it came from the heavens!!I think anyone who perhaps found it unenlightning, trite or dull the first time around would do themselves an injuistice to not go back to give it a second chance! "}{"Title":"Poignant tale of two young women with diametrical viewpoint to life -- terrific performances!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Writer-director Erick Zonca's debut film certainly is a bold attempt with no apology to the subjects at hand. He succeeded in delivering the many facets of living and loving -- essentially surviving life's difficulties and juxtaposing how one, with persistence, can come through it all vs. the flip side of a helpless condition -- a suicidal person in one's own entrapment.Isa is the embodiment of tenacity and hope eternal, while Marie is depressive non self-loving personified. Isa's goal in life is to appreciate living, however modest, and her willingness to help others, to share a little happiness keeps her going in spite of all odds. Marie, on the other hand, is the extreme opposite she has no love for anything or anyone -- she hates herself, her mother, her family, her life -- her low self-esteem alienated herself and the people around her who really care for her. A delusional cocoon she's wrapped herself in, and when it breaks, it crumbles to a point of no return. It's depressing to see her development, or rather, non-development, while it's uplifting to see Isa balancing the harsh realities of life. Due credits to the two main leading ladies, Elodie Bouchez as Isa and Natacha Regnier as Marie. Bouchez really shines her smile, her candidness, her enthusiasm in living exudes on her face! Self-esteem is an important element and that is what character Marie very much is lacking. Emotionally unbalanced with violent reactions, she does not know what to do with herself or what she wants -- aimlessly she seeks for affection mistaken as lovingness; she's numb and unreachable. She took Isa's friendship for granted while Isa tries her utmost to 'save' Marie from falling into a helpless self-pitiful state. Miracles do happen. Tenacity does reward. Tragedy is by fate destined. Marie asked, what if the other person refuses, and Isa said, you move on. We are fortunate to be able to learn with Isa, smile and laugh with her, explore and read the diary book, visit Sandrine at the hospital, talk to Sandrine, touch her, and hope and pray with her. There is strength in Isa's brilliant smiling face -- gentleness and human spirit she truly stands for. She is an angel, a godsend!This is NFE (not for everyone) there are explicit intimate scenes and the behavior displayed by character Marie is not encouraged, thus mature audience consumption only. It's in French. Pacing is relatively tight compared to most French films.Anne Fontaine's Dry Cleaning is another French film subtly interweaved the depiction of a young man who has depressive suicidal bent without being evident. It describes a couple, Miou-Miou's character Nicole, a discontented wife married 15 years to a Dry Cleaning business owner, Jean-Marie (portrayed by Charles Berling), leading a rather uneventful life in this small suburban town, when one day, Loic the young man (sensitively portrayed by Stanislas Merhar) entered their lives, home and stirred emotional havoc. Good performances in spite of the lull steady pace. For mature and patient audience. Another NFE.   "},{"Title":"La Vie Rêvée Des Anges","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'La Vie Rêvée Des Anges' set in Lille, France, is in essence a film depicting the beginning and ending of a friendship. We are first introduced to one of the two main characters as a homeless, young girl who has come to Lille, looking for a friend. Hearing that the friend has left Lille, she has no choice but to survive on the street. She is fortunate to find a job at a sewing factory, where she meets Marie (the second main character). This friendship, albeit rather reluctant at first on the part of Marie is the basis for the storyline of the film. As the film progresses we see that it is not Marie who is the stronger person, and the sensible decision maker, but in fact it is Isa, the girl who goes from job to job with a very care-free attitude to life. Isa proves to be realistic, perspicacious and anxious to open Marie's eyes to her self-destruction and in a way opens the audience's eyes. Marie's poor decision of not being able to refuse the man to whom she is attracted, eventually leads to a calamitous relationship where Chriss uses her and this in turn leads to the outcome of the film and the breaking of the friendship between Isa and Marie.The director purposefully uses hand-held cameras, natural lighting, real and natural sets and few sound effects and music (the only music track is in the last couple of minutes) to create the film's intended atmosphere. In a way this dogma-style film-making could be a way to emphasise the freedom in the lives of the two main characters. Together, Isa and Marie enjoy not conforming to the everyday roles of society. The natural way by which the characters live their lives is conveyed to the audience through the use of natural techniques in the filming itself. And perhaps the only music track to appear in the film, is a way of creating a dream- like (giving the film its title) atmosphere at the end of the film, in contrary to the natural techniques of filming which have been up to this point. The death of Marie could possible be a way of showing us the strength in Isa, who is able to carry on her life and find another job, just as before, or in turn it could just be that there are only two choices in their lives &#150; to conform (like Isa in the end) or not to conform to society (essentially like Marie). Having said that, perhaps another intention of using this natural-like film technique is so that the director does not judge the lives of the two characters, but instead leaves it up to the audience to be the judge.From the aggressive and homicidal nature of Marie's character, to the calm and untroubled life of Isa, these contrasts placed together in a film have a great chance of leaving an impact on the viewer, and all in all make it an good and engaging film to watch. "},{"Title":"What it takes to survive","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, the acting is superb, both the leads the footloose, free-spirit Isa and the angry and erratic Marie. Also the supporting cast the fat-boy bouncer and the rich-boy cad.What's available to young women cast out of the nest? How does one survive the winters as a homeless person in the northern France? Mind-numbing factory work is available. But where to live, and how to find the community that homo sapiens need to be mentally healthy? We learn what it takes to survive. Isa has great resources; she's an extrovert and has a genuine concern for others. She finds community with a most unlikely person. Poor Marie, wanly beautiful, is withdrawn and suspicious; one must intrude forcibly to get beyond her defenses. And yet she's careless. So faced with the same chances, one woman finds psychic sustenance while the other stumbles into despair. "},{"Title":"A film that resonates","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I sometimes find that universal subjects, such as love and friendship are rendered much more honestly when the characters are poor or at least not well off, in terms of money, family,..so forth. They seem to be naked in the face of reality, not able to hide behind an artifice. Because both Isa and Marie are alone and poor, their friendship feels like it is luxury in their lives, not something just to pass the time until something better comes along.I get the sense that this is Isa's story and that Marie's friendship was a stop for her, another chapter to a tumultuous life. That her life will be series of tragedies and joys, and that it is neither good or bad, just reality.I don't understand those who call this a depressing movie. It is a beautiful, life-affirming movie about real people dealing with real situations. "},{"Title":"Realistic &#133; One of the Best of 1998!","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Real life is no sweet dream .. it is a painful struggle to many people.Real life is harder even to women .. this movie realistically shows how rough life can be through two young women point of view .. it is a world of materialism that doesn't care about the human being needs.I don't know what else can I say about it? .. it is too simple to be described in words .. beside I don't want to spoil it for the readers. I think European movies in general care much more than Hollywood about the characters .. especially French movies.Élodie Bouchez & Natacha Régnier.. were truly amazing and they gave a high class performances It is realistic & absolutely one of the best in 1998 .. don't miss, it is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful characters","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film rides on the strength of the characters and shows how two women in the same situation deal with it dramatically differently. Isa and Marie form a bond over their similarities, yet Isa optimistically takes part in life, by searching for jobs, for entertainment, for friends, while Marie sits back as a sullen observer. This is demonstrated in the scene where the girls audition for a job as waitresses at The Hollywood and name their favorite stars. Isa chooses Madonna, buoyantly portraying her with a bubbly song and dance, while Marie chooses Lauren Bacall, imitating her by leaning on the wall and pretending to smoke a cigarette. As the movie progresses, both girls pursue outside relationships Marie pursues a sexual relationship with a rich bar owner while Isa puts her heart into a friendship with a girl in a coma, whose apartment she and Marie are squatting in. The conclusion of the movie teaches a lesson on how one's attitude towards life takes such a strong role in determining one's place in it. Do not miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Window into innocence and a dark human truth","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film provides just that-- a window into an aspect of humanity that leaves us feeling vulnerable. Rarely do we see a story that not only entertains and recounts events so naturally, but also reveals truths about ourselves that we're usually too cowardly to face. The delivery of the facts is so natural that we feel almost ashamed to be looking into the lives of the two main characters. Yet we remain glad we did it.The movie is NO chic-flic, and could lend any man a rare insight into the female psyche. We're strange creatures with strange strengths, and also unintelligible weaknesses.Erick Zoncka insists that he is not concerned with formulating truths about the world or society, but only to make emotion felt, and to mirror encounters with human beings. In no film would this be more clear. Yet it is so well done, that he does reveal truths. They are complex enough to remain untouched by theory, but they are here, in this film. "},{"Title":"Pulsing with humanity","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eric Zonca's beautiful film tells the story of two young women living on the margins of society. Although there is a clear (and powerful, tragic) plot, this is above all a character-driven piece. Zonca shows the relationship of his two protagonists in a manner that seems completely convincing and natural; and forces us to subtly revise our first impressions as the film advances, although the relationship itself is not static but evolving throughout the story. Zonca makes full use of Élodie Bouchez's unusual, expressive face; Lille, the backdrop, is grey and unwelcoming throughout. Beneath the surface, Zonca asks about the different ways we all accommodate fantasy in our attempt to survive; and about the harsh loneliness of modern life. It's not exactly cheerful; but the film pulses with humanity in a way that few others do. "},{"Title":"An excellent human drama, highly recommended to those who like the genre.","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are people who have not the lot to be born in a good family, with enough income to give to their children a life without difficulties and guarantee them a promising future. The people without this lot pass their days dreaming about a better life, a life in which don't have the need to search every night a bed to sleep, a life with a permanent job that assure enough income to don't care about the basic needs, a life to live not to suffer. But there are people able to keep going ahead, optimist people who can wake up every day with a smile, who are able to enjoy every little moment. But other people cannot take out from their mind the life that they want to have, the life with which they dream about every day. They do everything to reach that life, but they don't get it and they sink in a deeper pessimism that makes them live with sadness and disillusion. La vie rêvée des anges shows us the day by day of two young women in this situation. They either try to reach their dreamed life either try to enjoy the life they got. It is an excellent human drama, highly recommended to those who like the genre. Just the brilliant interpretation of both actresses makes the movie a must-see. In addition, the soundtrack is amazing; you must wait until the end of the movie to hear the unique song but it worth the wait. "},{"Title":"Beautiful performances worthy of all the awards they got","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Innocence. This is the word that struck me as most suitable for this telling. This story about two girls living together in somebody else's house is absolutely beautiful.The story a backpacking girl, Isa, arrives in Lille only to find out that her place to stay is no longer there. She gets a job in a sowing factory where meets Marie. She is fired from her job and moves in with Marie in an apartment that belongs to a woman and daughter who are in a coma due to a car accident. The subsequent events will change Isa's and Marie's life forever. Relationships with men, a girl in a coma, a diary all play a part. The bonds between the two girls becomes too stressed to survive.The two girls perform their roles to perfection. If they would have played their roles without any lines it would still be evident what they were going through, the acting in their faces told the whole story. The several awards they got were certainly deserved. The rest of the cast wasn't all that brilliant, but they didn't hinder the girls in their play.The story is a fairly straightforward romantic telling of two girls who have to deal with all these new emotions of living together under one roof. The development of the characters is exquisite. Isa just has faith in life and takes everything as it comes. During the course of the movie she matures a lot due to her contact with Sandrine, the girl in a coma. In a way she has a better understanding with Sandrine than with Marie. Marie is the more naieve one of the two and believes in the good of man. She has an affair with the local playboy and she believes that this relationship is meant to last, but Isa tries to tell her otherwise. She doesn't listen because of her being blinded by love and when the truth does rear its ugly head, she is incapable of handling it, resulting in...The substories were not all worked out very well. For example, the substory of the girl in a coma could have been better. The fact that Isa was going to fill the diary with entries I thought was very intriguing, but the script had to support two main characters some probably something had to go.I regret to say that before I saw the movie I knew the ending was going to be shocking, so it didn't come as that big a shock (sorry if I ruined it for others). But if the ending does not leave you breathless...9/10 "}{"Title":"This was a rather shocking experience","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my home country Norway this film was rated 11 years, meaning 11 year-old kids and possibly 8-year-olds can see this movie in the company of their parents. If you ask me, that is insane. This is a simple, serious and depressing movie, definitely not suited for 11-year-olds.The way Marie is abused by her new boyfriend is horrible to watch. And what happens in the end is tragic. It made me so sad, I just wanted to cry. I walked out of the theatre feeling  quite empty. This movie was emotionally hard on me. It has its light sides though - Isa (Elodie Bouchez) is wonderful. So exuberant. Happy.  I want to get to know her, or be her. Sadly, her happiness is pushed aside by all the sad stuff. But she stand up again in the end, and she doesn't let it break her.I gave this movie a 9 vote, even though I thought it was awful to watch the abuse, because it made me think. It did something to me. And you don't get that so much from the movies they spit our from Hollywood. It is awfully realistic.   "},{"Title":"caught unaware","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at our local film festival with no idea of the story nor the awards it had won.  I was trying to figure out the relevance of the title to the show and did not succeed until the final frame.  I was blown away!  So simple, so bleak and so bittersweet.I was immersed in the show without consciously realising it and Isa evolved from being an irritant to someone heartwarming.  Her smile became the only bright light towards the end of the show.Unfortunately, the same can't be said for her friend whose eventual fate grew increasingly obvious and unavoidable with each passing frame.Wonderful film.  It made me feel the character's aimlessness and hopelessness most insiduosly.  There was a growing empathy for the character by showing them as they are with their faults and goodness. Wonderful... "},{"Title":"how to deal and to improve one's life in a gritty environment","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For a long time, French cinema had the bias to choose to overlook the marginalized, the social misfits who have trouble to struggle and to fit in a society. In the nineties, some French filmmakers began to get interested in these categories of ill-fated ones as Erick Zonca's tale bears witness. His chronicle of these two friends facing the harsh economic, social realities together was bestowed with prizes in 1998, 1999, especially at the Cannes festival where it was one of the jury's favorites. French public and press specialized in cinema gave it an ovation and the film enjoys a favorable reputation abroad, rather rightly so.The director's forte is to showcase and to assess the persona of his two young interprets. At first sight, they're a mismatched pair that everything opposes and brings together. Isabelle (Elodie Bouchez) a 20 year-old young woman who brims with energy and generosity, ready to accept any job not to get bogged down in poverty including to distribute advertising leaflets on roller skates dressed in sandwich-woman. Beside her, Marie (Natacha Régnier), bilious, mercurial dissimilar to her sidekick (to put it mildly). Apart from the liking she feels for Isabelle and their friendship is a touch of light in this drab city, she's her complete antipode. She can't put up with her distressing condition, she's rather in bad terms with her mother. She even shows total egocentricity because she doesn't even go to a lot of trouble to visit her cousin Sandrine in a coma and whose mother died shortly after wards. A consequence to her profound discontentment and to her inability to come to terms with her social condition. Maybe an exit to this life for her would be to live with Chris, a rich kid with a more than comfortable living standards. She has a crush on him but the latter treats her like a ghostly girl.Erick Zonca's chronicle is composed of two parts. The first half is nearly faultless and a prime one from every angle. The director tries to capture short-term moments of bliss when the two friends are together and there's a communicative feel-good vibe. Zonca also deftly eschews what could make caricatured some characters like the ruffian-like bouncers. The second part veers to a doom-laden turn which even if it serves the title of the film and Marie also makes it formulaic. From the moment when Marie is enamored of Chris, the audience has to expect the inevitable. Marie's love for Chris jeopardizes her friendship with Isabelle who is very aware that Marie's lover considers her as a casual lover and leads her up the garden path. So, almost adamant feuds break out between Isa and Marie who don't manage to calmly communicate face to face. Zonca steers his film according to what the audience expects and the poise that the film created in the first half is damaged and not well dovetailed as a whole. The interest tends to dwindle and Mr Zonca, I would have liked more unexpected, less easiness but fortunately the communicative vitality, the acting full of spontaneity of the two main actresses largely stop you from dismissing this piece of work.I don't want to be a major spoiler and pour out the end. I will just say that it encompasses an upbeat, placating whiff thanks to a song discerningly chosen. La Vie Rêvée Des Anges is worth a watch thanks essentially to the two actresses whose performances boosted their careers. Natacha Régnier was venturesome to agree to hold difficult or trying roles later as in François Ozon's disquieting les Amants Criminels (1999). "},{"Title":"by the end it is captivating","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i almost gave up on this one, but i am glad i did not.  i thought both girls were very good - very interesting characters well portrayed.  the plot was simple enough and camera work and art direction were decent.by the end the film really had grabbed me and it stayed with me for days.  i have thought about it many times since.  i don't think it is a fantastic film, but any film that gets into a person's head like that is worth seeing so i would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Awkwardly Beautiful - Powerful","Date":"11 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Another in a long string of French films I've watched lately. It has all the hallmarks of a French flick. Lots of character development, thread bare plot. The film has two dynamic, broken people as the protagonists. This movie is like a Hemmingway novel, painful, but totally justified by the ending.Marie, played by Natatchia Regnier, is a lonely soul who falls in love with someone out of her league. She is a tad off, prone to violence, and unable to control her anger at times. She is so obviously used by her lover, that even she recognizes it. Their first date is him inviting her to take a walk in town, but instead taking her to a hotel room. She is reluctant, and disappointed, but cannot resist him.Isa, played by Elodie Bouchez, is the pixie like good girl of the film. She and Marie live together in a house that belongs to a mother and daughter who were seriously injured in a car accident. The daughter is in a coma. Isa goes regularly to visit her in the hospital. She forms a sort of relationship with her by reading her diary. Isa's morality contrasts so much with Marie that it makes Marie's deterioration that much more dramatic. "},{"Title":"A haunting tale of quiet desperation","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Isa is a French girl who comes to Lille - with backpack - hunting for a man she bedded, who had invited her, perhaps, to stay. He isn't there so she gets a job in a sewing mill and meets Marie. Isa is lousy at sewing and loses her job, so Marie resigns in protest. Isa moves into an apartment with Marie, an apartment owned by a woman who has been in a car accident with her daughter. Marie is living there in the mean time.The girls become close friends, or at least they seem to. Isa is slower than Marie, and more gullible. Marie is tense and angry, and thinks that Isa is naive. They go out together and end up meeting some men who are bouncers at a nightclub. Marie beds one, while Isa stays uninvolved sexually, but remains friendly with them. The girls go to a Mall and play an annoying game with attractive men who pass by. They follow them and proposition them - playfully, but cynically. In the end they follow one guy outside as he gets in his SUV, and when he drives off Marie breaks his headlight. They run.Marie's mother arrives for a visit, and it is clear Marie despises her. She ends up giving her mother money. She hasn't seen her father in 4 years, and there is obviously something dark in their past. Perhaps incest? Perhaps rejection from a cold father? It is evident that Marie hates men. She sleeps with them but believes herself to be immune to their charms.Isa snoops into the private things in the apartment and comes across a diary written by the daughter, who is in a coma. Isa is entranced by it, and starts to live through it vicariously. She goes to the hospital and pretends to be a relative and visits the girl Sandine. As she continues to do this we see that Isa wears her heart on her sleeve. Marie, on the other hand, hides hers in the pit of her being.Marie is caught shoplifting an expensive leather jacket. A passerby offers to pay for it in order to get her from being charged. It turns out he is the man whose headlight she smashed, but he doesn't recognize her. He owns the nightclub where her boyfriend is a bouncer. He takes her out for a drink, but far from being grateful to him she spews hatred at him. We now begin to see Marie as someone who attacks when she feels vulnerable. He is intrigued. He is rich, used to getting his way. He tries to kiss her and she attacks him physically and throws her drink at him. In spite of this he takes her home.Isa is amused that Marie has brought home the man whose car they vandalized, and thinks that Marie is taking the opportunity to spit in the face of the upper class.Instead Marie begins an affair with him. She shows up in a bar he owns and when one of his woman friends talks down to her she attacks her! He takes her to a hotel and has sex with her. She fights him off for awhile, but he becomes more aroused and eventually they have sex - like cats! When Isa realizes that Marie is involved she becomes despondent. Is she jealous? Perhaps! More likely she knows where it's going to end and she wants to save Marie from the pain. But Marie, as is her defensive style, attacks her verbally and then threatens her with a knife. Isa moves out. Now we know that Isa is the stable one and that Marie is quite likely a borderline personality, incapable of intimacy without demanding ownership! In the end they go their separate ways. Isa finds out that, quite possibly, her visits to Sandrine have helped her. In a telling scene at the hospital she approaches the door of Sandrine's room, after hearing the nurse tell her that she needs her continued support, but balks at going in, and turns her back and leaves. We see her in the streets laughing, clearly overjoyed at having accomplished something, but equally clearly incapable of following through with the commitment. Marie ends her life by jumping from her bedroom window just as Isa looks in on her for the last time.The movie sucks us in to these women's lives. We see how differently equipped they are for life as lower class single women. Isa, who initially seems to be dull witted, has a soul. Marie has an empty hole which is filled with venom, self hatred projected outwards, at the world she is estranged from. There is no preaching here, no heavy messages, just a profound telling of a tale of lives lived in quiet desperation. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film was shot in a way that made you feel the somewhat dreary existence of some unknown French community. You could either become another cog in the wheel of such dreariness or you could not let it get to you and live your life the way you want to live it and make the most out of what you got, much like Isa. The contrast is Marie but Marie is very much a free spirit. It is just that Marie has let the bleakness get to her on some level.They meet 2 bouncers who have a rough exterior but they form some sort of bond with the two women. Sometimes they will do things together as friends often do. Isa seems contented while Marie seems to be looking for something better which seems to involve a man in her life.Isa relies on herself for her happiness. Marie increasingly feels the need for a male companion in order to feel whole and content.A beautiful film. It captured the emotions you experience in relationships rather nicely.  I, like others have noted, felt like I had known the characters at least somewhere in my life.   "},{"Title":"relationship between two young women in Northern France","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  powerful film on two young women that meet in a city in Northern France. Unskilled, with little money, living in a borrowed flat, they spend time together, meet a couple of young men, struggle in their wishes and realities.  Beatifully acted, the handheld camera gives a natural and almost realist quality.  Reminds a little of Vagabond.  Strong statement on the woman condition, when unskilled, laboring in low-paying jobs.  "},{"Title":"The refusal of defeat","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Isa and Marie are two refusals of the ugliness of life, of the bitterness of the inequality of chances. Both of them poor and uneducated, doomed to the everyday failure of small jobs and sentimental promiscuity, Isa and Marie try to escape their condition. Isa does that with a not-so-broken smile. She accepts every job possible and she cares a lot about Sabrine, the unknown girl in a coma whose diary Isa gets to read. Beautiful scene that one in which Isa writes in Sabrine's journal in a desperate attempt to keep the frozen life of the girl going.Marie is savage and protects herself form unhappiness by being the first one who hurts. Until she gets in love with a rich and beautiful man.  Their relationship, impossible but so tempting tears her friendship with Isa in pieces. The end of her love story is also the end of all her dreams, so she jumps over the window, acquiring la vie revee des anges.At first I thought that Isa, the good one of the two friends, won the race with a hostile fate, Marie being the loser. But the final scene - Isa in a white overall working in a factory, a pale face among other pale faces - made me thought that the opposite thought is also legitimate. Or maybe both of them won - Marie by renouncing a sordid life, Isa by accepting its challenges.But this movie is not only its plot and its characters. The atmosphere, the music, the image have the French (good) taste I'm dying for.  "},{"Title":"The actresses are flying","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  La vie rêvée des anges is what has been done the best in France this year.The casting is quite perfect with 2 actresses that are flying. You can't doubt that they are Isa and Marie. There are no words to explain how they are acting. Their play makes them seem very cute. Director Erick Zonca is a newcomer of 42 years. It's his first film (he made shorts before) and shows he's an adult when he directs actors. He knows how to film his actors, how to show the way they behave, where they live, what they can expect. He doesn't put music even if he could have, he's an adult, unlike Michael Bay. You can believe in the characters, you know they can be living at this moment. You think you know them, you can trust them.Among giants. 10 on 10  "}{"Title":"la vie que tu reves ...","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  La Vie Revee des Anges is a stunning debut feature by Erick Zonca. Whether it is the stunningly humanistic performance by Isabelle (Elodie Bouchez - Clubbed to Death), or the spitefully twisted one from Marie (Natacha Regnier), watching Vie Revee... is an arresting experience.Following the lives of two young women, who meet in a factory, the film attempts to give us hope, above the dull city streets of Lille. Indeed, I wonder whether Lille has ever been more gloomily shot. The effect of this technique is to give a certain claustrophobia to proceedings. Even at its most comfortable, the who characters still seem like polar opposites, destined to break their fragile bond at any second. The tragic ending is both shocking and inevitable, and it is handled with considerable humanity by Zonca. I am trying not to give away much of the plot in this summary, however, Zonca leaves only the slightest glimmer of hope for Isabelle's future in his final shot. Isabelle returns to where she began, possibly a broken woman. Winner of the award for best actress(es) at Cannes, the film succeeds for many reasons, but most of all, it is down to Bouchez and Regnier. This film reminds us that, for all the Godzillas in this world, there are still some directors who think in cinematic terms. Zonca is clearly one of those directors.-Simon Huxtable  "},{"Title":"Strong screen-play for a powerful duet","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Eric Zonka first feature is outstanding. Few directors began their career with this kind of precision. Precision in every  dialogue and mostly in the authenticity of life. Life is raw and hard. But life is also beautiful like a simple smile. Regnier (the raw character) and Bouchez (the smiley one) deserved their Cannes prizes. They are very intense and they gave shape to those two lost sheep. And after the viewing you just hope that one day you'll meet one of the character to know if everything turned all right.  "},{"Title":"simply beautiful","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  simple and beautiful story - the two lead actresses do an excellent though very subtle performance - I found the final scene at the factory very moving, it also gives food for thought - this is, for me, one of those movies which make you learn (or remember...) about something... "},{"Title":"A fascinating modern morality tale","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've watched this movie twice. The contrast between the two girls, Marie and Isa, Couldn't have been drawn better Isa, life-affirming, loving, and generous, but not at all saccharine; Marie, hard, cold, selfish, and empty, but completely believable for every minute of the film.  The story is told in Isa's easy smile, and in Marie's vacant, narcissistic stare (both actresses rival Isabelle Huppert in their ability to convey volumes with a simple glance); it is told in small details like their willingness or reluctance to share cigarettes; in their contrasting attitudes toward love and sex; in their concern or lack of it for friends, relatives, and the owner(s) of the apartment the girls share with one another.This is what movies ought to be, what cameras can do better than any other tool, what separates films from stage plays.  It is brilliant and bears several viewings. "},{"Title":"Not to be missed","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Dreamlife of Angels is a story of friendship.   Isa and Marie are two young women who meet while working in a clothing factory. Through necessity they must share an apartment together and, despite their differences, they quickly become inseparable friends.Life has treated both of these young women hard. While Isa is a carefree spirit who always lands on her feet with a big smile on her face, Marie is much more withdrawn, almost resigned as to how life has and will continue to treat her. We watch as their friendship builds, then slowly ebbs.Dreamlife won the Cesar Award (France's Oscar) and at the Cannes Film Festival Elodie Bouchez (Isa) and Natacha Regnier (Marie) were co-winners of the Best Actress award. The award at Cannes was quite appropriate because these two young actresses truly carry the film and calling one's performance better than the other would have been impossible.Filmed with that naturalistic style which is so typical of the modern French film, The Dreamlife of Angels is a movie not to be missed. There are no explosions or car chases, and the overall tone of the film is rather depressing, but this is expert film-making with two outstanding acting performances.    "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  a masterpiece, one of the best films i´ve seen in the last 5 years! Go and see it! The actors are as excellent as the plot. one of the must films for anyone interested in more then hollywood blockbusters! The film shows us emotions - something that is getting rarer and rarer these days! "},{"Title":"Upstages all those crappy American films","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A lot of times it seems, to me at least, our American films are usually upstaged by the latest import from another country.  1999 (the year this was released in the US) had several great foriegn films- this being the best. An almost completely unseen masterpiece concerning the human condition with complex characters and understandable but not obvious revelations, sad and funny, smart and sometimes hard to watch.  The two main characters are Isa and Marie (both played beautifully by the two actresses).  Isa is a generally happy homeless girl who wears her heart on her sleeve.  Marie is a proud and chronically melancholy soul living in a recent car-crash victims' (a mother and daughter) flat for the time being.  Marie invites Isa to stay with her for a while after the two meet at a dead-end job.  Their friendship is well formed and never predictable throughout the film.  They meet some bland but nice bouncers (Fredo and Charly) at a concert they try to get into.  Isa doesn't develop anything with Charly, who likes her, but Marie may have finally found someone to love her in Fredo.  Of course she doesn't want what's good for her and self-destructively ensnares herself in an ugly and quite honestly sadomasochistic relationship with a wealthy but emotionally unavailable and uncommited club owner.  The sex scenes between the two are unsettling to say the least.  It's tragic watching Marie punish herself while ignoring the pleas of her friend Isa, who wants to help her. What's Isa doing?  She finds the journal of the teenage girl who lives in their borrowed flat and becomes attached and feels connected to this girl- who in her writing seems sad and lonely.  So Isa, the compassionate and caring one, visits her in the hospital and reads her journal to her, despite the discouragement from the cynical Marie.  The films continues to center on the friendship, as the relationship strains and the two eventually fall out of friendship, up until the ending, which is believable and honest.  All in all it's a remarkable and quietly devastating film. "},{"Title":"One of the best this year","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Definitely in my top three this year;I gasped with shock at the end.Very,very well scripted and acted.Highly recommend you go see it. "},{"Title":"poetry of the ordinary","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This low budget French movie, devoid of glamour and set in a grim northern industrial town in the depths of winter, charts intimately and sympathetically the friendship of two young women, who are alienated from their dysfunctional families and struggling for economic survival and emotional fulfillment.The performances of Natacha Regnier as Marie and Elodie Bouchez as Isa are utterly convincing. Marie is an emotionally withdrawn person who has to be coaxed into friendship by Isa, the cheeky sparrow. Together they pick up men and try to find work. Marie, who both needs and dislikes men, becomes involved with Chris, a handsome, wealthy but fickle young restauranteur, while Isa visits the comatose young former occupant of her room, who is in hospital after a car accident and whose diary Isa discovers and reads to her. Somehow, the bleak landscape, the grotty workplaces and mean bosses are pushed into the background by Isa's warm spirit. At the end you are sobered rather than depressed - there is still some hope for Isa and the many like her.Much of the film sees to have been shot with hand-held cameras in a small flat, an ideal method for filming the relationship of two people with quite different personalities living on top of each other. Yet it's not claustrophobic as there's plenty of inner space to explore. There is also the development of the relationship between Isa and the comatose girl. Pretty hopeless looking but there's always a chance that things might turn for the better. The minor male characters, Charly and Fredo the biker bouncers, turn out to be decent sorts, more than be said for Marie's boyfriend. All these parts are beautifully realised in a gem of a movie.  "},{"Title":"Not an easy movie, but one that you'll remember","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I went to see the film Up In The Air, the audience was mostly middle aged people. It was a film meant to be enjoyed by people who had lived a little and understand what life is like. I'm also going to a 30th year high school reunion and will see a cross section of people from my youth who made difference choices throughout their lives.So this film is best enjoyed (and in a way, it is enjoyable) by those who have lived life and understand how painful it can be. There are two sets of protagonists The working class girls out on their own struggling to survive. Both are effectively homeless. One girl is basically crashing at a relative's apartment whose an accident victim. The other girl is there only because of a quick friendship. They are both living on borrowed time and need to find a place to live. Some of us have been there. I have. It was a brief period in my life that was not pleasant but helps me to appreciate what I have now. Sometimes I close my eyes in my bed and am so thankful to have a place to sleep and someone who loves me next to me. I wonder that if I hadn't gone through that, would I appreciate life in the same way?Although they aren't present on screen, the real angels of the film are the poor accident victim whose apartment the girls are crashing in and her daughter who survived the accident and is in a coma. They are middle class women who had good lives but are now in tragedy. This film is about how the different angels survive and the choices they make. The girls get boyfriends to help them get by and soul crushing menial jobs. This is office space for women but without obvious humor. Strangely, I think I appreciated this more than my wife. For my wife, it's depressing but for me it was reaffirming to see things from a different perspective. "}{"Title":"Isa Tostin's Women's Chorus","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Isa is truly the central character in Dreamlife of Angels. She's most attune to her own memory, the meaning of love, and the social world she inhabits. And most critically, she has an instinctual grasp of gender which seems to grow with age and experience, rather than be stifled as is the more typical path with young women.What Isa does is create connections with the female world. She's for women, seemingly all the women she comes in contact with, no matter their age, relationship, or condition. She's barely enamored of men because those she has known invariably have damaged the women she has known. I speak of her mother, of Marie's mother, of Sandrine's mother, of Sandrine herself, and of course, her dear house partner, Marie Thomas.Of course, these connections do not a community make, except perhaps in Isa's mind. They are there because they provide her with the answers that allow her to persist with her difficult life, and assuage the isolation that the severing actions of men in her women's lives have caused. And these strands remain part of her life's memory as certainly as the scar on her eyebrow. In a sense, they re-member hers their dis-membered selves.This is her story. This is what she's telling the viewer, I think. Her life speaks of being alone, poor, and without status and why that is and what she does to counter it in her own limited way. She is guided by this shared reality with women. Even by those women she is barely made aware of like her clothing factory boss's daughter who's in Boston making police and military uniforms. They are all evoked in her knowing expressiveness and words whether to actual or referred to women. All this helps set her apart from the world of compulsory heterosexuality that plagues her dear companion Marie Thomas.I suppose there must be many reasons why Marie is so lacking in Isa's perception despite their very similar backgrounds, but we almost grasp this as a fact at the moment they meet. In part, it may be her physical appearance blond, blue-eyed, tall, waif-like, and titillating boyish, which satisfies the narrow definition imposed by males as sexy. Or it might be because she smokes grass and cigarettes and needs to be out at night. Whatever, the fact that Marie is more feisty and fierce with men than is Isa, does not mean that she is less attuned to them, or more confused by them than her new chum. Because along with the oppressive and fatalistic cultural factors that drive her destiny, she does herself push the envelope as if she had little of herself to protect. Even with the relatively harmless, Charlie, she says to Isa I screwed that guy twice; I don't know why. I'm stupid. So, enter Chris and his cunning--and cutting, entry into her vulnerable self. He sees right through her defenses from the start, or he would not take on the task of taming her. His possessing her is the end to what self-possession she has mustered during her working class, troubled life. She is his and can no longer relate to Isa or anything she says as regards Chris. She speaks for Chris; and Isa's counter influence over her, which made little impression on her affair with Charlie, is now dead. Even Chris's aggressive, violent sexuality becomes defensible in Marie's eyes, as does his male superiority. As the spiral of sexism is played out at her expense.So chalk up one more loss for Isa to the masculinist world within which she must function. She will survive this one more menacing and tragic entanglement, but be no more along in life than from the point she began it. In film's end she is back in the same kind of female-labor factory where she met Marie, her tenacity intact, and her female chorus physically and collectively (via Isa's remembrance) upholding her spirited and enduring life. But the viewer cannot but wonder how long can she on loving without expecting any love in return? "},{"Title":"Friendship Deconstructed","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Dreamlife of Angels is a movie about friendship, more particularly it traces the beginnings and ending of a friendship between two women, who come together because each is do different from the other and each needs what the other has to offer. That is at the beginning. Dreamlife is one tough movie and it won't be easy going for those who wince at seeing a basically good person in the throes of a self-destructive frenzy, one, in this case, set off by an unhealthy S&M flavored relationship she strikes up with an oily Lothario (a sleaze you'll hate upon sight). Elodie Bouchez plays Isa(as in -bel) a wandering soul who blows into a dreary industrial town in Northern France, where she wrangles a job in a sweat shop, from which this free-spirit is quickly fired, but not before striking up an instant friendship with Marie, who is as introverted and emotionally constipated as Isa is open, carefree, and loving. While the director, Erick Zonca, underlines nothing, we understand the basis of the friendship and watch as it develops, and the two women bond, even to the point of playing, kidlike, together (no challenge for Isa, but it takes some letting go for Marie).I am not sure how to assess the film critically. I know this It is one of the few of late that has stayed with me long after I left the theatre. Did I believe the ending? No. Did I buy Marie's fate? No. Did I quite understand who were the angels and who the dreamers? Yes, and that is for you to find out, although the answer is far from what you might expect (thus baffling both critics and some viewers). It is brilliantly photographed and in a near documentary style that lends it weight and resonance. A masterpiece? Who knows. I don't think so, but time will tell. Worth seeing. Definitely, if you don't require a steady diet of popcorn movies. "},{"Title":"Opposites attract and then repel","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A great character study about two women, one who finds the good in everything, and one who finds the bad in everything and basically how that drives them apart. The movie really takes you into the day-to-day life of the characters as they search for work, flirt (and eventually become involved) with a couple of biker bouncers, and well, smoke... a LOT! The moody girl's self-destructive impulses come out in her relationship with a manipulative club owner which, if anything, gives the audience a great sex scene. Élodie Bouchez and Natacha Régnier give brilliant performances as the two women. Rarely do you see the depth of emotion that they give to these characters. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Good movie, but so sad...","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie very powerful, a simple story with a large impact. Isa and Marie are friends with no money and not many chances. Still they are very different in spirit. Marie seems to hate herself a lot... the consequences of which I found quite unbearable to watch. Go there only if you can handle some more misery than your own. "},{"Title":"French naturalism at its finest","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was utterly moved by the raw, unflinching portrayal of directionless youth that writer/director Zonca was able to capture in The Dreamlife of Angels. Bouchez and Regnier both deliver subtle, emotionally shattering performances, and the accolades they have received for this film are without a doubt well deserved. This is truly a heartbreaking slice of life with none of the false flourishes of a Hollywood production. Watch it if you dare.  "},{"Title":"Sexual compulsion and Friendship.....","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film at the Miami Film Festival and it was well recieved by the audience, Elodie Bouchez was in attendance and she was gracious and charming.She did an incredible performance as the destitute Isabelle, hard-working and wild but it is her new found friend Marie who seems stable yet is mentally unbalanced. Carrying around deep scars and a self-destructive sexual compulsion. The films is a rather slow charater study,both well acted and competently Directed by first timer Zonka....Not great but good. Worth seeing once or waiting for the video rental. "},{"Title":"Certainly no feel-good movie","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" French movies are always different from any other cinema. They don't look like the average Hollywood production, but even though they are European, they can't really be compared to other European movies either, except for the English perhaps. The style of the French and English cinema aren't the same, but the subjects often are. Most of the time you'll get the story of people who have a hard time making the best of their lives, who live in poverty or bad conditions,... You'll not really find that as much in other countries like for instance Denmark, Spain, Italy,... in Asia or the USA.La Vie rêvée des anges or The Dreamlife of Angels, as it is called in English, tells the story of two young women, Marie and Isabelle, who meet each other in a sweatshop, where they have to operate sewing machines. Marie is apartment-sitting for a mother and her daughter who are in a hospital and in a coma after they had a terrible accident. Isabelle has been living with her backpack on her back, not knowing where she will end up the next day and sometimes selling handmade cards on street corners to earn a little money. Both have a difficult life and that's perhaps the only thing that really keeps both girls together. They find joy and adventure in one another's company, but sometimes also have incredible fights because their worlds are too far away from each other...If you are looking for a movie that will leave you with a good feeling after you've seen it, than you better start looking for another one. This film has a heavy subject and especially the ending will make you swallow a couple of times. I'm not going to tell you what that ending exactly is, but in my opinion it was the strongest part of the movie and one of the toughest, but also most touching endings I've seen in a movie in recent times. For me personally the rest of the story was certainly worth watching, but not always very original. I've seen it in more movies, but that doesn't mean of course that it can't be any good.The acting certainly is nice. The two leading actresses didn't get a Golden Palm in Cannes for nothing for this movie and I can understand perfectly why the jury decided to give Élodie Bouchez as well as Natacha Régnier a reward. It's impossible to say that the one was so much better than the other, both gave away a strong performance.As a conclusion I want to say that if you are looking for a feel-good movie, this certainly isn't what you are looking for, but if you are looking for a movie with a good subject and some strong acting than you might give it a try. Despite the fact that the story isn't the most original one ever, the movie stands firm on its feet and that's why I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"An Amazingly Fresh Gem","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     Dreamlife of Angels is one of those oddly absorbing, unpredictable little movies that you stumble upon and never forget.  Erick Zonca's direction pulls you into the sojourn a woman named Isa has with a new friend named Marie.  Their relationship starts out of Isa's desperation for a place to stay, and Marie's willing to help her out and let her stay at her flat.  They float around a French town called Lille, aimlessly trying to make the best out of a dreadful life filled with bad working conditions and poor relationships, which they can't manage to escape.      I loved Élodie Bouchez's performance as Isa.  She creates a free-spirited, but desperate woman with endless energy and color.  Like Sam Rockwell's characterization of Bucky in Box of Moonlight, she conveys all of Isa's emotions with a limitlessly inventive, distinct performance.      The film has a genuine, yet magical feel.  Zonca knows that like any relationship, things aren't always clear blue skies, and sometimes other selfish things like popularity validation and love life can jurrastically get in the way.  His aesthetic is wonderful, and he tells his story with a signature, stylish use of blue. "},{"Title":"This is a beautiful feature.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The music that begins in the final scene of the picture just before the closing credits is what really drives this particular film home with me.  I like how the feature takes a rather honest look at struggling young people trying to survive, and also how the feature is honest in the way in which it presents how the two main leads interact with each other exactly.  It is enjoyable to view the two very different personalities of the two female leads, and what happens when one of them goes on a self destructive path by making personal time for a self absorbed man who is very mentally abusive.  It is also interesting how the two female leads end up in their apartment, so to speak.  The feature also speaks honestly of the uncertainty that exists in those who haven't really made up their mind with that to do with their lives exactly, and in that sense, this feature has a very American feel about it.  It is not your typical foreign film, or what some may believe to be the cliche French film.  This is an honest and gritty sort of picture, and really, for me, it is that amazing music during the films final scene just before the credits roll, that really bring the difficult feature a sense of closure.  Also funny in that, one of the female leads finds work and the other...finds eternity...heavy man! "},{"Title":"Two great young actresses, an apt title","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a funny, sad and tragic look at friendship, love and obsession. The actresses Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier are absolutely wonderful, brilliant and more importantly real. I cannot imagine ANY hollywood actress playing these roles and I fervently pray that they do NOT try to remake this for American tastes. The story is simple, but the acting and writing so absorbing that I found myself riveted to the screen ( and believe me I really needed to sleep -- having about 8 hours over the last two nights !!). The plot, the ideas, the naturalness, the absolute lack of any artifice is so refreshing, like taking a bite into a slice of cool, sweet melon on a hot summer day. It's like watching the puzzle of life come together and come apart. The surroundings and everything about the world in this movie is drab and grey, yet this is a beautiful film with a very apt title. "}{"Title":"A Modern Day Masterpiece!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing it only about a month ago, I can already put this film in my top favorites.  It is that great.  This film shows that a big budget, does not always give you a wonderful picture.  Elodie Boucez gave one of the most important, beautiful, and virtuous performances ever played out on screen. Anyone could identify with her character Isa.  She was so powerful.  Isa showed that you have too much in life to let something drag you down to depression.  She was such a strong character, to be able to pick up from having almost nothing, and to go off and MAYBE achieve something.  She showed that life has many roads, if you take the wrong one, you can always get off on the next exit. "},{"Title":"Sad and beautiful character study","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is typical of many European films; it's large on character and acting skills, and small on special effects.  That is a good thing.The story revolves around two chronically unemployed 20-ish French women who meet almost purely by accident.  While they are common in their socioeconomic backgrounds, their personalities differ greatly, but in such a way that it allows them to become best friends.  When the major differences arise in their romantic needs and their ability to ride out emotional storms, the differences become too much.This movie works for two main reasons.  First, the two actresses are highly believable in their parts; the remainder of the cast is also very good.  Second, I realized at the end of the film how my general initial perception of the two characters was wrong.  The film shows the importance of truly getting to know someone before you judge them.If you want an action flick, this is not the film for you.  However, if you want an intelligent script and an excellent study of humanity, you should see this film. "},{"Title":"a modern neorealism classic","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The term neo-neorealsim was coined in 2009 by A.O. Scott of the New York times, about 10 years after the release of this movie, in response to a new crop of American films using working-class characters, non-professional actors, and rejecting the Hollywood aesthetic. These can largely be traced to the Dogme95 manifesto of the mid-90's, and to the pioneering work of the Dardenne brothers with Rosetta highly acclaimed at Cannes in 1999.Dreamlife of Angels is a classic in its own right, filmed at about the same time as Rosetta. It also takes a few pages from Dogme95, and does a better job following its main principles than its own Danish creators. The only major difference is the use of standard camera equipment, not the frequently annoying home video/hand-held style as dictated by the Dogme school.This is perhaps one of the few films of the 90's which was able to achieve a complete removal of any sense of distance between the viewer and the screen. Through its intimate and effective cinematography, some phenomenally realistic acting, and total lack of anything one traditionally associates with Hollywood drama (weepy soundtrack, romantic lighting) we almost get to inhabit the same space that the two young female characters do, to experience the same feelings even. Its realism, which matches if not surpasses the French and Italian classics of the late 40's and 50's, is rather brutal at times, but not easily forgettable by any means. With no original music, no voiceovers, flashbacks or fancy cuts (which, if well-made, could also contribute to a great film, just of a different kind), Dreamlife of Angels broke new ground in its unpretentious desire to genuinely move. "},{"Title":"Deeply moving","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I haven't been so deeply moved by a movie since years. The actress are outstanding.Note how can some people describe this movie as almost pornographic? Probably peoples who describe themself as compassionate conservatist... "},{"Title":"Devastating, Wonderful Film","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dreamlife of Angels is a wonderful, devastating work of art and one of my all-time favorite films. Elodie Bouchez is wonderful in her role as Isa. Agnes Godard's cinematography reveals the characters' situation beautifully. Yann Thiersen's music is delicate and reflects Isa's loving personality. Go and see this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Moving beyond my own awareness...","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A fantastic film. Some of the best acting i've seen in years from Regnier and Boucher, who seemed so unerringly natural throughout. The film thrives on the central character's respective emotional chaos and their different ways of responding to it. It's a beautiful relationship because it is the only one in both their lives which seems to be for it's own sake. It's impossible to discuss the film any further without spoiling it to some extent so I will just leave it with a warning that it is the most emotionally wrenching film i have seen since Kieslowski's Double Vie de Veronique. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"A real and touching story of human relationships.","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know that I've ever seen a film quite so emotionally true. Isa (Elodie Bouchez) and Marie (Natacha Regnier) strike up a friendship at work and decide to share the flat Marie is watching. These are two of the most fascinating characters ever to grace a silver screen. We see Isa grow into a compassionate, aware human being. Marie, in contrast, descends into bitterness and hate at the hands of a womanising club owner. Bouchez and Regnier shared the Best Actress award at Cannes, and deservedly so. The acting, the writing, the subtle camera work all add up to one of my favourite films. "},{"Title":"Amazing character definition.","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  **** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g., genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- The Dreamlife of Angels = ***1/2- Rated R (for some sexuality and nudity)This is the kind of low-budget indie that represents the respect people pay to non-mainstream movies.  The plot is very simple and yet so elegant.  Hand-held camera, and fewer-than-normal cuts; these elements are all here.But what really stands out in DREAMLIFE is the character development, another thing that indies are known for.  By the end of the movie, you feel like you have known the characters for years.  You care for them.  And what other thing is widely more strived for than that?  Screenwriters and film-makers dream and hope that their films can effect audiences the way DREAMLIFE did.  Watch this movie, and you will gain two friends.Unknown, but almost better for it; it makes you feel like it was placed on the shelves just for you.  What a trip. "},{"Title":"Good film about a struggle in friendships","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Erika Zonca's The Dreamlife of Angels is a good depiction of two women trying to make it in France.  They have dramatic and powerful scenes which highlight the film, but it is also their chemistry together that works.  They bring charm to the screen that probably won them the award at Cannes.  Well done, but their are a few flaws (like the ending).  B+ "},{"Title":"An Interesting Mess","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went in hoping that all the good things I had heard about this movie were justified.  Unfortunately, they weren't.  Though Dream Life of Angels has an interesting premise and starts out promisingly enough, bad pacing and a meandering plot ultimately sinks it as a film.The problem is not that nothing happens in it.  Not all that much happens in Bicycle Thief either, but the latter film is a masterpiece because the individual scenes in it add up to something much greater than themselves. The scenes of Dream Life, however, have no such coherence.  Lasting only a few minutes each, their arrangement seems arbitrary, as little plot or character development occur in any of them.  This soon begins to wear on the viewer, and halfway into the film I was already beginning to feel the back of my seat.Not helping matters either is the unimaginative way with which the story (what little of it there is) is told.  Marie's seduction and abandonment by Chris, a callous, young club-owner, is shown without much originality, spark or pathos.  Perhaps if music had been used some of these weaknesses could have been hidden.  But none comes till the end, at which point it seems incongruous.  One may admire Dream Life's attempt to make art from the bleak lives of two young women, but that does not make it a great, or really even a good, film. "}{"Title":"Low-key and emotionally wrenching drama exploring the lives of two people occupying the lower-levels of society, amidst everything the world throws at them.","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Dreamlife of Angels begins with a wandering young girl turning up at the home of somebody she through she knew, only to find them vacant in that they have gone on a placement abroad. The young girl carries with her a large backpack in a physical sense, that worn look of tiredness and travel all over her face in a more literal sense; there is a feeling for that of journeying, of vast journeying across the length and breadth of a nation, indeed Continent, that has imbued her life along up to this point along with what appears as rather a large network of contacts that have been born out of that. This dwelling here and now may very well be the home to one of them, but the contact and the keeping up of appearances with these people is so few and far between, such is the manner in which these people exist, that knowing precisely where one might be at certain times is impossible &#x96; in the young woman's world, people are situated at a place; move along and then relocate somewhere else after any duration of time. Cast away and rejected from staying there by the elderly woman actually inhabiting the house, the young woman's exasperated glance at the world behind her as she turns, additionally into us given where the camera's situated, encapsulates a desolate feeling of now having to resume looking for something that doesn't necessarily exit &#x96; to try and get by however she can given this revelation she is back on the road.The lead is named Isabelle (Bouchez), a woman in her mid-twenties based in France travelling along in the world and getting by on the money she earns out of selling postcards on the street to people, that she herself creates from images plagiarised from magazines. Having failed to find respective dwelling, she turns her interests to the nearby city of Lillie in this northern France; in a certain way, somewhat refreshingly so in the sense that to have a film of The Dreamlife of Angels' ilk, complete with the aesthetic that it carries, play out in the locale of somewhere such as Lille rather than the more familiarised option somewhere like Paris, is quite pleasant. In Lille a chance interaction with a middle aged Yugoslav, whom runs a sweat shop with his wife, sees Isabelle employed as a seamstress and placed in a makeshift room rife with women doing little all day but sew. Isabelle does not get on particularly well with this scenario, the new zone in which she finds herself one that is rife with an apparent segregation of women into neat rows and lines, each of which are charged with conforming and achieving the same thing that grossly goes against what it was established Isabelle lives for, that is to say; operating as a free spirited and independent person.It is here the film will have her meet the equally young Marie (Régnier); their relationship bedding the film down and seeing it effectively change gears after having previously come across as a project feeding off of a framework more routed to an approach that sees a lone protagonist stumble through proceedings and just getting by, perhaps something in the vein of Mike Leigh's film from a few years previously entitled Naked. Isabelle moves in with Marie, both women on the same respective level in life as they strive to get by with menial jobs on whatever budget; the premise of Marie's occupancy of the apartment hanging over proceedings in that it itself is rife with a sort of deadline - her current occupying of it born out of it being made vacant by a friend of her aunt's, whom lies alone comatose in a nearby hospital following a car crash &#x96; the notion of her waking up at any time and thus forcing the two women out again overbearing things.There is the initial fun and frolics that come with two such women hooking up and enjoying one another's company; the charm in going out and causing a nuisance of themselves in the evenings eventually leading to an attempted illegal entry to that of a concert; the tampering with richer French person's cars and the constant looking for male partners, each unravelling on their first proper night out together in what is a childish but innocent enough display of escapism from their everyday lives. Given what transpires, we get the feeling these two can trust each other as they strive towards a respective longer term goal; their bonds leading on into some rather inhospitable territory as this trust and these building blocks of a friendship are constructed before being somewhat cruelly knocked down again. Principally, the rift in their bond sees Isabelle rear off to sympathise with one of the comatose apartment owners after obtaining the rather personal item of their diary; Marie's going off to chase a rich womaniser named Chriss (Colin), whom drives his own plush automobile when they must travel by bus and utilises money both ignorantly and carelessly as they strive to get by, is symptomatic of each woman's need to take up a duty in aiding or obsessing over them after having previously been helped out by their intervention. The writer/director of the film, a certain Erick Zonca whom it is in the larger spectrum of opinion has not gone on to match what he does here, displays ample ability in capturing the essence of both natural conversation and mutual appreciation; the film one rich in acting as well as specific nihilist tonal qualities, all of which results in a meritorious piece worth catching. "},{"Title":"Quick hits, seen twice (spoiler)","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  On first viewing this movie I loved Isa's big heart and was so disturbed by the plot I couldn't bear to watch it again for another year. It's hard not to think about the film, though. Isa's character development is extraordinary, from appearing as a deadbeat to an insightful, helpful, cheerful, more than willing to work, loyal survivor of a tough life. The second viewing brought Marie into focus. Natacha Regnier's sex scenes are unique to movie viewing. In one scene with Isa Marie is so dazed she's standing there talking naked with no realization of it and you don't quite realize it either. Her existence has become one of a naked being, pink and flushed from sex. On first viewing I hated the cad. On second it was obvious that Marie wasn't who he would want for a long-term partner. He conquered and was done with her. The emotional breakthrough, falling in spite of being such a tough cookie and subsequent devastation were completely convincing. Charley added a nice touch too, biker with a heart of gold.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The marvelous performances by the leading actresses are not the only wonderful things about this first feature.  It is an affecting look at relationships, at how they develop and grow and die.  Ultimately it asks what we are to each other;  what we owe, and whom we should pay.  See it, please. "},{"Title":"a quite absorbing film","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found myself very absorbed in this story. Well acted and written, it serves as a snapshot in the life of Isa, one fateful chapter of her life. Both actresses are great here and hit the right notes. By the end, I truly felt like I was there in the film with them, and it takes a lot for a film to feel that way. The look and acting of these two women make them seem so real and emotional. This is a great and mature story about people who are drifting and searching, and the harsh reality of real life.Side note Though this film was rated NC-17 in the US, I honestly felt like it was easily an R-rated film. There are a couple sex and nudity scenes, but nothing you haven't seen in an R-rated film.  "},{"Title":"two girls experience the elations and despair of love and friendship gone sour","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  St Augustine said Do not presume, one of the thieves was damned; do not despair, one of the thieves was saved, about the two men found guilty with Jesus. And in this film too, we come out unable to be sure whether contentment at normality or despair prevails. The hot south of Isa's Valence versus the angry iciness of Marie, Lilloise.And in the wonderful manner of great french films, we enter (are entered?) into a banal yet totally absorbing world; the 'petit train-train' of the two girls as they go about trying to earn a sort of living. The acting of all (perhaps apart from Charlie, whose philosophical bent did not sit comfortably on his shoulders) was magnificent, particularly the casually moneyed callousness of Chriss. And the two girls were startlingly good. A wonderful and very painful film. Go and see it. "},{"Title":"One of the very best films from French cinema in a long time...","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found it to be , in the line of French cinema, one of the very best of late... Do not understand why anyone would say it bordered on pornography...an excellent performance by BOTH actresses...I agree with the person who said if you did not like the ending, then you didn't understand the film. This person would certainly have been better off going to Life is Beautiful. An excellent choice for Oscar nomination from France, where if all goes appropriately, it should do well... "},{"Title":"Great acting but a plot would help.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've lived in France too long and get cynical about light weight French films that think that angst, love triangles and sledgehammer social comment are good substitutes for a plot and even a mild level of enjoyment.In a nutshell this film represents French cinema.  Fantastic acting, miserable plotting and under-funded.  I hope that Elodie Bouchez gets a chance in something a bit more high profile but probably Hollywood will tempt her with a crock of gold to play in a crock of s***. "},{"Title":"Simple et sensible","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Reaction to the previous comment. If somebody doesn't like the last scene, it is may be because he doesn't understand the film.I liked the story, the acting and Natacha. I'm waiting for the next film of Eric Zonca! "},{"Title":"what women want","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Isa Elodie Bouchez Marie Natacha RegnierI liked this film because is a honest portrayal of many interesting thingsfriendship between women;the complexity of female desires,suffering.many many subjects. La vie rêveé des anges it is so well directed  that ,I think,got to do with the talent of the realisateur `Eric Zonca!' he conquered me with another great filme `le petit vouler' but in la vie.he proves he is also a great  actresses director,what Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier did here it is just  perfect!. you can feel  Marie's despair and disconted and you can perceive Isabellle strong willingness and the desire to reach anyone even with  a strange girl in coma.the intimated scenes are so well done,especially when elodie reads the girl diary silently not `that voice over' way.I found some interesting simbolism in la vie ,for example Isa carries this heavy knapsack not because she is a wanderer but her desire is to set it somewhere.but it's better to see the filme this is not a typical movie,the city is Lille(soulless as my city) not hollywood the girls don't received money support from relatives,they don't talk of sex like the women from `sex and the city' and they don't even have a car or a gun or delinquent habits a lá `thelma and louise'.and that is a good start.8/10note I want to say something to 'dogma' filmmakers.eat your heart out!!!. "},{"Title":"unassuming yet powerful","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Film shows the friendship between two women, both struggling to find their identity in the world.  One is terminally angry, the other, terminally accepting.  You know things are going to end not well, but you stay for the whole show, because both of these women are excellent actresses.  Recommended.  "}{"Title":"An excellent French people/reality film.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dreamlife... is an award winning, much heralded, French people-flick shot in the typical austere Euro docudrama dogma-esque style. The film peers deeply into a short period in the lives of two footloose and broke young women who come together out of mutual need. A study in human nature sans the commercialism of Hollywood, Dreamlife... is an earnest and well constructed over-the-shoulder look at the principals very different character which will be most enjoyed by those into reality/people films. "},{"Title":"very good film","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A poignant look at two working girls who meet in a French city. Life is difficult, while trying to make a living and meet people, but friendship sustains them until things start to come apart. The men they meet on the streets are not often honorable and tragedy ultimately ensues. Smart, convincing portrayals lend considerable weight to a simple straightforward story. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Angelic and Heart-wrenching","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Set in the industrial city of Lille, an enchanting vagabond, Isa (Elodie Bouchez) becomes fast friends with impenetrable ice queen Marie (Natacha Regnier). The 2 social outcasts live together in the house of coma patient, Sandrine, and prance around Lille causing mischief when not at their dreary sewing factory. After leading bouncer Charly (Patrick Mercardo) astray with false affections, Marie's poverty-rule pushes her to chase local rich kid Chriss (Gregoire Colin). Marie's already fragile emotional make-up is soon broken down due to the destructive nature of her relationship with Chriss. Isa, on the other hand, turns to looking after the girl in the coma. Isa's efforts are most sincere and angelic, her sweetness and optimistic outlook on life shine through the films more depressing segments. Erick Zonca's film is a gem. The writing is sharp, the direction is precise and the performances are flawless. Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier won a series of awards for their intense, rich and dynamic portrayals. There is more to this film than it seems, filled with polar opposites and coincidence; leaving the audience struck dumbfound with its heart-wrenching climax. A beautiful, engaging film that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Tragique, typically gallic, and yet compelling","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Un film tragique, sans doute...and yet compelling. Even some French mediaticians bemoan the banal darkness of the gallic characters that so often drag contemporary French cinema to the depths of despair... and to the bottom of the box-office ratings. But La vie revé des anges has restored my faith in the strangely irresistible beauty of the utterly bleak, as only the French can portray it. I first learned of the film while living in La Suisse romande, where, as I recall, it received rave reviews, not least for Elodie Bouchez`s depiction of the roughly ingenuous Isa as the reviewer put it, one can watch her for hours on the screen and still ask for more. Her beauty is not what makes her compelling, although many would consider her stunning in her simplicity. Rather, it is her depiction of undaunted and unwavering innocence that makes her a wonder to behold. And make no mistake it is innocence that triumphs here. Perhaps that is why, in the end, the film is not so bleak after all...and more universal than tout simplement français.  "},{"Title":"I Felt this Movie","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I LOVED this movie. I thought the acting was superb and the story was sublime and very real. I can TOTALLY understand where these women were coming from in this movie. I know very deeply what it is like to have low self-esteem and how hard it is to overcome. Even if you've had the most loving upbringing, it is still possible to have a difficult time with life when you leave the nest. Even though I am not in the situation theses wonderful actressses portrayed, I know that it's not that far from where I used to be.An absolutely wonderful film. I deeply appreciate the effort involved. I am a better person for experiencing it. An all-around excellent  "},{"Title":"An elegiac view of the nature of friendship","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At last night's preview screening for its members, the pre-festival opened with Erick Zonca's The Dreamed Life of Angels. It's an elegiac view of the nature of friendship that Zonca's filmmaking juices up in a fresh way. The film's two friends, Isa and Marie, meet at their McJobs as seamstresses and become friends haphazardly, without real connection or emotion. As they strive to survive - sometimes with urgency, more often with ennui - small dependencies form between them. At first, Isa lives out of Marie's hand for the simple necessities of food and shelter, but eventually it is Isa who gets a grip on the situation and tries to sustain Marie through the emotional turmoil of her life. It's not the storied stuff of soulmates finding their missing halves, but it has the feel of actuality, a much more hard-won narrative achievement.Isa a definitive performance by Elodie Bouchez, who we may barely recognize from Andre Techine's attentive study Wild Reeds and Yolande Zauberman's bleak Clubbed to Death is the one with the history and experience of the road behind her. With her pack on her back, she looks toughened but not defeated. She seems to have taken the road's lessons well and it gives her a spiritual beauty that radiates through her chopped hair and scrubbed face. Marie Natacha Regnier has never left wet, grey Lille and has barely thought about doing anything about that fact. She has a soft physical beauty she does not recognize or care about. We don't know what she cares about. Life has shrugged her off so far and she is no aptitude or inclination to fight back - it has only taught her to hide. She's not an innocent but she has only a scattershot anger in her defensive arsenal, an anger that she turns on the world, on Isa and eventually on herself. She reminds me so much of Vincent Gallo's Billy in Buffalo '66.Marie is housesitting a flat for a mother and daughter who are in the hospital after a car accident. This is a mere detail to Marie - she has no curiosity about them or their fate. It's just a housesit to her. Isa finds the young daughter Sandrine's journal and while reading through it, finds herself becoming closer and closer to her as she and Marie slowly drift apart. She finally goes to the hospital to visit the friend she was never met and finds Sandrine lying comatose. There's really nothing Isa can do for her. They have nothing between them except what Isa understands about Sandrine from this journal. Yet, we know there is more than that superficiality that connects them. Sandrine and Isa are lost girls, just as Isa and Marie are a different kind of lost girls. It comes to Isa to continue the journal for Sandrine&#133;and for herself. It is the film's spare gesture of hope.While Isa fights the existential battle to stay afloat and improve her lot bit by tiny bit, Marie's life begins to crumble - first, at the edges and then wholesale. She just drifts without a plan. Her anger is her keel through the employment world. Accidentally, she meets the spoiled Chris one of my favorite young actors, Gregoire Colin, a careless big fish is this Lille pond. It's obvious to Isa and to us that he is just going to use her up and toss her aside, but Marie's infatuation is blind to this reality. Marie should know better. Initially, she does know better. But she can't resist Chris. Charly, her menacingly large but sensitive other man, shows her a kinder face of love but Marie or any of us for that matter can't help herself. You can't resist it - The Other who makes your heart beat faster. It's the kind of love we hope is saving&#133;but often is not.It's a fascinating portrayal of a friendship's beginning, its growth and its end. There is something unmistakable French about it and, at the same time, unFrench. It's full of space; its pacing is devoid of the rhythm of American films and is opaque in that patented French way. But we are drawn in too - we are not just observers here. It's beautifully shot by Agnes Godard, Claire Denis's cinematographer on I Can't Sleep and Nenette and Boni among others. Her camera is so alive; she has the knack of capturing the interior quality of a character as well as anyone I can think of. I think it's in how she lights the scenes. Her films are subtly bright but still natural maybe only a stop or a stop-and-a-half over - so evenly lit that there is hardly a shadow, and certainly no dark places to hide. Zonca and the actors must know that every nuance is being recorded and that they have no choice but to find their character's souls in the frame. It's a stunning achievement for a first film. "},{"Title":"Don't know what to say, except it was the best film I've seen in over a year!!!!","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It should have be nominated at the very least for an Oscar. But I suppose the NC-17 rating doesn't help it. It is an incredible depiction of the life of ordinary human beings, it's so real, so honest in every way. Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier were both great, Elodie being luminous as Isa, and Natacha giving one of the saddest performances I've seen. I wish I could give it more than 5 STARS. My fourth favourite film. "},{"Title":"The triumph of the movie","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is an important success in describing the daily life of young and poor people in the civilized world. The casting is wonderful; all the actresses/actors are perfectly suited for their roles. The tempo of the film is well-designed and not boring. My senses were awake during the entire film-time and I think the last scenes are especially emotional; tears may come into your eyes. A great European style victory!  "},{"Title":"A beautiful film about two young girls struggling to find their place in the world","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Two girls find themselves living in the same flat and having to struggle for earning their own living. Their two opposite points of view about it shall undermine their friendship roughly. While one of them is busy accepting any kind of occupation, realizing that each and every job is respectable in itself and that one has to do something to get something, the other one closes herself in her own solipsistic shell dreaming of her rich Prince Charming, although her dreams shall only push her down to the deepest of desperations and drive her farther and farther from the real world. I am never kind to the French directors but this time I must admit to be in front of a real masterpiece this is a surprisingly good French answer to the genre of social films the English are so good at shooting. "},{"Title":"One of the best French Movies this year","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had some trouble getting into this movie at first but after 10 minutes I was overwhelmed.  The story is fine, sensible, intelligent.  The two main characters are different from each other.  One - Natacha Regnier's character - is destroying herself for a guy who doesn't deserve it and she knows it. She knows that nothing good is going to come for her, she is bitter and doesn't make any concessions to life and friends...  Elodie Bouchez' character is more contemplative, she loves life and she has an ability to be happy and to deal with lots of situations.  Her desire to help her friend and the wounded little girl are very strong, very palpable. There is almost no music during the movie.  Is it because Marie and Isa don't need music in their lives?  Anyway, this director's choice certainly adds to the movie. "}{"Title":"Among giants. They're flying","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  La vie rêvée des anges is what has been done the best in France this year.The casting is quite perfect with 2 actresses that are flying. You can't doubt that they are Isa and Marie. There are no words to explain how they are acting. Their play makes them seem very cute. Director Erick Zonca is a newcomer of 42 years. It's his first film (he made shorts before) and shows he's an adult when he directs actors. He knows how to film his actors, how to show the way they behave, where they live, what they can expect. He doesn't put music even if he could have, he's an adult, unlike Michael Bay. You can believe in the characters, you know they can be living at this moment. You think you know them, you can trust them.Among giants.10 on 10 "},{"Title":"Not just another small French movie...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It does look like one at first - a quite gloomy country town, two girls trying to make ends meet by working like dogs in a sewing factory... But the movie is not about hardships, not about dull people leading a dull life, but about a friendship, a striking contrast between two characters - both remarkably played but mostly, I think, that of Elodie Bouchez - whose approaches to life - and, as a consequence one might say, fates - are opposite. What makes the movie most enjoyable is, of course, that of Isa, always cheerful and radiating. The ending, particularly moving, gives its whole meaning to the movie and, in particular, to its title.  "},{"Title":"2 young women, damaged by parents' break-up, follow contrasting paths, in a typically hard modern urban struggle.  (Previous summaries entirely adequate.)","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Few prosaic settings could arouse better the pity for helpless mortals that Aristotle called the essence of the tragic spectacle. The film is exquisitely composed, in the sordid type of setting that too many urban youths, unhelped by parents, are faced with. The Director's artistic reticence, and the unbroken silences where we are moved to share the mental processes, and anguish, of the two girls, cause this film to provoke that pitiful purification which is enriching for the spectator, and could be invaluable for adolescents on the verge of... life in our time.Young men who are able to empathise with the tragic situations that Isabelle and Marie are in should form a richer sympathy for the lives of girls that they encounter. "},{"Title":"An Incredible, Moving Study Of Women","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Dreamlife Of Angels, simply put, is exquisite. From its inception, with the unconventionally beautiful Elodie Bouchez backpacking across an unspecified french town, to its denouement, in which she seemingly ends where she began, the bittersweet soul of the film feels more real than almost any other in cinema. The film meditates upon women's need of love and their search for truth in relationships, and my favorite particular meditations are upon the dynamic between men and women, how that dynamic affects the relationships between female friends, and how quietly tragic the consequences of a relationship can be for a woman- specifically a woman. I find it interesting that a film from France- a nation I understand that still ambivalently treats women as the lesser sex- would so poignantly capture the real pain and hurt that men cause women while the United States- which prides itself on feminizing everything- continues to be ambivalent about making a film exploring the dynamic between men and women at all (post-60's). If you intend to really understand women, and how their intrinsic vulnerability towards men affects everything about them, then this film is your beacon. I have never felt the pain of a woman- a pain I could never really feel myself and otherwise never really understand- like I did with this film.The performances are, of course, a notch above just about everything else. I feel Gregoire Colin is the most natural actor I have ever seen, and potentially one of the greatest actors to have ever lived, even at his age (remember Marlon Brando in A Streetcar Named Desire?). If you haven't seen him in Olivier, Olivier, you have been missing perhaps the most infectiously charming performance in cinema (as I know it). The writing only occasionally slips into the French tendency for nonsensical pretentiousness (forgive my diction, people) and even though it does, I felt at the end as though I empathically understood those things which could never really be explained on an intellectual level. The only Americans who wouldn't enjoy this film own shotguns (12 gauge or lower). Yet, it was the tenderness of the story, and of its characters, which lingers beyond everything else; it will touch you and comfort you.The final scene implants a song into the heart of the film. The confluence of the song and the film are as powerful as Born Slippy at the end of Trainspotting, in that the song is a cathartic echo of the dreamlife the film bestows you.  "},{"Title":"We get the real life before they become angels (possible spoiler)","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of those films that is not just widely acclaimed, but taken to its admirers' hearts as something precious (I suppose like AMERICAN BEAUTY was for you), ANGELS shares many features of the Young French Cinema, a supposedly ultra-naturalistic look at directionless young people in an unyielding, modern France.  It transcends the fatuities of, say, MA VIE SEXUELLE, by focusing not on tiresome, affluent, self-pitying intellectuals, but two ordinary, not very bright working class girls, who, rather than discuss Schopenhauer over coffee, insult bouncers and wind up mall shoppers.But is Isa really working class?  Her complacency seems suspiciously bourgeois (like Mona in VAGABONDE; how come she's a computer expert at the end?).  Isa is the film's real mystery, who, though the nominal lead, flits around its margins.  The film opens with her entering Lille looking for an old boyfriend, and ends as she leaves, her new friend dead.  While this latter has been going through the tortuous traumas of the archetypal French movie - problems with family (possible abuse by father; hopeless amour fou with spoilt rich kid), Isa is off in her own world, making collage cards, reading and adding to a coma victim's diary, visiting her in hospital, a kind of artist savante.Such is her harmless passivity, that we are surprised when Marie Thomas at the nadir of their friendship, spoilt by her obsession with an evident user, claims that Isa isn't blameless.  Surely Isa warned her about Chriss?  But Isa has chosen death over life, and having picked Marie out of a life of numbing menial monotony, promptly abandons her for a virtual corpse.  At one crucial moment, when Marie is on the edge of the emotional crises that will destroy her, she asks Isa to go out with her; but no, Isa would rather doodle with the dead.If this seems rather pat, than the film isn't, unwavering in the belief that simply staring at gangly misfits who boggle like geese will somehow produce great truth.  The film, like so many of its peers, is heavily influenced by Bresson, the clear-eyed observation of marginal figures in an unforgiving world.  The film ends in a perverse kind of miracle in which Marie dies so the coma-victim can live.  Unlike Mouchette or Marie, though, much of the crises are the girls' own fault - opportunities for warmth are provided, but rejected.The film's title might seem deceptive - the girls are anything but angels, and the film's realism never lets us into their heads, except for one brief blurry shot when a bleary-eyed Isa looks out the window.  Isa's dreamlife is expressed through her creativity, her card-making, diary-invasions, impersonations, confidence.  She is a wanderer, she is not tied down, even her family seem insubstantial - it's hard to deny Marie's calling her a leech.  Marie doesn't have her outlets; her cold sarcasm is a very necessary defence against a life with nothing for her - when she lets it down, she is destroyed.ANGELS has been acclaimed for its rare portrayal of working class life, but the few factory scenes seem less about the socio-political realities of existence (compare, for instance, with Godard's TOUT VA BIEN) than an alternative to a bar as a place for the two protagonists to meet - like ERIN BROKOVICH, there is an assumption that audiences can't handle too much proletarianism, and so the girls live in an enviable apartment, and the camera and editing styles are jarringly clean, almost glossy.  The factory conditions are dismal enough, but there is no sense of 68 spirit, and you can hardly blame the forewoman for sacking a stock-destroying incompetent, although she could have been a little more patient.  The final image, moving away from Isa to the other workers, suggesting all the other stories hidden here by conformity, might work against the film - why couldn't we have watched HER life, or HERs?>For all its skill,  I couldn't really enjoy this film - I found its realism phoney, its characters unappealing, their relationship implausible, its denouement contrived.  There are, mercifully, some moments of comic life in the first half, and the bright colours in the apartment are nice. "},{"Title":"A film about real people and real situations - Spoilers","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen The Dreamlife of Angels several times now and it still affects me the same way.  It is a very subtle, often insightful movie.The characters are so well-written and well-acted that they seem to jump off the screen.  Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier never appear to be acting at all.  Not much happens in this movie, but its observations about friendship, social class, self-perception, and outlooks really say a lot.The scene in which Marie (Regnier) jumps out of the window to her death still resonates.  It was so unexpected and shocking, yet it fit into the movie perfectly.  She wasn't just killing herself because she was jilted by Chriss (Gregoire Colin).  She was genuinely dissatisfied with her life.Another thing about The Dreamlife of Angels that I loved a lot was the way it presented Isa's and Marie's outlooks on life as polar opposites.  And we see an overlapping and convergence of their outlooks. In the movie, Marie calls Isa a dreamer just because Isa has an optimistic worldview.  This is actually very ironic, because in the end, it is Marie who is the dreamer. She longs for a better, more substantial life with Chriss, the spoiled rich boy.  She only ends up deluding herself, and this distracts her from appreciating what life is all about.Isa (Bouchez), on the other hand, is the more realistic of the two.  While she may not be as cynical as Marie, she at least has both feet on the ground.  She never appears dissatisfied with her station in life.  She simply takes the good with the bad.  She is also very resourceful, a quality that will get her far.The Dreamlife of Angels is definitely one of the best films I have seen this past year.  I recommend it to everyone "},{"Title":"Simple and devastating","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ISA- a hitchhiking girl on the move, brunette, black thick eyebrows, sharp eyes, wide smile, uses the tongue over her lips and teeth when she smiles.MARIE-blonde, unemployed, 20s, lives in a vacated flat an aunt found for her, perhaps to get away from a bad home life.  Blue eyes, thin, blank stares are devastating, strong.WHAT'S THE SETTING?  France.WHERE IN FRANCE?  The city.  Not the downtown but just outside it, in the apartments, the clubs, the streets, the small factories.  That's where Marie has her flat.HOW WILL THEY MEET?  Isa and Marie both work at a sewing factory, among hundreds of girls.  Isa asks Marie for a place to stay after sharing a breaktime cigarette.WHAT HAPPENS?  Marie meets a man who mistreats her.  Isa and Marie's friendship is wounded by her relationship with this man.WHO IS HE?  A rich kid- he will own a club, or two.  That's how he will get at Marie; she needs money, he's got plenty.  His name Chris.WHAT DOES HE SEE IN HER? A good screw, an easy screw.WHY DOES THE FRIENDSHIP GET STRAINED BY CHRIS?  Isa knows that Chris is leading Marie on, but she sees that Marie is willing to let herself be fooled and hurt.  She doesn't understand why.WHY DOES ISA CARE?  IS SHE JEALOUS? No, she just wants Marie to be well.BUT WHY DOES SHE CARE? They're friends.HOW HAVE THEY BECOME FRIENDS? They told each other their stories.WHY? Because they can, because before they were alone, and now they are not.WHY TRUST EACH OTHER? Je pas.WHAT HAPPENS TO ISA??  She moves on to another job.WHY DOES ISA LEAVE MARIE?  Isa can't help her anymore.WHY NOT?  Je pas.WHY AM I WATCHING THIS? Because we see how afraid, fragile, strong, and weak people can be. Because sometimes things are both so simple and so utterly impossible. Because we see a bit of humanity in this everyday tale.  Because the film shows life without shouting it.WHY SHOULD I SHELL 8 BUCKS FOR A BIT OF HUMANITY? See the film, you tell me.As the lights went up, half the audience was still sitting in the audience.  I turned around and a couple was holding each other, silent. Zoncka said he didn't care about the ending when he was writing, just about finding ways to emotion between characters.  No music, no FX, no big mysteries, just a simple drama of two women in a flat.  Pornographic? What does pornographic mean to you?  Do you mean content wise, or isn't it more important what you say with content?  Should you take the kids-how much do you want them to feel?Is this theater?  Are we supposed to react like a theatre audience, with the flesh and depth of the actors just replaced by a screen?  Why are we gathering together , without knowing any of our fellow spectators, to know these lives through a screen- why do we crave these images?  Why do we go? Is it the wonder of cinema, or is it the possibility of experiencing emotions we can't express outside the darkened theater?  I've seen plenty of horrible French movies, that questioned the je ne sais pas of life with dialogue that was awful and overintellectual.  This was different-silence said more than words about beauty, pain, and wonder.  Am I exaggerating? See the film, you tell me.  "},{"Title":"French Character Study, Both Funny And Sad","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  THE DREAMLIFE OF ANGELS (3 outta 5 stars)Quirky French comedy-drama about two young single girls who strike up a friendship and share the task of apartment-sitting for another girl who is laying comatose in a hospital. Isa is the independent but sensitive girl who goes to visit the comatose girl... becoming attached to her while reading her journals. Marie finds her comfort in the company of men... she falls for a handsome but no-good young womanizer, but dumps the fat, loyal musician who loves her. Very good character study in the French tradition of Eric Rohmer and Francois Truffaut. (If you admire the work of those two French auteurs then this movie is for you. If not, then maybe you'll want to pass.)  "},{"Title":"There's more to movies that reality, no matter how real","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the telling of a story, movie makers have at their disposal a wealth of tools. There is a school which attempts to portray life at it's most real, forgoing any cinematic effects which would hinder the presentation of what we know as slice of life. Ken Loach is one such director who has consistently adhered to such a style of movie making.It's not only a valid approach, but one that can be used to great effect, providing the lives on screen are ones we become emotionally involved in. The main problem of Dreamlife of Angels is that ultimately the two young woman's somewhat pathetic lives are not of much interest. Their problems are ones we are all aware of and little is presented in the way of helping us understand their predicament. Director Erick Zonca has certainly achieved what he set out to do, eliciting truthful, well rounded performances by both Natacha Regnier and Elodie Bouchez, whose blend of childish innocence and adult wisdom is as effective as it always is. Where he falters is in not making the viewer  care enough about their bleak lives, which in turn raises the question of just how worthwhile the entire experience has been. "},{"Title":"How a title can be a film's fortune","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I finally got the chance to see this film and I have to say that I am amazed I just cannot see how there could be such a massive praise for it. Admittedly, the title is beautiful (and it's what made me watch it, ultimately), and the acting is excellent (it truly is, and not just the two girls). But it's the content that is so full of cliches that pointing at this movie as a symbol of European cinema as opposed to Hollywood is a crying shame. Are we trying to mix up Dreamlife's trivial script with Fellini, Godard, Wenders?We have Isa (the angel, who quite appropriately sells Christmas cards) she invariably does or feels the good thing. We have Marie (the devil) abused, and therefore (sure, we can explain everything) ungrateful, arrogant, vulgar and (fortunately for us, given that she doesn't have a scrap of thing to say for the whole movie) suicidal. Marie is the one who gets naked, and she's the one who holds a threatening knife, of course. And of course the rich, spoiled kid is only doing what the morally corrupt bourgeoisie does, that is, buying his way into as many beds as he can.I often blame myself for being too sensitive and shedding tears even for films that aren't worth it, but in this case I felt miles away from the story. The huge amount of predictable cliches kills all such a pity for a movie whose best part is the title. "}{"Title":"Good but somewhat dark","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is not a bad movie; there is some real good and honest acting. There is an interesting human angle to the stories. But to me it was not a great movie. Both female characters were sympathetic in their own way but there was a feeling of gloom and desperation in the movie, which seemed to overpower the positive message of the movie. There is a tendency in European cinema drama to really go for what may be called a realistic sense of despair in the characters or the story lines. And that film is no exception. You can choose to focus on everything that can go wrong in life; and this movie sort of does that in its own way and to at least several of its characters. On the other hand, it also offers some positive turns and twists. There is some fruit for thought, some hope and some sense of joy but there was not enough optimism in the movie to really make it a great movie for me. "},{"Title":"I guess so...","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Dreamlife Of Angels A very static French film about two women who meet at a factory sewing job and proceed to become best friends.  Once one of the women begins to date a disrespectful man, the friendship begins to dissolve. Like I said, Director Erick Zonca crafts his film at such a lethargic pace.  Every shot goes on forever, every moment lasts an eternity.  The two leads, Elodie Bouchez and Natacha Regnier, won acting awards at last year's Cannes film fest.  They are both very deserving.  They make their characters extremely realistic and the friendship remains just that, never once slipping into a lesbian story - I've been conditioned to expect that nowadays.This is a good film, no doubt.  It's just too blasé for it's own good.The ending is supposed to shock, but it feels more like an excuse to end this aimless story.  I liked the performances, I admire the attempt, I just couldn't get worked up over the end result.-------------- 6 "},{"Title":"I gotta disagree","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didnt find anything new or original in this mostly superficial drama about backpacking and friendship. The incoherent plot and scripted dialogues do a great disservice to a potentially serious topic. Having backpacked a great bit myself, not one bit of the friendship sounds true. The ending is contrived. Throughout the film, I did not find any reason to care about the characters, and even less so when it came to their boyfriends. We are shown a bourgeois, cliché-ridden view of friendship.So what is about? Two girls with lousy jobs, lousy boyfriends and no ideals. More irritating than interesting. Especially when it becomes an excuse for a sloppy filmmaking.Vastly overrated, imho. "},{"Title":"learn French!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think one has to be able to understand French to truly appreciate this film. else if you only speak english and watch the video w/ subtitles, it's quite a bore.  others may disagree, but i don't think there was any love between the lovers in the movie.  it's also hard to see that the two characters truly care for eachother.  perhaps that's the french culture -- you don't really have to be overt when you love someone;  as long as you know, in your heart, that you have a place for him / her and vice versa. "},{"Title":"Flawed Angels","Date":"16 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Its hard to see why film critics are so enamoured with this film.I felt no sympathy at all for Marie. Not sure how much that was the actress (Natacha Regnier) or her acting putting me off. Her intention seemed to be to repel men rather than attract them. And yet blokes were attracted to her nevertheless; so that means either the bloke is too soft in the head (like the fat dopey biker bouncer was) or the interest is casual exploitative sex (which was the motive of the oily night club guy) She certainly repelled me; my antipathy antennae had tuned in to her screwy lack of self-worth right from the first scene a skinny female with a thin sneery mouth and short hair who isn't exuding erotic sexuality, but denying, repressing it; scared of her innate desirability, her womanhood has inverted into something wilfully antagonistic. I think that was what i was picking up &#x96; and probably meant to be picking up; but the unloved nature of this Marie character seemed over determined, too self-consciously emphatic. It's OK to have characters who are unlovable; but when they're also not very likable &#x96; like this Marie/Natacha Regnier wasn't &#x96; any empathy i could have felt re her vulnerability wasn't switched on.The other skinny little girl Isa was more sympathetic; warmer and less neurotically self-absorbed than Marie; a spaced out nice natured skank, creating her little cards out of mags, smoking her rollies with stubby painted nails. And whereas desperate Marie is out having self-centred hurty sex and doing her bad love shtick, Isa is showing self-effacing concern for angels in coma's.Actually, come to think of it, you could see Isa and Marie as angels too, if your definition of angel is something like innocent naivety, unfit for earthly life. Isa is the good angel, her innocence is ungrounded yes (few skills, little education), but her naivety is blessed by kindness and compassion. And Marie is the bad angel, the angel who fell to earth with too much of an ugly clunk, and become too buried in the dirty ground, her innocence contaminated, and deluded, by what she can no longer clearly see. An angel with broken (damaged) wings.But she's sat back on a cloud now. Letting the loved people live life instead i suppose. "},{"Title":"NOT a film for the average film viewer","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really didn't like this movie much at all. Much of it was because I didn't like either main character much at all--particularly Marie, as she's mostly a self-involved and hateful person. So, because of this and the generally gloomy and awful mood of the film, I can't see the average viewer liking this film.However, this is a rare film that is actually well-written but probably doesn't have a large audience. Those who will like it are either those who like depressing and awful films (fans of Bergman's most depressing films, this is probably for you) OR someone who watches it for the psychological studies. I was a therapist before my mid-life crisis and now I teach psychology in high school. If it weren't for all the nudity in the film, it would be a great film to show the kids when we discuss personality disorders. Isa is a pretty good example of an immature person who MIGHT be diagnosed with a Schizotypal Personality Disorder because she is just plain weird, though not apparently mentally ill. The connection she creates with the girl in the coma is just bizarre as are many of her other behaviors. Marie, though, is the more unlikable character and is a more clearly defined demonstration of a personality disorder. She actually shifts from an apparent Avoidant Personality Disorder (a person who acts like they need no one and may be quite surly to prove it) to a Dependent Personality Disorder (she MUST have one particular man, even though he mistreats her and is a bad person).Once again, this is not a fun movie to watch and the ending is depressing as can be, so don't rush out to see this movie unless you are a person looking for this specific type film. "},{"Title":"A tremendous scenario for a good cast...","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie, with some normal & common actors would have been a disaster. The story is unbelievable, the movie much too long, you often find yourself bored, or in front of déjà-vu situations. Natacha Regnier deserves though her award of best acting, although she sometimes overplays her acts. Elodie Bouchez is as always, which means good but not more than that. The two final scenes are pitiful. They're the reason why I'm writing this... "},{"Title":"Scandal! An insult to the public!","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How in the world could everybody like or even watch this movie? It is a terrible excerpt of what french cinema can sometimes become. It is a movie about poverty, about despair, about stupid people embarked in a pointless, common and uninteresting life. Who wants to watch two stupid girls getting along and fighting over (not even for!) a guy who cannot exist in real life? The director, realising the lack of interest of the film, felt compelled to include nude scenes, violence... to make it something else than an amateur movie... But obviously he failed! This film is surfing on the wave of french poverty films, which, somehow, attract the public. Total scandal and rip off! Do not watch it, not even for fun cos it is not.  "},{"Title":"Overrated and pornographic","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Other user comments are appropriate - it's too long, it's boring, and it's very dark and down.  No mention has been made of the graphic, ugly sexual content though - it borders on pornography. Viewers should be cautioned as to what they're getting - I would not be surprised if this picture receives an NC-17 from the MPAA.  Skip it - go see Life is Beautiful instead. "},{"Title":"This review of La Vie Revee Des Anges condemns the film as the horribly depressing tale that it is.","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  La Vie Revee Des Anges is a horrible film about two girls living in poverty. The entire plot and the dialogue are both incredibly pointless. There is absolutely no purpose in this movie. The film gives a glimpse into the lives of two girls, and these girls lead lame lives. The film is not like most in that most films show only exciting or emotional aspects of people's lives. This film offers viewers a glimpse into a collection of mundane details in the lives of the characters. The overall theme is one of tension and depression, and it cannot be imagined that viewers could expect anything except to be bored to tears.  "}{"Title":"Write that in your diary, Isa!","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oddly, as you look at prior reviews for this film, there are many that speak very highly about this film. Not surprisingly, I cannot see why. It is French, which shouldn't garnish the praise just because it is in a different language (at times, foreign language films get praise for just being foreign), the story itself is as bland as white bread with butter, and finally our two main characters bring nothing refreshing to the table. La Vie Revee Des Anges transforms before your eyes into an over-hyped sub-par film about the French depression and the absurd nature of the woman's choice. As you can see, I had trouble with this film. I didn't know what to expect when it began, but I wanted to be impressed. I wanted to see phenomenal acting coupled with a story that best represented the imaginative title, but alas, nothing of the sort occurred. Here is what I saw for nearly 113 minutes a homeless woman travels through France cheating some out of their money. She happens to find work at a sewing factory, but ends up loosing her job &#150; not before she meets Marie, a woman of the same vein, who become closer friends. I would argue that a friendship does not blossom, but instead two people searching for something different happen to stay under the same roof. The homeless woman, Isa, convinces Marie that she can say, and the two attempt to share the times of their lives. Surprisingly, they share different values and visions, so when two men enter their lives, they react differently. Then, when a random third enters, he is used to gain sympathy and skewed views from the audience. He is the flint to this fire, but again, it just doesn't gain enough flame. In the end, an event occurs that is meant to shock and evoke tears, but between the lines of boredom, it just garnishes a yawn followed by excitement that the ending credits were drawing near.I don't want to sound too pessimistic about this film, it had potential. I think director Erick Zonca can control his actors as well as give us haunting images, but when handed a struggling story, it is obvious that he cannot maintain. My biggest issue with this film is that random events occurred to two complete strangers. There was a point in this film where Zonca attempted to connect Isa and Marie as friends, but as the film continues, I can never see them as such. These two women, prior to working at the same place, never knew each other, yet instantly they were to live together and have a connection. Suddenly, they are dating two men, and anger ensues when a third becomes a part of the picture. We were missing some scenes in between that would allow us to see a stronger connection. We needed to see conflict and resolution prior to the ending, or perhaps a stronger story about both of them prior to their first meeting to really have us understand these two. I was bored, these characters brought nothing to the table. Randomly, near the center of the film, Isa begins to visit this other complete stranger &#150; of which Zonca immediately demands that we feel sympathy for. What this film transforms into is Zonca throwing random events, that with strengthening stories, would cause any audience member to tear up, but there isn't time for the details, so we eventually ... hum ... get lost in translation.I think our two actresses would have been strong contestants in this film, had the story not been in shambles. I cannot fault the actresses, though a stronger voice between them would have been helpful. Marie's love interest falls prey again to someone who we, as an audience, don't know anything about. The brief snippets of information that we are handed in this film, does not give us enough to make our own judgment. He is portrayed, wrongly in my eyes, as the villain, but for me, it was just another case of not knowing enough to make the assumption. This is the argument that I have with the relationship between Isa and Marie. We don't know enough, they don't know enough about themselves to really pass judgment. When Marie makes the choice to be with the more dominate male in the film, Isa passes judgment &#150; how could she? Did she know enough about the past of Marie or Marie in general to do so? I think not, how could she, we didn't get that satisfaction. So, this annoyed me throughout the film. Characters I didn't even know well enough, were passing judgment on others that nobody new well enough. It was rather embarrassing.Overall, I focused mainly on the characters of this film as my most irritable moment because I wanted to like these Isa and Marie, but not enough was given to us for anyone to relate to the realizations or hardships. I agree that quite a bit of poverty was happening in France during this time, but again, Zonca could have established this a bit further with a bit more detail. Detail was the lacking element which lead to the downfall of this film. The moments with Isa and Marie could have been heightened with more detail, the scenes with Isa in the hospital could have been more developed, and the final scene could have had such a delivered impact if only we cared. I didn't care about Isa or Marie by the end, and that is why I am bitter about the film. The French have made such amazingly strong films, that this one came as a surprise. I cannot suggest it &#150; nor shall I.Write that in your diary, Isa! Grade ** out of ***** "}]