[{"Title":"Now They've Made Revenge Funny","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" None of the three young stars of this film - Norm MacDonald, Artie Lange or Traylor Howard - ever became movie stars but they combined to make this a funny film, albeit what I call a lame-brain (somewhat low-class but effective humor) one. This is not an untypical comedy of today tons of sleazy jokes, sightgags, a lightweight romance story, a generally stupid story and a happy ending.....yet this one was far more appealing than most I've seen. Although the language could be worse, why this isn't rated R is beyond me. It is not for teens but I'll bet many of them watched and enjoyed this, as well as older people like me. MacDonald is a very likable guy in the lead. He just has a friendly face and demeanor about him. He makes the film. Lange was a bit loud. I'm glad the film wasn't longer because Lange's constant shouting begins to become grating. As for Traylor, she acted well and was a pretty face. After watching this twice, I wondered why she never made it, but at least she has now found TV fame as the new partner of the hit TV series, Monk.Two veterans actors in here - Jack Warden and Chevy Chase - play irreverent sleazy roles, something they certainly have done before.....and do well. Warden is brutal as the ultimate dirty old man and Chase is as smug as always. Don Rickles makes a short appearances as his normal obnoxious character and John Goodman makes a cameo near the end.The main story of this movie is a familiar one revenge, but this time it is played strictly for laughs, and there are plenty. The movie shows revenge isn't just sweet, it can funny. What can you say? The movie is crude, it's sentimental, and it's a fun 82 minutes. "},{"Title":"Why is this film so unappreciated?","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dirty Work is hilarious, with that oh-so noticeable SNL humor in it. Norm is at his best here, bringing a combination of his SNL roles to the big screen. I don't understand why this film could go so unnoticed with it's on-target comedy. The only thing I can see wrong is the lacking story line, but that's not what this film was made for. This film was made to be funny, and is just that. One of the best SNL style comedies ever (up there with Wayne's World and Tommy Boy). "},{"Title":"Very funny under-rated film","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dirty Work is a movie with one joke after another. I was shocked to hear this low-brow flick was directed by Bob Saget (Full House). The movie starts off with young Mitch Weaver and his buddy Sam seeking revenge on anybody who crosses their path. Sam's father gets a heart-attack and badly needs money for surgery. Dr. Farthing (Chevy Chase) makes a deal with the boys and if they can cough up a large amount of money to save him from his gambling debt, he will preform surgery on Pops (Jack Warden). Most of the movie is pretty damn funny. Some scenes aren't as funny like The bearded Lady scene, which the movie could have done without in my opinion. The highlight in the movie is no doubt Don Rickles role as the abusive manager of a local movie theater. The movie has no real serious parts in it which is OK; I would love to see Norm in more movies. He truly is talented. Good cast. Lots of Cameos by Ex-SNL members, including the late Chris Farley, the man who had his nose bite off by a whore! "},{"Title":"A movie that allows non-stop comedy....Norm scores big...","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Now when Saget made this film, he wasn't intending on creating an Oscar worthy performance from MacDonald or any of the other funny character ensemble. Whoever it was who would give this film a 4/10 star rating obviously is a one-sided dropout who doesn't realize the true meaning and genius in this movie. It was created for one reason and one reason only. To be funny. And by god it was. The great Chris Farley was only able to make but a few entrances but each time he was on screen, he nailed his part and brought more to the screen than what was on the paper. It is a shame a man of his magnitude was never able to show the world around us everything he was capable of. As for Chevy Chase, some may say his part showed up a little bit dry. Which it did, but this was not because of a poor script. This simply is because Chevy Chase's style of humor is that more of the early to late 70's. His performance overall was pretty good and I personally enjoyed it but the fact is he was unable to creatively fulfill himself in this film. The poor acting is made up for by having a non-stop comedy story board. This film ceases to have a dull moment and this largely can be credited to Norm MacDonald and his very unique style of comedy. Norm has always been a different kind of comedian who has different views on what he believes is funny. In this film, he is successfully able to transfer his hysterical notions to the lucky viewers of this film. "},{"Title":"Norm is hilarious and so is this movie.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've always been a big fan of Norm MacDonald and so when I heard about this movie I was happy to see he had his own movie, but I was a little pessimistic because there hadn't been one good SNL alumni movie since Wayne's World. But when I saw it I wasn't disappointed.Mitch (MacDonald) is a loser who just lost his job, his girlfriend, just learned his best friend's father is also his and he takes crap from everybody. So when him and his best friend Sam (Artie Lange) look for jobs they discover their calling to open a revenge for hire business. Their business turns out to be successful until a greedy rich guy wants revenge for a prank they played on him.Norm was hilarious. I like how straightforward he is with his lines(Settle down prostitutes!;Hey, homeless guys!). Artie Lange and Jack Warden were also very  funny. Chris Farley and Adam Sandler make funny appearances too. The dead hooker in the trunk and the gay dog gags were priceless.Ignore the critics. Check this out. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The funniest stupid comedy ever made","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though Dirty Work is outrageously low-brow, what makes it work is that it's purely ridiculous, and knows it ridiculous. The problem with most stupid comedies is they try to go for legitimate laughs, and simply come off as ridiculous. Anyone who's familiar with Norm MacDonald's brand of humor shouldn't be surprised. If you hate the guy, you probably won't like this movie, as he did co-write the script as well as being the star. So if you're a Norm-hater, you can stop reading this now.This is one of those movies where no matter how many times I watch it, I'm still able to crack up at the same stupid jokes. There's a ton of lines that I love to quote from the movie. One of those hilarious lines occurs during the dead hooker scene. Norm says, I've never seen so many dead hookers in my life, and a creepy guy in the crowd comments, Lord knows I have. The Saigon whore line is also hilarious And there's the Saigon whore...that bit my nose off! Aaaahhhh! In the movie, the late and great Chris Farley plays a guy...who got his nose bitten off by a Saigon whore. I know. Pretty self-explanatory. Farley doesn't play a huge role, but he steals the show every minute he's on screen. And of course, there's Norm's great Maybe you'll feel better after we have some dirty sex line.I like Norm MacDonald, because he says the most ridiculous things, but delivers them in almost a deadpan fashion. There are, of course, moments in the film that are just plain stupid. And seeing Rebecca Romijn with a beard is too disturbing for my taste. But the pros definitely outweigh the cons in this stupidly hilarious comedy that I hope becomes a cult classic someday. One thing's for sure You will never see another movie containing a barfight with The Pina Colada Song playing on the jukebox. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to make you chuckle","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Living in the UK I know very little about 'Saturday Night Live' comedy and I went in to this film with very little expectations and was pleasantly surprised with the result. In fact it turned out to be the funniest film that I have seen for a long while. It's laugh a minute stuff, serving up a lot of crude humour with a few daft situations which cannot fail to draw a snigger. The plot is simple- a loser (Norm MacDonald)  has to raise $50,000 to help get a heart donor for his best friends dad (Veteran actor, Jack Warden in fine form) so to do this the buddies set up their own 'revenge for hire' business with hilarious consequences. Watch out for humorous cameos by the likes of Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, John Goodman and Gary Coleman.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite dumb comedies","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is just great escapist fun, best enjoyed on a lazy day when you're feeling quite goofy and want to watch a totally cheese-ball comedy to give you a good guilty laugh.It's one of those dumb but lovable comedies that rambles all over the place, taking zany pokes at lots of things in society relationships, the police, jobs, the opera, homeless people, circus people, drug dealers, doctors, pet lap dogs, and lots more. Oh yeah, there are also dead hookers in trunks of cars. No kidding.There are wonderfully mirthful performances by the likes of Norm MacDonald, Jack Warden, Artie Lange, Don Rickles, Chevy Chase, Chris Farley, and others (Chris Farley is more than funny in this one - he's downright scary!). I also liked Traylor Howard (Kathy) in this one. What a sweetie!Anyway, go rent it, turn off any semblance of higher intellect that you may possess, sit back, and enjoy. *Note to self watch this movie again, and laugh foolishly all over again.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful introduction to Norm Macdonald's talents","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most casual movie-goers do not appreciate the dry, sarcastic wit of Norm Macdonald. Many do not understand that his blunt, sometimes bombastic delivery is his trademark comedic style. While I would never call his style, genius, he is certainly a master entertainer, in his own right. This style of his is an acquired taste. If you've managed to live your life without becoming the least bit jaded or cynical of anything, you may not understand Mr. Mcdonald's talent for humor. His coloring of even the most innocent scene with a dark innuendo or low-brow blurb is just so outrageous that we have no choice but to laugh. But those who do not understand, will find him abrasive or crass. It's true; he IS abrasive and crass, and in the most unfortunate situations he lets loose his abrasively crass innuendos and utters the most outrageous statements as facts only to correct himself by posing it as a question after he's already blurted out the first silly, obnoxious thing which comes to his mind. All this is assembled together with his honest expressions, common-everyday-Joe appearance, and expert comedic timing. Packaged within unlikely settings and a professional production, Norm Macdonald's comedic style is in the perfect element.Dirty Work enlists the largest range of Norm Macdonald's skills of any one work I have seen. It is virtually a showcase for his talent. Unfortunately, it is commonly viewed as mindless, low-brow, Hollywood fluff and will therefore never receive the full appreciation of the audiences it deserves. The casual movie-goer will not be in on some of his one-liners, and the hard core comedic fans will be too busy critiquing his innovative comedic style to appreciate it.This work involves Chevy Chase as an unscrupulous in-debt gambler who is willing to help our star out of his latest pickle in exchange for a load of money. I was a tad disappointed with Chevy's role in this vehicle. It could have afforded Mr. Chase's legendary talents a bit more respect by way of screen time. I found his talents were sorely under used although the drivers were pistoned after his specific flair. I did not quite agree with this decision.All in all, this is a beautiful introduction to Norm Macdonald's talents and I highly suggest its viewing.It rates a 7.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not for all tastes.  But if it is your taste, THIS MOVIE'S HILARIOUS!!!","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not everybody appreciates the low-brow, sarcastic attempt that Norm McDonald takes towards comedy.  I wouldn't call him a genius like Mel Brooks or Woody Allen, but he knows how to do comedy and he knows how to make people laugh--Well, he knows how to make ME laugh.  Sometimes you see humor that's so dumb and meaningless that it makes you crack up.  That is demonstrated again and again in Dirty Work.  For example, the scene at the movie theater.  Norm and Artie took revenge on their evil boss by showing a movie called Men in Black...Who Like to Have Sex with Each Other.  OK, so this is not humor that was thought of with sheer ingenuity.  But I was cracking the hell up!  There are all sorts of different angles you can take towards humor.  You can't always tell which is the best angle.  When you watch an action movie, a drama, a thriller, a mystery or almost any other genre, you look for intelligence and wit.  But when you watch a comedy there's two factors--at least there should be two factors--and those are  you laugh or you don't laugh.  And different things make different people laugh.  So I don't appreciate haters of this movie claiming this is no more than an insult to one's intelligence.  You don't need intelligence for comedy. As long as a comedy makes me laugh, I'm satisfied, and I laughed A LOT!!!I'm glad this movie received a cult following.  This wasn't a big hit in mainstream cinema, but lots of friends I know love this movie--some thought it was the funniest comedy of all time.  So my recommendation is split You might like it, you might not like it.  Just check it out, there's no harm. Unless you're easily offended by jokes about obesity and homosexuality.  "}{"Title":"I should be ashamed of myself, but this film actually made me laugh","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Norm MacDonald and Artie Lange play two friends who aren't particularly bright and have a long history of screwing up their lives and losing jobs. Then they get the bright idea of opening up their own business--one that will get revenge for a price. The acts of revenge are among the funniest things about the film. I especially loved how he got revenge on the loud neighbors and the sleazy car salesman. There were some serious negatives in the film such as quite a few flat jokes here, the unfunny bit where MacDonald makes notes to himself on a tape recorder (it was overdone on SNL--it was even worse here) and there was the ending--it seemed to end way too quickly and the resolution wasn't particularly satisfying compared to the earlier parts of the film.However, this film has the phrase guilty pleasure written all over it. While the film has many flat moments, crude jokes and horrible messages, it did make me laugh and laugh--and that's the most important positive about the film. I know I should be ashamed of myself, but you can't ignore a film that puts a smile on your face like this stupid movie did. In addition, I hate to admit that I also laughed at MacDonald's other critically scathed film SCREWED. I feel so dirty--these are NOT deep or sophisticated films and they abound with juvenile humor--but they make me laugh.By the way, keep note of all the unusual supporting actors that appeared in this film such as Chevy Chase, Don Rickles, Adam Sandler, Chris Farley and Jack Warden (among others). Obviously, there were a lot of folks out there that liked MacDonald and wanted to help him with this film. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I'd feared, not as good as I'd hoped.","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Firstly, two qualifiers 1) I've been burned by WAY too many awful comedies lately, and was coming  into this film with more than a little trepidation. 2) I've been a big fan of Norm MacDonald ever since I saw his stand-up years  ago.I went to this film mostly because of how funny I think Norm MacDonald is.    That's really the only reason, as the previews did nothing to entice me  otherwise, and I assumed it would be another awful movie.   I also have an  unfathomable hatred for Bob Saget's work, but for some reason I still went  to see this.   I have to say I was, in a way, pleasantly surprised.Yes, this movie is insanely stupid.   However, as I had hoped, Norm  MacDonald's comedic genius did get a few chances to peak through.   While a  large portion of the jokes were complete duds, there were a few moments of  comedic inspiration in this movie that left me in hysterics.   It's no Full  Monty, but who expected it to be?Here's a quick guideline for you if you are considering seeing this.   If  you think you're going to hate it, see it.   It'll be much better than you  fear.   If you think you're going to love it, don't see it.   You'll only  be disappointed.   If you've got nothing better to do, it's not the worst  way to spend 7 bucks or so. "},{"Title":"Not as dirty as it should be","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Dirty Work' isn't exactly good - it is, more exactly, rubbish - but it is funny. Very funny, in parts. I like Norm MacDonald a lot, despite his inability to act his detached, smirking and insincere persona makes me laugh even when he's not saying anything. The plot, in which Norm and best pal Artie Lange set up a revenge-for-hire business, is complete nonsense but it's practically irrelevant anyway, as it's just an excuse for a series of slapstick gags and occasionally inspired stupidity.Not all of it works. Any scenes featuring Chris Farley consist of a hollow wind and the distant barking of a lonesome dog. The direction is hopelessly flat, while the editing seems designed to undercut any sense of comedic timing; the whole thing is styleless, taking place in an airless environment with very little background noise and sets that look exactly like sets. And the romance angle is so anaemic it's hard not to feel sorry for Traylor Howard, working with such an underwritten role.The movie has a line in crudity at odds with the bland presentation. There's a really tasteless scene in prison where Norm is led off by a group of convicts and returns having apparently been gang raped; it upsets whatever tone had been established until that point, and while Norm's understated complaining about the whole thing (Ridiculous!) is funny, the scene is just&#x85; weird. The whole movie could have done with being ratcheted up to this level, if only for consistency's sake; as it is it feels compromised, as if it was originally far dirtier than the finished product.Hit and miss, then, but worth watching if only for the running gag with Norm getting thrown face first onto the pavement, which never gets old. And I'm not being sarcastic - I laughed every time it happened. "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Cameos by the likes of Chris Farley & Adam Sandler are not enough to make up for the fact that this dud manages to waste two of comedy's sharpest minds. Norm MacDonald & Artie Lange are two nincompoops who, unable to do any work of any sort, start a revenge for hire business and wow, is it unfunny. Neither MacDonald nor Lange is allowed to let loose and both come across as exceedingly dull. MacDonald seems to know this type of thing is NOT his bag and actually seems to be winking at the camera. This really sent his career into oblivion. Lange comes across as a nitwit and it's a shame, because his stand-up act is hilarious! Directed, with no finesse, by Bob Saget (another hilarious stand-up comic wasting his time with lame-brained nonsense). Be warned, this film even manages to waste Don Rickles! "},{"Title":"A Solid Comedy Film","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To tell you the truth this film is underrated.from being a box-office failure,To critics Panning the film to it's stupid jokes.but it is an enjoyable comedy.A Straight-forward plot,Solid Acting,pacing runs smoothly in this film though character development is a Mixed bag.and at times the jokes can be corny but it's solid and funny.The film is about two friends Mitch(Norm Macdonald) and Sam(Artie Lange) a bunch of lazy pranksters who have been pranking people for revenge for years.Evenutally Sam's dad Pop's(Jack Warden)has a heart attack and needs a heart's transplant and Mitch and Sam need $50,000 dollars for the surgery.They get jobs from construction working to working at the movies.But when they play a prank at their boss Mitch comes up with a idea to make money.Open up a revenge's business.soon enough a millionaire Travis Cole(Christopher Mcdonald) wants to a evict a building of people to build a parking lot he uses Mitch and Sam to help him evict the building and offering $50,000 Dollars to both of them.but when he double cross both of them they come up a way to get revenge at Travis Cole.The Plot is very straight-forward there are no twist or turns in this film just straight forward.nothing really surprising something you except in these type of comedies.As for character development it's A mixed Bag.Mitch and Sam are two most developed characters.For the fact one Mitch is really the smartest out of the two.with his devilish plans,and mostly getting hurt and getting the girls.Sam is the slow-dimwitted,Fat friend.He's the sidekick.A Loser,and sensitive about everything and rarely gets hurt in the film or is the joke of everything.Never gets the girl and usually starting a fight with someone.as the rest some are well developed some are underdeveloped.For example Kathy is underdeveloped you don't learn much about her character except her love for Mitch and her grandma.Jack Warden As pops is developed.the fact of being a rough boxer and his sexual obsession with hot woman.and also having sex with Mitch's mom.As the acting It's solid for this type of film.Jack Warden and Don Rickles give the most memorable performances as their characters.Don Rickles has funny scenes especially insulting Sam for being fat.Jack Warden with his Sexual Jokes about woman which brings most of the humor in the film.Norm Macdonald despite his Dead-Pan performance but really fits in his role as the prankster bum.he also brings lots of humor in the film as well when he is talking on his take recorder or the trunk prank of the hookers.Chris Farley with his over-the-top performance but his some humor as well with his nose being ripped off.As the rest they all do a good job with the film.Overall it's a solid film go see it it's enjoyable. "},{"Title":"It works better than most of the SNL comedies because it's a knowing and sarcastic film that hates itself.","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Whereas his contemporary, Adam Sandler, had made a career out of enjoying himself in stupid comedies like this, Norm MacDonald approaches his film debut - Dirty Work - with a dry sense of irony and self-awareness he knows the film sucks. He knows the plot is nonsense. He knows the love interest is a throwaway mandatory subplot. He knows the dialogue is terrible, terrible stuff. And he knows he can't act. He doesn't care.And so in a way this is a very subversive genre film, because it takes the then-popular SNL-actor-adaptation formula of flicks such as Happy Gilmore and Billy Madison (which, at the time, before Superstar and Night at the Roxbury ended the fashion, was a guaranteed-profit machine) and just basically makes fun of it for 82 minutes. Yes, Sandler and other SNL actors make brief cameos but this is better than most of the typical SNL films. (Off the top of my head, I think only Happy Gilmore really works as well, and not for the same reasons.) Maybe I'm prejudiced in the film's favor because I love Norm MacDonald. I think he's one of the most hilarious men to ever grace the earth. But he's funnier with on-the-spot, unrehearsed stuff. (As evidenced by his appearance on Conan a few years ago, which Conan in retrospect claimed was the funniest interview he'd ever done.) He often appears on talk shows acting completely drunk, stoned, and out of his mind. At first it appears that he's just rambling, but it's a carefully practiced style of comedy and you either love it or hate it. I love it.His acerbic wit propels Dirty Work. It's just fun watching him, even though once the film's over it's very clear why he never made it as a major film star he doesn't have the same qualities as Sandler. He isn't content with making garbage and trying to pass it off as good comedy. He hates the formula and, in fact, commercials for Dirty Work were banned by NBC after Norm was deemed not funny by the vice president of NBC at the time (who fired Norm from the Weekend Updates).Don't misunderstand me. This movie's not that great. And Norm is out of place - visibly so. But this is what makes it work. The prison sex scene is treated so nonchalantly and with such self-mockery that you just *know* these guys were making fun of this movie the whole time. Artie Lange, Don Rickles, Jack Warden, and Chevy Chase in one of his few truly funny film roles. And it's directed by Bob Saget for goodness sake.Sarcastic, self-loathing, acerbic, witty, brutal, and consumed by hatred. Not your typical Saturday Night Live movie. And I'm glad it didn't turn a profit because I'd hate to have to see Norm MacDonald stuck pretending to enjoy doing this for a living. Watching him show up on the Daily Show stirring controversy is a lot more fun and more in-tune with what he's all about. He's misunderstood but the public have a pretty good record of popularizing talentless people. "},{"Title":"Has Its Moments","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dirt Work is not the greatest story or comedy ever filmed but it does have its moments. When Mitch Weaver(Norm MacDonald) is fired from his job, looses his girlfriend, and kicked out of his apartment, he decides to live with his best friend, Sam (Artie Lange). Soon, Pops (Jack Warden), Sam's father, is in the hospital and in order to get him a heart replacement they must pay Dr. Farthing (Chevy Chase) $50,000 in two weeks. Mitch decides to help after finding out from Pops that Sam is his brother.They try various jobs at one of the funniest points in the movie construction workers, product testers, and cinema workers. During these jobs they (more like Mitch) come up with the idea of revenge-for-hire to get fast cash. Norm MacDonald's commentaries are hilarious and Artie Lange is the lovable idiot. Some of the ideas MacDonald and Sebastiano came up while writing this were absolutely genius and MacDonald probably coming up with his ideas right from 'Saturday Night Live. Dirty Work. Starring Norm MacDonald, Artie Lange, Chevy Chase, Jack Warden, and Traylor Howard.3 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"You'll love it, or you'll hate it...","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw Dirty Work in the theater, and I laughed so loudly and frequently that everyone in the theater must have thought I was insane.  Never before or since have I had more belly laughs during a film.Yet many people (including a few of my friends) absolutely HATED this film. I think the fact of the matter is, Norm MacDonald's breed of humor is a rare kind, dry and disgusting and socially satirical all at once.  If one of Norm's jokes doesn't make you laugh, none will; if you like the stuff he did on SNL, then Dirty Work will have you rolling on the floor.MacDonald spends the whole film making fun of himself, delivering his lines as though he were reading them from a cue card, and the plot exists only to further the jokes.  Some people are clearly turned off by this, but I was too busy laughing to catch the story anyway.I can't understand why this movie didn't make any money, or why it's not a cult classic (although time will tell).  MacDonald, Warden, Chase and Farley are all at their best, and there are so many funny moments it doesn't even seem fair to single any one out as the best.  But I must admit the fish scene is pure genius... "},{"Title":"Hilarious, Underrated Film","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film got slammed by the critics when it came out, so I avoided seeing it for awhile. A few people told me it was hilarious, but I had my doubts. For some reason, Norm MacDonald had kind of rubbed me the wrong way on SNL. This film alone changed me from a Norm doubter to a huge Norm fan. It is a hilarious, nonsensical film filled with insanity, inanity and a ton of laughs. The cast is a comedy dream team Norm, Artie Lange, Chevy Chase, Chris MacDonald, Chris Farley, Jack Warden, Don Rickles, a quick cameo by Sandler and a quick cameo by Gary Coleman AND a quick cameo by Tommie Hearns. This film is one of those great, great comedies that any critic would have to hate. It is stupid, yes, on purpose. It is crass, tasteless, idiotic, sophomoric and guess what else? Extremely funny. A must see for fans of less than brilliant comedy. "},{"Title":"Stupid beyond belief, but has enough funny moments to make it watchable","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stars Norm MacDonald, Artie Lange, Jack Warden, Traylor Howard, Chevy Chase, Chris Farley, Don Rickles. Cameos Adam Sandler, Gary Coleman, and many others.You can see in this movie why Norm McDonald was fired from SNL for not being funny. He and Artie Lange are our two main characters and neither are very good actors, so it's really hard to watch them at times. The plot deals with Mitch and Sam starting a revenge for hire business to pay for Sam's (and later revealed Mitch's) dad's (Warden)operation. Some scenes in this film are really quite funny, like the crossing guard that grabs kids rears, or Don Rickles at the movie theater, but more often then not it relies on really unfunny and stupid sex jokes. Bob Saget from Full House directed this, which might explain why it's so ridiculous at times. However it does have a great backup cast, including Chevy Chase as the addictive gambler Dr. Farthing and Chris Farley as a bar buddy that had his nose bit off by a Saigon whore.If you enjoy Norm MacDonald's brand of humor, you'll most likely enjoy this. My rating **/****. 76 mins. PG-13 for Sexual humor, Language and Some Backside nudity. "}{"Title":"Keep an open mind and sense of humor, and you'll love it!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I actually have newfound respect for Bob Saget after seeing this movie (as well as his cameo in Half-Baked with the great line I've sucked dick for coke. Have you ever sucked dick for marijuana?!) This movie was obviously not made with the intention of racking up a bunch of awards, but we found it hilarious nonetheless. It has some great scenes in it, great lines (Mitch I've made up my mind, I'm going to tell Sam... --Pops grabs him by the balls-- ...or NOT...AAAAHH!), and if you like Norm MacDonald, you'll love this movie. It's full of his note to self one-liners as well as his general humor. The plot itself, although I found it to contain a lot of holes (which is why I say keep an open mind while you watch it), is quite funny. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Probably one of the best 3 or 4 lowbrow comedies of the 90's","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This lowbrow comedy is a near-total success. This film should cause plenty of laughter, and that is clearly its only aim. The performances by Norm MacDonald and Artie Lange were A+, basically playing the personas they established through their stand-up acts and TV appearances. This film is largely grounded on these two never-boring and often-funny characters, who each found a perfect vehicle for himself in this film.Director Bob Saget clearly deserves a lot of credit for giving these two the freedom to basically just do their acts. Artie Lange and Norm MacDonald either helped write this script, or else they really took it and made it their own, and they are two pretty funny guys.But there's more. There's Jack Warden's brilliant performance as the crusty old father, Don Rickles' classic scene with Artie Lange, an appropriately not-quite-over-the-top and enjoyable performance by Chevy Chase who appears in a few scenes without stealing them, and Chris Farley putting in a fine performance in this his final film. All are funny and entertaining in their own ways, but this is clearly Norm MacDonald's and Artie Lange's movie.One quibble would be with Traylor Howard's uneven performance as the love interest. Probably not the greatest actress, but she's nice to look at.This is one of the top 25 all-time classic lowbrow-style comedies, and one of the five best of the 90's. It has a pretty unique style in terms of its comedy, thanks largely to Norm MacDonald and Artie Lange. There is no way this film deserves less than an 8 from anyone. It's one thing to not like an entire genre, but this film is obviously a near-total success at what it set out to do--to make us laugh frequently. As I write, this film has an average rating of 5.9, making this one of the more underrated films here, and another example of the ratings at IMDb meaning very little. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember watching the exercise videos on pay TV. The ones the old man is watching on the black and white TV. Not too much by todays standards. I wonder if anyone would know the name or a way to get a copy of those gals exercising in their leotards? If I had a name I could probably find it on Yahoo video search, any suggestions. maybe the director, Bob Saget would know. I wonder if he ever surfs the web and checks out his movie reviews.Please let me know by posting on google groups or on craigs list for the city of Stockton. I've been searching for this video for years, and would appreciate any help. "},{"Title":"Oh my it's so silly...","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm surprised Dirty Work isn't even in the bottom 100, as I'm sure loads and loads of people will hate the sillyness of this movie. But if you can get past that, there's a lot to laugh about. Thanks to mister McDonald, of course.He's playing Mitch, and him and Sam (Artie Lange) are long time best buddies. What they don't know is that they're brothers as well. Not that that is important in any way of the movie, but who cares. Their father is 'pops' (a great Jack Warden), who needs surgery to survive. To put him up the list for that surgery, the two losers need 50,000 dollar. The only way to get that kinda money is from their new company a revenge-for-hire business.I won't bore you with more details (it got something to do with a malafide real estate guy), the main reason to somewhat like this movie is Norm McDonald. He must be the funniest comedian around (sorry Mr. Seinfeld), too bad we haven't really seen him since.5/10. "},{"Title":"Miles of Smiles","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mitch (Norm McDonald) gets fired from the pizza shop for delivering a pie in 32 minutes instead of the guaranteed 30 minutes. Likewise, his girlfriend gives him the heave ho from their apartment.  After Mitch moves in with his friend, Sam and Sam's aging father (Jack Warden), Mitch finds out that the old man needs a heart transplant pronto.  An unscrupulous surgeon (Chase) offers a speedy operation for a mere $50,000, in cash.  Thus, Mitch and Sam stumble into a business which provides revenge from loud neighbors, deadbeat landlords, and more. Can the dynamic duo raise the money?This film, despite moments of crudeness, is quite funny and provides miles of smiles all around.  McDonald, an SNL alumnus, has a low-key delivery that goes down easy while Warden, Artie Lange, Don Rickles, Chase, and the unbilled Chris Farley join the the successful merrymaking.  There's even a touch of romance for those who consider this a bonus.  The movie will probably never appear on a list of recommended films but, for comedy fans, my recommendation is to grab it and giggle with gusto. "},{"Title":"simple and extremely funny","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like Norm Macdonald or sarcasm at all, rent Dirty Work. It seems like not so many people have seen (or even heard of) this movie, and that's too bad. Some of the humor is pretty dumb but most of it is just expertly delivered sarcasm. The plot is thin, the theme is simple and cheesy, but Dirty Work is a great comedy and one of my favorites. Lots of quotable lines, a great supporting role played by Chris Farley, a bunch of hilarious scenes that will make you laugh. "},{"Title":"Underrated Comedy","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dirty Work is one of my favorite movies. There's at least one joke a minute. A lot of it is Norm MacDonald's dry humor though so if you don't like that, this movie isn't for you. However, many jokes are very clever with perfect timing.The cast is more or less the cast of Billy Madison. Adam Sandler has a very small cameo. Chris Farley has a part too. He does a really good job playing his character. Even Chevy Chase is in it. I think they could've made his part bigger and funnier but that's about the only flaw.If you haven't seen Dirty Work, it'd be a good decision to check it out. You may be surprised. "},{"Title":"I was shocked at how funny this is!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I bought this film on import because it's produced by Bob Simonds (Happy Madison)... I thought it would be good, but nothing special. Surprisingly though, it's genuinely hilarious and just as good as Billy Madison/Big Daddy etc. I wasn't familiar with Macdonald's style beforehand, but I have to say I liked it!... really deadpan and blunt Hey, homeless guys!... I don't consider acting to be a priority in a comedy though, which is fortunate, as it isn't anything special here(!) Where this film really does excel, however, is the laughter count. I honestly don't think I've ever laughed so continuously through a film, or as hard. Anyone looking for a quality comedy that will make them contemplate their own morality or something, should probably look elsewhere. Anyone who doesn't mind stupid comedy should really get a kick out of this one though, as it's impossible not to laugh! "},{"Title":"Pretty good for Bob Saget!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Directed by Bob Saget?  The first time I saw this advertised on television, I laughed at the notion of watching anything directed by Bob Saget.  After all, he was the annoying, sensitive neat freak on Full House (worst television show of all time) and the host of America's Funniest Home Videos who makes all the weird voice imitations that aren't funny.However, Bob Saget directed a pretty good comedy...Dirty Work is all about two guys Mitch Weaver (Norm MacDonald) and Sam McKenna (Artie Lange) who need to raise $50,000 and are unable to do it by getting regular jobs.  They come up with the original idea of a revenge-for-hire business, to screw others and get paid for it.  It works!  The dead hookers in the trunk bit is absolutely gold!  Norm MacDonald is very funny in the movie and without him, the movie would totally fail.Pops (Jack Warden) plays the father of Sam McKenna and ends up hospitalized.  He is very funny to watch in the movie.  He was in The Replacements, Problem Child 1 and 2, and a few other good movies.I wasn't really a big fan of Norm MacDonald (except for the Bob Dole impersonation) and his weekend update bit on Saturday Night Live but he is very funny in Dirty Work.  Artie Lange I remember from Mad TV (they replaced him later with another fat guy) doing the black woman trapped in a white man's body skits.  Very funny!  He is a good supporting actor in this movie!Chevy Chase even has a cameo appearance as a doctor...it's sad to see him in like that.All in all, Dirty Work is a solid comedy worth renting and spending some time out of your busy schedule to watch.  It's not as good as Meet the Parents or Caddyshack, but it's not half as bad as Saving Silverman or Freddy Got Fingered. (ugh...) "},{"Title":"Slightly Amusing","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're a fan of Norm MacDonald (and I am), you'll probably get a few chuckles from this thin comedy about a loser who can't keep a job, so he and his friend open up a revenge-for-hire business and find there's a HUGE demand for their services.The script is admittedly pretty flimsy, but Norm milks quite a few laughs by simply being himself.  Bob Saget directed and does a surprisingly good job, putting some energy into the slapstick gags.My main complaint is that the film needed to be nastier and raunchier.  It lacks the caustic wit that MacDonald is known for in his stand-up comedy and feels watered-down in order to avoid an R rating.  Still, the movie has it's moments and while not a classic, IS fitfully funny enough to be not a complete waste of time. "}{"Title":"one of the funniest movies of 1998!","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  dirty work is just plain hilarious! this is the funniest movie starring a saturday night live cast member. it's not the most entertaining, that award goes to opportunity knocks with dana carvey. but dirty work is funnier than that movie.dirty work is also very entertaining,but if it was as entertaining as opportunity knocks it would be a masterpiece.still dirty work is one of the funniest movies of 1998! and maybe the funniest movie of 1998! i give dirty work ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Hilarious Film","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mitch,and Sam need to raise money for Sam's Dad(Who is Mitch's too) to get a new heart. So they start a revenge for hire business. Which leads to laugh a minute jokes. And so hilarious cameos. Gary Colemans are the best. Whatcu talkin about Satan? See Dirty Work again,and again! Hilarious!3.5/4 "},{"Title":"one of my favorite comedies","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, this movie has a pretty lame plot, but it's still friggin funny. For me, this is up there with Office Space as one of my favorite comedies. Many of the lines just keep me rolling. This is a great movie to watch with a bunch of friends while having a few brews. Hairy backs, dead hookers, and Chris Farley have never been so funny. I'd probably consider this to be the best movie starring an SNL alum. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated comedies ever","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No comedian on earth makes me laugh harder than Norm MacDonald. While MacDonald may be an acquired taste, his deadpan delivery can pretty much make any joke hysterical. MacDonald's unapologetically un-PC brand of comedy combined with his dry delivery can make people uncomfortable. His Weekend Update segments on SNL were consistently controversial, but also consistently hilarious. After being fired from SNL, movies seemed like the best next step for MacDonald. Unfortunately, his first starring role in Dirty Work didn't pan out quite like MacDoanld or his fans would have liked. The film was a box office failure, and pretty much derailed MacDonald's film career as a leading man. However, a film's box office is not a fair measurement of a film's quality. Some of the most memorable comedies of all time have been box office failures. While I won't say Dirty Work is an all time cinema classic, I will defend it as something close to a comedic masterpiece. It's an off-the-charts stupid comedy with plot holes and obvious editing galore, but it is also, above all else, one of the funniest comedies ever made.The most surprising part of Dirty Work is that was directed by Bob Saget. The knowledge that the guy who made hundreds of corny jokes on Full House is responsible for one of the most side-splitting comedies of all time is fairly hard to believe. What makes Dirty Work such a joy is the confidence Saget shows as a director. There is never a moment in which the movie retreats from what it is a dumb, raunchy comedy determined to go for most low-brow joke possible at every turn. The film is absolutely juvenile in the best way, and knows it. The film never tries to be something it's not. Every scene is filled with crude humor, somewhat obvious jokes, and easy targets. But every scene is also filled with memorable lines delivered by actors who know exactly what type of comedy they are starring in, for better of worse. Norm MacDonald and Artie Lange are aware they are not the world's greatest actors, so any moment that would usually require a convincing emotion is almost immediately undercut with a dirty joke. Any scene that could fall flat is instantly beefed up by a celebrity cameo by the likes of Adam Sandler, Gary Coleman, John Goodman, Don Rickles etc. Bob Saget is completely aware of how awful certain scenes could be, and does everything to ensure that every scene is better than it has any right to be by simply providing another solid joke at every turn.The flaws of Dirty Work are completely apparent. The editing for the PG-13 rating is hard to ignore, especially in the jail scene. The pacing is almost too quick. And, although it's certainly not the fault of the filmmakers, it would have been nice if the last film of Chris Farley released in theaters contained slightly more of him. Despite the obvious imperfectness of the film, it's hard for me not to love it. I could probably watch this movie every day of my life without tiring of it. It's one of the few movies that gets funnier every time I watch it. There's no comedy that deserves a special edition DVD or Blu Ray release than this one. Highly recommended. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What can I say. It was funny at time and not so funny at other times. This is going to sound crazy but Norm MacDonald's facial expressions helped save the movie for me. He'll just say something but sell it with a silly look on his face afterwards. The movie is about two friends who open up a revenge for hire business in an attempt to raise enough money for one of the friends.. or both of the friends father. The movie has two incredibly funny scenes that almost make the movie worth watching just to see them. The first is the hooker in the trunk scene and the second is the putting fish in the house scene. I couldn't stop laughing. I know they did the same kind of joke in an Austin Powers movie but I'm too lazy to google for would did it first because chances are both films got it from somewhere else. Is it worth watching? I'm going to say yes and no. No, if you don't want to waste your time and yes if you have time to kill and you're a fan of dumb comedies. "},{"Title":"Dirty Movie.","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dirty Work (1998) Dir Bob Saget / Cast Norm MacDonald, Artie Lange, Jack Warden, Christopher McDonald, Chevy Chase Good concept suggests people doing what they shouldn't, such as making this film in the first place. It stars Norm MacDonald who is a failure at everything except revenge. He is kicked out of his apartment then learns that his best friend's father may also be his. He is warned not to spill the beans. He needs $50,000 for a heart transplant so he opens a revenge for hire business where he will perform odd stunts for a fee. Appealing concept condemned to formula and an ending that justifies revenge. Director Bob Saget does his best to create interesting situations and locations. MacDonald is totally unsympathetic and Artie Lange as his best friend cannot act. Together they create these stunts that might have worked given better writers. Jack Warden is typecast as the hospitalized father who is all about punching MacDonald in the crotch and plainly being angry in general. Christopher McDonald plays the typical villain whom MacDonald will play off as a justified revenge tactic. Chevy Chase is also wasted as a surgeon with a gambling dept but the only thing he really gambles is a once flourishing career. Someone should have hired these guys to write a decent screenplay, or at least prevent this stupid crap from being seen in any public venue. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Hit and miss comedy","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mitch Weaver (Norm MacDonald) and Sam McKenna (Artie Lange) are life long friends since childhood. They have always been great at taking revenge in imaginative ways. When Mitch gets thrown out by his girlfriend, he's forced to stay with Sam and his father Pops (Jack Warden). When Pops has a heart attack, he tells Mitch that he's his dad. Now Pops needs a heart transplant and Dr. Farthing (Chevy Chase) is willing to bump him up to the top of the list for $50k in 2 weeks. With the manager of the movie theater Mr. Hamilton (Don Rickles) being a jerk, the guys take revenge with all the employees paying. So the guys come up with the idea of revenge-for-hire business.The comedy depends a lot on the various outlandish revenge schemes. Some of it works, but it's very much hit and miss. The comedy duo of MacDonald and Lange isn't very exciting. While I usually love both guys, they don't give off a positive energy. MacDonald's sarcastic brand of comedy is the funniest part of the movie. This movie is filled with comedy stars and SNL alumni. It almost works. "},{"Title":"No matter how bad life gets, there is always beer.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Words to live by in comic Norm Macdonalds' first big film vehicle, directed by none other than Bob Saget. Speaking as a fan of Macdonald, I've always just loved his delivery. The man could say practically anything, and I'd still chuckle. Here he works with other comedy pros and established actors to create a gleefully un-P.C., ridiculous movie that's just fun from beginning to end.Co-written by Macdonald, Dirty Work stars him as Mitch, kind of a loser in life who finally realizes what he's best at getting revenge when somebody does him wrong. Together with his best friend Sam (Artie Lange), he decides that this will be his line of work. However, they do need to come up with $50,000 rather quickly to pay a gambling addict doctor (Chevy Chase) to pull some strings to get Sams' dad 'Pops' (Jack Warden) a new heart. Trouble brews when rich bastard Travis Cole (Christopher McDonald) plays Mitch and Sam for fools and some innocent people get booted out of their homes. So the two buddies save the best revenge of all for the nefarious Cole.Examples of the kinds of lunacy in this movie include dead prostitutes in car trunks, frat boys tricked into picking a fight with cops, the raunchy spin on Men in Black that Mitch and Sam play at a theatre, Mitchs' frequent notes to self dictations into a pocket tape recorder, and a highly unlikely choice of music for a fight scene in a bar. Macdonald does alright in his first lead, and isn't bad when he's required to actually act. Lange makes for a good sidekick. It's nice to see veteran Warden be so feisty (and randy). Traylor Howard is cute as the requisite love interest. McDonald is perfect in the kind of jerk role that he was clearly born to play. Don Rickles has fun doing his traditional insult humour as a crabby movie theatre owner. David Koechner has a small role as the proprietor of a car dealership. And there are assorted lively cameos by a couple of familiar faces. The verbal and visual jokes keep coming and everything is wrapped up within a very reasonable 82 minutes. Best of all, there's a few outtakes to enjoy during the end credits.This is one of those riotous movies that can hold up to repeat viewings, especially if one is an admirer of any of the comedic talent here. It's highly recommended.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Is it harder to achieve higher standards or maintain low ones?","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dirty Work isn't so much a film as a competition for how many filthy jokes can we incorporate in a seventy-six minute film? That kind of thesis for a comedy is almost always lethal because we get no opportunities for humanity or genuine laughs since the film constantly feels the dreary obligation to one-up itself. Here's a film that is so perfunctory and foreseeable in its setups and deliveries that I'd be convinced if the screenwriter and the director thought of this film over a coffee break and decided to carry out everything right then and there.The film was directed by Bob Saget, who you'd know as the whitest, cleanest, and most supportive sitcom daddy in existence on the classic program Full House. Saget is famous for leading a life contradicting to his clean-persona on the show, often performing the filthiest, crassest standup you're likely to ever hear. For this reason, it is unsurprising his directorial effort plays much like his standup in terms of predictably raunchy material that lacks heart and craft.The film follows Mitch Weaver (Norm Macdonald) and Sam McKenna (Artie Lange), two lifelong buddies who have gone their entire lives exacting revenge on people for the smallest offenses. They stage elaborate attacks on the people they can't stand in order to gain a small sense of satisfaction. When Sam's father (Jack Warden) has a heart attack and is in need of a heart transplant, the guys learn the doctor can get the man immediate attention if they pay off the doctor (Chevy Chase) $50,000 so that he can pay off his enormous gambling debt.They decide to open a revenge business called Dirty Work, which thrives off of people calling in and getting Mitch and Sam to exact revenge on people that make their callers tick. One of the reasons the film doesn't work is that the attacks are simple and, overall, underwhelming. With more intricate planning and craft, the payoffs for these offenses could've been rewarding and hilarious. Instead, they are childish and redundant.It also doesn't help that Mitch and Sam are two of the most archetypal, clich protagonists in any comedy I've ever seen. They're so thin, wooden, and void of personality they feel like robots programmed to do and say things that are allegedly funny. Macdonald and Lange are average comedic talents, and here, they can't do too much with the script (which was somehow the product of three people) that forbids and character or development from sneaking past the abundance of clichs and predictable plot lines.Even so-called late night comedies and stoner films need to achieve some sort of quality and Dirty Work doesn't possess the characteristics of being memorable or creative enough to achieve them. It is an overly-silly, ridiculous film that gets even more ridiculous when it feels the need to allow plot lines like romance and fighting to elbow themselves into the picture. Saget may have craft when it comes to juggling personas, but he also shows that he has talent for making one of the most frustrating comedies of the nineties I have yet to see.Starring Norm Macdonald, Artie Lange, Jack Warden, and Chevy Chase. Directed by Bob Saget. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie, often overlooked","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dirty Work is one of those somewhat rare comedies where the pieces of the puzzle just all fit. The actors have great chemistry between one another (it really seems like they're having fun), the screenplay is excellent, and the entire film bathes in a delightfully wrong atmosphere. Prison rape, dead hookers, an Asian chick biting off Chris Farley's nose, none of these things have ever been as funny as they are in this movie. Dirty Work sorta sank into obscurity before it had a chance to take off, perhaps because some of the dirty stuff isn't for everybody, but if you're a fan of unbelievably stupid, obvious (occasionally even Naked Gun-style) jokes and borderline disgusting situations (and deep down, you know you are) this movie has everything needed to be one of your favourites. "}{"Title":"Good Comedy","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie is light refreshing comedy. The movie is though extremely predictable, it is still a good view. It differs from typical romantic comedies which starts well then go down and in end all is well. The movie is quite different from ordinary teen comedies. It has really good concept of not allowing anybody to dominate you. However movie could have done much better with stronger story line and tighter script.The movie could do well with few more punch lines and witty dialog. The female role does not have any significance. The story mostly revolves around the money needed by the guys for some purpose.Overall the movie is quite fast paced and feel good type. "},{"Title":"These guys deliver plenty of dirty deeds done dirt cheap.","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This star vehicle for Norm MacDonald, directed by Bob Saget, is absolutely hilarious from start to finish. IF it's to your particular taste.The main thrust of the movie concerns the friends Mitch (played by Norm) and Sam (Artie Lange) finally embracing Mitch's dubious talents to run a revenge scheme business that they hope will enable them to quickly raise the $50,000 they need for a new heart for Sam's dad (Jack Warden). Which means we get a number of great skits as the childish pair strike back on behalf of others. But when they get the attention of powerful developer, Travis Cole (the great Christoper McDonald), they realise that they may have bitten off more than they can chew.With a cast including those already mentioned and the likes of Chris Farley, Chevy Chase, David Koechner and great cameos for the likes of Rebecca Romjin, Gary Coleman and Adam Sandler this is a major slice of comedy heaven for those who like their laughs bawdy and juvenile. Norm MacDonald's deadpan delivery is so dry that it almost becomes sand so it's easy to see why many would not take to him but the script is so chock full of great one-liners that it would really be a shame if viewers discarded the movie simply because they did not find the leading man appealing enough.A fun soundtrack, a thin story that simply lets the characters move from one gag to the next and a great mix of big, laugh out loud moments (the scene with Mitch and Sam planting fish around someone's house devolves into something absurdly hilarious) with small chuckles - what more could you want from a breezy comedy that does not even attempt to have any depth or extraneous emotional baggage. Sure, we get Traylor Howard as a prospective love interest but not to the detriment of the laughs.See this if you like Happy Gilmore, Billy Madison, Super Troopers. "},{"Title":"Bravo Bob Saget","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Bravo I say. This was a solid directorial job by Saget, and this was a solid comedy overall. I liked this movie. I wasn't gah gah over it, but I liked it. There was a solid cast and a solid script.Now, having said that... The lead actor (Norm Macdonald) probably did as much harm as good. He is a nerd type, which is what the role called for, but he has no range. He reminds me of a Gilbert Godfried or his opposite in the guy who played the science teacher in Fast Times of Ridgemont High. His emotional display and tone starts at indifference and goes a little up or a little down from there. I thought there were several scenes in which a more vociferous or ostentatious actor would have made the scene funnier. I've seen Norm do stand up before, and while he's not all that funny to me, his nasally nerdy voice goes well for the material he writes for himself as a stand up comic; but it doesn't translate well on screen. Still, the movie concept was excellent, and I thought it was executed well with what Saget had. "},{"Title":"The Funniest Dumbest Comedy Ever","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Norm McDonald is the funniest man alive.  His extremely dry sense of humor and really bad acting make this movie a true classic.  This movie is also Bob Saget's first attempt at directing.  The casting in this movie is just like a best of SNL with Chris Farley, Adam Sandler, Chevy Chase and Norm McDonald.  This movie is a must see, you will laugh a lot. "},{"Title":"If you like irrevent acerbic humor","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Life's not so great for Mitch Weaver (Norm MacDonald) he's lost his 14th job in 3 weeks, his girlfriend dumped him, and now his best friend's dad (Jack Warden) needs a new heart! But the only way to arrange the transplant is to cut a deal with a compulsive gambling doctor (Chevy Chase) - in other words find $50,000 dollars or the old man dies. So Mitch and his friend have to rely on their only natural talent, REVENGE!Out of 10-7.2 "},{"Title":"one of the funniest movies ever","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is sooooo funny. I love every single thing the main characters do to get back at people. Norm MacDonald is a really funny guy. I like the acting in this movie. It is absolutely horrible, but that's what makes the movie so funny. This movie has a lot of funny people in small roles (Chris Farley, Chevy Chase, Don Rickles, Adam Sandler, and John Goodman). My favorite character in this movie is Jack Warden's. I love how the only thing he thinks about is whores. I also love all the references to prostitutes from Norm in this movie. My favorite part is MEN IN BLACK Who Like to Have Sex With Each Other. I laughed so hard after that. I just couldn't stop. I recommend this movie to anyone with a sense of humor. Well that's  all.Good bye. "},{"Title":"Funny in bad taste","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If someone urinates on another person from the top of a building (albeit not on purpose) and its funny to you, then check this movie out.  It's not well written or smart, but the movie does what its suppose to--makes the viewers laugh.  Don't think while watching this movie, just watch and laugh. "},{"Title":"Good God, People!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sure, this movie is dumb. You were expecting The Unbearable Lightness of Being? Seeking enlightenment, were you? This movie was silly with absolutely no value at all, other than simply being a dumb, slapstick movie without any intellectual value. If you go into it with that frame of mind, I think you'll enjoy it (at a matinee price, of course) like I did. But if you go in expecting the world to open up for you, my friends, you are in the wrong place.  "},{"Title":"This is a very good movie with a few downs.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that Dirty Work is a good movie.  The plot is a good one for a comedy.  Norm McDonald is a very good comedian and really makes the movie great.  Most of the co-stars are also very funny which helps out the movie. The major down in this movie is that Norm Mcdonald has a slightly dorky character.  He sound as if he were a bad actor which he is not. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmmmmm, pretty good.","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this movie is not the best ever made.  However, it is a funny movie. Numerous cameos (Gary Coleman, Adam Sandler, and CHRIS FARLEY!!! to name a few.)  The movie keeps you on your feet with Norm's typical dry, witty humor.  It keeps you rolling with various buffoon humor scenes.  Quite frankly, I enjoyed the movie.  This is one of those that the more you watch, the more you pick up on.  So, give it another go if you saw it and were disappointed.  And if you never saw it--it's worth the time and money.  On another note--Chris Farley's small cameo was ten times better that his leading role in Almost Heroes.  This is how I like to remember Farley, when I think of his final roles.  "}{"Title":"Funny, but no breakthrough","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a Norm MacDonald fan, from his Saturday Night Live days, I expected to  laugh. I did, however, Norm could have done better. I saw this show, after  a hard day of work, and saw it with what, seemed to be, a bunch of 12 yr  olds...I was the only one laughing out loud...What can I say? I love silly  and sometimes stupid movies...It just reinforces my belief that MacDonalds'  humor is meant for adults.  Who knows? Maybe his next effort will be a little more 'mature'?   I did hear, though, that he just signed to do a network series that would  premiere in March '99, at the earliest.  "},{"Title":"A Poor Movie in many respects, but man do I love it","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has stiff acting, a poorly strung together story, gags, awkward direction at times, and it's pretty clear that it wasn't meant to be PG-13 originally.But it's also possibly the most consistently funny movie I have ever seen. Norm's dry-as-the-desert delivery constantly creates laughs, and while it is largely a series of bits kind of trying to create a story, the bits are absolutely hilarious. I'm not surprised that many hate this movie, because if you want to get critical, there are definitely some flaws. But if you like to laugh yourself silly, and you like the literal, deadpan style that Norm is so great at, then I suggest relaxing and enjoying this one. It's a guilty pleasure of mine, and it holds a special place in my heart. "},{"Title":"Funny & Original","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dirty Work is an originally funny comedy. There are many movies that are about the same thing, but this is definitely something different. Norm Macdonald in my opinion hasn't really done anything good since Saturday Night Live canned him. This movie was a good way to boost him to the top for awhile. He has definitely scored with a few hilarious comedies. This film is one of my absolute favorite movies. It definitely has a different meaning to it then what you see today. So if one night you can't decide on what to watch, give it a try by renting it from a video store. Also this was the last film of Chris Farley before his death, so RENT NOW!!!! "},{"Title":"Makes No Apologies","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By making no apologies for its silly, if not bizarre, humor, Dirty Work manages to be a comic gem in its own little way. Norm MacDonald plays Mitch Weaver, who along with buddy Sam McKenna (Artie Lange) become an unusual pair of entrepreneurs by starting a revenge for hire business. Soon business takes off as the guys sabotage homes, get even with mean bosses and turn a housing development into something of a ghetto. All this to (comedy clich alert) raise money for an operation for Sam's ailing father.The brand of humor in Dirty Work is the sort that plays to our immaturity, much like the early Adam Sandler pictures such as Billy Madison and Happy Gimore. The film also has an appealing enough story that it moves along at a slick pace even when it's not uproarious. Judging by the box office results for Dirty Work, it seems MacDonald's act is lost on many filmgoers. But if you're one of those who finds him hilarious, there's no doubt you'll have a great time with Dirty Work. "},{"Title":"Mediocre dumb comedy","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dirty Work is about two friends who open a revenge for hire business. Mitch (Norm MacDonald), our hero, seems to have no other talents other than getting back at people. Sam (Artie Lange) is his lifelong buddy. I was surprised by Artie Lange's acting ability. There was one scene where he got angry at MacDonald, and I thought Lange did a pretty good job. Jack Warden plays Sams' father, and his character seemed to me to be one note, a horny old man. Traylor Howard, as Kathy, Mitch's love interest, was barely there. She was given too much to do. The direction by Bob Saget was competent, nothing outstanding. And except for some very funny moments, nothing was really laugh out loud. I noticed that a shooting star was in the background during a scene where Mitch and Sam are talking on a rooftop. Maybe I'm jaded, but I thought it was a special effect, but then I thought, why bother with such a meaningless special effect (unless it has some symbolism only known to the film makers)? Anyway, not a terrible way to spend 90 minutes, but I would recommend not going out of your way to see this one. "},{"Title":"A Very Underrated Film","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Like most Americans, when this movie came out, I listened to the critics when they said how horrible this movie was. Cut to years later, I catch it on USA early one morning and decided to watch a few minutes of it and move on. I ended up watching the entire movie and laughed my ass off the entire time. This film is a very underrated comedy, though it is very juvenile. Norm Macdonald and Artie Lange have great chemistry and there are wonderful cameos from Chevy Chase and Don Rickles. It's not highbrow humor, like say Sideways - which I loved as well, but for those looking for a good cheap laugh, it's great. "},{"Title":"Norm MacDonald at his best!","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have been a fan of Norm MacDonald for a long time. I enjoyed his run on SNL, his sitcom on NBC, his sitcom on FOX that was quickly canceled, and both this movie & Screwed. I howled the whole time during this movie. It is Norm's great and original humor that makes this movie hilarious to me. The supporting cast was great also, especially 'Pops'. Bottom line This is a hysterical film ) "},{"Title":"Spit my drink out that's how hard I laughed","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie, not really knowing how it was gonna be, but I'm glad I saw it.  The story (I'm not being a spoiler here so don't think I am) is about two friends who start a revenge for hire business.  When I read the summary on the back of the box when I saw it at Blockbuster, I decided to give it a run.  I laughed like a hyena at the way they got the revenge (not giving away the specifics) they were hired to carry out for people.  As a matter of fact, the producers of this movie owe me a new carpet, as I laughed so hard I spit my drink out on the rug*.  This movie is a must see if you like comedy movies.*Don't take that part about the drink and rug seriously, I'm only joking about that, but this movie might actually make you do that if you laugh too hard.   "},{"Title":"Why was this in the $5 bin at Blockbuster?!?!?","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny...funny...funny!!! Norm shines in this great film directed by *gasp* Bob Saget!! The other reviews have to plot line so I will save you some time on my review. A very funny movie that is unlike others whereas it's not as predictable...sure there's always a happy ending...but the getting there is the best part. It's a lot of low brow, crude humor...but if you are into it, like me, you will throughly enjoy this movie and laugh your pants off. And yes, I bought this in the $5 bin at Blockbuster, but I would have gladly paid more! Dirty Work will have you flipping though your yellow pages to see if you have a local revenge for hire business after you see the kind of things done in this flick! Two thumbs and two big toes up! "},{"Title":"Note to self sex with blow-up doll NOT as good as advertised","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Fortunately, this film was far BETTER than advertised...and, having seen it more than a dozen times, I rank it second (behind only the monumentally hilarious Dumb and Dumber) on the list of my all-time favorite goofy-comedies.This film is brilliantly written and edited, with Norm MacDonald hammering home each and every one of his trademark point-blank, ultra-dry one-liners with flawless timing.  The story is almost ridiculously simplistic, but it doesn't matter.  It serves only as a vehicle for Norm's remarkably funny brand of humor.-PLOT SETUP- Having lost his latest in a string of lousy jobs, as well as his girlfriend (who grew tired of dating a loser), Mitch Weaver (MacDonald) is forced to live with his lifelong best friend, Sam (Artie Lange).  But when Sam's intimidating, horny father (Pops) has a heart attack, Sam asks Mitch to help him raise a quick $50,000 so that the old man's shady, gambling addict of a doctor (Chevy Chase) will bump him to the top of the donor list. With Pops on his possible deathbed, he admits to Mitch that he is really Mitch's father and that the two best friends are actually half-brothers.  Keeping this secret from Sam, Mitch wants to do everything he can to help raise the money, but can't seem to find a way.  The two make several futile attempts to earn some fast cash, but Norm soon figures out that the only thing he is good at is getting revenge on people who give him crap.  Thus, Dirty Work, an inventive revenge-for hire business, is founded.  Hilarious consequences ensue.There are so many funny moments in this movie that to try and name any would be silly.  It is sometimes crude, often ridiculous, but always hilarious. Norm MacDonald is a genius, and his delivery is masterful.  Don't listen to naysayers if you at all enjoy comedies that are stupidly smart, blatantly subtle and mindlessly witty.  Dirty works.8/10 "}{"Title":"Gut-wrenching funny","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie goes to prove how damn funny Norm MacDonald is. His way of humor gets me rolling with laughter every time. This is one of those movies that if it had more promotion it would have been remembered as one of the best, but somehow people forget about this masterpiece of the comedy art form. Chevy Chase is great in this and the always funny Chris Farley pulled off a hell of a lot of laughs in his last starring role. 11/10We will all miss you Farley, you ruled.  "},{"Title":"'Work' works good for some times, but works bad for others.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Norm MacDonald, Artie Lange, and Traylor Howard.A loser who lost his girlfriend, job, and some other stuff joins up with a friend and makes a revenge business.  It was fun to see some of these revenges go down.  I especially liked the frat one.  But some of these revenges worked quite well for some, but worked bad for others.  "},{"Title":"What a fantastic movie","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Anyone who hasn't seen this film - GO AND BUY IT NOW!!! Norm is in the revenge business to raise $50k in a few days, and what a way to do it. Anyone who can start a mafia war with a dead fish must be good.  This film has everything - dead hookers in the boot of a car in the middle of a live advert to a pop-corn machine that doubles as a bulldozer.  Forget American Pie or even the great Deuce Bigalo Male Gigalo - This is better! I saw this on TV by mistake and I'm so glad I did, did I mention its really good?... THEN GO AND BUY IT!!! "},{"Title":"Norm MacDonald rules!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I say? This is one of the most original comedies to be made in the past 10 years. Not since Planes, Trains & Automobiles have I laughed so hard. There are so many great scenes in this highly underrated movie. The writing is excellent. Great cameos from Don Rickles, Gary Coleman, and (as much as I hate the guy) Adam Sandler, who did a good job in this film. Plenty of fun ranging from dead hookers to a priceless scene involving a drug deal. If you like Norm MacDonald, you will love Dirty Work "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece....well, sorta","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When you watch Dirty Work, which I recommend that you do, don't look at the countless flaws.  Don't try to create a list of things that just wouldn't happen.  Don't question the normalcy of these peoples' lives. Just enjoy it for what it is, a hilarious movie.Mitch Weaver (MacDonald) is a 30-something year old guy who can't keep a job or a girl.  When his best friend, Sam's (played by Artie Lange,) father has a heart attack, they need money to bribe the sleazy doctor (somewhat surprisingly played by Chevy Chase.)  Not just any amount...but $50,000.  They start a Revenge for Hire business, where they are payed to do other people's 'dirty work,' hence the title.  What ensues is pure laughterNow granted, this is no masterpiece.  Bob Saget (A.K.A. Danny Tanner on Full House) isn't quite the director that Spielberg is.  Who's cares?! This movie is *quote from the movie* 'sh*t your pants' funny.  The cast, and cameos, is really spectacular.  Don't ask me how they got all of these talented actors.  You really didn't need too many.I don't feel guilty giving this movie 10 out of 10.  It is downright hysterical.  Don't look at its award total (I believe zero,) or its average rating (about 5.6,) just watch the movie and don't look at it for art, look at it for humor.  You'll get a 10 out of 10 movie. "},{"Title":"Norm Macdonald at his finest!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the funniest movie I've ever seen! Norm Macdonald was hilarious, and Artie Lange was also pretty funny as well. The whole Revenge for hire business was cool since the 2 main characters got back at everyone! A great movie despite being directed by Bob Saget, but I have to give him credit, HE DIRECTED A FUNNY MOVIE!!! 10/10. "},{"Title":"its sick, its dirty, ITS GREAT!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Alright now im a big fan of SNL and i really love seeing the former cast members staring in movies so of course i couldnt wait to see this one. The previews looked funny, norm macdonald is funny and it looked like he had a good movie on his hands here.And I was right.This movie made me laugh so hard, its was written by Norm himself which would explain a lot of the humor, because only norm macdonald can pull off some of the humor in this movie (dead hooker in the trunk, and the line that famous guy said it, whats his name? oh yeah jesus) this movie has got some great parts in it and some great cameos by former SNL stars Chevy Chase, Adam Sandler, and this was also the late Chris Farley's last apperance in a movie. Also cameos by gary coleman, john goodman, rebecca romin stamos also made this movie great. If u havnt seen it then i would Highly Recomend u rent it!7 out of 10 stars  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be. Artie Lange and Rickles are hilarious!","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don Rickles alone makes this movie worth seeing. The late Chris Farley also adds some great comedy to this movie. Norm MacDonald's acting is as bad as it gets, but the movie keeps you laughing. After all, he is Norm MacDonald. "},{"Title":"Funny?","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know I risk having at least my sense of humor questioned for disliking this movie but here goes.I have laughed loudly at silly movies on a great many occasions but having just seen this film I find the only thing funny about it to be the generally favorable comments it has engendered here and that seems funny STRANGE, not funny HA HA!I realize that many people confuse what they like with what is good and what they dislike as being bad. I don't say Norm MacDonald is bad but to me, simply not funny. This movie in general is no boon to Bob Saget's reputation either. It came close to making my skin crawl. Only Artie Lang as Sam was in the least bit enjoyable to me. I like Chris Farley but even his performance was unenjoyable. I also felt sorry for Jack Warden, an actor I have always liked.Sorry, I sure can't recommend this one! "},{"Title":"Why Norm is good.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Look, Norm McDonald is funny.  If you don't think so, then you need to relax and  have a little fun.  If you are looking for deep intelligent introspection, why are you watching a comedy?  There is no pretense with Norm.  He doesn't want you to love him. Most comedians who try to make a movie, they want you to think they are sexy or smart or nice or something so that you will want to be their pal.  Norm just doesn't care. He's just interested in being funny.  Therefore, he doesn't pretend this movie is anything more than an excuse to do some funny gags and say some funny lines.  It's more honest.  Like when they introduce the Dead Hookers In The Trunk bit.  There is a room full of women in skimpy outfits, and Norm says, Okay, prostitutes,  That's funny.  Nobody pretends that it is necessary to waste time with phony exposition trying to explain how the hookers get into the room, they just cut to the joke.  Which is the best thing about this movie.  It is dumb, silly crude humor, and I love it. Dirty Work is funny.        "}{"Title":"An Ode to Norm","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Norm Macdonald's brand of humor isn't for everyone, especially those who must have a live audience in the background to know when they are supposed to laugh.  In Dirty Work, Macdonald creates a hilarious story about two hard-luck guys who pioneer the revenge for hire business.  In this film, the comedy does not hit you in the face like the proverbial pie, but rather presents itself in some of the most idiosyncratic, uncomfortable situations, leaving the viewer spellbound at the irony of it all.  Chris Farley's portrayal of the victim of a nose-biting Saigon whore is of course remarkable, and the nameless man in the audience of Don Giovanni who absolutely loves the guys' remake of the classic opera is a masterful addition.  Dirty Work will at worst be a cult classic, watched again and again, even if merely for the plethora of repeatable one-liners. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Full of good laughs, norm has a funny way of acting very stiff and awkward.If your expecting oscar acting why don't you take your fruity a*s somewhere else, because that's what drama's are for, all movie catagories usually serve a purpose. Comedy's for are made to make YOU laugh and if that's not good enough for you take your(see above).Funny Movie, much better than Screwed (might i add which is a very fitting title for that movie, because that's exactly what it is).So if you are Looking for a GOOD comedy i'd check this one out (avoid Screwed,terrible movie, let me with a headache and a Cheated wallet)keep in mind that norm had a hand in the writing process in this movie,he didn't have one in screwed which is probably the reason it is so BAD. so if you do see screwed don't think he'll only have one good movie.  On The Comedy Scale i'd give this movie a 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Unbelievably funny","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  in the history of movies there has never been a funnier movie than DIRTY WORK.  i have never laughed so much in my entire life.  Absolutely hilarious, i almost cr***ed myself.... what do you mean almost? "},{"Title":"If you like dry, dry humor, you will love this","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      Norm's extremely dry, abrupt and crude humour mixed with his acting (or lack thereof) equals one frickin hilarious movie.  The prostitues, the planted guns in the bullies desks, making fun of bums, calling people sweaty Italian fruits, this movie slaps political correctness in the face.  Unoriginal some may say, well I don't recall any movies about losers with a revenge for hire business.  Not funny some may say, well, if you don't like dry, crude humour, you probably won't like Dirty Work, too bad for you.       9/10 "},{"Title":"Could be the funniest movie of all time...","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never stopped laughing, I never was disappointed.  The funniest movie of its time, and possibly EVER in my opinion.  You never expect what is coming in this movie.  Bob Saget is truly a genious that was unfortunetly put into a cheesy TV show that got no respect.  I have seen some of his comedic work and let me just say that he is truely an amazingly funny comic.  Norm McDonald's help writing this movie can clearly be seen.  My favourite comedy, and hopefully will be yours as well.  Definitely rent this movie.  One of the men I work with I told him I would pay for his movie rental if he didn't like the movie.  The only person who paid for the movie rental was him, because he returned three days late because he couldn't get enough of it. Dirty Work is a hysterical masterpiece. "},{"Title":"More laughs from this movie than you can shake a stick at!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From beginning to end this was the funniest movie I have seen since Dracula Dead and Loving it!. Great plot and superb acting make this movie a must see! Very, very funny! I hope they make a sequel of this movie! "},{"Title":"Take it for what it was funny as hell, though crude","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I could see how people think this movie is garbage. My parents probably would, among many. However, if one can get past the not exceptional plot and the annoying villian (shooter McGavan in happy Gilmore), he/she will really enjoy the movie.  (Granted some people are going to like Norm and some won't).Personally, I thought the movie was hilarious throughout, but I wouldn't take my grandma to see it. "},{"Title":"Note to self I bet all people who hated this movie probably think good comedy are episodes of Dharma and Greg and The Drew Carey Show","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One thing I will never understand about the film world is why the best comedies are never appreciated.  I thought this movie was one of the best comedies I've seen in awhile - don't you all get bored of seeing Jim Carrey star in every comedy?  Norm MacDonald was great, and for the first time, I was impressed with Bob Saget as he pulled through with one hell of a directorial debut.  The cameo appearances by Chris Farley, Chevy Chase, Jack Warden (Pops), Christopher McDonald (Travis Cole, a.k.a. Shooter McGavin), Gary Coleman, and Adam Sandler are the greatest - this is one comedy that can EASILY go down in the record books with Tommy Boy, Billy Madison, and Black Sheep.  This is what comedy is and should be all about.  To all those who hated this masterpiece go watch episodes of Will and Grace, maybe you'll be more satisfied.  "},{"Title":"Norm is a frigging funny guy!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dirty Work just never sours when I watch it. Norm MacDonald, vastly underrated, makes it through in such a good movie. I also found Chris Farley to be on-the-floor hilarious! You have to buy this movie to believe it. Don't listen to the critics; they thought Titanic was good. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, and I hope you find it offensive","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Norm MacDonald is a true comic genius.  If love politically incorrect humor, flatulence humor, or insult humor like I do, than you will love this movie. If you don't, well then, keep your distance there, Liberace.  Dirty Work is the funniest no-holds-barred comedy of the century.P.S Don Rickles and Chevy Chase have great small roles in this movie.  "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, it wasn't brilliant, but Norm is an underrated genius!Let's face it though, he's not likeable enough for most people.  For that I think he's going to have to settle for the same roles as Chris Elliot. Talented as hell, but not friendly and sweet enough to carry a picture. "},{"Title":"Norm MacDonald is the king.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dirty Work is absolutely hilarious. Norm MacDonald's biting wit makes this movie a must see. OK, the plot may be a bit contrived, but what it lacks in believability it more than makes up for with hilarious bits and insanely funny characters. Factor in the bonus of the late, great, Chris Farley (quite the scene stealer) and the lovely Traylor Howard and you have the equation for good comedy. Watch it with your friends and have gags and catch phrases a plenty for years to come.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Norm MacDonald and his friends team up for the funniest film of all time. Yes folks Mel Brooks has met his match. Chris Farley's last movie, Rebecca Romjin, and tons of snlers all in one movie. Rent this movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"pleasant surprise","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Dirty Work was a pleasant surprise and I think it did not get as much credit as desevered.  Norm Macdonald plays a life time loser and is best friend's (who he lives with) father jack warden needs needs a new heart so they decide to open a revenge for higher business called dirty work, where they do peoples dirty work for money.also starring chevy chase,john goodman,chris farley. "},{"Title":"Fun for kids of all ages","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dirty Work is without question, the absolute funniest movie I've ever seen in my entire life. Yeah, it may not be a particularly smart movie, but who cares about that? Movies are made to entertain, and this one managed to do that with me. Special props go to Jack Warden and Chevy Chase, two old timers who prove they can get the job done. I never thought I'd see the day Jack Warden talked endlessly about whores in a movie, and quite frankly, I hope to hear him talk of whores again soon. So go see Dirty Work...I give it my absolute highest recommendation. 10+ "},{"Title":"Intelligent viewers steer clear","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen in my entire life. And to all those smart, intellectual viewers who try to make sense out of they're laughing at, don't watch this one, but for the rest of you, enjoy another great SNL comedy. "},{"Title":"I feared the worst and got the best!!","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had great fear for this film. I'm not a Bob Saget fan, he drove me crazy on Full House and made me want to hurl on America's funniest home videos. Yet, this movie made me laugh till I couldn't breathe. "},{"Title":"I don't care who says otherwise, this movie is good.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, first of all this movie is stupid.  Second of all, I love every bit of it.  Come on people, if you are so snobbish that you cannot even laugh at something that is funny and stupid, then you need to stick your head in a hole and never take it out.  Stupidity is what makes comedy great.  As long as a comedy is entertaining then it's good in my book.  I give this movie an A. "},{"Title":"A movie about a revenge for hire business and the lengths people will go to get it.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can honestly say that I have never laughed more or harder at a movie than I have while watching Dirty Work.  I thought it was truly the funniest movie I have ever seen.  I own a copy and I've seen it several times.  I just cannot say enough how funny I thought this was. "},{"Title":"falling down on the floor hilarious","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh my god!  This is the funniest movie of the year.  I saw There's Something about Mary too and Dirty Work was much better.  Actually Mary was more of physical comedy, and Dirty Work is more of a verbal comedy. It's all in Norm's attitude.  Chris Farley is also hilarious.  You all need to go out and buy seventeen copies of this movie immediately. If you think funny stuff is good, then you'll like this movie because it's good. If you think crack is funny, then you'll like this movie because it's funny.  If you love to have gay sex, you should probably skip this movie and get back to the anal lovin'.  So I guess I'm saying that this movie is perfect for everyone who doesn't like to have gay sex.  If that's you, go see Dirty Work with Norm MacDonald.  "}{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Saw this at the theatre with a friend of mine and laughed harder than I have laughed since Kingpin.  A no-hold-barred gross-out comedy which is actually much funnier than Something About Mary.  If you're a fan of the 1984 cult comedy classic Night Patrol with Pat Paulsen, Linda Blair, Andrew Dice Clay and the Unknown Comic you will love this movie! "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious!!! The best line is held by Jack Warden at the end when he talks about another part of his body that the doctors could fix. However, I'd have to say that the best part involves the gay porn version of Men in Black.  "},{"Title":"Prepare yourself for a classic...","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie ranks right up there with The Godfather, Casablanca, and Gone With The Wind as one of the all time greats.  Norm MacDonald, in perhaps the role of a lifetime as Mitch (a role, I'm sure, the likes of DeNiro or Pacino would *kill* for) absolutely turns in a performance that should result in no less than an Oscar for Best Actor.  If MacDonald should get bypassed for this award (let's face it, the nomination is already sewed up), it would be the biggest upset since Henry Fonda was bypassed in 1940 for the Best Actor nod for his Tom Joad in the Grapes of Wrath (a role that eerily draws parallels to MacDonald's portrayal of Mitch).The bulletproof plot (I won't spoil it by going into many details, but I will say that the opera scene exhibits the type of class this movie truly exudes), perfectly crafted dialogue, as well as the superior supporting performances of Artie Lange (another Oscar shoe-in), Jack Warden, the great Don Rickles (showing his great acting range in yet another Oscar-worthy performance), Gary Coleman, the late-great Chris Farley, Chevy Chase, and even former heavyweight champ Ken Norton chip in with great bit performances, adding to the tapestry that is this wonderful movie.  Bob Saget gets to spread his wings with this project, and once he secures his Best Director Oscar for Dirty Work, one can place him alongside Coppola, Spielberg, and yes, Ingmar Bergman, as a true directorial genius.  "},{"Title":"it's not THAT bad","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  dirty work is by no means the best picture of the year, however, it is not the worst, either.  if you like the snl actors that are in the film, and if you are the type person that will laugh at a burp/fart/rude comment instead of be offended by it then you will probably be able to laugh at this film. while dirty work is no more than comedy with little story to tell, it is a comedy, and it should at least make you smile. "},{"Title":"I thought Dirty Work was great!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Dirty Work was a great movie.  My friend and I talk about it everyday at school.  It is one of the funniest movies I've seen in my life. I thought it was hilarious.  I am a fan of Norm MacDonald, Chris Farley, and Artie Lang.  They all were great. "},{"Title":"C'mon... it's funny!","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by no means a work of cinematic genius, but it's pretty damn funny. Well, if you're a Norm MacDonald fan, it's great... all others beware.  Full of the most un-PC humor, this film aims pretty low, but succeeds on that level (it's not trying to be Annie Hall, people).  The plot and romantic sub-plot with Traylor Howard are, at best, totally forgettable, but the filmmakers could care less.  Despite Bob Saget's uber-blandeness on network TV, he was a VERY dirty, very funny stand-up way-back-when, and was a great choice to direct - he does a nice job.  Expert comics like Rickels, Warden, & ex-SNL alumni David Koechner, Adam Sandler, & Chris Farley all make appearances.  MacDonald is great (but no actor) and Lange is good, too. Just turn your mind off and laugh.  How can you hate a film where more than half the punchlines involve the word whore in them? "},{"Title":"Great, if you like Norm","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you enjoyed Norm on Saturday Night Live and his brand of slow and deliberate humor, you will love this movie.  The writing isn't great, but even during the stupidest scenes, I laughed just because of the comic timing.  The overuse of the note-to-self gag that he did on the Weekend Update during this movie was reminiscent of David Letterman saying one joke over and over again on his show.  One warning  If you object to hearing the word whore, don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"MacDonald at his finest","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To anyone who thought this movie was stupid and tasteless, I just have one thing to say, this is Norm MacDonald we're talikng about here, what did you expect? This film is hilarious if you're a fan of MacDonald's, if you're not, don't expect Oscar material. It's too bad some people take this kinda movie seriously, the whole thing is just one huge joke, and I think that you go out and see this one with that frame of mind, you'll enjoy a lot more. I'm a big fan of Sandler, Farley, Spade, Myers, all those SNL guys, so I thought this movie was good in its own sick twisted way. "},{"Title":"Trys but fails","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I will give this 5/10.The movie did try and is in a few seens very funny but %70 is gross and dumb.I don't really like Norm Mcdonald after this. One of the biggist disapointments of the movie is Jack Warden.He was very funny in problem child but in this you can tell he's out of work. I think he should stick to dirty work if he's talking like that.Otherthen that i would say don't rent this movie.I laughed but was also grossed out. "},{"Title":"Not Norm's best","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dirty Work is a film that doesn't work. The whole storyline seems created out of convenience, never strong enough to make the audience care. Only a few laughs come out of this boring story and script and are mostly due to MacDonald's dry humour.The cameos of Chevy Chase, Chris Farley and Adam Sandler are all wasted, not using each to the best of their abilities. I wonder if Chevy ever saw the finished product of this film. Because if he did, he would have surely asked for his part to be cut. Chase has no funny lines in the entire film even though they are all meant to be funny. Same goes for Farley, other than his final scene,, his role isn't at all funny. The ending of this film is pathetic, causing one to question if Mr. Saget ran out of film, MGM lost patience or MacDonald just got sick of being boring. Dirty Work is good for a few crude laughs, but still a waste of an hour and a half.4/10 stars. "}{"Title":"This movie was destined to fail.....","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...not due to the content of the movie but because of the network guys who hated Norm for roasting OJ day in and day out on SNL during the trial....They ran ads a week after the release....The movie was edited to give it a PG-13 rating when it was not....It was adult comedy with rape jokes as Chevy Chase mentioned it would have been fantastic unedited....but now it has got 'cult ' status following....Moral of the story....Suck up to network guys ,lose your integrity and you make big bucks....Sandler case in point....I watched the movie then and I watch it from time to time and it always makes me laugh....even tho Norm says it openly that he hates acting....Norm Sports show was awesome but cancelled.....I hate talent-less network guys with zilch knowledge about comedy and comedians....Look at the drivel they churn out lately... "},{"Title":"It's Norm Macdonald! Come on!","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   From the inventor of such amazingly funny terms as assistant crackwhore  comes a truly underrated cinematic jewel. It is the best thing Norm  Macdonald has ever done. If Mr. Macdonald had been this consistently funny  on Saturday Night Live's Weekend Update, he'd still be on the show.  "},{"Title":"Crazy Works","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The movie has it's own point of interests. It invented some new materials, including new job opportunity.What lack of it, is the basic interaction between viewers and the casts. We hardly blend with these lunatics, mostly because they're all either too dumb or too crazy.We can see two losers fighting their way to rich and dignity, their lusty dad (Jack Warden, what happened to you?), a pretty girl and her grandma (where's your mom and dad? It's amazing for a girl as attractive as her not having any boyfriend!), and a crooked politician (who might be too stupid to be a politician).And the story strolls into it's funny absurdity and craziness. And off course it's simple ending.So, leave your mind off while watching this movie, and just try to be as open as you can towards Bob Saget's directions. It is funny, I have to admit it; and I quite like it, although some details disturbs me. But it's usual for youth-funny movie.The different between this movie, and let's say,... There's Something About Mary; is, they started with same stupidity and craziness. But in the middle, There's... turns it's plot to be more realistic, but still crazy.  This film stays with it's own craziness and absurdity.A weekday night movie to be watched with your friends. "},{"Title":"Great Comedian Makes Awful Movie!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ya know, I'm a fan of Norm's.  He was shafted by NBC for making too many O.J. jokes, and that is a shame. He is a genuinely funny person.  But this movie doesn't do him any good. Norm plays a guy who starts a business that exacts revenge on a client's enemies.  The story just doesn't work--one try gags rapped around sexual activities might work for a skit, but to stretch it into a long movie it fails.  And seeing Norm's character fall in love, and try to get the girl, well, it just doesn't work. I swear this happened when we saw the movie as the show ended, a woman in back muttered The real dirty trick would be to tell someone to go see this... and she was right.  Even Norm fans will be disappointed.I hope Norm makes it back to some success...he's got a TV show on one of the broadcast networks (CBS, I think) and his does have a good sense of humor.  But Dirty Work isn't worth watching.    "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While the idea behind this movie seems pretty cool, it's killed by some awful acting and jokes that just aren't funny.  When Norm McDonald is delivering one-liners, he's great, but he shouldn't be allowed to attempt actual acting.  For everyone else, neither the one-liners nor the actual acting seemed effective.  I'm sorry, but I just wasn't impressed by all the references to some old guy's wild sex life.  And the pathetic attempts to make the main characters seem noble after they screw up just don't work. This movie is basically a waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"Should've been called Crap","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How, oh God, HOW do these films get made?!!?  Clocking in with an absolute ZERO on the Redeeming-Qualities-o-Meter, I forced myself to not spontaneously combust while watching this film in the theater.  With a plot, that was obviously written by a complete idiot, about two losers that start a business in Getting Revenge for people who have been disrespected (kinda like the audience), this movie makes Bob Saget's Stand-Up routines seem funny...well, maybe I wouldn't go THAT far...but it sucks pretty bad.  I didn't laugh once, and for me not to laugh a Norm is a once in a lifetime experience, for I love that man...I love Norm enough to offset my Fear and Loathing of Saget, and his talentless ramblings.  This Crap/Film should not be viewed, even for Death Row inmates...run fast, run hard, just RUN!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Very lame comedy","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If I got a dime for every time they used the term Broad, Whore, Hooker, or Prostitute, I would have doubled my money from renting this very lame movie. A comedy?????  The movie itself is a big joke.   "},{"Title":"How low can one go?","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Another example of how Chevy Chase suffered after his TV show failed, this one has some losers opening a revenge-for-hire business. I think that there's a reason that Norm MacDonald and Artie Lange have no reputation in movies. If Dirty Work was the best that they could do, then they deserve no reputation. The only excuse that great actors like Jack Warden and Don Rickles could have for appearing in this swill would be needing money. All in all, there's no real excuse for this movie even existing. I can't think of anything good to say about it. I'm surprised that it didn't go straight to video.I still can't quite figure out why it is that Chevy Chase, one of Bill Clinton's best friends in entertainment, spent practically all of Clinton's presidency with his career in the toilet. "},{"Title":"Without doubt the worst film ever made","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is worth watching if only so you can then claim to have seen the worst film ever made. It features truly appalling acting - the lead character is a horrid mix of the worst aspects of Billy Crystal, Adam Sandler and Rob Schneider, only far worse than you can imagine. Every line is delivered flat and incompetently - like the dead hookers sequence. It's cringe-inducing. The humour is not only mentally challenged it treats the audience like it's ESN - every joke is spelt out so no-one is left in any doubt. For instance, the bearded lady gets shaved, so we see the result, see the word bearded being deleted but to cap it off we get the dwarf saying she lost her beard. Thanks for that, I really needed that gag explained 3 ways! And the drug shoot out is so painful it's sadomasochistic to watch - like the whole film. And the dead hookers scene? Genius! Of course live TV would air that sort of rubbish, and it was just so funny, and not misogynistic one bit. It also shows just how desperate Chevy Chase and Chris Farley had become that they would stoop so low to be in this garbage. "},{"Title":"One of the worst *cough* comedies *cough* ever filmed","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe Norm MacDonald is a good stand-up comedian. I don't know, as I've never seen him on stage. What I do know is that he couldn't act if his life depended on it. Does uttering all your lines in a monotonous nasal whine make you funny? Oh yeah, he does his own stunts. So what? Jackie Chan does (at least in Hong Kong) his own stunts. Far more dangerous ones at that.Don't get me wrong, I do appreciate stupid comedy films. I liked Dumb and Dumber and Kingpin. This, on the other hand, is just absolute drivel. Chevy Chase gets no funny lines whatsoever. He doesn't even get to fall down some steps.I can see why Messrs Farley, Goodman and Sandler were uncredited. They watched the film first. I suggest Chevy Chase does next time he appears in a Saturday Night Live film. Then again, Adam Sandler hardly has room for manoeuvre. He couldn't raise a laugh if he urinated off a roof (the one vaguely amusing scene in the film).The verdict Bad acting, bad script, no jokes. A comic masterpiece!Sorry, the biggest heap of steaming excrement since the last Adam Sandler film. "}{"Title":"Questions to ponder while watching this poor attempt at humor","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While watching Dirty Work, most likely one of the worst comedies of 1998 (some others being Major League 3 A Night at the Roxbury and Armageddon *yes, that movie was so bad, I would classify it as comedy*), a few questions popped into my head....Was Chevey Chase EVER funny?Doesn't Traylor Howard ever want to redeem herself from Two Guys a Girl and a Pizza Place?Why doesn't Christopher Mcdonald get a new agent after starring in Happy Gilmore, Veronica's Closet, The Eighteenth Angel, Lawn Dogs, to name a few?Will Norm Macdonald ever have a real career after SNL? --Well that one I can answer probably not!One star out of four "},{"Title":"No brain power was used to make this movie","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was non- comical, had no depth, lacked creativity, and no brain power was used to make this movie. I'm not sure if it was the fault of the director, writer, actors/actresses. Don't waste your time watching this movie, it's not even good enough to make fun of.  "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Dirty Work","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was the most pathetic movie I have ever seen. Perhaps that's because the two main actors are pathetic. But not including Chevy Chase. Stupid from beginning to end, and has a weakly developed story line. And plus, this was Saget's directorial debut, and the first movie he directed just had to be stupid. The only funny part of this picture is the title. In fact, it should be titled Dirty Jerks, to describe the insane characters. Who thought of this dumb flick? Although I give it one star, it really deserves none. Don't waste your money on this.  "},{"Title":"Now I know why I canceled my subscription to Rolling Stone in 1986","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, I am one of the few Canadians who found Norm's SNL News segment profoundly UNfunny.  So of course, I didn't bother watching the movie until a random Rolling Stone article claimed that Norm Wuz Robbed.... well, this movie disappeared for a reason folks, it was (like SNL for the last five years or so) proFOUNDLY UNfunny.  Gawd, I can't believe I watched the whole thing.  I was drunk, OK?  Reason, but no excuse.  Couldn't move, press that rewind button, held in place like Alex undergoing Ludovicio's Technique. Only the fire alarm saved me.  Don't let it happen to you. "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"          Sometimes silly, ridiculous movies make us laugh (i.e. Airplane,  Caddyshack, Friday).       Dirty Work is not one of them. The comedy here is so strained - so  fraudulently scarce - we leave the theater feeling not only deceived, but  angry at all moviedom for letting this one pass through.      Even the eerily amusing Norm McDonald of Saturday Night Live fame  faces insurmountable odds in the backdrop of this asinine plot that has he  and a friend launch a business based on petty revenge. Surprisingly, Chevy  Chase's (save us, please!) smallish contribution as a scheming doctor is  wasted.               "},{"Title":"Save your money...","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a terrible film.  The writing is obvious and predictableand the acting is either flat (from actors like Chevy Chase whohave been able to act before) or non-existent (from NormMcDonald, who proves that as an actor he makes an excellentstand-up comedian).  I wasn't expecting it to be great, butgiven the premise, I at least expected the revenge gags to befunny.  They're not.   They're flat too.  The entire moviegenerated less than five chuckles, and at least two of thosewere laughing *at* the movie...not with it.  The worst film I'veseen in a while. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time or your money on this crap","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst movies I've ever tried to sit through. It ranks right up there with Pee Wee's Big Top and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.  I cannot believe that comedy actors like Chevy Chase and Chris Farley (who know what REAL comedy is) could have lent their talent on this worthless piece of crap.  I can't imagine anyone over the age of 10 finding this movie funny.  I would rather sit through a 24 hour marathon of old Jerry Lewis films and I can't stand Jerry Lewis films. "}]