[{"Title":"A trip to Ireland in search of a father","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Paul Quinn, the director of This is my father, shows a tremendous talent for bringing this fine layered story to the screen. Working on his own screen play, he was obviously the right person to be at the helm of this fine film. It appears that he got a lot of help, not only of his own brothers, but from a lot of well meaning people in this production.If you haven't watched the film, maybe you should stop reading.The film focuses on Kieran Johnson, the Chicago schoolteacher, ones encounters at the beginning of the movie with his students. His sick mother, Fiona, is being taken care at home by a daughter, and Kieran helps in his own, limited way. Watching his mother in her sick bed motivates him to go to Ireland in a voyage to discover a part of his life which he never knew.Upon arrival, accompanied by his nephew, they go to the rural area where his mother rears from. They get to stay at a modest bed and breakfast run by a greedy man. Seamus' old mother holds the key to the mystery surrounding how he came to be born and to know the truth about what happened to his mother. In the process we are taken in flashbacks to another era.Kieran O'Day, is a young man working in a small farm with the Meaneys. Beautiful Fiona is a local girl living with a widowed mother. It's obvious from the start these two like one another in more ways than meet the eye. The local town is dominated by the ruthless priests that see smut and lewdness in every one in the small town. In fact, most of what derails the lives of all of the people in the story seems to have been caused by the narrow mindedness of the clergy that held such a grip in the Irish society of the time.Kieran and Fiona eventually realize the love they feel for one another, but fate will come between them in unexpected ways. The film ends in tragedy, as Kieran Johnson gets to know that O'Day was his father and what became of him.In a lovely sequence, we watch as young Kieran and Fiona make a detour to a nearby beach because the car they've been traveling breaks down. While walking in the beach, they witness as a single engine plane come for a landing near them. They meet the American pilot, Eddie Sharp, a National Geographic photographer, who is taking pictures of Ireland. It's a lovely moment where the would-be-lovers interplay with the stranger and all seem to be at peace. Eddie is responsible for taking the only picture where Kieran and Fiona are seen together. That is the only clue left for their son to go on his search for their past.The amazing, largely Irish, cast do an outstanding job in recreating the people in the story. Moya Farrelly, the lovely young Fiona, is one of the best things in the film. Aidan Quinn, as Kieran, delivers a good performance in his portrayal of this lonely man of the country who finds love that proves to be fatal. James Caan, as Kieran Johnson, has some good moments, but of course, he is only seen in a few key scenes. John Cusack's contribution as the friendly aviator is one of the highlights of the movie.The supporting cast makes the film what it is. Colm Meany, Donald Donnelly, Gina Moxley, Brendan Gleeson, Stephen Rea, Moira Deady, among others, are the main reason for watching the movie. Most of them have had better opportunities in other movies, but as an ensemble they respond to Mr. Quinn's direction.Congratulations to Paul Quinn. We wish him well in whatever project he decides to direct! "},{"Title":"Blessed Relief","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  There aren't many films these days  that bring a tear to the eye for  legitimate emotional reasons. This  is my Father,happily, is one of them that should! Beautifully acted, imaginatively  directed, this movie will undoubtedly have a short run. It doesn't meet  today's standards of gore, brutality  or computer generated non-realities.  But if you want to see a movie that  will tug at your heart and  sensitivities,hurry down and see this heartbreaking ,yet heartwarming,  story of requited ,yet unfulfilled, love.My test for a movie is very simple and timeworn. If I am sorry to see the credits roll, I know I've seen a fine movie.Man,was I sad to  see those credits roll on bye. "},{"Title":"How's Ya Father","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I just wanted to do a fancy Irish jig after watching this film.  Coming in with little to no expectations, I was elated to sit back and actually watch a good old fashion romantic tragedy unfold.  The Quinn brothers (Aidan, Paul, Declan) should be immensely proud of this hard won film achievement.  It was a treat to watch. James Caan stars as a emotionally distant man who has little information on his past, more specifically, on who his father was.  He travels to Ireland with his nephew to find his roots.The film is really a triumph of writing and acting.  Aidan Quinn, who stars as the farmboy, gives his most powerful performance ever.  After nearly sleepwalking through his entire career, it is this film that the actor truly digs deep and takes the audience through the wringer of emotions.  It's an astonishing performance and will be remembered at the end of the year.  Caan also brings something new to his table, restraint.  Newcomer Moya Farrelly shines brightly as the young mother to be.  I liked her spunk and her ability to make the role seem more believable than I suspect the page held. Director Paul Quinn has a steady eye for Ireland.  While we've all seen the small village life in that country many times before, Quinn has the ability to make it all seem new and fresh.  The screenplay isn't a joyous one.  It's rather dark but the emotional impact is shattering.  This is one solid movie in almost every way you can conceive.  I hope more Irish tales are on the way from the brothers Quinn. --------------- 9 "},{"Title":"What a great film.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Very well acted and well written.  Beautifully filmed, with great music. But a sad tale.  I am of Irish lineage, and I can see why my ancestors left Ireland.  I wonder how many lives the Roman Catholic Church ruined with their meddling.  Aidan Quinn and Moya Farrelly are terrific. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable drama about a doomed love with excellent performances","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This story about a doomed romance begins when the professor Kieran(a serious James Caan) discovers photos from his mother's youth .He decides investigate his Irish roots but he wishes to know the authentic identity about his father . He travels along with his niece(a sympathetic Jacob Tierney)toward Irland where he believes his father resides. Meanwhile, the events are told in flashback with the romantic story of Kieran(a sensible acting by Aidan Quinn), a poor waif adopted by a good couple farmer and beautiful teenaged Fiona(Farrelly with similar countenance to Patricia Arquette).This dramatic film displays love and passion, but also hatred and tragedy. It portrays Irish customs, despotic priests, the class differences in rural Ireland in the 30s and the tragedies it originates . Casting is frankly excellent. Aidan Quinn is magnificent as affecting farmer tenant, Farrelly as wealthy young girl is gorgeous and James Caan as middle age teacher is nice . The secondary cast, Stephen Rea as authoritative priest, John Cusack as a ¨Life¨ review photographer-pilot and Bernard Gleeson as agreeable guard-man are very fine. This is a familiar film where all Quinn family have intervened . Evocative cinematography by Declan Quinn and Irish music score with folk sounds . Writing based on a story Theresa Quinn told her children. The motion picture is well directed by Paul Quinn. Rating  Good and better than average. The film will like to romantic drama buffs. "},{"Title":"When Irish Eyes are Crying","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Not many people will admit they saw, This Is My Father, a touching, Romeo and Juliet looking film that has such warm sentimentality and such quiet dignity, that you have to defend yourself for seeing it.  But defend you must.  This is filmmaking at its gut level best, made by the Quinn family (Aidan, Paul, and Declan) no doubt to honor their Irish heritage as well as their father.  The film does a nice job of splitting the scenes of present day, when Kieran is trying to find out about his father and the past, through the words of Mrs. Kearney retelling the ill-fated romance between Kiernan's mother Fiona and his father with the same name.  The film details the harsh existence of country life and the stoicism of the Irish people suffering from both their poverty and an oppressive religion that does not recognize the meaning of love.  The acting is commendable but my heart goes out to Moya Farrelly as the young Fiona - her screen presence is just as electrifying as the Greta Garbo she so much admires.  One gripe with the Quinn brothers - why throw in the little nothing romance between Jack and Maria if you don't do anything with it.  It could have served as a vehicle to show that the roots of the Fiona and Kieran tragedy run deep, even today, by showing lovers rejected because of where they come from.  That aside, go see This Is My Father and don't be ashamed to say you saw it and enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie with excellent character acting.","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Oh my God, I'm on a roll with these obscure movies I never heard of. Somebody please tell me how these movies had little if any press yet are so good.This gem takes place in both the modern day and back in Ireland in the late 1930's. It is a story of where one man came from. Who his father was and how he was connected to his mother.Gorgeous cinematography and solid acting make this a must see! Once again, it caters to my love of movies about people with flavor, zest, zeal and the bittersweet truths of life.Give it a watch, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Honest story with a message to everybody","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This Is My Father is a very honest film that touches the heart. The acting is flawless and the side-kick of a modern day love story compares different times in a nice way.  James Caan plays this middle aged teacher that never had sought his origin in Ireland, but in doing so he discovers a new understanding to his mother's apparent depression after a stroke.  Beneath there I sense a message to the ways of the Catholic Church and authority figures which unfortunately still applies today, in a way. This movie is a gem that deserves attention. - 8/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting but not great.","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I stumbled upon this movie last night on the tele and I was quite taken with it, for a while. The plot (s) are all fine, but it just felt like the writer was trying to stuff a whole lot of stuff into a pretty small bag.The main story- that of Ciaran and Fiona- is wonderful, fresh, and fun. Quinn and the girl are lovely together, and their scenes, particularly learning to dance and making love for the first time are infused with a reality and life that is rarely seen in film.There are a few mis-steps, I didn't really enjoy the 'modern' part of the film, it felt tacked on and not needed, like they didn't trust that their main story would be interesting enough to hold my attention. And John Cusack appears out of nowhere and all sense of reality flies out of the film for those five minutes, he's John Cusack in a plane!But for the most part it's a lovely story well acted. "},{"Title":"Interesting period piece","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Although this tragic valentine is mostly the labour of love of the Brothers Quinn (Aidan, Declan, and Paul), James Caan excels even more with what should have been a thankless role.  As the teacher and uncle spurred on a search for his roots after discovering an old picture of his mother with an unknown man, Caan lends subtle dimensionality and nuances that ring true on every chord.  The Irish countryside is lovingly filmed.  But Paul Quinn never really decided whether this was a slice-of-life or an epic.  He had many stories he wanted to tell, and ran out of time to conclude most of them while wasting far too much screen time reinforcing what we already knew about Fiona's stereotypical propertied widow mother and the kindly farmer with the somewhat shrewish wife who adopted Aidan Quinn's character, Kieron.  The actor playing Father Morton also failed to supply new insights after his initial appearance.  Stephen Rea is brilliant in a cameo as a fire-and-brimstone visiting priest.  John Cusack adds a brief touch of magic, but adds nothing to the narrative.  Moya Farrelly scores big in her cinematic debut as Quinn's love interest.  Their chemistry is electric.  All the townspeople are believably played and the music is marvelous.  But it is annoying that the curses are colorfully bestowed and given interesting beginnings, but we never are let in on the final fate of the widow.  More annoying still is being introduced to the nephew's turbulent yet loving familial relationships, watch a parallel develop, and then dropped.  What effect does all this have on Kieren's sister, the boy's mother, who is equally entrenched emotionally in the search, but disappears without payoff?Overall, this is well worth seeing.  It might have been better with more experienced editing and directing, and perhaps, a crisper script. Yet, flaws and all, it remains enjoyable on its own terms. "}{"Title":"A lesser known film that's worth a look","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A teacher (James Caan) finds some photos that let him know his mother hadn't been truthful about who his father was. He takes his troubled grandson and heads to a small village in Ireland to seek out the truth, what he find is a very romantic and rich story of the past. I wouldn't have thought James Caan would have been the best actor for this role, but he definitely pulled it off well...as did the supporting cast. As with most films shot in Ireland, you can't help but be taken by the scenery. A lesser known film that's worth a look.*** (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Nice movie, fine acting, beautiful scenery","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie with guns, sex, car chases or serial killers, this is not the movie for you.  On the other hand, if you want a film that focuses more on story than anything else, This Is My Father is worth checking out.  I had never heard of this movie but I really like Aidan so I thought I'd watch it.  His portrayal of the tragic Kieran O'Day was so moving, and you can't help but cry at the movie's pivotal ending scene. Steven Rea is brilliant as a sexually repressed hellfire-and-brimstone priest, and all the supporting actors do a fine job, but it is Aidan Quinn who really shines.  My only real problem with this movie is that while Fiona comes across as an adult woman, she is supposed to be a teenager, and they probably could have used a younger actress in the part.  Also, the side story about the nephew and the local girl could have had some potential, but was never really developed.  All in all, it was a very nice movie, and worth checking out.  If you like this one, rent Songcatcher as well -- another good flick with more story than hype. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film - true to life in Ireland in the 30's/40's","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  For anyone who thinks that life wasn't ever like this in Ireland, think again.Class boundaries meant that such romances involving the two leads were seriously frowned upon by most, if not all, people back then.The film, I think, captures perfectly the period.  I didn't notice a single item/scene that wasn't right for the time involved.  Down to things like the cutlery etc. were very much in keeping with the era.The story doesn't have the conventional _Happy Ever After_ ending too, which, for a relatively mainstream film, must be a bonus.  It's quite tiring seeing everyone walk happily into the sunset hand-in-hand when real life is anything but.  The sex scene was very well done and probably realistic, not that I'd know about that -).For an Irish person, it was great seeing Mrs. Riordan in the role as the story teller -).  What an incredibly over-the-top performance!  As for Meaney, Gleeson and Shortt (the other cop), excellent too!James. "},{"Title":"nice performances","Date":"9 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Widowed Kieran Johnson (James Caan) is a high school history teacher in Chicago. His sister struggles to take care of their mother Fiona Flynn with dementia and her teenage son Jack. Kieran takes Jack back to Ireland to search for their roots. In Kilronan, he discovers that his teenage mother Fiona fell in love with poor farm worker Kieran O'Dea (Aidan Quinn) who may be his biological father.The performances are lovely. James Caan starts it off with really nice character work. The flashbacks have Aidan Quinn doing solid work. He delivers a gruff charm. Moya Farrelly is a sweet newcomer. This is a fine Irish love tragedy with good performances anchoring it. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of my favorite films","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I think mainly you have to understand that in the 1930s The Catholic Church was above all, they invoked huge fear into people and people knew no better, and they were in a life where they had to live in a way that would not go against the church's teaching. This film really give the best historical account of Irish life of the 1930s, it shows the old parish dances and the way people worked, and how their lives were so set out in a way that wouldn't really give them much freedom. This is shown especially in the scenes where the locals go to Croagh Patrick, the priest tells them that they all are expected to be there, that coming from a priest back then was like an order from the president. Also in the scene where Fiona sneaks over to see Kierán after he was told in confession to stop seeing her and not kiss or think unclean thoughts of her anymore, that particular scene shows the fear and gullibility of the Irish Catholics of the time. Afterwards in the barn where Kierán tells Fiona that he asked god to help him to stop thinking about her and it hasn't stopped, this kind of showed a form of thinking that if you pray for help and the help isn't given, what you feel is how you're meant to feel. All in all it's a brilliant film and account of Irish life in the 1930s "},{"Title":"straddling countries","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I didn't think that This Is My Father was a masterpiece, but still worth seeing. James Caan plays Kieran, a history teacher who decides to go to his mother's native Ireland to find out why she left, and specifically, who his father was.A particularly effective scene is when Kieran's nephew Jack meets some Irish girls. They get to talking about Northern Ireland and the girls have to explain to the boy the reason for what's going on there. In other words, Jack is learning as much about modern Ireland as Kieran is about what the island was like in the '30s*. I found that to be the best scene in the movie.Anyway, worth seeing.*Due to Éire's economic collapse amid the worldwide financial crisis, it's back to where it was in the '30s economically. "},{"Title":"This is my father","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Excellent movie. Shows unequivocally, the reality of a small rural village in Ireland. There were misconceptions about the origin of the people and the Catholic Church was the one who ran the steps. I could not but recall the social customs of my country a few years ago. Permanently influenced by the priests of the Catholic Church, who in my opinion, do not interpret the message of Jesus. In those days, I mean the 50's, with their preaching, strongly separated classes, causing people to fear God,  not to allow marriages between poor and other less poor. Fortunately, some disobeyed and so many of us can be in this world. Remarkable performance by Aidan Quinn. "},{"Title":"The other side of Eire","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This is the tragic Ireland of The Field and Falling for a Dancer, and The Wind That Shakes the Barley and is not to be confused with John Ford's whimsical Ireland of The Quiet Man. In this Ireland, no resentment, slight or grudge is ever forgotten by this or succeeding generations. People are held in esteem not for their achievements, but for their place in a hierarchy of which ownership of land is the peak. The church rules with a tyrannical iron fist, and any attempt to escape the established order is met with the threat of eternal damnation, for it is essential to keep the people in the place to which they were born.This review may contain spoilers ahead.The story focuses on Keiran was a poorhouse bastard and was regarded as the lowest form of life. He was taken in by a childless couple of tenant farmers to work their land in return for his keep. Sadly, there was no way he could ever improve his lot. Being illegitimate barred him from entering the church as a priest, and being poor and landless barred him from any education or advancement in any way, not to mention marriage prospects. I was not sure whether Keiran was a little slow or whether he was a result of a brutal poorhouse childhood and inadequate education. When Keiran had the misfortune to fall in love with the daughter of the widowed owner of the farm, this was considered an affront to their little hierarchy. Marriage was out of the question, at least to each other. Propriety demanded that the girl be married off as quickly as possible and a suitable widower or older bachelor would be found. A similar situation occurred in another Aidan Quinn film, The Playboys where the young woman outraged and scandalized the village for staying unmarried.There was not a flawed performance in this film and it was wonderful to see Irish actor Donal Donnelly again as Mr. Mahney, especially when he cursed the spiteful widow, and her all descendants who remained in Ireland, for the grief she had wrought. I found myself thinking Now that's a curse! through my soaked Kleenex.It used to be that women watched tearjerkers for a good cry, which made them feel better. The popular British singer, Gracie Fields, had a song which went Oh I never cried so much in all me life yet you knew she had enjoyed her good weep. This film, which has all the tragedy of a modern day Romeo and Juliet, is that kind of experience. The tears will flow, but you want to watch it again for the release of having a good cry.I gave it a rating of 9 as I felt that the story line involving the nephew and the local girls was corny and could have been cut out completely. It did nothing for the narrative flow. Although it is used often in books, I don't care for the device where someone is exploring the past in flash back/flash forward while re-enacting the same events. It was used in Heat and Dust. I find it tedious and wishing that they would get back to the main story.Overall, I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Fantastic storytelling","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Great movie making, the acting and directing was first class, great kudos to Aidan Quinn, who I loved in another great Crusoe. James Caan was fantastic and highly believable, though the beginning of the movie seemed a bit slow. There were many sentimental moments and many happy moments. Its not a new story concept, but it was masterfully accomplished. The ending is thrown about with a bit of surprise. If there would be a weakness to the storytelling, it would be that the continuity in Caan's character should not have ended. I don't want to spoil anything for anyone that wants to see a story equaling the moving power of Legends of the Fall and maybe even Gone with the Wind. Okay, maybe I'm stretching it a bit, but see it, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"This film will tear your heart out.","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The Quinn brothers have created one of the most affecting films I've seen. In fact, I have not been able to forget this film. It deals with the effect of organized religion on ordinary people. It also deals with the strict class system in Ireland. When the monied class is combined with the local religious authority, the results can be devastating. James Caan gives a beautiful, gentle, thoughtful performance. Every part of this film is right on. The scenes of Ireland, the time period, costumes, the look of the characters. The story is a very human tale. We are likely to wish to know whatever secrets our family may have. Yet, there is certain fear that this knowledge may change our love and family dynamic. The past forms the present and the future, if we know it or not. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Unfortunately many Irish American movies about Ireland are tarnished by an overly sentimental and romantic view of Ireland. While the core of this fantastic little movie is a romance the Quinn brothers have taken a realistic and fresh look at some of the darker sides of small town Ireland in the 1930s - a side that to some degree still exists. The movie sets up perfectly the class hierarchies and prejudices that leap into action when two young people from very different class backgrounds begin to fall in love. The casting in this movie is particularly good and the smaller parts are taken by some very fine actors. Stephen Rea is magnificent as Father Quinn the visiting priest who conducts an inquisition into the sex lives of the villagers while Maria McDermottroe and Donal Donnelly are wonderful as the adoptive parents of one of the lovers. However the real gem is the performances by Aidan Quinn and Moya Farrelly who play the two young lovers at the centre of this movie. Quinn captures perfectly the closed in, nervous stance of a shy young Irish farmer while Farrelly is fresh and exuberant. There is fantastic chemistry between them and their scenes together are both touching and contain a fresh honesty about first love and love-making that is rarely captured on film. "},{"Title":"Decent, fun, but a bit sloppy--or is it?","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" There is a bit of fun and nostalgia in watching Kieran's journey to Ireland in search of his heritage. At the same time, the story he hears is downright depressing. This is the first of the many contrasts in this tome youthful and elderly, man and woman, rich and poor, pious and heartless, lively and dead. But when these contrasts become literary contradictions, we can't quite tell what this story is trying to say.The frame narrative structure has been criticized as unnecessary, cheesy, and distracting. Although it may not be essential, it certainly highlights the contrast between young and old to see that Fiona, once a lively teenager, is now an infirm octogenarian. Age and other gaps are a constant in her life and her family's she loves a poor thirty-year-old man, she and her well-to-do mother cannot come to terms over this fact, and in spite of the callous town priest she appears to retain and disseminate to her children a visible Catholic faith (large Crucifixes adorn the family's Chicago home).For that last reason, I'm not sure I'd agree with those who accuse this movie of anti-Catholicism per se. Perhaps there is a bit of anti-clericism, or at the least, an indictment of the cold Jansenist moralism of the French-instructed Irish priesthood in contrast with the forgiving mission of Christianity--a perfectly legitimate complaint in the eyes of this practical Catholic. (Some have also suggested that the objection of the Church and Fiona's mother to the relationship was class prejudice masquerading behind religious puritanism.)The problem is that a reasonable viewer may or may not be sympathetic to the plight of the two lead characters in relation to Widow Flynn and the clergy. This is partially because the script does not take full advantage of the castmembers' abilities Kieran Sr. is a bit flat, as it is not quite clear what about him caught the eye of a beautiful, young, intelligent girl. And I do mean young girl I was hardly inclined to argue with the priest who, from the confessional, admonished You're a grown man and she's a child! and ordered him not to see her again. Once the young/old contrast becomes a matter of outrage, we must choose a side, and it is difficult to take the side of a pedophile.The ending, of course, was a terrible tragedy and an interesting metaphor for the grueling agricultural and social terrain of Ireland at the time. Beautiful though Ireland and Christianity may be, Kieran had weathered the harshest of the land and of the clergy and it destroyed him from within. But by that point the film had so nuanced its literary reading with realism that I was almost as inclined just to view his deliberate self-inflicted demise as stupid escapism. One leaves the movie wondering if it had anything philosophical to say at all, or if it was just one of the more depressing examples of the great Irish recreational storytelling tradition. The contrast is staggering. "},{"Title":"An Irish Curse Brings Tragedy","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Although beautifully filmed in Kildare, Ireland, this mini-epic of two families intertwined history does not fulfill its promise. James Caan tries diligently to portray the American son of an Irish farmer he never knew existed and a mother who has blocked the love-of-her-life from her children. The three brothers Quinn produced this film, and gave the tragic, starring role to Aiden. He is the heart and soul of the saga, with John Cusack adding a small, comedic, interlude. Moya Farrelly is all heart and sadness as the lost love who grows into old age with her secrets.There is a lot going on in this story, interweaving various themes that can easily be missed. Interesting flashbacks of the young Aiden Quinn's father character, juxtaposed with the present-day,aging Caan sons character, makes for a strange plot device.Overall, this is a worthy film, but leaves many questions unanswered. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" James Caan is always good to watch. Plus there were many faces you don't see in Hollywood, which is a big plus for me.I particularly find foreign films refreshing, and while this may have had Canadian production, the Irish backdrop provides a glimpse into a less complicated time with far more interesting people.There is a revealing and delightful conversation between the young nephew and two local Irish girls.The modern story did not detract from the movie, in fact I found it interesting also.Aidan Quinn has put on some weight and does a fabulous job here...I was not a big fan before. Apparently his family produced this film.It is definitely worth a watch for the locale and a believable love story.The only down side was the fate of one of the characters. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, moving story","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Throw a rock in any direction, and you'll find someone just like the character played by James Caan.  This movie is such a beautiful slice of life.  Many times I look at older people and wonder what they've gone through.  This movie had such a realistic, believable and moving story.I really liked the ending;  the idea of the school teacher going back to his class room.  This time, though, with a greater knowledge of his roots. While his life obviously did not change in a dramatic fashion, I got the impression that his life (and his teaching) would get better as a result of his search. "},{"Title":"It could be true!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I watched in awe at the knowledge and understanding that was portrayed by the Quinns in such a tragic love story.  Aidian Quinn was exceptional in an extremely difficult role but so were every member of the cast. It is a tale of love that could never be recognised by an overbearing mother, church and community and the fact that their painful circumstances were hushed up from then until the present day.  The father's son (James Caan) stirring up the 'put to rest' memories by his arrival from the US along with his nephew. What made me most sad about this marvellous film was that it is, in essence' a true story, not just from Ireland, but Scotland as well.  I, myself, had a relative in the islands discommunicated from the church and the family because she made the error of falling pregnant in the 50s.Hats off to everyone involved in this film.  It certainly made me think. "},{"Title":"A very moving piece of work","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film gets down and digs up some roots.  The story itself is of a man who goes to Ireland to find a father he never knew and learns about his roots.  But the story also looks into the roots of love and emotion when it looks into the lives of two people who fall in love despite the opposing views of the townspeople. The Quinns do an amazing job of creating a feeling of authenticity, both in the setting and heritage of a small Irish town as well as with the innocent and delicate nature of love.  Aidan Quinn gives an astounding portrayal of a man who truly learns what it means to be broken.  It is a straightforward story with simple yet sincere dialogue, but the feelings it stirs in the viewer are anything but simple. "},{"Title":"I don't care to know anyone that doesn't like this film.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Full of grace and beauty TIMF is nearly a perfect film. Truly, I wonder if even the the folks responsible for the film are fully aware of what a timeless work of art they have created. As long as sentient beings inhabit this world there will be a place for this film. More to the point; we desperately need this film, and a thousand more like it to remind us of who we are and why we are!  "},{"Title":"Get the Kleenex out for this one!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I am Irish, and whenever I can, I try to see movies that are about Ireland.  The only detremental thing about this is, and I don't believe I'm alone in this feeling, that ALL IRISH MOVIES ARE SAD.  Have you noticed this?!  Everything is a trajedy forbidden love, heartbreak, deciet, treason, death, war, destruction...watching an irish movie isn't really entertainment.  This movie was a very well acted one.  It wasn't fun to watch, because, as you soon will find out, it is EXCRUTIATINGLY heartbreaking, and I cried for a good part of it.  (at the end, I was BAWLING!) Aidan Quinn, having lived in Ireland for many years when he was a child, along with his brothers cinematographer Declan, and director Paul, has no trouble passing off the accent, and fits very well into his role.  It is an excellent movie, but, in my personal opinion, James Caan seemed displaced in his role... He doesn't even look irish, maybe its must me I still associate him with the Godfather movies..  After watching, This Is My Father, I STRONGLY suggest you see, The Matchmaker, which is a light-hearted irish comedy.. ENJOY..    "},{"Title":"The most moving film I've seen this year","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie left me grasping for words to describe my feelings. Words seem so inadequate when we are moved and touched by a drama. This movie has it all humor, awakening love, pathos, loss. This will definitely be added to my video library. "}{"Title":"An emotional wrenching cross-cultural journey","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Just when I thought my Irish/American/Catholic scabs had healed over pretty thoroughly!  I expected a romance, I guess (that IS the imdb genre category), but drama would have been more accurate, maybe even tragedy. Aidan Quinn gives nothing less than a great performance here and the work of his brothers in writing/directing and photographing it are equally fine. The overall impact reminds me of THE FAMILY WAY (1966), when John Mills weeps and is asked what the matter is; he replies, It's life, lad.  At your age it may make you laugh, but someday it'll bloody make you cry. "},{"Title":"The dark side of Irish Catholicism","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I really loved this film.  The acting, especially by James Caan, and Aidan Quinn was excellent.  The wonderful Stephen Rea, seen briefly as a priest was sure fine in the confessional.  I loved the way the writer set up poor Aidan through Catholic guilt.  The Catholic Church still has much to say about Irish morals and behavior and even though this film took place in the 1930s and 1940s, the same heartbreaking story could happen today.  Kudos to the entire Quinn family, you have a winner here.  Unfortunately, where I live in California this film got very little press.  "},{"Title":"Beware Paul Quinn screenplays -- editing very necessary","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Someone needs to be a little more careful next time -- I could have written this thing better than Paul Quinn.Let me start by saying I actually did like the main story, though I thought they needed a younger actress and a more developed plot.  It's the frame that made no sense.  The frame, about James Caan and his nephew being in Ireland, was extraneous.  I kept wondering what was up with the kid, and he seemed to be there only to break things up, not to add anything to the story.  I quickly grew tired of Colm Meaney's character.But once you fast forward through the entire frame, you get an excellent village love story.  What it needed was a bit of clarification.  How old the girl was came far too late, and we never really found out how old Aidan Quinn's character was supposed to be.  Nothing came of the curse, which is a shame because its inclusion was highly realistic.  And we needed more of the fantastic Stephen Rea.  John Cusack's character seemed to have been invented just to get him into the film, but with some more development, I would have liked him.The greatest flaw was that we never were allowed to understand how Aidan Quinn's character was an outsider.  Obviously he was not a part of the community, but there had to have been something about him that would attract an intelligent seventeen year old.  We never know why.  It would have been a truly moving piece of work if we could understand their love.As this film stands, we are left with pieces, nothing complete, nothing fully realised.  And that is a tragedy.  Performances cannot make up for gaping holes where true understanding could make this a moving piece of screenwriting.  Some editing was all it needed. "},{"Title":"this is my father","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I have not seen this wonderful film since I went to Ireland about four years ago,due to my hobby..back operations.Been to Eire between 8 and 12 times since 1974 and I will go back because James Caan did such a fine job of it all...that he reminded me of my Dad.The film is so tastefully done because the director smoothly takes us back and forth tween present and past as the story unfolds.It is not hard to make a 66 year old man cry...myself that is...just mention my dear Da and I am gone shall we say.It would truly be unfair of me/when it comes to the reader/ to write a review due to the simplicity of the plot.Caan plays a Chicago schoolteacher who decides to go back to Ireland to learn more about his Da and his son goes along.Once they arrive on the old sod..the story takes hold of you with Colm Meany,his Ma and a lot of familiar faces come forth to take you on this romantic little ride.Steven Rea and a twist of an ending will make you extremely happy or sad that you took the time or spent the money.The best I can do at present.Have a grand time! "},{"Title":"Nice analogy between past and present","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" James Caan was outstanding in an unusual role. Usually Caan plays tough-guy cops and gangsters. In this role, he was a kindly high school teacher in Chicago. The very best part of the movie was in the first few minutes. It was critical to the point of the whole movie. Caan's Kieran Johnson is teaching history at a Chicago high school and his students are disrespecting him and making fun of him. Johnson brings up the stats on how many of them will end up having a long-term job and how many will end up in jail. I loved this, because it showed that Ireland in 1939 was not totally alien from America in 1998. There were problems in Ireland, just like there are problems today in America. The movie was basically about how hardship and class tensions create an inhuman atmosphere for all involved. Johnson has never known whom his father was. His mother is very old, and has already had a stroke. Johnson can no longer ask his Mom about who his Dad really was. So, Johnson goes to the village where his Mom came from in Ireland. He stays at a bed and breakfast where an elderly woman there retells the whole story of his parents. Johnson father was a very nice man, who was a victim of his class and his position in society. He was a lowly laborer. His parents have a farm that is owned by a widow woman with a daughter. The father has died by this time, and was in the military (a position of some prestige in Ireland at the time). I really felt for Aidan Quinn's portrait of the mysterious lost father of Johnson. He was kindly and loved the daughter of the owner of his parents' farm with all his heart. Stephen Rea plays the firebrand priest of the Catholic Church in the village. Rea's priest shows how blind religiosity can actually destroy decent people's lives. The parents of Johnson weren't even able to get married! It was a sin to have any relations between a man and woman, unless you were of the right class. This movie horribly shows how a decent man (Aidan Quinn) is completely disenfranchised and criminalized for being truly in love with a woman. John Cusack comes in as an American journalist-pilot. Cusack highlights how in Ireland at the time, America was seen as an escape from their miserable lives of conformity. Cusack talks about Greta Garbo, whom Johnson's Mom adores in 1939. Garbo represented a liberated woman in 1939. The Irish couldn't dream of such a thing in those days. I really loved this movie, because it was honest and truthful. Ireland wasn't all romantic, like many movies show it as. In addition, the movie showed that things were and are never great. At the beginning, Johnson is shown in 1990s Chicago. There is great tension and issues going on in Johnson's life. So, Ireland of the 30s was not totally different from today's World. There is still the issue of resources. There are still problems in all families, whether 30s Ireland or today's America. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Looking and Acting But Unoriginal Take on Small Town Irish Life","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This Is My Father is not particularly original about Irish families, from Circle of Love etc. and Alice McDermott's book Charming Billy among many others, but it is lovely.I like Aidan Quinn in just about anything, and I appreciate that this is a familial labor of love as one brother wrote and directed and another brother turns out to be a terrific cinematographer.The music is OK Celtic, not that special, though I think I recall that Sharon Shannon was the fiddler.The film is mostly good for an unsentimental look at how vicious small towns can be to live in. This is not a sentimental look at the olde sod.James Caan is quite good.(originally written 5/20/99) "},{"Title":"This is my Father????","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" While the movie was OK, I was terribly upset by the accurate portrayal of how the church affects people, not only in Ireland where the film takes place, but all over the world. People seem to give credit to God when good things happen, but after a tragedy they say The Lord works in mysterious ways. It sickens me to see the hold that the church (ALL churches) has over the peoples of the world .. and films like this bring it to the fore. I read that someone in the Quinn family tells this as a true story. It made me wonder who this Quinn was, and how she was related to Aiden and his brothers. I do recommend the movie .. it was very moving and sad. "},{"Title":"Great.","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The catholic Church oppression, mainly on moral and sexual life, is similar to the one lived in French Canada and Quebec province during the same period, but with a little more comprehension and less social tensions due to status. Happily, this oppression ceased with the occurrence of the drastic social changes brought by the 60's, called the Quiet revolutionVery touching movie and good description of the evils brought by bigotry. That's why I was so touched by this story. The actress playing Fiona, without being a beauty, is very attractive, and so full of life. By the way the old Fiona is played by an actress who had a good career in French Canada. "},{"Title":"Anti-Catholic film disguised as tragic romance","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  How unfortunate that what could have been an interesting story (a man trying to find out about the father he never knew) has to take a turn toward an anti-Catholic Irish film.  Like so many motion pictures today, this one includes all the myths that the Church cares only about money, that it is obsessed with sex, that priests are twisted men, that the Church is repressive, that confession is punitive, and that the Church kills people and then doesn't care about them.The film passes itself off as a pseudo-true story when, in fact, it is not.  When orphan Kieran (Aidan Quinn) falls for the young and rebellious Fiona Flynn, it is a doomed relationship from the start. Improper advice from a twisted priest leads the couple further down a road from which there will be no return.The story is a tragic love story, in the style of Romeo and Juliet.  Again, it's a shame that the writer and producer felt it necessary to paint the Catholic Church as the bad guy.  Any unsuspecting, or uneducated film goer will walk away blaming the Church for every tragedy in the film. "},{"Title":"How Many Quinns Does It Take to Make a Movie?","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Divorced Chicago school teacher (James Caan) and nephew (Jacob Tierney) travel to northern Ireland in search of family history.  What they get is a moving saga of 1939 small-town curses, romance, Catholicism, and tragedy. The final twist will throw you off.  Co-starring Moya Farrelly, Aidan Quinn, John Cusack, Stephen Rea, Brendan Gleeson (THE GENERAL), and Gina Moxley. Directed and written by Paul Quinn.  Cinematography by Declan Quinn.  And that's how many Quinns it takes to make a movie. "}{"Title":"alternately interesting and painful","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A somewhat interesting tale of an adult child who lives with his adopted family and falls for young woman whose widowed mother objects.  The reasons they shouldn't be a couple is never really made clear or addressed, but the whole town seems to believe it, so therefore we must.The acting is fine, and the story not completely uninteresting.  What bogs it down it the loathsome present day story from which this story results. An aging man and his rebellious nephew travel to their Irish homeland and bribe an old witchy woman to tell them the tale of their relatives.It's downright corny as we watch the childish parallels of the nephew falling for a local street trollop and the uncle worry about the curse (to which there is zero payoff).  "},{"Title":"Kiernan O'Day  feels more like O'Night - integral spoiler mat.","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Overall, I was very disappointed by what could have been a much more interesting and compelling story. James Caan and Aidan Quinn, such terrific actors, are so watered down by lines that just drag by, in the ordinary and unmoving. Many of the scenes, perceived as fragmented, fail at supporting cohesion for the movie's larger direction and development. Kiernan Johnson (James Caan) is a Chicago, history high school teacher, who returns to Ireland, to learn about the history of his father, dating back to 1939. Meanwhile, his mother, Fiona, (Francoise Graton) is hanging onto to her life, subsequent to suffering a stroke. Kiernan's sister, cares for Fiona. Young Jack (Jacob Tierney), Kiernan's nephew joins him in this historical journey, to the home roots of Ireland. Kiernan, via telephone reads his father's loving words, that he wrote to, Fiona, age seventeen, the time in which her mother, wrongly accuses Kiernan O'Day (Aidan Quinn) of raping her daughter, and hence preventing their marriage. But the two mutually consummate their relationship before marriage. Kiernan is a dedicated man of the land and agriculture, and Fiona (Moya Farrelly) is grounded and passionate in her love for Kiernan. The pressure for Kiernan to run away with Fiona and clear his conscious of the fat and guilt laden Catholic Irish tradition is too much for him to bear. He hangs himself at the gift tree, where the two would leave presents for one another.There is also an interesting scene with John Cusak as Eddie Sharp, an American pilot drawn to the land of roots. The play on contrasts and similarities to young Kiernan and Fiona are then more evident. Difficult depictions of 1939 Ireland are cumbersome and the actors do so well, under much less than favorable conditions, religious, societal, and cultural. Agricultural work is physically demanding and even the strongly built Kiernan O'Day is unable to survive the psychological terrain, reinforced by priest Mooney (Stephen Rea), who stops after excavating fault, leaving a mess, with no intent to fill in the now empty spaces with love, life, and forgiveness, also represented by Jesus, but ignored by the single minded priest. Kiernan is a subject of Mooney's demise and the outcome is a tragic death. Mooney is probably the most convincing actor, one we despise, for lack of any humanity in relating to his congregation. He is so disconnected from them, and the absurdity of it all, really diminishes our preconceived notions of understanding Kiernan. For we think that Kiernan is much too smart and intelligent, than to be bull-dozed over by a priest, whose only interest is objectifying people into the perfection of his perceived Christianity.The film is a stark depiction of Ireland 1939, one that we can all learn from, by such grueling and inhuman preaching and societal shaping of the period. Unfortunately, the script falls short of truly capturing one's heart, mind, and soul in the way that it really should, despite such tedious subject matter. The story would have probably been better served if Kiernan Johnson's sister joined her brother and son. It looks like she could have used the vacation too. "},{"Title":"Peat Tragedy","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  No nation is the subject of so much lesser and stumbling tragic fiction as Ireland. I suppose that's the price to be paid for producing some of the world's few literary masterpieces.So we have one after another journalists-who-would-be-writers parading through the bog in search of a surrounding so infused with misfortune that they can find a few usable nuggets just lying around. So it is here. Adian Quinn wanted a tragic role, so he had one created expecting us to sit through it. He even frames it with James Caan on a similar search, and we can only sit like Caan's bored history class.There is only one small sparkle in this whole dreary affair. There's no sense of film; the story makes no sense, has no soul; the acting is distant. The one sparkle is a scene so finely exaggerated it must be seen just for the few minutes it affords. Stephen Rea is a visiting priest, so full of brimstone, repressed sexuality and a need to damage other lives that even in its excess it enthralls. This is what the whole film could have been if it had the guts.There'll be no cinematic wonder lost if you see this on tape on a TV. "}]