[{"Title":"Based on a true story","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  It all started because of a lie.Rosewood is a quiet little town in Florida.One day a white woman lies that an Afro-American man raped her.That starts a war between the blacks and whites.Bunch of racists kill innocent black people. Ving Rhames plays Mann, a new comer in town who is hunted because he's black. Jon Voight plays John Wright, the only good white man in town who tries to safe the African-American community of the town.John Singleton's Rosewood from 1997 is amazing movie about the stupidity of people.This actually happened in 1923 which sounds unbelievable.How idiotic can people be?Some people still haven't learned.Here in Finland racism only seems to grow which makes me mad.Stop being idiots! There are some very touching moments in this movie.There are moments that may bring tears in your eyes.Acting work is brilliant in the movie.Jon Voight and Ving Rhames do very powerful role works.During Rosewood I had many feelings inside me.One of them was anger.I'm white and not always so proud of it.  "},{"Title":"An accurate portrayal of north Florida racism as seen from a native Floridian.","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I am white and grew up in the county where this really happened. I remember as a child driving by the place where this community was. There was a small sign that was put up by the Florida DOT that said Rosewood but there was nothing there. I asked my mother why and she was unsure what to tell me. Then when this movie came out I realized what had happened. I began asking the elderly people I knew, but they did not want to talk about this except for my ex-husband's step dad. He remembered being a boy and the mob trying to get his father to join them. He refused to participate and was threatened for the future of his family. I am also ashamed to say that race relations have still not gotten a lot better here. In 1969 when I was in kindergarten, I remember being sent home due to race riots in the high school. I now live in California, and I know some people found the movie distressing. Unfortunately the south has a subculture of violence even to this day. The actors did an excellent job on this film. I am so glad that the filmmakers had the courage to take this story on. People tend to think of Florida as an integrated state because of Miami and Orlando, but central and northern Florida is still very racist. For example the African-Americans still call the whites by names such as Mr. John or Miss Ellen. Then little town I grew up in ,Williston, still has the African-Americans living on one side of the railroad tracks and the whites on the other better side. There are some whites that are very decent people and some blacks that are of very poor character. I keep waiting and praying for the day when a person will be judged not by the color of their skin but by the content of their character in the words of the great Martin Luther King JR. PLEASE SEE THIS MOVIE!! If Americas can take the violence that is in video games and stupid horror movies they should be able to take the true portrayal of man's inhumanity to man in this most wonderful film!! "},{"Title":"well-made but hard to watch","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Powerful drama is a gut-wrenching recreation of the destruction of a once prominent black town. In 1920s Florida, the town of Rosewood is built on an uneasy alliance between black and white citizens. When an influential white woman makes a false accusation that she was assaulted by a black assailant, angry white citizens form a brutal lynch mob determined to either find the culprit, or coerce other black citizens into revealing his whereabouts. The film's harsh subject matter is so vividly realized by director Singleton, and acted with such great conviction by its cast that the film is deeply unsettling and at times unbearable to watch. If you can get past that, which is no easy task, you can appreciate what a sharp, well-crafted historical drama that this really is. *** "},{"Title":"The first film that I had to put my head in my mom shoudlers","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  When I first saw Rosewood at age 15, I was upset and shocked. To think that people could do to one another is shocking. Their are scenes in this movie that are hard to watch but that's part of the deepness. the film deserved some Oscar nod but sadly it went unnoticed. A important film everyone should see. "},{"Title":"John Singleton does Rosewood justice","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Director John Singleton who's first film (Boyz 'N the Hood)left audiences in awe has once again cast an emotional spell upon his audiences. Some people have a question of how historically accurate the film itself is. With some browsing around from site to site I found that the place and time period hold true, along with with the weaponry (I was skeptical about the dual pistol action)used in the film to be weapons of the time period. Also while browsing I came across a quote from the director himself I am concerned about absolute historical accuracy to an extent, but I am really more worried about being truthful to the essence of what happened at Rosewood... I am making a movie that people will respond to. With that in mind the general plot seemed to take course as accurately as possible, (considering the account of this event has several different death counts depending on the source)all characters used the same names as the real life people, well besides Ving Rhames' character Mann who is entirely fictional built-in to make the movie more interesting. Other than that shady character John Singleton kept to the truth and provoked a variety of emotions from his audience once again, fulfilling his goal.In the end it was a very powerful film on a tragic event. "},{"Title":"A long and brutal picture","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" John Singleton's Rosewood documents the tragedy of the Rosewood Massacre in piercingly raw detail, showing us how a prosperous Florida town fell to shambles from one woman's lie, spawning over a hundred murders and massive calamity on the survivor's shoulders for years to come. This event occurred in 1923, but is usually left unprinted in history textbooks and shoved to the side as if it had never occurred. Just a few weeks ago, a gunman opened fire on patrons in a movie theater, killing twelve and wounding fifty eight. That story was the most talked about thing for the entire week and still sneaks its way into the top story.Rosewood isn't written with anger, hostility, or a burdening grudge. It is written with its mind firmly centered on history and examination rather than shameful exploitation. The town of Rosewood was populated mainly by blacks who are also operating most of it, with the notable exception of the white grocery store owner, Mr. Wright (Jon Voight). About 1/3 of the town is white, and most have a great disdain for the blacks, which as we know by now wasn't atypical.The film centers mainly on Mann (Ving Rhames), a World War I veteran who travels aimlessly on a horse in search of land that he is willing to pay good money for. When he shows up at a town auction and becomes one of the highest bidders, he does nothing but generate sneers and racist remarks from the patrons. Mann is, for the most part, impassive towards the criticism. One of his friends that he grows closer to over time is Don Cheadle's Sylvester, who happens to be one of the strongest character actors of this or any other decade.The hostility towards blacks skyrockets when the mentally unstable woman, Fanny Taylor (Catherine Kellner) is triggered into a screaming frenzy repeatedly saying a black man beat her, but did not rape her. The reality is, Fanny is a victim to the abuse of her lover, who consistently throws her around and leaves her bruised and battered. Regardless, there is simply no justification for this kind of impulsiveness.And thus, the bell begins to ring louder and for longer and the towers slowly begin to fall; the town becomes even more racially divided than before, violence breaks out in the streets, houses are burned, neighbors become enemies, and secrets holding important, valuable information are kept until it's too late. A white sheriff (Michael Rooker) has an understanding of the events that occurred with Fanny Taylor, begins to piece together that the story of the evil black man beating the white woman is a myth, but is unfortunately silent about the event until violence overwhelms the once humble town. Even Mann grows aware of the impending violence and unsafe nature of this town, and fears because of his new status that he will fall victim to murder.The film touches on some other topics not usually explored in a period piece, such as how the idea of racism is spread through explicit teachings from father to son. One father teaches his son how to make a noose, and continuously reminds him that the blacks are the enemies in which the whites must take action against. This even involves the father taking the son along on trips where they go hunting, and I don't mean for animals.Writer Gregory Poirier illustrates this story on a large, limitless canvas for John Singleton to direct with a looming challenge. There is an unusually broad amount of talent here and a plethora of characters and situations to document, and Poirier is careful never to spend too much time on one specific situation, but takes the time to balance the events out evenly. It wasn't long before this that Singleton constructed Boyz N The Hood, a film detailing the tribulations of growing up on the wrong side of the street. That appears on my list of most captivating dramas for its poignant dialog and incredible performances. Rosewood is in an entirely different league; a film that features many different scenes, all highly detailed and illustrated intricately, that is strung together by an easily understandable story.Speaking in terms of aesthetics, the costume and set design here is lavish and meticulous. From the sets of the stores, to the simplicity of the roads, the people, the clothing, and the shops, everything is portrayed in such a refreshingly different light that it becomes indescribably powerful. The care and attention here is not only commendable, but award worthy.Yet sadly, Rosewood, like the actual event, is a long forgotten wave in the ocean of cinema and the world. The film's hefty budget, for which I assumed was mainly used on costumes, set structures, and actors, proved unable to be recouped and went on to become a commercial failure, only seen by those brave enough to endure its tragedy with an open mind and a hungering for knowledge. This is not a movie that many will be able to digest easy. It's a long and brutal picture. But one that is masterfully done in almost every respect and one that should brew a healthy, informative conversation soon afterwards.Starring Jon Voight, Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, Bruce McGill, Loren Dean, Esther Rolle, Elise Neal, and Michael Rooker. Directed by John Singleton. "},{"Title":"race troubles in a small Florida town","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A small town in Florida in 1922, with a black and white population, breaks out in violence and bloodshed. The reason for the trouble came about when a white woman claimed to be raped by a black man. This infuriated the white populace into going on a murderous rampage leading to the deaths of many innocent people and the near total destruction of the black section of town. A very exciting program based on a true story. "},{"Title":"exceptional fictionalization of a true event","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is a very violent and sad movie--guaranteed to have an impact on all its viewers. Because of the serious and violent nature of the film, I would not suggest this for viewing by younger kids, though for teens it probably will be okay--provided you watch it with them and explain the context for the film.The exact events that happened in this small town many decades ago are very vague. We know, historically, that MANY people (mostly Black-Americans) were killed by marauding gangs of whites. However, exactly WHAT sparked it and the exact events are muddled by time and the fact that there were very few living witnesses to the carnage. As a result, the ONLY reasonable way the film could be made was to create a fictionalized drama around the framework of the known events. And, as such, it is an immensely touching and effective film. "},{"Title":"Rooker and Cheadle are great","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is probably the least known Singleton-movie -- I'd hardly heard of it before I saw it on tv last night. It's certainly not Singleton's best, and sometimes it feels like a tv movie, but it is still a good film. Rosewood is no easy film to sit through; watching a lynch mob murder innocent people (and knowing it is based on a true story) is almost physically painful -- but that also makes the film important.So, as I said, the film is good, as is the cast. John Voight is good, and both Don Cheadle and Michael Rooker delivers nice performances -- as always. I'd like to see Cheadle and Rooker in more leads, though, they're too good to always play supporting roles. (6/10) "},{"Title":"events that led up to other unpleasant things","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Part of what makes Rosewood so hard to watch - but I recommend it very much - is not only that it really happened, but also the thought that the events portrayed may have partly been the root of what happened in Florida in 2000. With this vicious racism so deeply ingrained in our society, it's no surprise that Florida's government deprived a number of African-Americans of their right to vote. For more information about these sorts of things, read James Loewen's book Lies Across America What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong.But anyway, this is a great (and I would say under-appreciated) movie. Jon Voight, Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, Michael Rooker and Muse Watson all do a great job in their roles. Definitely one of John Singleton's really good ones. "}{"Title":"a very moving film","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" i just watched this movie for the first time and had to watch it a second time. i found it very moving and upsetting. i researched this story online and was amazed how accurate this story was. i am a white 43y male and to tell you the truth after watching the movie and reading about it i find myself ashamed to be a white man. i cant believe how stupid the white race is. thinking back to how we treated the African Americans, not to mention how we did our best to get rid of the native Indian's that once proudly roamed these lands. i never could figure where a race thinks they are better our have that right to live more than another race just because there skin is a different color. i would refer this movie to everyone "},{"Title":"Well Intended","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Rosewood, directed by John Singleton, is one of those movies that you should have seen when it first came out in 1997, but you didn't. In fact, you probably never even heard of it. I know that I didn't. Totally by accident, I saw it the other night. Fortunately.The film is based on an actual race riot that erupted in Rosewood, Florida in 1923, fueled by a false claim by a white woman living in the near by town of Sumner that she had been beaten by an African American man. Rosewood was a town owned primarily by its black residents. The woman was definitely beaten, but by her Caucasian lover who was not her Caucasian husband. She never did claim rape; the white vigilante mob did that for her. The horrific violence, and the mass murders that ensued, left the town burned to the ground, never to be rebuilt or inhabited again. There are excellent performances here. Jon Voight plays John Wright, a conflicted store owner, and one of the white few white people who lives in Rosewood. Although married to a loving, church going woman, he enjoys nailing his 17 year old black female clerk. He would later help scores of black people escape the catastrophic dimensions of hate portrayed in this film. Don Cheadle, as Sylvester Carrier, is his usual brilliant self, portraying a reasoned and reasonable man who ultimately endures. Esther Rolle, equally poignant, plays Carrier's Aunt Sarah, who does not. Bruce McGill, whose performances I always enjoy (and who you may remember as the motorcycle hood in Animal House, and more recently as the fight promoter in Cinderella Man, among other fine roles) is one of the primary racist instigators of the film. His evilness allows him to teach his son how to tie a noose. Michael Rooker plays the sheriff who never really believed the victim's story to begin with, and who tries to mitigate the tsunami of hate and the enormity of damage it extols. Rooker is a great actor. He had searing performances in Eight Men Out and in Mississippi Burning, in which incidentally, he played a racist murderer of civil rights workers. He also excelled as the murderous husband in Sea of Love. He does an excellent job in this film as well, although I do wish there were a couple of less scenes where he wasn't struggling so with his chewing tobacco. Ving Rhames inhabits a character whose name is simply Mann, suggesting a commentary on the conduct of man in general. At least I think it does. The real problem is that Rhames' character is totally made up. There is no such person. Never was. Of all the horrors outlined in this well intentioned, and for the most part well executed film, Director Singleton and screenwriter Gregory Poirer apparently felt the need to create a character, and a major one at that, who never existed. To me, that seriously undermines the film's essence and challenges its credibility. What happened at Rosewood was unspeakable. Do we really need an imaginary person to utter the unspeakable when there were real people whose real perspectives would have been more compelling?Mann is someone we really don't get to know very well. We do learn that he is a veteran of World War I and has some money. We know he has scars around his neck but we don't know how he got them. We learn that he is brave and has a good heart. Unfortunately, Rhames' performance is stilted and muffled. He speaks his lines at times as if he had just memorized them. No nuance. No believable emotion. According to the film, and to subsequent histories of the incident, the official version of events documents eight deaths. The film suggests a far more likely number, as high as 100 or so. The problem is, incredibly, after the initial national coverage of the riot, the event ceased to exist. Survivors refused to discuss what happened. Consequently, the riot was never formally documented as part of our history, not until the 1990s when members of the media began to resurrect the events. A law suit eventually ensued, resulting in Florida being the first state ordered to pay reparations to survivors and their descendants for a race riot.I suppose it is predictable that Rosewood did not make much money. People just didn't go see it. They should have. I know I should have. I'm glad I finally did. Even if it was by accident. "},{"Title":"An exceptionally well-written and acted film of great historical importance","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" When something unspeakably shameful has happened in your nation's history, you must face it honestly, objectively placing blame where it belongs. But more important, you need to understand why it happened.That's what the film Rosewood tries to explain How could it happen? It is not something easily explained in words, the darkness that can come over an entire community, turning people who might otherwise give you the shirt off their back into a rampaging, murdering mob. A sociologist might write a book; director John Singleton and writer Gregory Poirier take you back in time 90 years and put you in rural Florida, where you witness the events unfold.We see the county sheriff try, clumsily, to do his job, but things spin out of control. He suspects the truth, but what can he do? Later in the film he is accused by the judge of being too sympathetic to blacks. The judge probably was a member of the Ku Klux Klan, which show up later with their rifles and robes. Those in the mob who are not sufficiently violent are labeled nigger lovers. Many of the rest are fueled by liquid courage. Even if someone had second thoughts and tried to stop it, the mob was out of control, and might have killed you. We see a church baptism group morph into a lynch mob, a reminder that most Christian churches in the South did little to oppose racism until recently.We see lynchings and a mass grave, combined with mutilations and body parts taken as souvenirs, and parents forcing their children to witness the lynchings. We see Voight as he watches McGill teach his son to make a noose as black homes burn around them. This is a portrait of Southern racism. You've got to be taught.We see a poor white town neighboring a relatively affluent black town. Some reviewers are skeptical, but it seems plausible to me. There were substantial black-owned industries in Rosewood. (And there were other affluent all-black towns in America.) This resentment may well have intensified the racism. But how do you explain racism, itself? Fear and violence were essential to preserving segregation, which economically benefited whites, even, and especially, the poor white trash. We see some whites standing up against the madness the armed men at the county line, the two train engineers, the Wrights.How closely do the events portrayed match history? When I looked online several years ago, it seemed, incorrectly, there were many discrepancies. (I wonder if reviewers were also misled.) I learned there were actually two black towns in the area that were destroyed by whites around the same period. John Wright was largely missing from that account, but not the current Wikipedia versionMany survivors boarded the train after having been hidden by white general store owner John Wright and his wife, Mary Jo. Over the next several days, other Rosewood residents fled to Wright's house, facilitated by Sheriff Walker, who asked Wright to transport as many residents out of town as possible. It appears now from the Wikipedia article that the fundamental elements correspond surprisingly closely -- and the sheriff looks a bit more sympathetic. Still, when you watch a movie like this, based on historical events, it is vital you read up on the true story. Some movies are 99 percent nonsense, like Mississippi Burning -- the actual case took an FBI agent about 15 minutes to solve. Rosewood is an exceptionally well-written film that brings you into the lives of the community and weaves together the story of their relationships smoothly and believably. You care about them by the time all hell breaks loose. The result is powerful, but not manipulative, cinema.The acting is very fine, down to the smallest roles, and sometimes exceptional, such as Bruce McGill, who plays the detestable racist drunk. (You hated him, didn't you?) With the beard you might not recognize him from Quantum Leap, where he played God in the final episode. McGill is the central figure among the racists, Ving Rhames (Dave) anchors the story from the black side, while Jon Voight (Odessa File, Conrack) represents the white conscience, as weak and wavering as it is. Music is by the great John Williams (Star Wars, Indiana Jones, Harry Potter, etc.). Whether the movie perfectly matches the historical incidents perfectly is secondary. There were other Rosewoods in America, and I feel it is trying to tell their stories, too; you get the feeling they probably all follow a similar pattern a false or exaggerated accusation by a white woman, etc. Florida during that period had the highest per capita rate of black lynchings of any state in the South. If anything, Rosewood may have understated the problem. But not all whites were racists. The problem was the Klan intimidated whites as well as blacks. But the bottom line is Rosewood is a brutally honest account of a shameful episode in American history. For that honesty, and that so much great talent came together to make this movie, I, as an American, am proud. For foreigners reading this review, I lived for many years in the South, including Florida, and I can assure you race relations have changed enormously (though all is not perfect), in part because we, as a nation, have been honest about our past. Look up the Rosewood Massacre online. Please read about the history of racism and the civil rights movement in America. That is the lesson I hope other nations will gain from this movie If you are honest about your past, you no longer have to be ashamed of it.But there is more to be told. I hope that one day someone, perhaps John Singleton, will make a movie about Harry T. Moore, one of the great unsung heroes of the civil rights movement. "},{"Title":"Raw and veracious","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" An extremely emotional film. John Singleton did an excellent job with picture, and Gregory Poirier wrote beautifully with his dialogue. I felt as if the children actors were outstanding beyond belief. Maybe I'm giving this film a biased a review since I'm still excited having just watch it. However, this film is so powerful in it's teachings. It was veracious in it's character reactions and set. You end up hating characters with every fiber in your being, and you end up feeling so proud of those who exude so much courage. I was going to give a nine due to some parts I dubbed too 'Hollywood' for me, however I feel as if this movie's moral lessons have left a mark on my mind. The minuscule 'Hollywood' aspects in no way out-way the brilliance in every other manner. "},{"Title":"Underrated, should have gotten an Oscar","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie has a great point to it. I saw it in American History class at school because the teacher wanted to show it to us as an impact film. This is based on a tragic time in our history that went missing for a while. A town in Florida that was inhabited mostly by African Americans was burned to the ground, and the survivors of this terrible disaster were so traumatized by it that no one new about it until the 1980's. A reporter was finding out why there was a lack of black citizens in that area of Florida, but when this reporter found out about everything, it was more than one could expect to find.The movie takes place in 1923 in a town in Florida called Rosewood. During the time, there was much hatred and racism towards the African Americans. In the movie, a false claim made by a white woman starts a series of race riots that eventually leads to a great disaster.Everything about the movie is true except for the character of Mr. Mann(played by Vingh Rames). This is a very exciting movie from the director of Boyz N The Hood, and I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"White Trashed","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is a review of Rosewood and Higher Learning, two films by John Singleton. The weaker of the two, Rosewood takes place during the 1923 race riots of Rosewood, Florida. Structured as a western, the film watches as an archetypal Man With No Name (Ving Rhames, literally playing a character called Mann) enters Rosewood, only to find the town's predominantly African American population living on edge with a white minority who rule with guns, badges and a bucket full of resentment.A single incident sets the town alight a young woman blames a black stranger for the vicious beating she received from her white husband. He was so big! she screams. He was so black! The news spreads. Local white folk begin assembling. Pretty soon a carnival atmosphere develops, whites arming themselves, getting liquored up and commencing the slaughtering of blacks. Charred corpses hang from trees, houses burn and bullets fly.Though it pretends to be serious and historical, Rosewood is mostly a silly cartoon. Singleton creates an African American Eden, one which would have flourished had it not been for the white man. Whites are themselves portrayed as lecherous, stupid and one dimensional. One character, played by Jon Voight, is our token nuanced white. He's a rich landowner, sleazy, but eventually learns to do the right thing. Elsewhere Singleton consciously reverses common African American stereotypes all the white families are oversexed, violent, carnal or single parents. The black families, in contrast, are torn straight out of Norman Rockwell paintings, celebrating birthdays, always surrounded by a warm glow or sitting at big, family meals. Later, Mann becomes a Biblical figure, a Moses who leads surviving black folk on an exodus out of Rosewood and across a river.Like most films about racism, Rosewood has nothing to do with racism. The saviours of our victims are two landowners, the ruling class is invisible and it is specifically working class whites who are demonized. Racism, in other words, is caused by the stupid, poor, irrational lower class. But racism always has economic roots. In the US, racial policy became a means of combating worker unity by fostering conflicts and divisions between groups along racial, national, sexual or religious lines. The revitalisation of the KKK in the 1920s was itself a direct response to economic factors. Such things go back as far as the 18th century (quasi-military alliances between large corporations and governments repressed efforts to form labour unions and conduct strikes), when the ruling class pitted blacks, Indians and whites against one another to stave off insurrection. Indians, for example, were often hired as slave catchers, whilst strikebreakers - workers used to replace white strikers &#x96; always came from outside the area and/or lower ethnic groups. This, of course, exacerbated racial tensions and disrupted communities. Where Rosewood is set, almost two generations after the abolition of slavery and the end of the American Civil War, many French Canadians, East Europeans and Africans were first introduced as strike breakers. The deliberate creation of racial and ethnic conflict was not a matter of individual employer prejudice but of capitalist class strategy. Ulimately, Rosewood's message is typical of all of Singleton's films evil whites preyed on black, set them back, but now's the time for African Americans to help themselves, pull themselves up by the bootstraps, be good and earn a buck. Blacks, in other words, must now be good whites. Play the game that causes the problem and shunt the problem onto someone else.Singleton's Higher Learning tells the same story, but is set in a fictional Columbus University. It contains a number of intertwined subplots and characters, the most interesting of which involves Malik Williams (Omar Epps), a black athlete who resents being forced to represent his school on the track field. The film's philosophy is articulated by Laurence Fishburne, who plays a West Indian Professor. African Americans, Fisburne essentially says, should suck it up, work hard, stop blaming people and put up with the problem. Other subplots involve shy and naive girls turning lesbian after being raped by men and a lonely confused man (Michael Rapaport, deliberately parroting DeNiro's Travis Bickle) joining a neo Nazi group. The film ends in a big, climactic orgy of blood, as most of these films do. As with Singleton's best film, Boyz n the Hood, actor Ice Cube (and rapper Busta Rhymes) stands out. He out classes everyone. The rest of the cast overact.While the film is right to show how racism as a system has been institutionalised within the very fabric of American social, economical, educational, and governmental institutions, and has always sought to dehumanise, devalue, and even destroy minorities and women, its ending, in which the word unlearn is boldly written on-screen, is completely unearned. The idea is that a higher education beyond education is the solution, that one should unlearn what they've been programmed to accept, but little in the film supports this theme and the statement largely comes out of left-field.5/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Shocking","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Wow, this is American Shindler's List, except no Academy Awards. A reminder that the US - a greatest world teacher of justice had had the practical Nazism on the life stage the way deep into the XX century when most of their today 'pupils' among the world countries already had parliamentary democracies. It seems that US constitution has never really matched its legal performance in practice. Good movie, excellent casting. I love Ving Rhames and John Voit performance, also Don Chiedle and Michael Rooker, very good character matching achieved. I also respect a movie making without usual Hollywood softeners. Pretty authentic and shocking. By the way, I bumped into this movie by coincidence as I had never heard about it before. "},{"Title":"If you can stand the brutality, you will appreciate this film.","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Rosewood is a skillfully made and effective depiction of the destruction of a small Florida town populated almost exclusively by blacks. Though the story is shamefully true, the violence here is probably exaggerated to for dramatic effect. That doesn't make the actual event any less despicable, however. John Singleton shows his skills are not limited to filming inner-city strife, as he weaves a rich and multi-layered recreation of this tragedy. There are many strengths to this film. It is no surprise that it failed at the box office, though. A film like this has a hard time finding an audience that wishes to sit through such savage brutality.Early on we are introduced to the residents to two small rural Florida towns. Rosewood, a semi-prosperous town where blacks own just about everything and live in peace. And Sumner, a logging town populated by seemingly lower class whites. By all accounts these two towns coexisted peacefully for years until one day a woman's lie destroys everything. A young married woman is beaten by her lover (a white man) one afternoon, and blames it on a black man she cannot identify. Word has already been spreading about a black man who has escaped from a nearby chain gang. Could he have done it?, the whites wonder as they get liquored up and start tying nooses. Or was it the mysterious Mr. Mann who shows up in Rosewood on a nice horse carrying a wad of cash and looking to buy some land? Anyway, the white mob quickly gets out of control and starts harassing and killing any blacks they can find. It seems more than anything they are jealous of the residents of Rosewood and are using this excuse to burn them out. Can tough guy Ving Rhames get the women and children out before the crackers get them? Tune in and watch.There are a great many strengths about this film. The locations and photography are lush and beautiful. Some of the most ugly acts imaginable are filmed so beautifully that you cannot turn away even though you'd like to. John Williams's score is rich and memorable. The acting is uniformly excellent by a great cast. Jon Voight is top billed as the shop keeper who is clearly appalled at the mob's behavior but risks getting burned out himself if he tries to stop them. Michael Rooker gives a great performance as a conflicted sheriff who is powerless to stop anything. Rhames outshines them all as the WWI veteran with a .45 in each hand ready to shoot down the crackers. Though he and his actions are completely fictional, you will remember him most of all. Look for Bruce Mcgill as the lead cracker hiding under a shaggy beard. He will be the man you most love to hate. There is an amazing amount of gun play and even some action sequences. Everything is filmed so beautifully! This is a picture that fell through the cracks and should be remembered. But be warned... you will need a strong stomach to get through many of these scenes. 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Good drama, that's not without its flaws.","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" There are some movies I would had never heard of, if they weren't composed by a well know composers. Soundtracks are often a reason for me wanting to watch a movie. It's a lovely little soundtrack from maestro John Williams. It really helps to tell the story and enhances things.The movie is a dramatic laden one that is powerful in parts but also filled with some big sappy sentiments. Such as the way the black-community gets portrayed. It's made to look like one big happy, perfect, peaceful, innocent community. It feels a bit too sappy and cheap and on top of that this introduction lasts a tad too long. does tend to make the movie melodramatic but luckily the movie doesn't ever really cross this line. Luckily the movie does get better as things start to go from bad till worse in the story. It becomes a more of an emotional engaging and powerful movie that provides the movie with a couple of effective moments, though the movie at the end also makes the mistake by becoming more of an action-movie. The actual ending itself also goes on for too long, which also causes it to be overly sappy.It's a well directed movie that shows that John Singleton obviously has talent. Once thing gets started things flow very well and the movie becomes an effective one. It's of course an all the more shocking movie since its based on true events. But nevertheless the movie, because of its sentiments, feels more like a based on a true story made for TV movie, than a shocking, moving Hollywood-hit, worthy of Oscar-nominations. The movie also doesn't feel like its trying to send out a message or tell an important story.The movie is also good looking with some nice cinematography and also the sets and costumes help to create the right atmosphere for the time period the movie is set in.The movie has an impressive cast but not everybody seems happily cast. Such as Ving Rhames. He just isn't good enough for this serious and more carrying sort of roles. His character also feels totally unrealistic. No wonder, since his, unlike the other characters in the movie, are fictionalized ones. I don't know why but Don Cheadle and Jon Voight also feel quite out of place. I guess it's because their characters aren't really ever deepened out good and interestingly enough in the movie. But Don Cheadle is of course also always better in smaller supporting roles. This movie could had been a real good and powerful movie if it relied on its characters and became a real character movie but the movie its storytelling, that is more focused on the sensational and racial aspects of the movie, doesn't allow this. Michael Rooker does play a good role and so does Bruce McGill, who is about one of the most underrated actors in the business. Robert Patrick is also in the movie but his role is unfortunately far too small, though not insignificant.A good, though certainly not perfect dramatic telling of some horrible true events.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A Good movie...Maybe too Good!?!","Date":"22 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie was to my liking, it had all the action oriented scenes placed together to keep the viewer interested. The characters were fairly mysterious incorporating wanderers of the town and a heavy set of anti-semetism combined with promiscuity and adulteress affairs. What happened in rosewood was a supposed intervention or clash, not a massacre but maybe a clash of culture. This movie depicts that aspect of rosewood quite well, until maybe the climax where the whole town revolts. The lynchings were due to migration, Florida was heavily under influence of migration ever since the civil war due to lack of farming. The residents did not want to be involved but in fact if rosewood hadnt occurred the whole town would have been forgotten and abandoned. They merely killed themselves because the africans reacted too harshly and triggered a devastating response. It is said they shot the officers or town residents due to infringement in privacy. The anti-semetism involved was far too extreme even for white people. Historically speaking though, the movie turned into t2 judgement day or some sort of action thriller apocalypse, the good guy was prostituting himself with the town folks...maybe he deserved to be 'caught up.' It was just not realistic or believable imho...which puts me to an odds end to where these categories truly fall under. Based on a true story or Based on true events. Authentic movies that I have seen before which portray real events quit accurately are not apocalypse now, titanic or Apollo 13 but documented based movies such as boogie nights, fire in the sky, or mobster movies with the likes of Scarface & Goodfellas where the actual events look like they could have actually played out in that fashion. If you like the latter, you'll like this movie.If the film is good its because it was for the viewer to interpret it correctly. What I think it was is that the wife with diabetes is the murderer whom got shot's wife. The murderer john d or watever is probably the guy at the end. There was probably two murderers he was chasing which he encountered before being knocked out. His wife prob died. The diabetic is probably one of the murderer's wives. Then the movie may be good..okay. "}{"Title":"Historical Accuracy","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I just saw the movie this week. I'm sorry to say the film was a disappointment, historically, and especially the fictional character, Mann, with rope burns around his neck, and his trick horse! The true story didn't have a superhero with a well-trained horse at the Rosewood massacre. Many of the events, violence based hate crimes, which took place in Rosewood, did actually happen though, at Rosewood, and in many towns and cities in America, Post WWI. As you can see and hear the tone in the Sylvester character, and the white townies portrayed, America wasn't ready for equality, or even separate but equal. I saw the children as hope; most of the adults were trapped in that behavior. PBS, or the History Channel, should have made the movie, or else edit the fiction out of the movie for a 45 minute version, an hour with commercials. "},{"Title":"Rosewood is Too Ambitious of a Film","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Aunt Sarah N__gger is just another word for guilty.Compelling but deeply flawed, this very interesting tid-bit of history will most likely pull at your heart-strings like a rabid baboon trippin' on LSD. The story is set in a small town named Rosewood in 1920s Florida. It's mostly a black town that borders Hicktown, USA. When a white woman makes up a story about how she was raped by a black man, the majority of the white community gets all crazy, violent and KKK and begin to massacre every black person they lay their eyes on. Ving Rhames, best known for playing Marsellus 'Ass-Raped' Wallace in Quentin Tarantino's innovative masterpiece 'Pulp Fiction', brilliantly portrays Mann. Mann's a bad-ass motherf__cker with a big-ass shotgun and a heart of gold. He helps the black community fend off the racist would-be trailer trash that wants to kill them. The best and most intricate performance of the film comes from Jon Voight who plays a white shop-owner/black sympathizer who finds himself caught in the middle of everything. Don Cheadle also has a small role in which he shines. 'Rosewood' is compelling, graphic and true-to-life, but the film suffers from tediously cliché plot turns and some cheesy if not bland dialogue. All in all, it's a pretty good film that if not anything else will teach you about a little-known but extremely devastating racist massacre that took place on American soil some 80 years ago. Grade B "},{"Title":"A salute to the Medal of Honor","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" There were two themes in this film. The first was the suppression of African-Americans by the Ku Klux Klan and by English-Americans. the second was that the sheer glory of the Medal of Honor shone through.The setting was like a tinderbox with Americans mainly from England had hatred for those from Africa. The racist violence and widespread burning if the African part of the town is triggered by the rape and beating of a white woman by an African, who she describes in the most vile racist terms. Most of the English population goes on the rampage, murdering, burning and raping the Africans and their property. One of the Africans, Mann, had made a lot of money, and has earned the world's highest bravery award, the Medal of Honor while fighting for his country in WW1.The main heroes in the story are two Train Conductors, both English, who save many Africans from certain death, plus Mann himself. Our hero, Mann, re-wins the Medal of Honor several times over by cutting himself down from a hanging, rescuing the villagers, taking on the entire English population who were bent on wiping out all Africans. At the end another reluctant helper, the General Store owner played by Jon Voight salutes Mann, but the viewers know that he is really saluting the Medal of Honor.The film is an indictment of the brutal President of the United States, Warren G Harding, who encouraged these activities. Fortunately we do not have these sort of leaders any more. "},{"Title":"The Well of Jealousy runs insidious and deep","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This is one of John Singletons' best. I am glad he had the courage to bring it to the big screen, however, a lot was left out, as a friend of mine is a relative Sylvester Carrier. She paints a much more gruesome picture than we see on the screen,which I am sure his editors left on the cutting room floor. The movie was painful to watch with my friend, as she relived old memories told to her as a child, but still entertaining. The actors he chose, fit their parts perfectly, especially the ones that lived in Sumner.They almost made you forget they were just actors, because of such convincing performances.Vingh Rhames was incredible as I believe this was his debut and Michael Rooker is one of my favorites since Tombstone.If you ever need a lesson on what lies and jealousy can destroy, this is the movie. "},{"Title":"Powerful Stuff","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This tale of a Florida Black town and racism and hatred gone unchecked is one of the most powerful, emotional films I have ever seen. You won't hear about this tragic event in public school, that's for certain. A certifiable massacre, brought about by a WHITE woman's infidelities, this movie still resounds in my head after only one viewing. Ving Rhames as the heroic Mr. Man helps save some of Rosewood's citizens from slaughter, but he can't prevent the horror the white mob brings to the town. A haunting example of ignorance unchecked, it's hard to decide whether this is a drama or a horror film. Jon Voight's portrayal of the reluctant shopkeeper is stellar, and the entire cast is wonderful. John Singleton makes great movies that sadly get overlooked. This movie should be known everywhere for it's unflinching depiction of a terrible stain on America's history. A film that would be dangerous to forget "},{"Title":"One of the few films I've cried during.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This has to be one of the best movies that I've seen.  The way the story picks up a few days before everything happens is sheer brilliance.  It allows us to see how the characters behaved in a normal setting and then shows what happens when we allow ourselves to be swayed by rash emotions and mob action.  I doubt that any reparations that were granted to the survivors could be enough.  At least this film lets them know that their loved ones didn't die in vain.  We cry for them and with them. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Movie","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Very good historical film that shows the absolute lunacy over racism in the Early 1900's.  Very powerful performances by Voight, Rhames, and Rooker. Rhames was almost as good as he was playing Marcellus Wallace in Pulp Fiction.  Did very well considering he isnt known for the lead parts. Voight plays an Ocsar Schindler type character.  Very well acted from one of the true masters.Rooker plays a tweener who floats between good and evil.  He might end up being a decent guy except he's the sheriff of a very racist town and is almost powerless.  His lines at the end pretty much make the movie. Overall, I recommend the movie if you are in for a interesting, if not bothersome at times evening. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I don't usually comment on movies but on the occasion of the viewing of Rosewood I have to say something. I don't know when I've been angered (and I mean really angered) and saddened by a movie more. I understand that this movie depicts events that took place in an earlier time and place, but I also am puzzled that such despicable events could have taken place in the United States of America. That such events happened in the Land where all men are created equal is so appalling as to almost be repugnant. The intolerance of men is depicted so vividly as to almost make one ill. If I've given the impression that this isn't a great movie and one that demands to be seen, I apologize. Everything about this movie, as hard as some parts are to watch, shouts you must watch me. Several of the key roles were superbly acted. I enjoyed Ving Rhames in the starring role as Mann immensely. It was especially enjoyable to see John Voight play John Wright, a white man in southern, rural, Florida with such compassion for his fellow man. Both Esther Rolle & Don Cheadle had superb turns in what were supporting yet pivotal roles as well. I was quite blown away by the power of this story and cannot recommend it highly enough to anyone who believes that man's inhumanity to man doesn't exist. "},{"Title":"rosewood","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" i have seen this movie, and i as a black woman, am outrage at the fact that white people could be so, hateful, ignorant,to people whom have rightfully and respectfully own and bought their own land and businesses, it is a shame how they took their children and taught them how to kill black people, picnics and having a good time while killing someone and women and kids. And they expected to go to heaven......its was a great movie for them to sit down and watch what they have done to us,let their children sit down ans watch how their ancestors really were.How could they sleep at night? What if we did what they did to us to them? White people today, have a lot to fear, by meaning, they did harm to every race almost there is, Indians,blacks, Jews, and their own kind, they are a very confused race, because they really don't have no race of their own, they to are mixed, but fail to realize that, but i pray for them because they need it......god bless "},{"Title":"Black lynch in Florida, 1923","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" It is always good to learn historical facts, and Rosewood seems to be an evidence of something shameful, which happened in 1923 in a place of Florida state. The first time I saw the film was already in its middle, so immediately I thought that the plot was about the apartheid in South Africa, a big mistake from my part because it was really about another type of apartheid but this time made in Florida, US. The second time I saw it completely, it clearly showed me the level of discrimination imposed on black population. The motivation of this racist lynch seems to be somewhat innocent, i.e. a woman claiming that she was raped by a black man, something that was not true, and for sure all white knew the ethic quality of the woman, so they did not believe either. Certainly there must be other motivations to apply such a violence against black people, which was severely applied no matter if they were old and children. The black actors Ving Rhames and Dan Cheadle played very well as heroes of the film together with the experienced Jon Voight, the only white supporting the cause of the blacks. "}{"Title":"Very Good, Sad, but very good.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is the kind of film that makes you so angry at racism and bigotry.  It truly saddens me that people can be and were so ignorant.  What makes this story so good is that it is based on actual events.  The story is basically about this small southern town that consists mostly of blacks that just gets annihilated and torn apart by a mob of people looking for a man that has been accused of raping a woman.The cast is absolutely great throughout the film.  Ving Rhames, Jon Voight, Don Cheadle, Bruce McGill, Loren Dean and Michael Rooker all do a great job with their parts.  Also, Robert Patrick has a small role in the film, but does a good job with it as well.  The rest of the cast is very good as well.Other than the film being a tad on the lengthy-side, the film is very well done and moves along very well.  There are a few scenes in particular that are really quite cool and VERY well directed!  If you are the kind of person that likes drama's about America's history or you just like any of the actors mentioned above, then hopefully you'll like this film.  I hope you enjoy the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Though historical accuracy has been called into question this is, nevertheless, a recounting of events that must not be forgotten.","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Anyone viewing John Singleton's account of the horrendous events that took place in Rosewood, Florida in the 1920's will be unable to escape powerful emotions, regardless of their attitudes on racial issues.  Historical accounts of this atrocity are sketchy--likely due, in part, to efforts made to cover up the crimes--with estimates of the body count running from single to double digits.  Singleton's presentation clearly assumes a worst case scenario.  Further, some of the characters are highly stereotypical. Seizing one of America's many historical disgraces he produces an explosive story of racial oppression, bigotry and ignorance and leaves no stone unturned in putting the viewer through emotional cataclysm.  I was exhausted when it was over.  Regardless, having said that, I must say to John Singleton, Bravo!  The film was a winner. I say this in the face of previous comments because it doesn't matter whether it was stereotypical, exaggerated or purposely  provocative.  Whether the body count was 1 or 100, the horrifying, inescapable fact is that it happened, and it is unlikely that anyone watching this powerful re-telling will soon forget it...and that's the point. Like the Holocost (which some now dare say didn't even happen at all) these events and others like them must never be forgotten. I dust this movie off and pop it into the VCR at least once a year, along with Schindler's List to make sure my rusting, aging brain remains ever aware of the darkest as well as the brightest aspects of the human creature.  "},{"Title":"N*gger is just another word for guilty.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" Less than 100 miles away from me is a town that is a reminder of the hatred that exists in those who grew up in the rural South. I just read Olympia Vernon's book on a similar subject, so it is fresh in my mind. The inhumanity of man towards our fellow man is incomprehensible to me. Whether it is Schindler's List or Rosewood, it is hard to understand. We only have each other, and to think than any one of us is better than the other is pure crap.This film hits hard. It will move you to tears and anger you at how some people close by are seething with hatred. I would even go so far as to say that if it doesn't viscerally affect you, then you are either dead or part of the problem.The film itself features outstanding performances by Ving Rhames, Jon Voight, Don Cheadle, Esther Rolle and many others. Their work will hopefully inform the viewer of this great tragedy and remind them that it is not something in the past. Florida's election fiasco of 2000 and the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina serve as evidence that the State and federal government is full of racists who continue these acts today. "},{"Title":"Intense and Sad","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie in my African American Experience class in 12th grade. It was incredibly saddening to know that such hatred exists within this country. The fact that it's a true story makes it worse. Bout time movies like this are being made despite the discomfort to others. Black history should not be denied because whites or anyone else feels uncomfortable or guilty at the end of a film. No one should be robbed of their history because it makes you feel bad. The fear and isolation are undoubtedly felt through the black characters. To live in absolute fear for your life because of your skin color is perceptible even today. This story forces people to reconcile with the past to avoid further instances in the future. Not to make people feel guilty. Besides, minorities have felt bad in movies for a long time and nobody gave a damn as long as you know who looks good. I'm not militant or whatever else comes to mind. This movie is excellent because it shows a true story in historical fashion. Everyone did an excellent job. I felt anger and I'm sure that wasn't by accident. Jon V. was really convincing.  I'm a big fan of his and he really made me dislike him. Just the very events of having a system of hatred set up against someone so that they don't get a chance is played out well in this film. Please do watch and get a little perspective. "},{"Title":"RoseWood","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" I won't say much, but I'm just a bit disappointed that No One has a website on what ever happened to the children and grandchildren of the descendants of Rosewood. I know they lived to see retribution, but it seems it is a well kept secret. This DVD was the first DVD I ever purchased and that was years ago. At the time, which was about 1999, the movie sold new for $5 at Walmart. When I purchased it, I had no idea this was a true story. Why? Because I don't usually read info contained on the back of the movie. I like surprises, but was not prepared emotionally for this movie. It was a lot like so many true stories regarding this country and Black Americans. I used to watch westerns as a child, but because of the false hood regarding the Indians as the bad guys, I simply can't enjoy them anymore. However as A comment to this movie, it was Excellent to the point I was crying and was very emotional about it, where I waited till now to watch it again. It is still heartbreaking, and I cried again. This country has not changed much, since the JENNA 6 is new news, and this kind of things is still going on. Crosses are still being burned and someone has the audacity to ask, Does Race Matter. Until we can stop asking that question, it will always matter. As a writer, I must admit, this movie was true to life, not omitting the hard truth of what happened. I'm sure it had to be downplayed a lot, but I got the message, loud and clear. It was an event that happened in the early twenties, and we now live in the year 2008. Today, a Black Man is running for Office as the First Black President of the United States. If it happens, it will be a sign of change, but until this country stops looking at the color of a person's skin and everyone is treated as equals, then not much has changed. Let it just be that a man from Illinois is running for president, not a Black 'MAN' or 'WOMAN'. "},{"Title":"Tragically truthful and intense","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" The plight of the African American in the US has been a difficult one. I saw this film and thought it was such a moving and factual accounting of the real event. The mindset in the 1920's towards the black man was not right, but I do feel that it has improved. Some disagree, but it is portrayals such as this that make us realize how far we have come and how wrong we were. I would highly recommend this film; it is not for the weak of stomach, but for someone who is willing to face the truth about how truth is important and getting the whole story before going off on a hunt is necessary before taking action into your own hands. The actors in this movie are great and make the film. As far as I am concerned, this film is right up there with Hotel Rwanda, Blackhawk Down, and other great action films. "},{"Title":"This is more than just a movie.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  If you haven't seen this film, there's more than enough been written on this page to tell you what it's about. But if you're expecting just another comment on race relations in America in the 1920s, you'd be very wrong. This is an horrific film. When the violence is finished, you feel as if you've been through it yourself. And to those who argue whether it's historically accurate, I say this Does it really matter if there were 5 or 50 people killed? For even one person to die through a thing like this, is the ultimate wrong. After seeing this true story, can we even wonder why some black people in America still hate whites? And don't forget, this is only one story out of who knows how many. I found myself filled with anger at the injustice I was seeing, and it makes me even more determined to fight such injustice wherever it's found. "},{"Title":"Race Relations Exposed","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of John Singleton's best movies, (right behind Boys In The Hood) It is a powerful drama based on real life events in Rosewood, Florida in the 1930's. The way that the black character's were lynched is pretty disturbing, especially when viewed in the year 2000, however it is important to understand history as it was. A great movie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie is an EXCELLENT film all the way around!  The drama was presented perfectly and everything seemed so real.  This movie should DEFINITELY be seen by everyone over 12!  It really shows the heart of the African-American struggle. "},{"Title":"Gritty and real","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Stomach churning, yes.  But a must-see for adults.  This is the beginning of the civil rights movement, long before King and those of his time.  This is a true story of black people who created their own town and prospered there til it was taken from them by racism and lies.  I'll never forget these characters.   "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Every time I look at this movie, I get even more madder, speaking as a black man I only know through stories, movies and pictures the turmoil of racism. I grew up in Washington DC in the 50's and 60's and did not encounter any form of racial bigotry. The movie itself was great with superb acting "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Rosewood is a fine movie from any point of view.  Jon Voight, Ving Rhames and Don Cheadle performances are outstanding, and the story is just touching. I have always liked movies that portrait the struggle between black and white people, all the discrimination, and how there`s always someone who still wants to help make justice. I hate people that takes skin color as an excuse to discriminate against different ratial groups, and this movie is about discrimination. The story is moving, the actors played their roles very well, and that's why I wanted to comment on it. If ya haven't seen it yet, don't lose any more time and seek and watch it, ya'll enjoy it. See you guys around. "},{"Title":"stomach churning","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Well-acted, well-crafted, and riveting drama about a white woman's false accusation of rape that leads to the destruction of a prominent black town in Florida. An often unsettling, often nefarious, an extremely melodramatic screenplay benefits from terrific set design, Singleton's gritty direction, and a stellar cast led by the dynamic performances of Voight and Rhames. Definitely not for all tastes. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Powerful messages in this movie","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  I managed to watch this movie on T.V and didn't expect much, however this movie came as a surprise. It is indeed a very powerful movie about racism, up there with MISSISSIPPI BURNING, but ROSEWOOD is at a far worse time.Everything regarding racial hatred is depicted here- from the massacre of innocent blacks who are disturbing nobody, to a child of a white trash man telling his father I Hate you, you are not a man and him running away.Whatever is lost in the killings and in the hatred, bigotry and racism of the white community; it is gained with the courage, hope and perseverance of the black community. Ving Rhames shines as the hero of this true story with white sympathiser, Jon Voight. This movie is a tale of an innocent black family's quest to escape from the terrors of the white folk. There are many disturbing scenes in the film, but without these, there wouldn't be a film(for example a fat, white trash man shooting and killing an african american without any hesitation, remorse, or regret- and a lynching)There are some respectable chase scenes and gunfights which add spice to the film. It is on a pretty good scale for a $30 odd million movie. "},{"Title":"At times harrowing, violent and powerful","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a quite extraordinary piece of film - one of the most powerful I've ever seen.  The majority of the action takes place at night and the use of firelight to create patches of light for the action to take place in is very effective.The plot is developed with real pace, keeping the viewer on the edge of his/her seat.It seems to me to be more about mob rule than about racism and having reflected on this (this is a film that demands from you a personal response) I am not quite convinced.  Clearly the majority of the mob know that the witness is unreliable and have more than an inkling of the truth.  Yet there are no voices of doubt until the Sherriff is finally stirred by the courage of the hanged man (you need to see the film to understand what this is all about).Harper Lee painted a more complex and ultimately more convincing picture of the racism of a small town in the American South in To Kill A Mocking Bird, with which there are some parallels (black man accused of raping white girl and the scene on the steps of the house where the mob is turned away).Although not especially gory, the violence is disturbing and I imagine that some sensitive viewers might not get through it. "},{"Title":"A very powerful and disturbing film","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  A very powerful and disturbing film, yet strangely unsatisfying since the (white) viewer cannot empathize with any of the characters. Even Voigt's character (Mr. Wright), who is a semi-hero for doing anything at all, does so little and so reluctantly that the viewer detests him along with all the other stereotypical racists.  The subject matter needed more of a Scorcese or Oliver Stone and less of a Fellini approach or mood. "},{"Title":"A Great Piece of History That Has Been Hidden","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  This is a great historical movie that I am glad that was made.  This movie shows what happens when a lie is told and the tragic results that can happen when people get out of control.  Justice finally came a couple of years ago, but the damage was already done but justice did come through. "},{"Title":"can you ask for a better gun scene?","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  (potential spoilers) My favorite part of the whole movie is when Ving Rhames is running from the those men and he leads them into a wooded area, whirls round, trenchcoat flying, and opens fire as they come into the clearing with a big gun in each hand.  And the train ride with the shotgun, too, blasting the lynchmobmen left and right!  Ving Rhames is getting to be my favorite actor--he is such an intense force!  Any more roles like this one or that of Marsellus Wallace in Pulp Fiction and I will have no choice but to make him such!  But enough about Rhames. I rented Rosewood out of sheer curiosity, and when I popped it in, I couldn't even remember what it was about.  I was therefor shocked to the edge of my seat where I remained, my eyes glued to every careful detail, until it was over, and even then I couldn't quite absorb the whole thing at once and had to think about it for awhile. I really, really like the parts where the dad redneck is teaching his son redneck to hunt the black people much in the same way hunters would teach their youngsters to hunt deer.  Not that I like what they were doing, but I liked the honest portrayal of it.  These are not evil people who just do evil things out of their evil nature.  These are genuine human beings so corrupted from birth they can see no other path in life.  The son at the end has one of the bravest roles in the movie and I dare say the bravest and the one that instills the most hope in the viewer, when he denounces his father and calls him a monster.  The look on the father's face and his actions afterwards are priceless.  I was on the verge of tears. At first, I saw Jon Voight's character as one of the bad guys that begrudgingly does some good at the end. But one of the comments I read here does make a good connection between this character and that of Oscar Schindler.  Many have seen Oscar the same way as I saw Voight's character.This is an excellent movie, very well done, with shocking portrayals of a horrible time in U.S. history and awe-inspiring glimpses of the courage of the people who lived in it. "},{"Title":"Powerful if problematic","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Like most people, I'd guess, I had never heard of this story until I started to read about the movie, so I can't say how historically accurate it is, though I read John Singleton added the character of Mann (the one played by Ving Rhames) to add a note (however minor) of hope to the end.  The problem is this is a symbolic role (think Shane), and while Rhames is a good actor, he struggles under the weight of the symbolism he's expected to carry. Also, what happens to the Don Cheadle character (he's good in it, by the way) was a bad idea.Nevertheless, this is still a powerful story about a shameful period in our history.  What I especially liked was that Singleton didn't take a simplistic view, but showed how racism was passed down from generation to generation, and how casual resentment could be turned into violence with one inflammatory mistake.  Also, Michael Rooker and Jon Voight are good as characters who know what's happening is wrong but can't do anything about it. "},{"Title":"historically inspired drama about a race riot in the south in the 1920's","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  wow!  great film.  very good acting performances from actors not normally known as leads (ving rhames, in particular).this film has many features that could have made it very popular.  the only one it lacks, apparently is a clear-cut category or niche in which to be marketed.for example, it is certainly not an action film, though it contains a fair amount of action, and even contains numerous gunfight and chase schenes.although the subject matter is rather depressing and some of the events and characters depicted are quite despicable, the film is ultimately uplifting.i would rate this movie very highly.the single film i would compare it to most closely is matewan by john sayles.  rosewood shares characteristics with matewan at many different levels.  both are based on historical incidents representing terrible injustices committed against the underprivileged class.  both are set in early-twentieth-century united states.  both combine suspense, action, and drama with very strong and interesting portrayals of characters and relationships.  both are the product of talented, successful but outside the hollywood mainstream directors.  both films defy easy categorization. neither was especially successful commercially.the film could be compared with the color purple, though rosewood is weighted a bit more towards action and suspense.  one is tempted to compare to spike lee's do the right thing, as well.  this comparison is more difficult - rosewood definitely has a different attitude.  "}{"Title":"A horrible history we only wish wasn't true Rosewood did happen","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" So much of what i'd seen in reviews of Rosewood made the film seem a fabrication of some totally removed never thoroughly investigated minor incident in American history. But the fact is Rosewood did happen. In watching the film earlier this evening, again and again, i thought how shabbily and implausibly invented some of the developments and characters seemed. Then i went to the official website--not of the film, but of the Florida foundation which promotes the continuing study of the massacre, Remembering Rosewood (http//www.displaysforschools.com/rosewood.html). The massacre at Rosewood is a horrible history we can only wish was not true.The shooting of Sarah Carrier on her front steps with a children's birthday party inside and the house being burned down. True. Two white men killed in the attack. True. A white man named Wright whose family risked their lives saving blacks who were being hunted by a mob that eventually grew into the hundreds. True. And the daring rescue of some of the town's children by train. Not only true but those children eventually grew up to cause the state of Florida to finally officially investigate the atrocity and make restitution to the survivors in 1994. Furthermore, author Michael D'Orso wrote a 370 book on the subject Like Judgement Day which is available through Amazon complete with accompanying essay from John Singleton. (The Ving Rhames character seems to be an invention, however.)As a teacher i've commented on Rosewood each year during February/Black History Month and always remained hazy about it, not knowing any details beyond a few sketchy ones i'd found in an article on race riots and had not much discussed the Singleton film, not knowing how truth based it might be. No more. Singleton has brought to life a horrendous chapter of shameful history with impressively accurate detail and a heart wrenching message. "},{"Title":"Brutally real...","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Rosewood is the telling of an unfortunate reality in the 1920's in which a white lie destroys a prospering black village in one week.  John Singleton's best film yet since Boyz N The Hood with an extremely powerful feel to it.  Some stuff in the movie and one particular comment in this page here really offended me, niggertown huh? anyway before I get any angrier thinking about it - Bruce McGill's character in this movie really really aggravated me in a way I never thought possible, it was very convincing for a difficult role for a non-racist actor.  Ving Rhames and Don Cheadle do the movie tremendous justice as two black men who wouldn't lay down to the redneck mob but it's Jon Voight and Michael Rooker who are given the difficult assignments to play white settlers who are caught in the middle of the whole thing - This is definitely one of Jon Voight's more likeable roles if not the most likeable.  It was very enraging for me to see that the white townsmen across from Rosewood responsible for the lynching and destruction were actually celebrating watchin' human beings get hung and young black girls being raped and killed.  This is a movie to watch but be warned that it's extremely depressing...10/10 just because of its realness "},{"Title":"Indifference is the Opposite of Love","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" As horrific as these events are portrayed, you need only look at real-time life and know that by far they were a thousand times worse. Movies are so sterile in exposing the senses to the horror of real life. Close your eyes and smell the gasoline, feel the night air on your sweaty brow, smell the dirt and feel the small puff of warm air escape from the mouth of the man screaming in your face so close that you can taste his hatred. See all of these things in your minds eye, and know that somewhere close by stands a reasonable person transfixed by his/her indecision to do the thing he knows is right.These things and countless others happened and are still happening today.If you REALLY care, I dare you to stand up for what you believe to be right even if you know you'll be ridiculed or ostracized in some way. Atrocities like Rosewood happen because people like us turn a blind eye to the wrong we see and hear going on around us everyday. Not one person reading this thread can say they weren't in that mob if we just stand by and laugh at ethnic jokes or whisper comments inside our secret hearts when we're angry and don't understand. Stand up today. Stand up or just grab a torch and join the mobs of yesterday...and eventually tomorrow. I give this movie a ten, just because it dares to say these things were wrong. Injustice IS wrong and it hurts EVERYBODY. "},{"Title":"Just another story","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Just another story of American mentality, as a true story we can see the same events reoccuring with arabs nowadays. There is nothing new about this movie really, only difference is that this time the story hasn't been palliated. But I sure do recommend this experience to all of you who cannot open their eyes otherwise. "},{"Title":"Great restrained violence film, reminiscent of Bad Day at Black Rock","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  Put the politics aside and enjoy a terrific action film, one that makes Lethal Weapon and Die Hard look like they were made for wimps. Add the politics back in and see a film that hits extremely hard with its depiction of oppression and prejudice. Either way a significant and successful film, except with the critics. If it wasn't for the politics, it would've scored much higher, and made more money. "},{"Title":"Docudrama  Emphasis on Drama.","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" There's not much doubt about the nature of the event. In 1923 a white woman is found beaten in Rosewood, a small Florida village, and accuses an unknown black man. As the information spreads it acquires the familiar form -- she was also raped. The film shows us that the actual perpetrator was a white boyfriend of the married woman, but white townspeople focus on the shadowy image of an African-American man named Jesse who hasn't actually been involved.Dogs track a scent to the house of a black man and the posse beats and kills him. They get drunk and begin beating and lynching black men almost at random. A few residents shoot back, killing two white men, and are themselves killed. A respectable and prosperous elderly woman is also murdered.The black population, who are in the majority, hide in the woods while the mob burns the town down. They hunker down in the swamps until rescued by train. There is no investigation and no convictions.It's a shameful episode from the country's past and we're still paying the bill, both African-Americans and whites. The currency is white guilt and black resentment. And this was just one of the more flamboyant examples of the racism that pervaded communities, most intensely in the South.If it all seems formulaic -- ignorant red necks carrying torches and whooping it up while lynching blacks -- well, sometimes that WAS the formula. The ghost of the formula lingers. In Revere, Massachusetts, a man shoots and kills his pregnant wife, blames it on an anonymous black man, and the police roughly roust the black neighborhoods. A young woman in Union, South Carolina, murders her own children, blames an anonymous black man, and the hunt is on. Maybe the story needs to be retold so that we might learn something from hearing it again.The movie treats some of its characters with understanding. There is the good white guy, a storekeeper played by Jon Voight. There is the representative of law and order, the sheriff played by poor Michael Rooker who is condemned to a career full of meanies and serial murderers, caught in the middle, doing his best and failing. Don Cheadle is the black man who will not take much guff from the whites. He shoots back while others want to pray their way out.Yet there's a repellent and unnecessary element of fiction in this movie.One of the central characters is a robust African-American veteran of World War I, a decorated hero, played by Ving Rhames. He's taciturn. He rides into the town on a horse, wearing a cowboy hat and a leather harness carrying two .45 automatics. He smokes a miniature cigar. When he is attacked by a mob, he emerges from the forest firing his two pistols and drives off the half-dozen armed men in a heroic act of self defense. After he organizes the darkies and herds them off into the swamp and saves their hides, the gang find him and try to lynch him. But he's strong-willed and smart and manages to cut his way free of the noose and escape. He helps dozens of others onto the rescue train and as the drunken posse pursue he picks them off one by one with his shotgun. This is a war. We in the trenches, he pronounces.The character Rhames plays, named Mr. Man, is fictional, a thinly disguised Man with no name from the Clint Eastwood Westerns. What is this, a joke? Evidently not.I understand the need for drama and a central figure in the narrative but this kind of stuff is simply made up in order to make the product more commercial. There isn't actually that much information available, notorious as this riot was. Hardly anyone was willing to talk about it and Rosewood remains only a memory today. But the Voight character could have served as someone for the audience to identify with. His depiction seems to be relatively accurate, although the name has been changed. He did hide blacks in his house, putting himself and his family at risk. And his wife was more strongly protective, more gutsy, than he was, which is shown in the film.The whole trajectory of these incidents of collective madness is pretty familiar, but we don't seem to recognize them when we ourselves are involved. The woman who claimed victim status at the beginning had no idea of the implications of her claim. Neither did the young girls in Salem, Massachusetts, in 1693, when they had fits during which they accused marginalized townspeople of being witches. The lunatic conspiracy theories always belong to someone else. OUR lunatic conspiracy theories are always justified. "},{"Title":"Tragic Story...","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":"  An engrossing but tragic story Trivialized by John Singletons EXTREMELY WEAK attempts to lay the blame for these disgusting events at the feet of a member of the fraternity of Masons. This director shouldn't be allowed to tackle any future subjects (however loosely) based on historical topics since he's proven himself to have a tendency toward fraudulent exaggeration... "},{"Title":"Disappointing - Watch Mississippi Bruning instead!","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is based on real tragic events and yes, it has been one of the dark horrific events in American history. But the filmmakers let it slip out of their hands.The movie never managed to touch or move me; in fact, I was mostly distracted by shoddy writing and mediocre acting. It does not take the subject seriously enough and turns it halfway through into a forgettable action flick. Most of all, I do not understand the inclusion of the fictitious character Mann. He is so overblown to the point of caricature and seems to have stepped out of a western.I was not impressed. Other movies like Mississippi Burning have a heart and a clear message to convey. Here the message gets buried under superficial clichés.Those tragic events perhaps need to be taken to the screen again but this time by more skilled and competent hands.Overall disappointing what could have been a movie with a strong statement. "},{"Title":"Abysmal & shamefully pandering recreation of the event.","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" In 1923, a village called Rosewood consisting of somewhere around twenty to thirty black families was attacked. Many lost their homes, some lost their lives.Historians have argued about the specifics for years now. Some say the rash of attacks against whites perpetuated by blacks leading up to the Rosewood attack is insignificant because the black suspects were framed by racist whites. To others, the burning of the village and subsequent murders of at least six blacks are justified because of the considerable rise in black crime.This story had all the earmarks of becoming a memorable feature film. It had a small gathering of sympathetic characters, a hoard of evil antagonists, and most especially an extra heaping of abject tragedy.Unfortunately, the film is horrendously one-sided as it depicts nearly every white person as bloodthirsty savages bent on absolute hatred, while the black people appear as radiant beacons of righteousness. The story essentially is told from the viewpoint of the very models of propriety (the blacks) set against the fierce malevolence of humanity's abominations (the whites).It's a puerile and half-hearted attempt at framing what at it's heart is a very real and horrifying picture of cruel annihilation. There are good and bad people in every social strata, and to stereotype an entire race (even within the context of but one film) is narrow-minded and ironically racist in itself.Sure, you have Jon Voight portraying the token good white by trying to save many of the blacks that frequent his general store - but even he's a scumbag. He brazenly carries on with a young black girl and has a mean disposition.You also have Ving Rhames playing the ubiquitous Hollywood badass who aids in the defense of the village by fighting the attacking whites off with two pistols, one in each hand, channeling his best knock-off of classic John Woo action.I could forgive much of this if, in the end, we were left with an overall enjoyable film. Sadly, this piece of celluloid stinks like month old meatloaf. It's banal, derivative, and worst of all - unconditionally forgettable. "},{"Title":"One of the most disturbing movies of my life.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, History","Review":" This has to be one of the most disturbing movies I have ever seen. I literally had to close my eyes and plug my ears for long stretches while in the theater. I was also pretty close to throwing up when I left. The brutality in this movie is just unbearable. When unplugging my ears at one point I heard the line but, Daddy, it's just a baby referring to a small child basically being demolished by a mob. Is this amount of violence appropriate given the incredibly violent event it portrays? I do not believe so. This movie is full of gratuitous violence that could just as easily have been insinuated. I think back to the Gone with the Wind scene at the railway station portraying the horror of war as it panned back to show more and more and more dead and wounded soldiers until the number is as far as the eye can see. We didn't need to see these men shot to feel the impact of this condemnation of war. This is a creative method of demonstrating the horror of violence. Rosewood is a cheap and uncreative method. This incident is a horrifying one in the history of our country and deserves a telling that is a little more accessible. It should be a film that can be shown to teens and even older children. But, I consider this violence more obscene than any sexually explicit movie I have ever seen. Even the first twenty minutes of Private Ryan looked tame compared to this movie. This is an action/horror film. It is not a historical drama.The people of Rosewood deserve a more creative telling of their story. As it is, this film will be soon forgotten because it cannot be used to teach those who need to understand. "}]