[{"Title":"A film done with pride and conviction...","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"93 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Without ever attaining indisputable literary merit, Alexandre Dumas, succeeded in gaining a great reputation first as a dramatist and then as a historical novelist, especially for such works as 'The Count of Monte Cristo,' and 'The Three Musketeers.' He was among the first, along with Honoré de Balzac and Eugène Sue, who fully presented a rich, detailed picture of life in early 19th century - France, creating characters of formidable individuality and willpower...'The Man in the Iron Mask' takes place in 1662, where a spoiled young king rules in decadent luxury while his subjects are starving in the streets... His armies fight unjust wars... His selfish actions result in deep resentment by the people... He is currently under siege by rebellions... His tyrannical disposition prompts the original 'Three Musketeers' to believe that France will never prosper unless a change is made... Our musketeers have all grown into middle age, and their exploits have become legendary...When the son of Athos is sent to the front lines of battle, and killed the aging 'Three Musketeers' (Athos, Porthos and Aramis ) are forced to haul out their old uniforms into active rebellion against the crown... They come up with a plan to expel the tyrant from his throne... A carefully guarded secret works to their advantage...Aramis knows of an enigmatic Bastille prisoner, a helpless victim of the king's justice, whose true identity and existence is unknown to most... This mysterious young man has been thrown into loneliness and pain in a dungeon for six years, forced to wear an affixed iron mask so no-one can notice how much he looks like the king...In a risky maneuver to save France, the 'Three Musketeers' break the title character out of prison, teach him to behave exactly like the king, and then set off to make the 'switch' in a masquerade ball...As their plan unfolds, they must confront their friend, the great D'Artagan, one-time fourth Musketeer, now head of the king's bodyguards, who has sworn an oath to protect the king with his life...DiCaprio plays two characters so distinctly and effectively that you absolutely hate one and love the other...He is King Louis, a non-caring leader who lets his subjects starve and riot in the streets of Paris... He is a vile ice-hearted seducer mostly interested in bedding attractive young women... He displays, with talent, King Louis' arrogance and cruelty... DiCaprio is also the gentle Philippe, the polar opposite of Louis... Philippe has the heart of a king, with eyes asking too much... Gerard Depardieu is delightful as the old and weak Porthos, the womanizer, more concerned with the pains of growing older... Porthos feels useless unable even to straighten his sword when in the hay with three women... John Malkovich is the straightforward Athos, now an impulsive widower and an angry father who has his own need for revenge against the King's treachery... Two time Oscar nominee for Places in the Heart and In the Line of Fire, Malkovich makes the point that ideally, they should have a king worthy of their service...Jeremy Irons is the contemplative Aramis, the justice leader of a silent rebellion.... As the Jesuits oppose Louis' wars, and the starvation that results, Aramis is ordered to discover the true identity of the general of the Jesuit's order and to execute him... In one moment, Jeremy Irons (an Oscar winner for 1990's Reversal of Fortune), dignifies the true mission of a Musketeer when he states 'When we were young men, and we saw injustice, we fought it!'Gabriel Byrne is the faithful D'Artagnan who carries a mysterious secret with him... His dark romantic secrets are hidden in his sad look... Byrne has the right combination of gravity and flair for the conflicted D'Artagnan, especially in the scene where he placates an angry mob... He projects his character's romantic frustration and his crisis of conscience, and desperately tries to find a balance between his loyalty to the king and his ability to live up to the code of the Musketeers... Anne Parillaud is the twins' mother, Anne d'Autriche, torn between her passion and her maternal love toward a son completely far from the path of compassion and honor...Judith Godrèche is the damsel in distress, the beautiful Christine torn between being faithful to her dead love and helping out her poor family by basically selling her body to a lusting king...The film's authenticity and visual presentation are as glorious in the decadent luxury surrounding the King of France as grotesque in the terrible place occupied by the man in the iron mask...Randall Wallace (Oscar-nominated for Braveheart's script) brings the great palace of Versailles to life with elegance and finesse... The beauty of the gardens defies verbal explanation... The music is beautiful and epic, and the motion picture is done with pride and conviction...The masked prisoner actually existed in reality... But his identity was never known and it's of little consequence here... The film, however, is not exactly faithful when it comes to historical facts... It has been created for pleasant entertainment purposes... Louis XIV of France, whose great prestige earned him the title of 'the Sun King', ruled France in one of its most brilliant periods and remains the symbol of absolute monarchy of the classic age... "},{"Title":"Fun, entertaining movie!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"70 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I never saw this movie in the theaters (it seemed like another Leo-mania no REAL talent type of film), but I remember a friend recommending it to me one night about 5 years back.  Since I love sword fighting movies/3 musketeer flicks, I just had to give it a try. Plus, I had seen the previews, and they looked interesting.  Well, let me tell you...from the opening scene to the ending credits, I was hooked with this film!  It grabbed my attention, and was just pure fun!! I don't know why this movie got such a low rating on IMDB.  It may not be a masterpiece, but it's surely a great, fun, entertaining film!First of all, the cast is great.  I mean, have you seen so many good actors in one film?? Byrnes, Depardieu, Malcovich, DiCaprio, and Irons.  All such a WONDERFUL cast, with good acting.  I liked Leo's duel roles too.  At first I thought it would be cheesy, but Leo delivered it well!  He played both roles of Louis (bad king) and Phillipe (good king) so diversely!  I liked how he had you loving one king, and totally despising the other!  Someone also mentioned the way Leo totally changed characters with his eyes.  THe EYES say a lot, and Leo nailed it.  I almost had to ask myself if this was the SAME actor playing Phillipe!The plot was good (eh...might have been predictable, but still...great), the cinematagraphy was awesome, the music was moving, the sword fighting/action was cool! I absolutely loved Gabriel Byrnes in this movie.  He was so great as D'Artagnan (sp?).  John Malcovich was perfect for his role of Athos too. I really felt his pain.  I have both the VHS (older) and the DVD version (hey, it was on sale for 9 bucks!! lol) of The Man In The Iron Mask, and the DVD version (although not a whole lot of extras) has a nice directors commentary.  It really tells the director's vision for the film and all the behind the scene info.  I STILL can't believe that this movie was his FIRST film!!Very entertaining movie.  I really don't know why people dogged this movie so much.  It was SOOOO much better than that OTHER more RECENT musketeer movie that came out called THE Musketeer.  UGghgh...what a dissapointment!But The Man In The Iron MASK is DEFINITELY a movie worth giving a try.  "},{"Title":"Loved this movie more than a crown! Well, unless the crown is made of diamonds, but you get the idea","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"65 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Man in the Iron Mask, fresh off the massive success of Titanic, we got the next movie starring huge heart throb Leonardo DiCaprio along with some of Hollywood's strongest male leads. Including a couple of my favorite actors John Malkovich and Jeremy Irons, so this was a movie I was looking forward to seeing, not to mention I was 13 at the time of this release and was totally in love with Leonardo DiCaprio, oh yes, good times. So of course this movie was love at first site with me, but as I grew up and watched the movie without my crush influence, I still found it to be a good solid movie. Leonardo stays strong as his first duo role as King Louis and Philippe and proves he can stand up with the heavyweights of Hollywood. Jeremy and John together with Leonardo had great chemistry and made The Man in the Iron Mask a really good watchable movie.France is under the reign of King Louis XIV, who is bankrupting the country with his unpopular wars. When starving peasants in Paris start to riot for food, he responds by ordering his chief adviser, to send them rotten food. Meanwhile, the King wallows in hedonistic luxury while seducing a parade of women. The legendary three musketeers have retired from their posts Aramis is now a priest of the Jesuit Order; Porthos is running a Parisian brothel; Athos has a son named Raoul who is just back from the war and ready to marry the girl he loves, Christine. At a festival, the two lovers are greeted by an older D'Artagnan, just before Raoul can propose, the King's eyes fall on Christine. He arranges for Raoul to be returned to combat and killed in a suicidal charge. In the wake of Raoul's death, Aramis initiates a plot to overthrow the King with the help of his old comrades. Only Athos and Porthos agree to the plan; D'Artangan refuses to betray his oath of allegiance. The three musketeers sneak into an island prison and arrange the escape of a mysterious prisoner a man in an iron mask. Philippe, the identical twin of King Louis. While he looks indistinguishable from his brother, Philippe is compassionate and gentle and the plan is to replace Louis with Philippe.While I've expressed my love for John and Jeremy, the true talent comes out in Gabriel Byrne's performance as well as Leonardo DiCaprio. Gabriel as D'Artagnan was just beautiful, charming, dashing, and very charismatic. While the movie could have had a little better direction, in some ways this felt more like a made for TV film at times, just with the big names. I'd say that's the movie's main flaw, but they were not given a big budget to make it into a great movie. Also the fact that Leonardo as Philippe, they take the iron mask off his face and he's still pretty! Eh, still I'd highly recommend it, it's the actors that make this movie very delightful to watch, one for all and all for one&#x85; this movie is just tons of fun! Hey, that almost rhymes, I made a funny! OK, there's my cheesy joke, I'm done, just watch the movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"47 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When this film started playing in theaters in March 1998, I thought this is going to be another overrated film that Leo Di Caprio is in...so I avoided going to see it.  But I decided to rent it yesterday, since I was in the mood to watch a period film.  Was I surprised!  I really enjoyed watching this film.  Although it did have a few flaws here and there, it is still a very worthwhile and enjoyable film.  The costumes were nice, yes, but the sets were even better.  The cinematography was outstanding.  Who cares if it was not true to the Alexandre Dumas novel--film adaptions of famous novels never are true to the books.  This film didn't do so well at the box office because it started playing in theaters at a time when all of the Titanic hype was still taking place.  Perhaps The Man in the Iron Mask should've been released in the fall of 98--I bet more people would've gone to see it in theaters.  If you haven't seen this film, rent it.  It's both an enjoyable story and a visual wonder.  See it at least twice!  "},{"Title":"you can watch this over and over again","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"41 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only problem with this movie that the plot is a bit implausible, but nevertheless, everything was great. I must say that I've seen this movie more times than any movie in the world and i still say it's great. It has a star-studded cast, and all of them did an excellent acting job (DiCaprio, Byrne, Malkovich, Depardieu and Irons). This is a perfect ensemble cast, it's as if the roles were written for the actors. The acting was just well done. The events are exciting and sometimes heart-wrenching, the music is great, and the dialogue is truly, truly exceptional. Trust me, after watching this movie at least 18 times, I've realized that the dialogue is just superb. I very much recommend the movie, however, the story is very, very far from the original book by Alexander Dumas. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected!!!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"37 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was wary... VERY WARY... due to the fact of DiCaprio's role(s).... Anything was better than the book however.... The musketeers were incredibly well-cast, Irons making up for my original hostility for Aramis and Malkovich, Depardieu, and Byrne giving me greater reason to respect these four men of chivalry and honour. Lee D. on the other hand.... well, what can I say? He downplayed both characters, with Philippe is was immensely effective, with LouisXIV a travesty of performing. The mask was perhaps the most attractive bit of metal put together in any movie version. Besides the initial appearance, it looked the most functional. After I swallowed my Pride and Prejudice I rented it, watched it, thought about it, then bought it. Can I say more? Accurate costuming, GREAT SCRIPT!!! A great movie for a video-rental night. "},{"Title":"Gabriel Byrne IS d'Artagnan!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have read the book many times, and nobody could ever measure up to how I saw d'Artagnan - until now.  Gabriel Byrne played him exactly the way I imagined him to be when I read the book.  How gallant!  Never has anyone played a more beautiful love scene - short though it was - it left one craving more.  Anne Parillaud was beautiful.The rest of the Musketeers were perfectly cast.   Did anyone notice the Lieutenant André's devotion to d'Artagnan throughout the film before he delivered his famous line at the end of the film?Not crazy about Leo di Caprio, but he was pretty good as Louis XIV, but he never won me over as Philippe until d'Artagnan died.  Leo's reaction was spontaneous.I never get tired of watching this movie.  It's even better on DVD. "},{"Title":"Dumas would have been pleased (perhaps)","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This 1998 movie provides everything a swashbuckling cape-and-sword flick should - legendary heroes, a cruel villain, noble sentiments, touches of love and sex, some slapstick, picturesque scenery, sumptuous interiors and of course dashing swordplay (the last perhaps a little limited by the maturity of some of the principals).It has also some reasonably intelligent dialogue, provided by writer/producer/director, Randall Wallace, and spoken in part by two of the finest voices in the business - Jeremy Irons (Athos) and John Malkovich (Aramis). Gerard Depardieu (Porthos) and Gabriel Byrne (D'Artangnan) are the other two of the original 3 + 1 Musketeers.The villainy of the young King Louis 14 is provided by Leonardo DiCaprio, who may be too wishy-washy for some tastes, though he certainly has the veneer of elegance needed for the part. One niggle I have is, that it would have been better if he had been instructed to pronounce Athos either with a short a or a long a (preferably the former) and not alternate between the two.The plot, like the Dumas novel on which it is based, has no less, and no more, credibility than is appropriate for this type of film - for anyone interested in the real events and rumours surrounding the Man in the Iron Mask, I recommend this website - http//www.royalty.nu/legends/IronMask.html One aspect of the film I find amusing is that in this version of a quintessentially French story, the only French actor in the quartet of heroes, Gerard Depardieu, plays the part of a uncouth, lecherous buffoon; while an Englishman, an American and an Irishman provide the grace, heartfelt speeches and depth of character. I wonder how that went down with the audience in France. "},{"Title":"A Really Nice Film","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  We didn't expect much here, so it was one of these experiences where you are pleasantly surprised.  I would mention Irons and Depardieu first because they are just great.  I suppose Depardieu has performed in comic roles before but I don't recall them and so was quite pleased and amused with his grace and charm in such a role.  Irons is imposing and has more gravitas that anyone else in the film.  Byrne is strong and a pleasure to watch.  These top performers take this material and make it delightful.  DiCaprio is a talented young man, I suppose, but my personal demographics are in the periphery of his fan base (wrong sex, wrong age).  I'm no Malkovich fan, but he was not a sufficient detraction to me to offset my enjoyment of the others.  Over all, the film is a lot of fun--a really nice film. "},{"Title":"Familiar tale with a new cast","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Leonardo DiCaprio is The Man in the Iron Mask and also King Louis XIV in this re-telling of the famous Dumas story. He is surrounded in a sumptuous production by a stellar cast that includes Gabriel Byrne, John Malkovich, Gerard Depardieu and Jeremy Irons. The oft-filmed plot concerns the twin brother of the cruel, selfish Louis IV who is guarded loyally by D'Artagnan. Phillipe, the twin, was taken from his mother at birth and once found by the King, imprisoned and placed in an iron mask to hide his identity. When the poverty and the uprisings become too much, Aramis (Irons), who knows of Phillipe's existence, breaks him out of prison with the help of Porthos (Depardieu) and Athos (Malkovich) with the idea of having him replace Louis at an upcoming masquerade ball. It falls to Athos, who has just lost his son Raoul in war because of Louis' lust for Raoul's fiancée, to teach Philippe how to be king in a short time. Things do not go as planned.This tremendous cast and huge production make for absorbing viewing, different yet as entertaining as the Richard Chamberlain TV version and the Louis Hayward version in the 1930s. Here the emphasis is on the old Musketeers, which works well - Porthos who feels his age and misses the old lusts, the grieving Athos and Aramis, given an impossible job by Louis, which means that Louis must go; and, of course, D'Artagnan, fiercely loyal to his King and insisting that he can be molded into a great ruler, despite evidence to the contrary. The acting is fabulous - there really isn't a standout among the four men as they are all so good.Leonardo DiCaprio creates two completely different characters with Louis and Philippe and does an excellent job. Though he was trending toward matinée idol/chick flick territory, he pulled himself out to take on weightier roles - though there's no doubt this film was meant to bring in the teenagers. And what's wrong with that - a classic story once in a while won't kill them.Entertaining viewing. "}{"Title":"Slick-Looking Dumas Tale","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"21 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a well-made, polished-looking version of another famous Alexander Dumas 'Three Muskateers story and looked great on DVD when it came out in the earlier days of that format. This is an old tale of the Muskateers in latter days and the efforts to get rid of an evil king, Louis XIV and replace him with his twin brother. Both roles are played by Leonardo Di Caprio. The twin had been unjustly imprisoned and put in an iron mask for years.The film has an interesting cast of international actors DiCaprio and John Malkovich from the United States; Jermey Irons from Britain; Gerald DePardieu, Anne Parillaud and Judith Godreche, all from France and Cabriel Byrne from Ireland.Malkovich, as usual, plays the most interesting character. Parillaud plays Louis' mother and she's too young-looking for that role.This is a fairly long movie and doesn't have an overabundance of action but doesn't need to, to keep one's attention. Randall Wallace, of Braveheart fame, directed this - another plus for the movie. "},{"Title":"A mediocre swashbustler","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" In 1998 Leonardo DiCaprio was career was at an early peak after starring in Romeo + Juliet and Titanic and Randall Wallace was able to have his directional debut after the unjust praise he received for Braveheart. Both ended being involved in a mediocre swashbuckling auctioneer which is a sequel to the Four Musketeers.Set in the early stage of King Louis XIV (DiCaprio) reign, Louis is a brutal king who is engaged in a war with the Dutch, allowing the civilians of Paris to starve and riot whilst his lives in luxury and at has affairs with mistresses. The Four Musketeers have gone their separate ways, Aramis (Jeremy Irons) is a Jesuit priest, Porthos (Gérard Depardieu) is a fat old man who is depressed and visits brothels, Athos (John Malkovich) has raised a son, Raoul (Peter Sarsgaard) who want to be a musketeers and D'Artagnan (Gabriel Byrne) is the captain of the musketeers for the king. But when Aramis is asked to kill the head Jesuit order and Athos' son dies in a suicidal battle because of the king's eye for his partner, three of the musketeers plot to overthrow Louis. They plan is to free Louis' identity twin brother, Philippe was held prison with an iron mask over his head, and replace him to be a good king.There are some good things about The Man in the Iron Mask there are some nice costumes, nice scenery involving the palace of Versailles with a fitting score and Irons was pretty good in the film. But there are a lot of problems with this film. Most of the acting is wooden, and that despite the casting of DiCaprio and Malkovich who were on autopilot. Malkovich did have one decent moment of making an angry speech but that's it. But DiCaprio's career went into a mini-dip after this and the Beach luckily he has recovered and works with great directors like Scorsese, Spielberg and Nolan. It was also a weird mix of accents, with characters speaking in either an English, American or French Wallace should have gotten all his actors to speak in one accent and stick to it. The action in film is pretty standard there is nothing bad about it but there is nothing new or refreshing about it either; just a few sword fights and flintlock rifles being shot. I am also personally very critical of Wallace as a writer, coming up with the cinematic travesties of Braveheart and Pearl Harbor. The Man in the Iron Mask follows has the same problems, Wallace has a continuing need to introduce poor and crass comedy, with Depardieu playing a drunken slop who gets drunk, farts, lusts over women and walks around naked when he tried to hang himself. For a very French story the one major French actor has the worst role. Most of the jokes fall flat and the dialogue is weak throughout the film. The character is one dimensional, but Wallace does not know how to make them any other way. You could not believe in them and the acting did not help. There was no attempt to characterise Louis and like Edward I in Braveheart there is no political reason for why he commits an act, like the war. It was a hollow experience. There is an attempt of a surrogate father-son relationship between Athos and Philippe but that also felt flat throughout and that well developed.Many ideas are underdeveloped, like the Jesuit campaign against Louis' wars, the grinding poverty the ordinary people had to suffer or show more of the war, whether France was winning, losing or in the middle of a stalemate. A theme that could have been explored was if the musketeers were using Philippe for their own ends to gain power for themselves. Or rivalries in the court whilst some counsellors supporting Louis and other against him.Overall the best swashbuckling film of 1998 was the Mask of Zorro and Wallace best film is We Were Soldiers watch those two film instead. "},{"Title":"A terrific cast is wasted in a dull Dumas adaption.","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a waste of great talent and a suspenseful, swashbuckling classic!Aside from the passionate performance by Gabriel Byrne, the rest of the cast cakewalk through their lackluster performances. The direction, the pacing, the romance, the sword-play are all dull. We don't get involved enough into the musketeers and their motives, because the director doesn't care enough about them. He doesn't put enough heart in the action and doesn't inspire strong performances from some of the greatest actors working today.Instead of wasting time on this boring remake, rent The Three Musketeers from 1973. This would demonstrate what a good time can be had from a Dumas adaption, when you get a director with a flair for high adventure. "},{"Title":"The Men in the Iron Script","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Who the heck is Randall Wallace if not one of the greatest comic filmmakers of our time who apparently does not know where his true talent lies? This film offers a prime example of the man's inborn grasp of gut-wrenching hilarity dolled up as piously dull and historically ignorant entertainment. In other words for those willing to forget the serious intent of the movie it is a guaranteed laugh riot from the start to finish. This absurd remake reveals Mr. Wallace is not only a multi-talent-less director, writer, and producer, but he is also someone with an uncanny knack for transforming mature but nonetheless top talents &#150;&#150; Gerard Depardieu, Gabriel Byrne, Jeremy Irons and John Malkovich in this case &#150;&#150; into automaton-like hacks. To be fair, these otherwise fine actors must have been paid handsomely before they agreed to take part in such drivel even as they appear to be thumbing their noses at this inane production by reading their ridiculous lines ice cold as if off of a teleprompter. In truth the actors seem to be desperately holding back either tears of hilarity or tears of abject humiliation. Still, the real question here is this does this man even know what a ridiculous hoot he has given birth to? The answer is certainly not. In sum, you should spare yourself if at all possible. However, if you must indulge, then the best thing to do is to watch this defectively fitted costumed comedy with Mr. Wallace's senseless commentary turned on as background sound effect. I promise instant spasms of watery-eyed laughter as he piously defends the serious intent of his efforts. In all honestly, the clearest assessment of Mr. Wallace's version of the Man in the Iron Mask is best summarized early on in the film by the loud and resounding flatulence hilariously delivered by Mr. Depardieu's character. If only the rest of the film lived up to that exceptional moment of innovation. "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood fare","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Variously uninspired, overblown and mawkish, and thoroughly predictable. Each actor seems to be in a different film--be it romantic epic, slapstick comedy or overblown family drama. As expected, Leonardo DiCaprio as Louis XIV/Philippe is entirely inappropriate for the part, intended to drag in hordes of young girls to see a film they otherwise wouldn't look twice at, given the general calibre (and age) of the rest of the cast. Only Jeremy Irons as the pious Aramis and Gabriel Byrne (who cannot quite suppress his surly Gaelic growl for love nor money, it seems) as the fiercely loyal D'Artagnan manage to conjure any measure of gravitas. I am as willing to suspend my disbelief as the next person, given a decent yarn and spirited performances, yet the colourful menagerie of modern accents, especially American (DiCaprio and Malkovich in particular), abounding in the 17th century Parisian court never failed to jar me out of what turned out to be rather a waste of two hours.It's already been mentioned by several other reviewers, but the final preposterous scene where the Musketeers valiantly (and suicidally) charge face-first into a battery of musket-fire and emerge none the worse for it just nails the lid on the proverbial coffin--especially when one of the leads, figuratively tossing Dumas' novel out of the window, stamping on it and setting fire to it, promptly expires from what is apparently a flesh wound to the shoulder seconds later. There are a handful of equally ridiculous little incidents scattered throughout the film that are far more likely to elicit a derisive scoff than an awed gasp. When D'Artagnan, lingering beneath the Queen Mother's window, contemplatively fingers a red rose before riding off to probable death, I half expected him to fling it with unerring accuracy and have it land neatly in her hair, or something similarly ludicrous. Another scene is an instructive lesson in crowd control simply wow the rioting mob with a bit of implausible swordplay and they'll all turn around and meekly shuffle back home.Typical Hollywood schlock a waste of time, money and reputable actors. Take it as a sign that I've already run out of synonyms for 'ridiculous' in two short paragraphs. Watch if you absolutely must, but turn the sound off all the same. "},{"Title":"Utterly putrid","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I almost don't know where to start in criticizing this film. Nearly everything about it--I am not exaggerating--is utterly terrible.DiCaprio, for example, offers one of the finest examples of miscasting I have ever seen. Not for one instant does he come across as a monarch, let alone Louis XIV, one of the most adamant believers in the divine right of kings who ever lived. He has literally *no* royal presence. DiCaprio not only looks far too young (he looks like a boy who would still be at the girls are icky stage of life, not seducing everyone at court), he makes no attempt to speak like anything but a young, modern American male--at one point, his Louis actually finishes a sentence with huh?But perhaps I should not assume that DiCaprio slipped that in on his own. Given the bargain-basement level of the rest of the dialogue, I can easily believe that writer-director Randall Wallace penned that huh himself. Top-notch actors like Jeremy Irons, Gabriel Byrne and John Malkovich must have been choking on their lines; Malkovich's flat performance does make it seem like he was bored out of his mind. I can only hope that the French members of the cast, including Gerard Depardieu, didn't realize just how bad their dialogue was.My personal favorite was Byrne's statement to Queen Anne (Anne Parillaud) I know that to love you is a crime against France, but not to love you is crime against my heart. I literally rolled off my chair laughing. That isn't even historically accurate at that point, the Queen was a widow and no one would have cared a whit if she was sleeping with everyone in the court.Such overblown statements and actions are rampant throughout the film. Rioting peasants toss an apple at D'Artagnan; he not only slices it with his sword, he catches it on the blade and deftly takes a bite. The scene is so ludicrously melodramatic, it must be seen to be believed.My list of possible complaints is endless, but to wrap up with just a few the cast members' accents are all over the place, the music overwrought and the entire film far too long. I sincerely advise all readers to avoid this movie, unless you're teaching a class on how not to make a film.  "},{"Title":"Another bad Dumas adaptation","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After the three musketeers Disney movie, a horrible new version of the classic Dumas story, I was hesitant to go see this movie, starring Leonardo, but with a great supporting cast. My feelings were right Man in the Iron Mask is tedious and lacks suspense, and avoids the political background the Dumas story had. The great support actors are sadly wasted. The typical ending is another great example of how not to do it. I should have avoided this.   "},{"Title":"Worthwhile, but not quite the masterpiece it wants to be","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Back in the days of Douglas Fairbanks, people took historical drama/adventure movies much more seriously. There was a lot more reading going on and people were more familiar with Dumas' grand epic tales, such as The Man in the Iron Mask. With this in mind, the director and producers of Iron Mask start their movie out slow in getting late 20th century viewers familiar with all the characters. This was the first role for Leonardo DiCaprio post Titanic, and possibly the greatest collection of actors ever assembled to portray the Three Musketeers (Gabriel Byrne, Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich, and Gerard Depardieu). Of them all, Gabriel Byrne stands out as D'Artagnan and portrays his fierce loyalty to the wicked King Louis 14 and the Queen Mother with quiet passion. He also looks great in the period costumes, long hair style and thin mustache.Leonardo DiCaprio plays a dual role of both the wicked king and the title character. The plot focuses on a scheme by the Three Musketeers to spring the man in the Iron Mask from prison and replace the evil king with him. The implausible way they do it and install Philippe on the throne gunks up the movie a little at the midpoint. Script rewrite, anyone? On the other hand, the scene where Philippe is unmasked is one of the best in the movie.While some moviegoers (even girls and young women still gaga over Leo from Titanic) thought that he looked too girly in the movie Leo manages to get viewers to hate Louis 14 and love Philippe. And of course the queen mother knows right away and you can see the realization in her eyes (authentic French actress Anne Perillaud plays the role beautifully). Besides that, here's a little-known historical fact the real King Louis 14 was girly. He used to pluck his facial hair and bloodlet to give his face a more vulnerable, feminine appearance. The Man in the Iron Mask ends satisfyingly and there is even some good swashbuckling action for fans of that sort of thing. Leonardo DiCaprio's image changed radically not long after the movie, when he hooked up with Martin Scorsese for a string of tough guy roles. But he should still be proud of his performance in Iron Mask and it is a fine movie. "},{"Title":"I actually thought it was pretty decent","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Without it being the best movie I have ever seen, I actually liked this film. I wasn't expecting a masterpiece, and I didn't get that. Instead I got a fun film, with flaws, but it was enjoyable enough.Starting with the many good things, the cinematography is superb, as is the lavish scenery and costumes. The music is very rousing and moving, and the sword play is energetic. Also I thought the direction was fine, same with the acting. Gabriel Byrne is surprisingly good as D'Artagnan(much more suited to the part than Chris O'Donnell-the worst D'Artagnan, though I actually liked the movie- was). Even better were Jeremy Irons and Gerard Depardieu as Aramis and Porthos. John Malkovich was good too, if perhaps a little too fey to start with. Leonardo DiCaprio was somewhat uneven in his performance but he was good on the whole, personally I felt he was better as Phillippe in alternative to Louis, he never quite convinced me playing an arrogant king whereas he succeeded with Phillippe because of that spontaneous boyish charm he has.However, the film is a little too long and the pacing is also uneven, I felt the film dragged in the middle and then it felt a tad rushed at the end. While the story is solid enough and sticks relatively faithful to the story, which is brilliant on a side note to those not familiar with it, it can get implausible with one or two soap-opera-ish qualities about it. Finally, the script does have one too many weak spots, one or two parts are a little too cheesy for my liking.On the whole though, this is an above average and fun film. Maybe not the best for those who adore the book, but as an introduction to the story it is good enough. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Okay, I guess.","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I wasn't impressed with the acting at all though. I remember a greatversion of this story on tv, was it with Richard Chamberlin? Thisversion seemed weak, everyone had different accents, there wasn't muchto it all. I left with a 'ho hum' feeling, I didn't care much. Rent TheThree Muskateers! instead, the one that Richard Lester did. It's fun andhas a sense of humor. This version took itself very seriously..... "}{"Title":"Masked Talent","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this coupled with Revolutionary Road. After Titanic, Kate chose an amazing project. Its the unappreciated Hideous Kinky. Its deep, appearing to be shallow and undirected just as the character seems to be. But I find it strangely hypnotic each time I see it. She went in that direction and generally has made intelligent choices about what she does, poor Leonardo has made a mess of his career.He knows how to be intense. Actually that is the only thing he is truly good at, but it is only recently that he has discovered how to channel that for many uses. At this time in his career after Gilbert Grape and before Romeo + Juliet, he was truly awful. We can't blame this whole disaster on him; there are many screwups. But wow, he is so inept, so untuned to the narrative, so out of touch of what is needed that if all else were right, he would spoil the thing. Interestingly, that is the complete opposite of what the story brings; his character is so intrinsically, so intuitively right that he changes history, changes the world.This is a replacement comment, the original having been deleted by a vindictive user.I often fail to understand why John Malkovich gets work. He makes deCaprio look good here.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Oh please! It's not even well made (spoiler included)","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" (spoiler warning)This film does a real good job of being one of the very worst films of the 90's. Though the acting is about standard (except for Depardieu, I'll get to that), there are details that simply sink this absolute horror of a film.First of all Louis XIV's imprisoned brother stays six years in the prison wearing an iron mask. Fed intravenously, I suppose. Anyway, they remove the mask and wash him, and TADAA, he's just as well-fed, nice and clean as the king himself! That's really something.And along comes Depardieu. He is French and has an undeniable French accent. The others speak perfect English. Why bother to cast someone with a French accent in a film that is otherwise accent free? Why, because he alleviates the fact that this film about European history is made by a bunch of Americans, and brings fun to the stew. Well - he sucks.Near the end, the musketeers are trapped and just have to run broad-chested and shouting towards a bunch of soldiers wielding muskets. They fire a barrage of bullets in a confined corridor - and not one bullet seems to have hit its mark. Is that divine intervention à la Pulp Fiction or what!?And then comes the very worst detail after the burial, the musketeers walk down an alley lined with the king's troops. I would have been happy to dismiss the film with that, but NOOOOOOO - the troops have to shout One for all - all for one! just to point out that this film is one of the cheesiest and dumbest films ever made.Man oh man, not even the little girls who had filled the theatre to see DiCaprio thought this film was good. Thank God I didn't have to pay to see it. "},{"Title":"Nice production, but ultimately tepid film storytelling","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" There's a sort of pall that hangs over The Man in the Iron Mask. It's a feeling of... mediocrity. I know that no expense was spared in production. It's a fine specimen of movie entertainment. Sets, costumes, cinematography, editing. And, of course, big headliners.The one thing that feels skimped on is story management. It feels dilettante-ish; like simple karmic elements tinker-toyed together and intended for delectation by a 5-year-old snuzzled into bed with his teddy bear. Transitively, the actors--especially the headliners--come off like their tongues are weighed down by the knowledge that they're reading fay, simplistic storytelling. Somewhere between the standard script and the interp (the direction, also, mayhaps?), a ball has been dropped.After viewing, I thought, OK What's a good counter-example? A flick that has all the same technical finery, including roughly the same period, but also possessing a picaresque narrative, with character study, as deep as it is broad, would be... Barry Lyndon.If you're thinking, That boring old fossil?!?! then I'd just say... OK, maybe Iron Mask is more your speed, and... godspeed! But I see the technical finery of a flick as merely a substrate. The story is everything. I do expect both (good technique and narrative depth), but actually am more respectful toward flicks that, even if they're technically lacking, at least deliver on the mythic level in a satisfying way.So I give this one a '6' for the technique, but I can't creep that any higher.If you like a simple intrigue fable and lots of swashbuckling, Iron Mask will do. "},{"Title":"Potential for greatness... but no","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" A chance to bring the musketeers to the big screen again! Romance, revolution, retribution, ... really?. The film starts sensibly, and dolls out information at a reasonable pace for the first 70% of the movie. The musketeers' performances are acceptable, although every one of Athos's lines is delivered in a tone that I can only describe as Malkovichian. However, Leo is pretty painful to watch as both Louis and Philippe. I'm not sure what's worse, listening to him blunder through Louis's smarmy monologues or watching him feign wistful expressions as Philippe (he knows wistful and listless are distinct emotional states, right?). There's some swashbuckling action, some political intrigue, some subtle (and by subtle I simply mean not explicit) character development. The final 30% of the movie, though, takes a turn for the melodramatic and completely kills any interest I had established at that point. The film isn't bad, but it certainly isn't good either. "},{"Title":"It Weaves Together Several Legends","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is no doubt a very successful period piece, featuring wonderful sets and costumes, and creating vivid and realistic portrayals of both the opulence of the French court and the wretchedness of French prisons in the 17th centuries. Based on an Alexandre Dumas novel, it's also an interesting weaving together of several legends loosely based on a true story. There really was a man in an iron mask - a prisoner in that era who wore a mask, at least in public when being transferred from prison to prison. The movie also includes some pretty good scenes of swordplay and a good dose of humour as well, revolving largely around the figure of Porthos, one of Dumas' famous musketeers, now past his prime and having trouble adjusting to that fact.In this account, which is relatively faithful to Dumas' work, the man in the iron mask is identified as Louis XIV's identical twin brother Philippe, who was put in the mask and in prison in order to protect the throne for Louis. Historically, the problem is that Philippe wasn't a twin of Louis' - he was Louis' younger brother. In the story, a plot is hatched to free Philippe from prison and pass him off as Louis as a way of ridding France of a petty, self-indulgent king with no regard for the French people. The story had its moments, but was somewhat inconsistent , and the plot hatched was full of holes. Perhaps Philippe could have been trained to act like a king - even to act like Louis - but Louis would have had knowledge Philippe couldn't have been given knowledge of courtiers, knowledge of affairs of state, etc. Surely Philippe's lack of such knowledge would have led to the ruse being found out. The implausibility (impossibility?) of the plot was the major weakness here. There was also a certain soap opera quality. The King's decision to bed Christine by sending her fiancé off to battle to be killed mirrored the biblical story of David and Bathsheba, while the revelation that D'Artagnan was the actual father of both Louis and Philippe was unnecessary to the story, although reflects another legend that Louis XIII couldn't have fathered his children because of an estrangement from his wife.Leonardo DiCaprio played both Louis XIV and Philippe. I thought he was better in the latter role, and for some reason had difficulty taking him seriously as Louis. There are certainly good points here that make this worth watching but I still didn't find this to be a great movie. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Still one of my favourite escapist or inspiring films!","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, if you're a stickler for accuracy in retelling French history, you're going to have problems with this film. The same goes for anyone who wants a script close to the content of Dumas' book. There are quite significant deviations from both.Having said that, the story that this movie DOES tell is logically consistent, satisfying and inspiring within itself. (And actually possibly an improvement on Dumas' last Musketeers novel, which rather gets lost along its way at times. And isn't exactly history either!)In fact, the first time I saw this movie on its cinema release I rated it as one of my favourite films, and it still is one of my favourite escapist or inspiring movies. It was never going to be an award winner, or a most important story told in film. But the story does have a significant moral to it, there are 'journeys of discovery' made by various characters, the authentic music and settings are great, the acting (from such a skilled cast) is mostly excellent and the last 15 minutes are especially inspiring and heartstring-tugging.Of the principal actors, Gabriel Byrne and Jeremy Irons shine. They are totally convincing, with Byrne really showing his capabilities. And the pleasure of hearing Irons deliver his lines is almost worth the price of admission to any of his films. Depardieu is mainly the comic relief, but he does it well. Leonardo DiCaprio, who when this film was released was one of my least favourite actors of all time, pleasantly surprised me by showing that he could act after all, managing to convey two very different but related characters pretty convincingly. John Malkovitch I know as a great actor, but often in this film I found him the least convincing of any of the main characters, definitely the odd man out. Much more than DiCaprio, his broad American accent just doesn't seem to fit with all the other surroundings. Or was it because he seemed to be half-asleep when delivering some of his lines?Other reviewers have similarly talked about the weird mix of accents, with supposed French characters voicing British, American and rather pronounced Franglais accents. It was only distracting for me after several viewings - I don't particularly recall this on my first viewing, which left me enthralled. For all except perhaps devoted linguistic pedants the willing suspension of disbelief should suffice, and the accents question certainly doesn't detract from letting good actors tell a good story. The Musketeers are supposed to represent an inspiring ideal of loyalty to one another, and to an ideal France in the form of its King. This film certainly expresses the disappointment of many of the people already with the excesses and abuses of royalty and nobility which would lead to the French Revolution about 125 years later. Athos voices the common dream, ...that one day we would finally be able to serve a king who was worthy of the throne. Unfortunately, few of the kings of France up to this point (and beyond) would qualify for this description. Nor, in reality, would Louis XIV despite the feel-good voice-over at the end.But the real history is not the point. Did you worry about the reality of The Adventures of Robin Hood or Raiders of the Lost Ark? Real truths about the human condition are told in fiction, rather than non-fiction. And by the last All for One, One for All, most viewers will be moved and wanting to cheer along with the Musketeers. "},{"Title":"Dicaprio shines playing a double role along with the formidable musketeers","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The picture is a new version of Alexandre Dumas's and is set in 17th century French court ,where a twins,one evil monarch Louis XIV(DiCaprio)of France and the other Phillippe(DiCaprio in a dual role) is imprisoned in the Bastilla as inmate number 6943800 that hides his identity wearing an iron mask.Both are sons of the Queen Mother Anne(Anne Parillaud).The king lust for girlfriend(Judith Godreche) of Athos's son(Peter Sarsgaard)leads to the summit of the dreary musketeers,thus Dartagnan(Gabriel Byrne)the brave;Athos(John Malkovich)the responsible father;Portos(Gerard Depardieu)the joker(though with flatulence) and Father Priest Aramis(Jeremy Irons).They join forces for royal vengeance with the shout  ¨One for all and all for one¨.They are planning a plot involving substitution by the lookalike brother.It's a good adaptation with big budget in this brooding rendition classic tale with derring-do,intrigue,romance,action and exciting swordplay. An excellent casting and lavish production shot in France make for a fairly amusement swashbuckler.Glimmer and watchable cinematography by Peter Suschizsky who reflects stunningly French palaces(Versalles),gardens and interior-exterior scenarios.Besides the atmospheric and spectacular music score is by Nick Glennie Smith. Subsequently remade numerous times for big screen and television. Thus,1929 by Alan Dawn with Douglas Fairbanks,1939 by James Whale with Lous Hayward, 1977 TV rendition with Richard Chamberlain. The film is well realized by usual screenwriter(Braveheart)and first time director Randal Wallace. The motion picture will like to costume drama enthusiastic and DiCaprio fans. "},{"Title":"Mmmm.. Jeremy Irons","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I only first watched it a year ago, and wasn't sure I would like it at all. Although it had some of my favorite actors (John M. Gabriel B. ..and so on) it also held some of my least favorite actors (Leonardo D. ..and that's it). I watched it, and loved it!  There is comedy, romance, adventure, drama, some educational value, and it holds the oh-so-fine Jeremy Irons.  I found it captivating enough, interesting so to speak.  It doesn't have any of those Is it over yet?  Should I wake my legs now? scenes.  I don't recommend it for little kids, though.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie is just brilliant, the cast is perfect,and Gabriel Byrne really made D'Artagnan look just  the way that he is supposed to look. Leonardo too made a great performance,he really had to work hard on this movie because he had two characters to play.I am not going to comment on the others(John Malkovich,Gerar Depardeu,Jeremy Irons,Anne Parrillaud,Judith Godreche)because all of them were just great. "},{"Title":"Its worst crime is that it's dull","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" A film loosely based on the third Musketeers novel by Alexander Dumas, who in turn adapted the story from actual historical events surrounding King Louis XIV and the eponymous masked prisoner of his. The story goes that France is struggling under the rule of its new king, Louis XIV, whose wars have lead to poverty, hunger and rioting. King has faced numerous assassination attempts already despite his young age and thus he entrusts his safety to D'Artagnan and the Three Musketeers, all of them aging men already.Sounds exciting, right? Unfortunately, it is not. And I do not blame the actors for this. All of the main characters are played by talented actors, from Gabriel Byrne as D'Artagnan to Jeremy Irons as Aramis. They're just the right amount of over the top to fit the spirit of adventure, yet serious enough that they can sell the darker moments. Sure, Leonardo DiCaprio as King Louis is still in that younger phase of his career where you cannot take him that seriously, but he does a decent job here as well.No, it's the script that's at fault. Or perhaps the directing. The events themselves are exciting on paper, but most of the film fails to translate that excitement into actual events. Like a scene where Louis is hosting a grand ball while at the same time his opposers are working to kidnap him. Yet it drags. It's just dancing, Louis sitting on his throne, retiring for a moment, then coming back, sitting some more, people dancing. You don't feel the stakes at all. And the whole movie is like that. It should be thrilling, a great big adventure. But the pacing and the storytelling are both so incompetent that it doesn't feel like it.I'm also not a huge fan of the changes made to the novel, but they don't outright ruin the film. They also don't add all that much so I don't see the point of including them, but that's a nitpick.The film has its upsides. Visually it's very pleasing, all the musketeers are fun characters, if depicted a bit shallowly in the case of Porthos and Athos, the score is decent and even the story at least has elements of adventure in it. Personally I've seen much better adaptations, but if you're a fan of the actors, you might get something out of it. "}{"Title":"Fun, entertaining, great story,","Date":"30 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked this one quite a bit, excellent in terms of a period piece, which I was in the mood to watch with beautiful sets and costumes and a swashbuckling adventure. I had seen this years before but couldn't remember any details about the movie itself, for some reason though I had never forgotten the fascinating story about the Man in the Iron Mask.I like how this opens by telling you that while Some of this is legend at least this much is fact, when rioting citizens of France destroyed the Bastille they discovered within its records this mysterious entry; prisoner number 64389000-the man in the iron mask. so that there is an immediate element of mystery.The movie itself is a classic adventure film with romance, intrigue, lots of action, yup there's even sword fighting, and filled with a fantastic cast to portray the aging musketeers (Gabriel Byrne, Gérard Depardieu, Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich) as they hatch their plan to overthrow the King. I enjoyed all of them but honestly Gérard Depardieu was hilarious here, and this has to be my all time favourite role of his...I'm just a fat old fart with nothing to live for anymore. I'm going to hang myself, as soon as I'm sober. Leonardo DiCaprio does a decent enough job portraying two very different characters, that of the evil king Louis and also his good natured, tortured twin brother who has been kept chained and masked in a dungeon for years. Leo is young here and struggles a bit with accent etc and I think also gets overshadowed by the experience of the others in the cast. 10/12/15 "},{"Title":"Leonardo DiCaprio - Too Hot for any Mask )","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I simply love movies that can entertain and yet, throw some nuggets of wisdom to the viewers.Man in the Iron Mask has couple of dialogues that are like sayings from a wise sage. Rather than reveal anything here, I suggest that you see the flick and hear these for yourself.Here's a good story, music, costumes, art direction, sword fights and also cracking performances from the four musketeers Gabriel Byrne as D'Artagnan, Gerard Depardieu as Porthos, John Malkovich as Athos, Jeremy Irons as Aramis and also Leonardo DiCaprio as King Louise/Phillipe. I truly felt that Leo's acting was outstanding. Even John Malkovich & Gabriel Byrne were class.Some of the lead actors like Judith Godreche as Christine(King Louise's fancy) was average, which was a little disappointing. Besides that, everything in this flick clicks.Verdict Here's a castle-age movie that you'll never be bored of. All for one, one for all ) "},{"Title":"Two-Faced Man","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" In the 1600s, France is being ruled by ladylike in manner, but really very nasty Leonardo DiCaprio (as King Louis XIV); the faux Frenchman beds women less pretty than himself, and makes peasants sick with rotten food. To help lure comely Judith Godrèche (as Christine) into his bed, Mr. DiCaprio orchestrates the death of her boyfriend, Peter Sarsgaard (as Raoul). This irks Mr. Sarsgaard's father, prompting reformation of Three Musketeers John Malkovich (as Athos), Jeremy Irons (as Aramis), and Gérard Depardieu (as Porthos). DiCaprio's nastiness prompts the retiring trio to abduct the King and replace him with a lovely twin Leonardo (as Philippe).So, what happened? Let's take a stab at it&#x85; To help prepare for the role, producer/writer/director Randall Wallace ordered several of the older Alexandre Dumas movies screened. Unbeknownst to star and director, someone slipped in a copy of Greta Garbo's Queen Christina (1933); and, that's how they decided to play the DiCaprio characters. Okay, maybe that's a slight exaggeration. (Garbo wouldn't have approved the fart jokes). Fortunately, DiCaprio recovered from this unwise role selection. Moreover, Gabriel Byrne (as D'Artagnan) essays an excellent modern musketeer, Mr. Wallace's plot twist interests, and the production is beautifully shot.****** The Man in the Iron Mask (3/13/98) Randall Wallace ~ Leonardo DiCaprio, Gabriel Byrne, Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich "},{"Title":"Fun, filled adventure with warm humour and intelligence.","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" In the time of hope and despair.... France's ruthless King Louis XIV (Leonardo DiCaprio) enjoys the riches of the woman, beautiful woman's but he doesn't care that his people are dying of starvation. The four musketeers Aramis (Oscar-WinnerJeremy Irons), Athos (John Malkovich), Porthos (Gerard Depardieu) and the legendary D' Artagnan (Gabriel Byrne) are now retired but each of them are doing the things... they love in life but occasionally do they miss the adventures... they used to have. When Athos' son (Peter Sarsgaard) set to die fighting the war... he fights for. King Louis XIV is attractive to Athos' son fiancée Christine (Judith Godreche). Aramis feels that this won't bring greatness and Athos wants revenge for his son death. Aramis convinces his fellow musketeers to save the man in the iron mask, who's actually King Louis' twin brother in prison to protect the King's identity. When they saved him from life in prison and the man in the iron mask name is Philipe (Also played by DiCaprio). The musketeers have to train Philipe no less than three weeks to become King Louis XIV for a better future in France.Written and Directed by Randall Wallace (Best Known for writing the script of the Oscar-Winning Braveheart and the infamous Michael Bay film Pearl Harbor) made an enjoyable old-fashioned adventure with a top cast. DiCaprio is good in dual roles but the real magic is watching Irons, Malkovich, Depardieu and Byrne in the roles of the Musketeers and they are simply terrific. This film was release three months after the mega giant Box Office hit Titanic. Which DiCarpio is the lead actor in the James Cameron movie but this film couldn't knock Titanic out of it's first place for months until Lost in Space came out in April.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also includes an intriguing commentary track by the filmmaker and more. The Man in the Iron mask might be too corny for some tastes, while others might see this as a loose sequel to Disney's The Three Musketeers. This movie offers simple entertainment and for those... who enjoy adventures. They should not miss this one. Anne Parillaud from the La Femme Nikita fame appears in a supporting role as King Louis XIV's mother. Hugh Laurie appears in a small role as One of the King's advisers. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"The Resurrection of Nobilty Comes Alive Here","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" What I can the most about The Man in the Iron Mask is that this movie is very exhilarating. With the declination of loyalty and trust in our society today, this movie boosts the morale even if it's only temporary. Aside from that, the movie features an extraordinary story, remarkable characters and breath-taking entertainment.The best characters of the bunch are the reunited aging Musketeers as they all bring something to their impressive repertoire. We have the angry Athos (John Malkovich), the laid-back Aramis (Jeremy Irons), and the lovable Porthos (Gerard Depardieu) and the loyal D'Artagnan (Gabriel Byrne) who stands by the tyrannical King Louis XIV (Leonardo DiCaprio) play their respected roles to absolute near perfection. The emotions between the Musketeers are taken from different angles. At one point, we are treated to see the the warmth and caring between the feuding quartet,next thing you know, they're angerily drawing swords to each other. But it's not drawn in vain, but mostly through their competitive spirit. When the quartet light up the screen, they're storytelling stems from looking back at a time when unity, chivalry and the value of teamwork where everyone treated equally came into place. The strength to fight has no limits and the final battle scene is very intensive. The finishing touches to the movie is complimented by a terrific story, plenty of great 17th century scenery, and wonderful costumes and value to this unquestionable masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest adaptation of the Musketeers story but better than most","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Man in the Iron Mask is yet another adaptation of Alexandre Dumas' classic of the Three Musketeers. yet again the story has a different premise revolving around Porthos, Aramis and Athos and their friend D'Artagnan. The story is a lot more enjoyable for me than most of the adaptations of the Three Musketeers. Almost everything is changed and I was surprised this was even considered a musketeer film but I guess you have to if you use their names.The story is set during the reign of King Louis XIV considered one of the greatest rulers of France's old government. However not all is well in France. Constant war with neighboring lands has destroyed the economy and all of Paris is starving and rioting while Louis sits in his estate loving women. The three musketeers (Athos, Aramis, and Porthos) have aged into their late 40's early 50's and are all but useless to the king. Aramis decides it is enough and decides to unleash Louis' dark past. Louis' twin brother was locked in the Bastille and placed in an iron mask so no one would recognize him. Aramis and the other two musketeers plan to break him out and usurp the throne for the kinder Philippe. Meanwhile D'Artagnan questions his allegiance to his King and to his friends and his questionable past.First, what must be recognized is the acting of Leonardo DiCaprio. Taking on duel roles and completely different personalities brings forth some of his best acting of his career. This role I believe is the one that broke him out of the pretty-boy look he had gained from Romeo+Juliet and Titanic. DiCaprio showed a lot of promise in his duel roles in The Man in the Iron Mask and seems to have paid of with his recent film works (The Departed and Catch Me If You Can). DiCaprio is convincing both as the King and as Philippe. Two of the three musketeers in my opinion were strong. Jeremy Irons is one of the top British actors in the business and proves it again as the Jesuit Musketeer Aramis. French actor Gerard Depardieu brings the comic relief as Porthos but that is when comic relief is needed. He is in no way just their for the laughs, he has in stern moments and his fair share of good acting moments. John Malkovich is not my favorite actor. I believe his performance as Athos is a bit forced and just didn't convince me for the majority of the film. The person that wins me over is the mysterious acting of Gabriel Bryne. Bryne makes me believe he is the true D'Artagnan. His tragic character figure made me watch this film over and over again. Bryne convinces you with his first minute on screen that he is an amazing actor and that he deserves more recognition in Hollywood. I wish Bryne would get more big time roles in movies today. His performance is reason enough to watch this film.The story is not the greatest. The director never gives us the true understanding of how horrible psychologically it must have been for Philippe to be locked in an iron mask for five years. I think this would have added a bit more suspense to the story. The film does also have its dull moments and questionable dialog. Overall I find the story average with solid acting by the majority of the cast. The Man in the Iron Mask is not a great film by any means. More of good acting with mediocre storytelling. The ending sequence is one of my favorite to date. The musical score is exceptional and the performances by DiCaprio and Bryne are among the best I've seen.3/5 stars "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm 13, and bought this movie about a year ago. I originally bought this movie because it has Leonardo DiCaprio in it. I watched the first five minutes, got bored, and turned it off. I just watched it for the first time and it was better than i expected. The acting was great, and there were times where my heart was pounding. The only reason i watched it was because my friend was throwing a party, and she wanted to see if could bring any movies, so i read off all the movies i had. When i mentioned The Man in the Iron Mask, she asked me if i had ever watched it, and i said no. She told me that i had to watch it, and then her sister got on the line and told me i had to watch it, so i did. It was a great movie. The costume and set are great. And the film really captures all the emotion. I recommend this movie. I also read that when the Man in the Iron Mask came out, that Titanic had been number 1 at the box office for about 5 months, but when The Man in the Iron Mask came out, it beat Titanic for number 1. "},{"Title":"Rousing With Intrigue and Top Row Performances All Around","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This plays very well, if watched as an unintentional Part 2 behind Disney's Three Musketeers with three older male members of the Brat Pack.This is a very moving, compelling rendition of the legendary tale of the Man in the Iron Mask. This is also, in my opinion, Leo's best performance to date (March 2007). He really comes through as one of the greatest talents of his years, in this work, which led to many great roles being awarded him, later.Enter the best cast list of Musketeers ever conceived Jeremy Irons as Aramis, John Malkovich as Athos, Gérard Depardieu as Porthos, and Gabriel Byrne as D'Artagnan. These guys depicted the epitome of these iconic characters, and delivered performances so believable, they were chilling.This work is not a masterpiece, but is QUITE good, and rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Best so far","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Couldn't have a classier set of actors than those as the 4 musketeers. Great performances in my opinion and I wish I could see them do the 4 books of the series that are between The Three Musketeers and The Man in the Iron Mask. They only make movies of book one and book six. The ones that I don't think have been done are -Book 2 - Twenty Years After (1648-1649) Book 3 - The Vicomte de Bragelonne (1660) Book 4 - Ten Years Later (1660-1661) Book 5 - Louise de la Valliere (1661)Book 6, The Man in the Iron Mask is the last book and covers years 1661-1673. "},{"Title":"Possibly not the best film about The Three Musketeers... but one of the most entertaining and powerful ones","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" After watching this a few years ago, I had little recollection of it... the general perception and memory I had was favorable, so I decided to make it a point to watch, when it aired on TV. I must say, I had forgotten how exciting, dramatic and intriguing it was(and is). The plot is very captivating, and it develops nicely with a few twists that hold up rather well. They are neither obvious nor illogical. The pacing is very good, it never seemed to move neither too slow nor too fast. The acting is one of the highest points of the film... DiCaprio, Irons, Malkovich, Depardieu and Byrne... all hand in excellent performances(though, obviously, some of them are more seasoned and/or talented than the others). It was great fun to see Hugh Laurie in a role, albeit a small one, after seeing all of the BlackAdder series(in which he plays a considerably big role; or, should I say, number of big roles), the genius British comedy franchise of the mid-to late 80's with Rowan Atkinson. I was probably most fascinated by the fairly young DiCaprio, who has the job or portraying two rather different characters... everyone who's seen the film knows what I mean, but for the sake of anyone reading this who hasn't, I won't say more. Don't worry....No, wait! I, I meant about the characters, not about the movie!Anyway... the characters are all quite credible and well-written. Dumas knew his stuff when he wrote the novel(s?), and Randall Wallace did a good job(as far as I can tell; anyone who's read the work of Dumas, feel free, in fact, even encouraged to correct me here) of compiling it into a two-hour Hollywood movie. It's very credible and convincing all-round, and for a Hollywood drama, there is, surprisingly enough, little to no actual sap or sentimentality. Mr Wallace doesn't try to manipulate us or con us into feeling sorry for these characters... he instead manages to evoke genuine emotions, something not many of this kind of films manages to do. The dialog is fairly smart and interesting, and always well-delivered. The swordplay is entertaining, if a bit limited in scope and amount, clearly due to the seniority of most of the main cast. All in all, a very entertaining tale of The Three Musketeers, based on an interesting idea, and brought nicely to life by talented actors. A good film, but not a great one. I recommend this to fans of the film-makers and possibly of the legend and Dumas, as well. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Corny Dialogue  but lots of fun!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" If you're looking for old-fashioned movie entertainment, then this one may be for you. Based on Dumas' original sequel to The Three Musketeers, this film follows the adventures of the Old Musketeers. Already in retirement, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis reunite to once again save France from the bad guys. D'Artagnan,however, is reluctant to join his old friends and seems to be harboring a deep dark secret.Fans of classic adventure films may feel like they're watching a much older movie than this due to the somewhat corny dialogue. In fact, much of the screenplay seems almost akin to movie speech of the '30's and '40's. Nevertheless, the film is still a pleasant surprise and well worth a watch for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"After The Success of 'Titanic', DiCaprio Could Never Wear An Iron Mask","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Man In The Iron Mask is based on the Dumas novel about the Three Musketeers, is a remake of the 1977 classic with Richard Chamberlain in the lead role. Leonardo DiCaprio, who months earlier struck it big with the Oscar winning mega-hit Titanic, plays the duel role of King Louis XIV, and his imprisoned twin brother Philippe in the 1998 version of The Man In The Iron Mask. Set in 18th century France right after the French Revolution, Man in the Iron Mask is about the search for democracy, hidden deep underneath the bed of tyranny. France is poor, hungry, and fed up with the tyrannical, King Louis XIV who is an egocentric, high-strung, womanizer, that will shed blood (not his own of course) to get what he wants.His high officers, Porthos, Athos, and Arimus, played by John Malkovich, Jeremy Irons and Gerard Depardieu, have nearly reached their limit with him. When Athos' (Malkovich) son dies fighting one of Louis' foolish wars, the musketeers plot to overthrow King Louis, and establish a democratic government.Porthos, Athos, and Arimus, are looking for some leverage in their attempt a bloodless coup, and find their ticket when they discover that Louis has a twin. They journey beneath the bowels of the earth, to find Louis' twin brother Philippe, who has been locked a dungeon and forced to wear an iron mask. Leonardo DiCaprio is gaunt, pale, dirty, and malnourished as the oppressed Philippe. The musketeers rescue Philippe- Porthos, Athos, and Arimus and then plot to kidnap the obnoxious Louis XIV and switch one Leonardo DiCaprio for the other Leonardo DiCaprio.The Man In The Iron Mask is a decent film, but there are several flaws, the major flaw being the huge difference in accents of the actors who are all supposed to be 18th century Frenchmen. You have Leonardo DiCaprio with an American accent from California. Then there is Jeremy Irons with a British accent and Gabriel Byrne with an Irish one. Gerard Depardieu is the only native Frenchman. Leonardo DiCaprio is at times outstanding, and at other times lost, in his duel role. The intriguing plot leads to an exciting finish but the ending is predictable, and not one that makes a hero out of the heroes. The ending makes you feel sorry for the obnoxious, self-righteous King Louis. The Man in the Iron Mask is basically good swashbuckling fun for viewers of all ages, but this is certainly not DiCaprio's best film, especially not immediately following Titanic "},{"Title":"More than expected","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Any weird stalker-like ppl who have been reading some of my comments will know that I'm no fan of Hollywood, or practically anything made in the West. There are a few truly brilliant exceptions, made by some very talented film-makers, and The Man In The Iron Mask is not one of them... but I will admit that this was worth watching.This Christmas TV hasn't been that great I remembered being glued to my armchair in 2004, there was so much good stuff on. There has been some good stuff this year but not a great deal of it. I missed Babe -( and I can't stand Shrek (I love the really really line at the end but that's it, Donkey's so infuriating I hate it). I've seen MITIM before, years ago and would not have minded seeing it again, and I'm glad I taped it.Its nothing special, but it is good fun. The characters are hilarious, moving and most importantly interesting, the plot - though predictable - keeps your attention, the script is well written and often very funny, and considering that the four musketeers aren't exactly young anymore the action is pretty impressive.Most of the time I can't stand Leo DiCaprio, he's too... well, pretty is the only word I can use, but there's something I don't like about his face, so he makes a good Louis as his spoilt arrogance goes well with his beauty. Personally I think he should play more bad guys. Depardieu is brilliantly funny as Porthos, Malkovich is excellent as angry rebellious Athos, Irons is perfect as witty Aramis and Byrne is great as secretive repressed charming D'Artagnan.Worth seeing if you want something light, fun and entertaining. I've never read Dumas' book, I'm sure its an excellent read, though I hear that this movie is far from being called an adaptation, so better to watch it in its own right without a care for literature or history. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but good locations","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I only post reviews occasionally, and on this occasion it was because as a kid I was hooked on the five books about The Three Musketeers (though they were a bit heavy going)and so am always interested in film adaptations.Looking at preceding reviews, I seem to be in a minority in disliking this film but am in general agreement with the points made. The best elements are the costumes and locations, Byrne as d'Artagnan, Irons as Aramis and Depardieu as Porthos. DiCaprio was unconvincing and his accent intrusive - he even ended one question with a very American huh; I thought he did better as Philippe, both in and out of the mask. Malkovitch was very flat as Athos, whose nobility (both as an aristocrat and man) seems to have been written out of this film; Malkovitch looked and behaved like an ageing bruiser; Van Heflin did a far better job in the 1948 film of The Three Musketeers.The battle in which Raoul was killed seems to have consisted of five men; a team of re-enactors could have done better. The shoot-out at the end is unconvincing, if moving. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I personally had forgotten how much I liked the movie. I'm not a fan of really any of the actors but I think that they all did a wonderfully great job in this movie. My favorite charater was D'Artagnan and was sadden at the end of the movie when he died. My friends enjoyed a good laugh when they saw me cry. I did see it in the theater but it had been a while and I got it for my 19th birthday this year my roommates where surprised for it's not really my type movie. I'm a 19 year old girl who enjoys dramas and sad romantics. But I love this movie. I strongly feel that the movie is well acted and on a scal from 1-10 I'd give it a 10.  "},{"Title":"Incredible cast, well done film","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a flat out fun movie.  It features some of my favorite actors (Byrne and Malkovich) and it has some great cinematography.DiCaprio's performance passes, but it's far from spellbinding.  What drives the movie is the story (very epic, though not sure how well adapted from the original story) and stellar performances from Byrne, Malkovich and Irons.  It features everything; love, hope, betrayal, action, suspense, comedy...and it all works very well.This film is highly worth seeing if you're a fan of any of the main cast, as well as a fan of medieval or musketeer films. "},{"Title":"Are we in France, England, or what?","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"    Several things about this movie were very good.  The costumes, the choreography, and especially the amazing cast of actors that were brought together.  Unfortunately, one thing about this production brought all of it crashing to the floor.  (No, I'm not going to say it was Leo, he's one of the best young actors in the business.)  It was the accents.  The accents would not have bothered me if the director had decided on one.  But having the lead characters all sound like they're from different parts of the world - that's bizarre and jarring.  I could have accepted American accents in old France, and Leo and Malkavich had very pronounced modern American accents, if everybody had an American accent.  But then, you had Jeremy Irons and Gabriel Byrne in there sounding British, and to top it all off, you had good ol' Gerard who not only has a French accent, but sounds as though English does not come naturally to him at all.  This poor conglomeration of accents only served to remind me that I was watching a Hollywood movie.  It is unfortunate, but I could not bring myself to like the movie as a result.  Which is too bad.  The other elements seemed pretty good, although I have no idea why nobody got shot at the end.  Sorry, was I supposed to get something there that just didn't make sense?  Anyway, probably a good movie, but the mixed voices were really grating on my nerves.  I just couldn't adjust to it. "},{"Title":"Classic acting, flawed story, but worth the watch.","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I have to admit that Gabriel Byrne is one of my favourite actors and it was a joy to see him play so well in this movie. Ditto Jeremy Irons who was superb as Aramis..., John Malcovich played, well John Malcovich... and unfortunately Gerard Depardui was terribly miscast. I have said this again and again and perhaps one day directors will get it. When French people are in France speaking French they DO NOT HAVE AN ACCENT.... so it was hugely inappropriate to cast Depardu as a Frenchman... cast among English speaking actors he appeared to be a foreigner in his own country (ditto the girl who played Christine and the woman who plays the queen). Either have EVERYONE with accents (however hugely inappropriate that may be) or No one has an accent. Despite that Depardu was wonderful in his role and hugely funny (although I am not sure he was meant to be). I would have perhaps cast another American or English actor in the role. Leonardo DiCaprio was more than passable after the awful Titanic and the rest of the supporting cast were wonderful (although I think Stephen Rea sometimes thought he was in a Christmas pantomime and was just waiting for the boos from the crowd). Needless to say the entire movie is worth watching for the pure beauty of Byrne and Irons..., classic acting, understated, brilliant with beautiful, beautiful voices, it is very sad how underused these wonderful actors are in the business today, they can act the socks off just about every other actor in Hollywood and yet they just don't get the parts that they deserve. (just try and catch how many voice overs both of them do on American adverts - you will be surprised). (Byrne fans by the way should as I do rejoice in Stigmata a truly wonderful performance in a wonderfully enegmatic film) I could listen to both Byrne and Irons reading the phone book. It is a joy to see them in the same film. "},{"Title":"Good drama and full of warrior language","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think it is the sequel of the three masketeers. A very good plot with full of warrior languages made the movie just awesome. The ending is perfect. "},{"Title":"Overlooked and Underrated","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first saw this movie in a theatre, the last thing I'd seen good ol' Leo in was TITANIC.  Needless to say, I was kind of expecting the same mediocre, incomplete performance.  I was pleasantly surprised by an entire cast (Leonardo DiCaprio included) that could actually ACT!  The story, based pretty loosely on the Dumas novel, is interesting, and all the characters are easy to understand.  Some of my favorite actors are in this film, among them Jeremy Irons, Gerard Depardieu, John Malkovich, and Gabriel Byrne, who comprise a powerful Musketeer group.  Even DiCaprio portrays his characters to near perfection with the right flare and sympathy as called for, but would it have been impossible for him to at least attempt an accent more appropriate for the king of France in the 17th century other than that of a Californian?  I guess that's only a small gripe, but visually, this is a spectacular feast for the eyes.  This was Randall Wallace's debut as a director (his last big project before this was writing the screenplay for Braveheart) and I believe he did a remarkable job, also contributing much of his effort to the script.  Another gorgeous aspect of this movie is the lush, sweeping and poignant score provided by Nick Glennie-Smith.  I bought the soundtrack on CD, and I only wish that it could be longer!  All in all, this is a very enjoyable flick - no matter what you're into history, romance, drama, adventure, even a little comedy.  It's all here, and I highly recommend this overlooked film.  9/10 "}{"Title":"Good but not really magnificent","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story is almost perfect, the actors fit quite well to their roles and all together the movie is quite beliveable. But one small thing somewhat spoiled the sentiment - it was too much an all family film. Those love scenes and fencing scenes could and should have been more undauted. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast but lots of cliches","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  contains spoilersThe most remarkable thing about this movie are the four excellent actors (Malkovich, Irons, Depardieu en Byrne) that have been cast to play the roles of the musketeers simply great acting! Leonardo diCaprio as the evil king is ok, but nothing special.Unfortunately, this movie has an incredibly corny plot and a slow pace. At one point, I thougt that almost every character in the movie had some kind of tragic or impossible love (worst of all D'artagnan turns out to have an affair with the queen ?). This sort of Jerry Springer-plot twists just doesn't belong in a historical adventure movie. Also, Leonardo DiCaprio's character, the Evil King, is so incredibly evil that it's hardly believable anymore (he does evil things just because they are evil, not because it's of any use to him). On top of that, the movie takes at least half an hour to long.Overall, it's a fun movie to watch, with an exceptional cast, some jokes, some swashbuckling and way to much relationship troubles and leaps in logic.** out of **** stars "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first time I saw this was in 1999. I was so taken to Leonardo DiCaprio as Philippe (sp?), I even developed a slight crush on the character (come on, I was 13!). Just recently I watched it again when it played on TV...and since then, I became a DiCaprio fan.But first, the movie. I think it's great. There's nothing more enjoyable than a well-paced, well-scripted and well-acted period drama. I haven't seen a lot of musketeer films; the only other such movies I remember seeing is The 3 Musketeers, you know, the one with Chris O'Donnell? That one was good, but I think The Man in the Iron Mask is better. Firstly, we have not one, but two Leonardos. Philippe is a total sweetheart while his brother is a total scumbag (somehow, DiCaprio managed to look ugly, to me at least, as the evil twin). Obviously the audience would want Philippe to win it all, right? The movie not only has beautiful sceneries and beautiful actors, it has a happy ending. And sometimes, happy endings are exactly what a lot of people need to see.Secondly, the cast. I understand that with the exception of DiCaprio, the principal actors are all veterans. So I don't think I need to say that I thoroughly enjoyed their performances. Great chemistry between the musketeers, not much between Evil Twin and the French actress, whom I thought could've done better. She just seemed kind of detached from the entire picture. Next, DiCaprio is a fine actor. I loved Philippe and hated Louis. Philippe is handsome, while Louis is ugly. Although it was strange hearing an American accent in 19th (?) century France, DiCaprio more or less stole the picture. His ability to portray two characters who are exact opposites of one another is just amazing. Louis may be somewhat one-dimensional, but the sharp contrast between the two is so obvious, I don't know how some people can fault his acting.DiCaprio's version of a French accent may have really sucked, but his acting didn't, and the same goes for this film. Some parts of the movie may seem really corny and unbelievable, but for goodness sake, it's fiction. Who really cares?  "},{"Title":"Fair movie with the finest adaptation of the Musketeers I've seen.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Leonardo should not have been the focus of the cover, because he was just in the movie to look pretty and do what he was told. He did fill that part well. The real worth of the film rests on the Musketeers, particularly Malkovich and Depardieu. These four actors are the best depiction of the Musketeers I've seen anywhere. See it when you're in the mood for some relaxing adventure--you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Marvellous","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched it today again and I found it's inexhaustible. And I looked it's rating (5.9) and compared to the rating of Die hard (7.9). <SPOILER>Guys, this is sick. Die hard ain't even a movie. It just sucks. Oh, I'm sorry, it's a movie, because somethings are moving<END SPOILER>. There is a very simple trick indeed. Watch the actors' eyes. Watch Gerard Depardieu or John Malkovich or Jeremy Irons or Leonardo di Caprio or (for that matter) Robert de Niro - their eyes are playing, because they live with their character. Now watch <SPOILER>Bruce Willis playing and find a difference in his eyes when he is suffering the most dreadful events in his life and when he is buying a hot-dog - do you see any difference(?)- because I don't.<END SPOILER> Oh, I actually quite liked Die hard, as I liked The Fifth Element. Bruce Willis is far better, of course, than <Spoiler>Jodie Foster or Julia Roberts <END SPOILER>, for which they are not at all to be blamed. It's just that their place is not <SPOILER> before a camera<END SPOILER>. Never mind, if you like Pretty woman (rating 6.6) more than The man in the iron mask, <SPOILER>you are not to be blamed either, for even sheep are God's creatures<END SPOILER>. Thank you.   "},{"Title":"if you've read the book, the movie is a torture!..","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well. I am a sucker for everything Dumas, having read the Musk. trilogy (sic!) countless times from about the age of 6 (I'm in my twenties now).(SPOILERS ahead, I suppose?...) This version was simply painful. It's the story, god damn it!.. . It's already _great_, why alter it, so that it becomes _mesearable_?? D'Artagnian -- Kings's father?.. One love for life?.. Please!..Athos crying about his baby-boy?.. Come on!.. Telling d'Artagnian that he'll kill him???.. (in the book d'Artagnian and Athos are more than 10 years apart, so Athos (quite) often referred to as loving d'Artagnian as if he was his own son).Raul in the book didn't even know for sure Athos was his father!.. He had a different last name, for god's sake!..  They didn't live in a shed, and Athos _did_ have servants!...  Raul's mother was the Duchess de Chevres (spelling?..), and she was _alive_ _past_ Raul's death!..  Athos hated the idea of Raul's marrying, and so Raul and Christine would not see each other too openly!..Not to mention that Christine's name was actually Louise, and she didn't hang herself, but went to a monastery (in real life, too!!).Athos, Porthos and Aramis by that time in their lives were known (and I might screw up the spelling, so forgive me) as Count de la Fer, de Brasier(?) de Pierfon (?), and Chevalier d'Erble. They took those names (back, I must add) right after leaving the king's service! And by the way, they are historical figures.  Or some of them at least are. (e.g., D'Artagnian was a composition of two _actual_ D'Artagnians -- one served Louis XIII, the other -- Louis XIV, and Caunt de la Fer really did exist). But who wants to know all this unimportant stuff, right?..I'm not mentioning the _little_ details, like d'Artagnian sitting in the presence of the king ...grrrrr!!....The setting was marvelous, the costumes -- great, the actors -- superb (well, except... I love John Malkovitch, but ... Athos was supposed to the manliest of them all.... ), but the script -- from beginning to the end -- sucked!!!!wheeew. I think I'm out of steam now...  "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  So this movie was with really good acting by Leo DiCaprio, John Maclchivic, and Jemery Irons. When I first saw it, it turned out better than I planned. So if you ever have a  chace to rent it get it. So even thought most people saw the movie was because of Leonardo DiCaprio. But I thought he did a really good job on this movie. With many other expercined actors, I think Leo learned a lot duing the movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I watched this movie again recently, and remembered why I loved it so much the first time (despite the presence of Leo Di'Caprio, who I would quite happily have drowned during Titanic). The acting from John Malkovich, Gerard Depardieu, Jeremy Irons and Gabriel Byrne is, for the most part, superb. Gabriel Byrne was by far the best though, probably because his character was more filled out, and also he was sooooo fine in this film....mmmmm...err, anyway, the ending and subsequent twist involving d'Artagnan, makes me cry almost every time I watch this film. Leo's acting wasn't too bad whilst he was Phillipe, but he was unconvincing as King Louis (Possible SPOILERS ahead). After reading some other people's gripes I'd like to point out a few things. First is that lots of people complained that the the Musketeers survived a volley of bullets being fired at them, getting away without a scratch. Well if these people had been watching properly, they would see the King's Musketeers shut their eyes and turn away, thus shifting their aim. Another thing to note is that the musket's of the day, although very high quality in the ranks of the Musketeers, had more chance of blowing up in your face than shooting the thing you were aiming at (it's like the movie myth that show heroes diving across the room firing a gun and killing 4 men. The chance of the hero hitting something smaller than a barn door acurately would be very slim). Also, afterwards a couple of the Musketeers are limping, my guess is that this is due to being shot in the foot by the King's Musketeers, particularly as it closes up on the feet of the charging Musketeers when in slow motion. The other gripe was the state of Phillipe's complexion after spending 6 years in an iron mask. Havn't you ever heard of moisturiser? Hehe ok so I know it almost certainly wasn't around then, but still they couldn't have him coming out of the mask looking like something out of an Egyption tomb, after all, he had to pass as King Louis. I will admit that a couple of things did annoy me a bit. The different ways that almost everyone pronounced the name 'd'Artagnan' and the names of the three Musketeers, due to accent was really getting on my nerves, although the accents themselves didn't bother me, after all if we were really being true to the story, the whole thing should have been in French (although Leo's accent was really beginning to grate by about 90mins into the film, but then I'm not that tolerant of him anyway). Another thing was Phillipe and Louis' wonderful hairdos. It was so obvious that someone had given him very bad extensions, wheras d'Artagnan's hair looked great (mmm, long hair...gah, I've really gotta stop doing that ^_^). Not a film for everyone, including those who are looking for a story close to the one that Alaxandre Dumas wrote, a historically correct movie, and those who are very into the action genre. Watch this film if you want drama with little bits of romance,action and comedy thrown in and you don't mind ending up prancing around pretending to be a Musketeer for the next three days ^_^ One for all, and all for one! (I'm such a big kid -) "},{"Title":" Flawed treasure.","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  SPOILERS References to events are included in this comment. This film reinforces all the values that seem to have been thrown away these days. It is about love, honour and friendship, and doesn't have gratuitous sex or violence, or glorifies being a ganster. Well done. Gabriel Byrne stole the show. Masterful acting from almost all concerned, but because his character was more fleshed out than the others, he wins. I was not disappointed by the romance as others were. The dialogue was a bit flowery, but then, this is how the upper classes would have spoken.  I despise DiCaprio, he just doesn't make an effort. Malkovich's emotional distance is what I would expect from a dangerous warrior, but his stems from laziness.   Now to start the arguments Accents do not a movie make, or unmake. Being troubled by such trivialities bemuses me. (That said, kudos to Skaarsgaard as he copies Malkovich's accent superbly!)  As for the final battle, the Palace Guards turn their faces away before firing. Hence, their atrocious aim. Also, Aramis was walking with a limp afterwards, because he got hit.Nice touches the Lieutenant's respect and devotion for D'Artagnan. The roses given to the Queen. (I see the treason here the Queen is young and healthy, able to bear another heir, precisely what the Old King didn't want!) All in all, flawed treasure.   "},{"Title":"A surprisingly appropriate cast for an American film","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't like Leonardo di Caprio, but I saw him in this film and also in Titanic (where he's the savior of the job) and he was just great and really changed my mind. Not to underestimate the other guys and the Queen - it's the best of John Malkovich, good of Jeremy Irons and Gerard Depardieu and Anne Parillaud and maybe Gabriel Byrne (it's the first time I saw him). One thing for sure - if you know the book and want to imagine what the characters look like - this is the right thing to watch. At least D'Artagnan is the best choice along with the one played by Mikhail Boyarski. It's really fancy to watch this film a lot of times and not to get bored. If someone does not believe me, go watch The three musketeers (1999) and compare.  "}{"Title":"I REALLY enjoyed this movie!","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Some may complain about how Philippe's face should have looked after 6 years in the mask, or the corny jail breakout or the lack of attention to true historical background.  But for goodness sakes...it's a MOVIE!  It's *supposed* to be entertaining...and boy, it sure delivers!  I thought all of the performances were excellent...especially those of all 4 of the actors who played the musketeers (Gabriel Byrne, John Malkovich, Jeremy Irons and Gérard Depardieu).  Best musketeers I've EVER seen in a movie.and I've seen many.  I also thought Leo D. did a great job -- given what he had to work at...showing 2 such completely extreme personalities.  Greatly enjoyed the bits of humor, the fantastic scenery, the nice cinematography and fabulous costumes!  I've rented this movie several times, and think it's time I finally went out and bought a copy of my own, as it gets even better after several viewings o)  I'd definitely recommend it, especially if you love period pictures. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a Leo film","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As an avid hater of the actor Leonardo DiCaprio, I nearly didn't give this film a chance.  Oh, I am so glad my friend dragged me to see it.  Gabriel Byrne was amazing and Gerard Depardieu managed to lighten a truly dramatic film.  And Leo wasn't half bad either.  He managed to even impress me.Definitely worth seeing for Byrne's performance alone. 3/4 stars, 8 on the IMDB scale and a B+ on my own.A.J. "},{"Title":"Excellent support cast","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The four musketeers really steals the screen. They are magnificent in each of their roles. I was disappointed to know that none of them were Oscar nominated for their outstanding performance. But besides the acting done by Gabriel Byrne, Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich and Gerard Depardieu the movie is only okay. Not WOW-great, neither SUCKS-bad. But okay. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't be put off of this film because it is a period drama, or because it stars Leonardo DiCaprio.The story is based on a myth, and after watching the film for the first time, I felt compelled to research the myth myself.  The most convincing parts of the film are the acting of the supporting characters (notably Byrne, Malkovich and Irons) and the musical score.Certain scenes involving the older stars were some of the most powerful and compelling I have ever seen, particularly the one in the tomb where they discuss their plot to replace the king.The film does not rely too heavily on the swashbuckling appeal of the musketeers, but rather on the development of individual characters and the relationships between them.It is DiCaprio's best performance, though I admit that that is not saying much and his performance is nothing on that of the older men.The plot is slightly unbelievable in places but if this and possible historical inaccuracies are overlooked, this is a very good film. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time quite recently when I borrowed the video off a friend who recommended it.  She was really enthusiastic about it, but I guessed that was probably something to do with the fact of Leo being in it! But anyway I gave it a go, and, man! I'm glad I did!! I have to admit, towards the middle of the film I started to get the tiniest bit bored, but by the end I was transfixed! So I watched it again the next day, this time I understood it better and got more into it, and altogether enjoyed it more. I thought all the actors gave good, believable performances.  The contrasts between the musketeers was conveyed well and was enjoyable to watch.  I think all the actors were great for their parts, especially Malkovich, Byrne, Depardieu and Irons who were perfect!  I have to admit that I fell in love with D'Artagnan, he was so brave and strong and romantic, I have never seen Gabriel Byrne in a sexier role!!  I recommend this movie to anyone who loves great movies! "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  i guess i've never been really that picky when it comes to movies but then again i am no big movie goer.  )  i watched this movie only when it aired on cable and only because my mom was watching it.i was surprised i liked it because i am no fan of period and long movies. i agree with those who said that it's more of a drama than action.  i got drawn by the personal conflicts.  d'artagnan is my favorite character!  i also loved enjoyed the three musketeers.  )i didn't read the book and i don't know much about history and that may be the reason why i didn't really take notice.  i guess that was good for me so i could enjoy the movie for what it was.i loved byrne, irons & malkovich in this movie!  edward atterton also caught my eye.  hmm.. maybe that's why i enjoyed the film.  lol.  "},{"Title":"THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK The GOOD, The BAD and the UGLY.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, I am not going to claim that this was the best movie of all time - but I think some are not willing to give it a chance because it stars flavor of the month Leo Dicaprio.  Indeed, I too was reluctant to watch it for that very reason. Fie on me! I missed a great film on the big screen due to my own prejudices.  There is nothing cool about being closed minded.THE GOOD Excellent cast. This is definitely a movie about characters. Some have complained that the film was overly long, but in my opinion it was time well spent in fully developing the characters.  What fascinates us here are the people involved, the players upon the stage. The Musketeers in particular are able to convey a depth of temperament and personality that is refreshing. The chemistry between them is magnifique, and I found their motivations both believable and compelling. Some of the scenes between Irons, Malkovich, Byrne and Depardieu are a study in the nuances of human interaction. Leo does a wonderful job of portraying the vulnerability of young Phillipe, though his Louis is not quite as convincing, in my opinion.Plot. I know some have complained about the lack of historical accuracy in this film, but one must remember, Dumas himself was playing around with history in his novel. Accept it as a work of fiction and enjoy it as such. The plot was filled with political intrigue, most of the major characters burdened with personal secrets that slowly get revealed during the course of the film. This movie does deviate from Dumas' book quite a bit, so if you expect the film to follow his vision you will be disappointed. However, Dumas' rendition has been filmed before - this new adaptation allows for a provocative plot twist which I felt added tension and interest. Accept this version on its own terms and I hope you will find it as engaging as I.The scenery. Beautiful location shoots and lovely costumes, plus a certain realism of having some of the clothing, sweat stained, mussed and torn when appropriate.Music.  Marvelous score which well suited the action and emotions being depicted upon the screen.THE BAD Accents! There is no consensus here! We have English, Irish, French and American accents all thrown together in an uneasy mix. It is distracting... and though I love Depardieu's portrayal of Porthos - it took me five viewings of this movie to finally be able to understand his every line!Another pet peeve - mispronunciation of names. No one can seem to decide how to pronounce D'Artagnan, Athos or Porthos. There should have been agreement on something this basic. Even worse, sometimes the same character pronounces the names a multitude of ways!The unmasking.  After six years in the mask, Phillipe's face should have shown some evidence of his mistreatment... a little acne, perhaps?  Just a small nitpick.Flat delivery of lines.  Various of the main players use little intonation, resulting in a wooden delivery of some lines - However, since they were still able to convey a great deal of emotion through gestures and expression, I didn't find this overly bothersome.THE UGLY A bull's eye view of Depardieu's naked rear end. )Finally warning  Despite being considered an action film, TMITIM is really more of a drama.  It deals more with people and plot than sword play. There are some good action sequences, but swashbuckling sword fighting does not drive the film, so if this is all you are interested in, this film might not be the one for you.Overall, an entertaining film, and certainly worth viewing.It's on my favorites list.One for all and all for one! "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourites","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, so let's not pretend that this film is anything like the book. But in my opinion it is better.This film has everything to make it a success- wonderfully stirring music, fantastic sets and gripping fight scenes. There is lots of humour as well - especially when Porthos is trying to hang himself - I laughed and laughed! Leo's acting is not great but it is more than made up for by the 4 older men. Jeremy Irons is absolutely fantastic as the arrogant yet incredibly likeable Aramis (His voice is so gorgeous!) and Gabriel Byrne is also really good as d'Artagnan - he adds devotion and dignity to the role. Both of them really successfully convey the secret agony they are bearing that they cannot share. The women are good as well, Christine's grief always really gets to me and Anne Parillaud makes a really strong Queen.It does take a while to really get into it and the mixture of accents is a bit annoying but I really love this film and watch it all the time. "},{"Title":"Could have been far better","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  My favourite D'Artagnan movie was The Three Musketeers in 1973 (dir Richard Lester)This doesnt even compare.The dialogue is atrocious and the actors are not given enough to work with (and there is a shortage of laughs, provided occasionally only by Depardieu's attempts at slapstick)DiCaprio manages to make BOTH his roles completely unbelievable, Malkovitch whines in a lisping american accent, Byrne tries in vain to inject some life into a 1 dimensional part, while Depardieu is criminally wasted on pitiful material.Jeremy Irons turns in a vaguely enjoyable performance but they shopuld have got Oliver Reed, Frank Finlay, Richard Chamberlain and Michael York back, they WERE the musketeers (and now sadly it is too late, now Reed has passed away) "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I love this movie. It is full of action. I really liked seeing Jeremy Irons in this movie. I think Jeremy Irons was the cutest man in this movie. I just love his olive toned skin. I was hoping that they would make a sequel to this exciting movie. I also think Leonardo should have been nominated for an award for best actor for his performance because he played two parts in this movie and he is a great actor! He really made people believe that the characters he were playing were two different people. The story was great and the plot was perfect. I recommend this movie for anyone who likes historical films and also action films. "}{"Title":"Spectacular Remake of the Legend","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie contains enough action and intrigue to keep a person entertained for two hours. The story of the Man in The Iron Mask is so intruiging that after the movie I felt like researching it in more detail.For such valour the Three Musketeers show, this movie is certainly worth viewing. PLOT OUTLINE AHEAD(SPOILERS) The story shows a bad king, played by Leonardo DiCaprio and his loyal guardian, D'Artagnan. When LOUIS XIV gets on the bad side of ATHOS, ARAMIS and PORTHOS, the three musketeers, they foil a plan to replace the king with the mysterious man in the iron mask, who is infact the twin brother of LOUIS.But then there is D'ARTAGNAN who watched the KING's every move, unaware of the plot and the fact that he has a TWIN. Will he or won't he join in on the Musketeers plot? "},{"Title":"how do they do that?","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Firstly, there are a lot of comments about foreign accents and anachronism and the like, and I'd like to say to those people - this is an adventure story! a damn good yarn! chill out!However .. don't know why but this movie takes all the ingredients you could possibly require for a Great, fun film and turns them into a Great disappointment.  I'd have sent it back to the editors.. the timing is terrible, in the action scenes particularly. Go see this on a rainy day with very low expectations and maybe it'll be ok? I give it a four for taking a book which I had to read from cover to cover in two sittings and some of my favourite actors and letting them all down! "},{"Title":"Definitely flawed, but enjoyable","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie on the big screen the first time.  Back then I still had a thing for Leo, so that was part of the reason I wanted to see it, even though I didn't think he would do period very well.  I was so right!  Perhaps it was just someone's horrible script decisions, but his lines were extremely stilted and at some times just anachronistic.  (Something like, So, we're having difficulties with the Danish, huh?  I don't think so.)  Other than that, he did do a wonderful job creating the contrast between Louis and Philippe.  As far as the other actors were concerned, I don't know why they decided to cast Depardieu and Malkovich together, seeing as they both stick out like sore thumbs.  Depardieu is the only Musketeer who's actually French, and Malkovich sounds like he just stepped out of a cornfield in Ohio.  Aside from all of that, the scenery and costumes are quite stunning, and the story intriguing.  I've rented this movie a few times now, to endure the mistakes and enjoy what was done right. "},{"Title":"Underrated Film a Pleasant Surprise","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only reason I rented this video is because the new releases I wanted to see were checked out.  I passed over The Man in the Iron Mask for many weeks since it appeared on the shelves because, for one thing, I'm not a big fan of period pieces which feature performers attempting to speak in whatever dialect that's required for their role. Even if the performer has mastered the accent, I still find it a distracting affectation.  Also, some accents wear on me after awhile, especially when the whole cast is speaking in one that I'm not particularly fond of - I like French accents, but it would've also started wearing on me if everyone besides the French spoke with a French or attempted French accent. I found it refreshing that the performers in this movie weren't required to use a foreign accent, or more precisely, an accent foreign to them. I don't think it took away from the characters' authenticity at all; the actors were all very convincing, even moreso, without an affected accent.Neither am I a big fan of swashbuckling, action type movies nor romantic movies, so the subject matter of this movie didn't attract me, nor did Leonardo DiCaprio's picture on the jacket. I hadn't even heard of Gabriel Byrne or the supporting female actresses, but having seen Malkovich, Irons and Depardieu, I knew there would be quality acting in this film, so, having grown bored with browsing, I rented it. I had no idea I was in for such a pleasant surprise, which would bring about a few first time experiences for me as well.The first first experience for me was that I wanted to see it again - and again & again!  I've never wanted to see a movie again within such a short period of time, much less repeatedly.  I was more than just impressed with this movie, I was enchanted by it.  Every performer, even those with bit parts, did an outstanding job.  I thought Leonardo DiCaprio handled his dual role quite well; unlike Gabriel Byrne, John Malkovich and Jeremy Irons, who all have and bring a special magic to their performances, Leo still effectively conveyed the differences in his characters, not only in tone and affect, but in the way he was able to transform his eyes from the sad puppy eyes of Phillipe to the cold, steely eyes of Louis.>I found the story very interesting (not having read the novel first, I wasn't thrown off by the relationship between D'Artagnon and Queen Ann) and the scenerey & costumes were wonderful.  I loved the hairstyles on Aramis, Athos and Porthos, but thought D'Artagnon's hairstyle (severely parted way over on one side of his head) was very unflattering.The music was so moving that I actually bought the soundtrack, which I've never been inclined to do as a result of a movie...And - another first - I've never in all my 44 years been so totally captivated by not only a character (D'Artagnon), but by an actor as well Gabriel Byrne.  Seeing him for the first time in this movie prompted me to rent more of his films; there is something in him which transcends his characters that touches my very soul.  And wouldn't you know that this newly discovered soul mate is someone I won't even get to meet!All-in-all, I never expected a video I halfheartedly rented one evening to be one of the best movies I've seen in my life --which has prompted yet my next first experience in writing/submitting my comments on a movie. "},{"Title":"The Musketeers were great.  Ahem.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Leonardo wasn't terrible, mind you.  Not as Phillippe.  As Louis, he seemed terribly annoying and just a brat.  Of course, that much I can forgive since the character ought to have been something like that.  Yet his performance is very unappealing in direct contrast to Byrne (D'Artagnan)who smolders here; Depardieu (Porthos), who is evidently the comic relief; Irons (Aramis) who is as dashing as his character ought to be; and Malkovich (Athos) who is always terrific.  Yet this whole flick was not as fun to watch as the other recent Musketeers film.    "},{"Title":"Really good movie....","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought this movie had the action,the story,and the acting John Malkovich was excellent and Leonardo DeCaprio did better acting in this movie than in Titanic I enjoyed this movie more than Titanic to because It didn't drag then pick up like Titanic did. "},{"Title":"pretty good film","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  You know, Randall Wallace wound up on my list of sucky dudes when he mangled the face of history in Braveheart.  I find it tragically ironic that oodles of people have now criticized Wallace for mangling a fictional work.  God forbid he should screw with the plot of a film that's been, in one form or another, done about five times.  *sigh*  Filmgoers of the world, you never cease to amaze me...Anyway, I thought this film was very well-done.  I know very little about the actual history of the setting, but at least it's clear to all involved that this film was based on a work of _fiction_ by Dumas.  The characters are archetypes, but they are, IMO, appropriate.  Once again, I find it amazing that people would complain about the depth (or lack thereof) of the characters in tMitIM.  This is the guy who made Braveheart, people.  Greatly exaggerated characters, anyone?  Louis is pretty much unredeemably evil.  D'Artagnan is endlessly loyal and hopeful.  Phillipe is _all_ good.  This is high adventure, and it was, IMO, well done. "},{"Title":"All for one; one for us! RANDALL WALLACE The GREAT!","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you love the book of the Three Musketers, i think, you will be admire The Man in the Iron Mask. All of the actors playing very well and so believable esp. Gabriel Byrne as D'artagnan. Moreover, Malkovich, Depardaeu, Di Caprio and Irons show us how must be great acting performance. However, the teenage girls might be dont like this film. If they are only looking for the Caprio's. "},{"Title":"breath-taking dialogue, best acting ever","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Looking over other peoples comments, I've noticed that some said that they did not like the acting and the dialogue. These are the two things that I loved the most about this movie. The dialogue... Never in my life have I heared the words full of more meaning, beauty and power. Watching the movie again, and again I find my lips silently moving along with the actor's, and my heart shrinks every time one of the, oh so memorable, lines is spoken.And the acting is THE best I have ever seen. I am not a big fan of Leonardo DiCaprio, and I do agree with some of you when you say he did not do the best acting job in this movie. But John Malkovich, and especially Gabriel Byrne are truly the best actors I've seen, and I can not imagine anyone doing a beter job. "},{"Title":"The film makes a great influence.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK is a really excellent movie. I was quite upset to see Philippe in the dungeon wearing that horrible mask! And it's hard to understand how King Louis can be so selfish although his people is starving. I must say that the story could never have a greater end, for no other punishment would be enough to the King!The acting is also very good. I like the old musketeers, especially d'Artagnan, and Queen Mother Anne is sympathetic.  "}{"Title":"A great movie the best ever!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can say that i am great fan of Alexander Dumas, i have read his books and seen many movies based on his books but this was definitely the best ever!! Music, costumes, etc. Everything if perfect. I am also a big fan of Jeremy Irons and that gave me another reason to see this film and it was worth it. Not only Jeremy Irons but everybody else too...Especialy Gabriel Byrne in his role!! The movie kept me in its power for all the time and even after i have seen it. I lived on the emotions of the characters and cried in the end. Big emotions and great acting!!!!The best movie ever! You should see it and not only because of Leonardo, he was good too, but because of the story, it is great!! "},{"Title":"The Movie Sting,Adams,& Stewarts'All For One belongs with.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Leonardo is always great in whatever he does,but this movie had an all out grand cast of acting.The story keeps you intrigued, and routing for the good guy.It's a chilling love story and a story of true loyalty, of the 3 Musketeers ,towards their real king vs what's right and wrong.Now! Leonardo plays two characters in this film and has you convinced he's two separate people; Dr. Jekyl & Mr.Hyde.The music is great and filming-very mature. If you like long (about 3 hrs)but Awesome movies,don't miss it. "},{"Title":"What a great movie!!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is very enjoyable and just plain fun to watch!  Leo does seem a bit too innocent to be playing the role of a seductive brat, but he does pull it off. He does well with his role.   Everyone's acting is quite good in this movie.  It is a treat to watch and it is very interesting. Whether you like romantic period piece movies or not, I highly recommend this movie!! "},{"Title":"It tries, but it's Hollywood, and not Dumas","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I couldn't help thinking, despite a respect for the talents of Mssrs. Depardieu, Byrne, Irons and Malkovich, not forgetting Mms. Parillaud and Godreche, that if it had been entirely a French production, it would have been immeasurably better.It isn't Dumas, but then the novel is so long and rambling as to be virtually impossible to film.  This is a well-enough crafted film with a pacy plot and plenty of expected swashbuckling, but it plays fast and loose with some vital facts about our beloved musketeers and never quite trades its patina of Hollywood gloss for something approaching Seventeenth Century France.I preferred Lester's attempts at conveying Dumas on screen in the Seventies, which captured the spirit of the original novel, but Lester was sensible and chose the original 'Three Musketeers', which blazed a trail in terms of tone and pace that Dumas himself couldn't match in his successive four novels.If you like Errol Flynn, watch this.  If you are a fan of the Musketeers, or the genre, read the books, watch the Lester films or see one of the many modern French swashbucklers instead.    "},{"Title":"The swashbucklers are back!!","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It would be thought that after the films starring Oliver Reed et al., that there would be no more cinematic value in the Dumas books. However, this film explores the serious side and to great affect.With a cast that many directors would kill to even get close to, the film turns in a winning performance as the aged Musketeers attempt to re-instate the birth right of the kings imprisoned twin brother.Despite the overall criticism of his performance, DiCaprio, while undoubtedly turning in one of his weakest performances, still manages to hold his own against the much more established cast for whom Jeremy Irons and Gabriel Byrne give excellent performances and Depardieu turns in a brilliantly tragi-comic performance. The poorest performance, I believe is from Malkovich, who at times appears to be simply going through the motions, reciting his lines instead of acting them.The other weakness of this film is when, in its strive for authenticity, it casts French actors along side the British and American stars, and whereas Depardieu's accent is not pronounced enough to stand out against his co-stars, the accents of other's, especially that of Judith Godreche, unfortunately seem almost laughable is comparison, and ultimately turns you away from their good performance.Overall, though, a very good film, with an ending which may leave you looking for the box of Kleenex. "},{"Title":"Anyone who does NOT like this movie is weird!!","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is excellent!!  It saddens me to see all the negative remarks here about this movie.  It is not deserving of any of them.  I am sure that most of the bad comments are by Leo hating guys though.  It is really too bad that their jealousy is so strong that they are constantly putting down his movies (most of which happen to be quite good.)  This movie has a great story line (who cares if the real Louis and queen were how the movie depicted them.  It IS a movie alright!!) beautiful costumes , great scenery and ,great actors.  Leo included!! "},{"Title":"This fan loves it!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"   From the great cast to the writing by Dumas all the way to the music, this movie has been a hit with thousands of movie goers around the world. Randall Wallace does a superb job of directing these wonderful actors and I am very surprised that the movie didn't win anything at the award shows. Sure the movie was supposed to be a show-off for Leonardo Di Caprio but in my mind, Jeremy Irons and Gabriel Byrne stole the show.  Jeremy's screen presence was outstanding as usual and Gabriel's heartfelt moments with Queen Anne left us panting for more.  I've recently bought the video (I got tired of renting) and am looking forward to enjoying the movie countless more times.  All for one! Nancy "},{"Title":"Good story, good plot, and very, I should say excellent acting","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie and it is wonderful. I saw it at my home, with not so good sound, but I think it is 2nd best movie I´ve seen. But I don´t know now if it´s the second, because it´s wonderful, I saw it 4 times at home, and I can´t stop thinking of it. There are excellent actors, the four musketeers are wonderful, and also the king. Gabriel Byrne, Jeremy Irons, Gérard Depaurdie and John Malkovich were fantastic, and also Leo Di Caprio(you know Leo is a novice and the others have more experience, I´m not saying Leo is a bad actor, but the others have more experience). Wonderful actor, very nice music, very good costumes, in fact is a movie to recommend.  "},{"Title":"fun!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  My advice to anybody watching this film is to just sit back and allow yourself to be carried away. Don't allow yourself to get hooked up worrying about the historical accuracy, the faithfulness to the book, the acting of Mr DiCaprio or the triteness of the dialogue. Life is too short to worry about such matters. This is a good story, well paced, well photographed and well performed. Sure the history is all over the place, the acting is laughable at times and the ending is corny but the same can be said about the Adventures of Robin Hood starring Errol Flynn and that remains one of the greatest movies ever made. I am sure that there is a place for an historically perfect faithful adaptation of the Dumas original but I bet that it will not be half as much fun as this is.  "},{"Title":"I must confess, I haven't read the book -- but now I want to","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's an advantage to watch this movie at home on video. You can back it up if you need to catch the little history lessons this movie gives you along the way. Let's face it, most Americans are pretty clueless on the French Renaissance (what, you mean they HAD one?)It's cool to think that the three musketeers got middle-aged and flabby, they worried about kidney stones and hair loss. But when the chips were down they could still get it up (their swords, I mean).Regardless of your feelings for Leo D., this is a good story and it is well-acted. You will learn something about French history in spite of yourself. And you might possibly become a fan of Alexandre Dumas. I'm heading out to the library now to check out that book. More likely I'll get the audiobook and listen to it in the car.I'm a big fan of Gerard Depardieu, but he couldn't have carried this movie himself. Gabriel Byrne, John Malkovich and Jeremy Irons were all terrific. And Leo was . . . well, he was Leo.  "}{"Title":"WONDERFUL movie!!","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a very good movie.  The performances, the costumes and the story line are GREAT!!  I know that there are a few people who do NOT like this movie but I think it is GREAT!! I think Jeremy Irons and Gerrard Depardieu stole the show but everyone elses acting was good too.  If you have not seen this movie yet I highly recommend it!! It definitely deserves some awards for the costumes if not the acting.It is WONDERFUL!! ( And not just because of the hot cast.) "},{"Title":"Fast-paced and fun.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Watch this movie. In fact, watch it twice, because there are priceless moments you will miss the first time around. I went into it expecting to loathe DiCaprio, but he wasn't half bad, and handled the double role quite skilfully; Byrne and Depardieu and Irons were terrific. (John Malkovich doesn't do much for me, though he was entirely adequate, particularly in his more tormented moments.)There are some great lines in this movie (I'm a genius, not an engineer...) and some really touching scenes, which more than make up for the occasional rough patches.  So go see it )   "},{"Title":"Most wonderful I have ever seen","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film is wonderful, the action is perfect, and the costumes was nice. The direction is emotionally talking very strong as so is the adaptation of the story. Congratulations to Mr. Wallace and the main actors, including Leonardo DiCaprio, who has a very good act by differing Louis and Phillipe. The movie changed completely I view of the Art of Films. Amazingly wonderful. "},{"Title":"Good for cinematography and costumes, but that's IT!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was wondering why this movie left the the theaters so quickly and I never heard much about it.  Now I know why.  Great actors with little to no direction.  Once I saw the credits I understood why.  One can't write, produce AND direct a movie effectively to be a box office smash. (I KNOW someone will prove me wrong there, I invite them to...). For the most part the scenes and costumes are worth renting it for with sporatic moments from each of the main players. This film had a LOT of potential with lackluster results.  I was disappointed overall. "},{"Title":"A good but sad movie","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a lot. It was very sad the way King Louis treated his brother. But in the end, all things worked for the mistreated brother. "},{"Title":"A Pox on Leonardo DiCaprio!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Have any of these commenters actually SEEN the movie?  Great acting?  I agree that John Malcovitch, Gerrard, and Jeremy Irons' performances were good - a few scenes were great - but Leo!  What a load of nothing!  The only role he was any good at was the retarded individual in Gilbert Grape.  You know why?  Because his acting is naturally retarded!  You actually felt sorry for Gabriel Byrne when he had to act near Leo!  You could tell that Gabriel wanted to do this great scene and was pulling it off until Leo said something with the emphasis of a high school production of Our Town and Gabriel just rolls his eyes up and wants to throw some punches!  Part of it, too, was screenwriting.  I usually respect a LOT of stuff that writers put on the screen, but I could literally pull a better script off by shouting gibberish into a voice-recognition microphone.  With any luck, Leo will continue to boycott the Oscars and stay home and mope so that he doesn't get any pity nominations. "},{"Title":"Which one is the true one?","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Most probably this movie owes much to its success to TITANIC.  The release dates were very close to each other and when this movie was released the Leonardo Di Caprio craze was at its best. However, this movie is great.  As far as plot and intrigue are concerned it is by far better than TITANIC. Even though as history it is a joke, still it is great fun.  The acting is inspired.  John Malkovich and Jeremy Irons are surely at their best here. Even DiCaprio is great, showing clearly the difference between the cruel, egoistic Louis and the kind Philippe.  Bravo to everyone concerned.  Give us more of this please.  (The editor ought to have paid a little more attention, though Anne moves away with the rose in her hand in her last appearance.  Exactly afterwards, that same rose is found on D'Artagnan's grave.) "},{"Title":"Awesome, Riviting,Exciting","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found this movie to be one of the best I`ve seen in many years!! John Malkovich was awesome as Athos. He truly showed his talent in this movie! I only wish there had been more!He made you feel he WAS Athos and not just an actor playing a part. The emotions he showed from loving with Raoul, to anger at D`Artangan and Louis were most convincing! Jeremy Irons was excellent. I very much enjoyed his portrayal of Aramis. His expressions were Priceless. I have watched this movie several times and enjoy it more each time! priceless! "},{"Title":"Good movie but not Depardieu's best!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The film was quite good, especially the dialogues. DiCaprio acts well but he's not as bad as the real young King Louis XIV was.He NEVER helped the French to have a better life, so the end of the film is wrong. Depardieu acts well but it's CERTAINLY not his best role! He was much better in Cyrano de Bergerac who covers the same period (The XVII century).  "},{"Title":"Awesome, Riveting,Exciting","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found this movie to be one of the best I`ve seen in many years!! John Malkovich was awesome as Athos. He truly showed his talent in this movie! I only wish there had been more!He made you feel he WAS Athos and not just an actor playing a part. The emotions he showed from loving with Raoul, to anger at D`Artangan and Louis were most convincing! Jeremy Irons was excellant. I very much enjoyed his portrayal of Aramis. His expressions were Priceless. I have watched this movie several times and enjoy it more each time! priceless! "}{"Title":"YEAH!!!Good movie","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a very good movie.  If you haven't seen it, see it.  Even if you don't like stuff like this, see it.   If you read The Three Musketeers, or if you like stuff like that, see it. TMITIM is a lot like that.  Also, if you've seen a movie of The Three Musketeers, it's a lot like some of those, so see it. That's all I really have to say. "},{"Title":"Incoherent, rambling romp through France.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a great film this could have been. It seemed to me that the director and the pricipals were in 5 different movies. No clear tone or direction was ever established. Very disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought The Man In The Iron Mask was a really great movie, I Loved Leonardo Dicaprio in that Movie, he was excellent in that Movie. "},{"Title":"Well-crafted, beautiful","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A beautiful and well-crafted film with a fine screenplay. The Musketeers are excellent, and the historical details rich and elegant.  The scenes of the King's palace are sumptuous!  My only quibble is with Dicaprio - as Phillipe he was excellent, but his portrayal of Louie was somewhat weak. Leo has a hard time being truly cruel - perhaps he will grow into it.  Other than that, a great movie - action, intrigue, suspense, and sex - so what that it's set in 17th century France? "},{"Title":"Old fashioned movie for old fashioned viewers. Great!","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Movie reviewers seem to vie with each other for the most clever comments.  One said DiCaprio was the golden haired buoy of Titanic. That reviewer didn't like The Man in the Iron Mask. He probably didn't like Casablanca either. Once I got past the opening scene between Porthos and Athos (with the flatulence and mammaary glands) I couldn't find much wrong with the film. I've seen over 10,000 and own 2500, including this one. Perhaps it's an old man's fancy, but old-fashioned approaches to old-fashioned material sits very well with me. "},{"Title":"An awesome movie filled with action, drama, comedy and romance!","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie because it is one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen.  It has everything.  Also the actors gave incredible performances.  I never knew what a great actor Leonardo DiCaprio was until I saw this movie.  Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich, Gerard Depardieu and Gabriel Byrne were awesome as well.  This was one incredibly done motion picture. "},{"Title":"Good story, Good screenplay, Great acting","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a self confessed Alexeandre Dumas fan ( My favorite D&D character is  named D'Artagnan) I may be a bit biased in my rating of a Ten for this  movie. But John Malkovich and Gerard Depardeau's performances deserve Oscar  nominations, they were AWESOME!!!! "},{"Title":"Perhaps a political commentary","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of Randall Wallace's better movies. Although not as good as Braveheart, it is better than Pearl Harbor and We Were Soldiers. It has a great cast; it is amazing that Jeremy Irons, DiCaprio, John Malkovich and Gerard Deperdieu were able to all star in the same movie. However, I have always been a History fan; and the IMDb profile claims that I like biography, history and war movies above all. Perhaps such a bias causes me to give this film a more generous rating.One thing the film did is to cause me to question issues of legitimacy. The film is, of course, not historically accurate. It is obviously romanticized. But in real life, there had actually been a man in the Iron Mask in the Bastille prison. In real life, there had been tension between Jesuits and kings. And the movie alludes to events that would later portend the French Revolution (i.e. starving hordes in Paris). In real life, King Louis XIV also declared himself to be in charge of the French Royal Council in 1661; and the film starts off in 1662. The very fact that a 'bad' king is replaced by a 'good' king may be a reference to the latent belief (at least on the part of Alexandre Dumas) that Louis XIV had been corrupt and that so had been his Royal Council. After all, Wikipedia claimed that Louis XIV's reign had actually not been peaceful during the later part of his years.However, the film was enjoyable. After watching the 1994 Disney version of the Three Musketeers as a kid years ago, it was interesting to see the Three Musketeers again in their older years. And just because they were older obviously did not mean they did not have problems. In fact, the film demonstrates the reality that their lives had gotten more difficult. The film also touches on other important issues that may cause heated debates. The film seemed to argue that the wars fought consumed the resources of the French peasants and urban workers. Rather than competing over scarce resources, the countries engaged in war fought for glory and ideological reasons. This may be true, but I'm not sure to what degree it is also a romanticized notion. Historians will probably duke it out.I would recommend this film and would even do so for those who are not fans of history.8/10 "},{"Title":"Too many big actors stepping on each other","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The french people are starving and the country is at war. King Louis XIV (Leonardo DiCaprio) is an uncaring ruler with a secret. He sends Raoul (Peter Sarsgaard) away to the front to steal his fiancée Christine. Raoul's father Athos (John Malkovich) is angered. D'Artagnan (Gabriel Byrne) tries to plead to the king for the starving people and Raoul. When Raoul is reported kill, the King takes Christine to bed. The King orders Aramis (Jeremy Irons) to kill the leader of the Jesuits who oppose his war. Only Aramis is secretly the actual leader of the Jesuits and tries reunite the musketeers to take on the king. Athos and Porthos (Gérard Depardieu) agree, but D'Artagnan refuses. It turns out that the king has imprisoned his twin Philippe in an Iron Mask.The story is complicated. There are too many lead characters. They need to pick one character to lead the story. The great actors just get into each other's way. The action isn't there. This is an overly complicated costume drama where there are too many accents and not enough excitement. "},{"Title":"A so-so installment.","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm rating this film as mediocre because to me the Salkind productions are the gold standard for musketeer films. This one simply doesn't have the craft, care and ultimate quality that went into the progenitors of the 1970s, both directed by Richard Lester who brought us a gritty and whimsical late renaissance France. This 1998 film is all spit and polish with some emotional flourishes. The production values are all bright and shiny. Even the peasants are well lit, and look like they were made up to look like starving peasants, again, verse the 1970's versions which let the set, actors and story speak for itself.The story is a very interesting one, but the execution looks borderline B-grade film making with a high budget. The shots are uninspired, the sets are sanitized, the costumes are colorful, the fencing, what little there is, is not gripping in the least. There's some humor, but it's so telegraphed and couched in teenage humor sensibilities that it's hardly worth commenting on. I think I laughed once.It is a finely polished production for what it is, but beyond that I would recommend you look for musketeer entertainment elsewhere. See it once, but don't say I didn't warn you. "}{"Title":"The Man in the Iron Mask","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I was very happy that i watched this movie... While watching the movie you would see nice costumes, dancing, sword fights and some nicely made surroundings. Everybody has a long hair in this movie. Its a story about power, love and justice. The cast played their roles well. It was in the time of King Louis XIV of France and he is more interested in money and bedding women. You will also see the destruction of a such selfish king when he tries to steal an engaged woman from a soldier and use his power to do it and as he rules the people are starving outside his gates. The movie will bring you to a nice story that will also give a very valuable lesson. If you like musketeers and swords fights this movie is for you... Don't waste your time if you haven't seen this movie, watch it immediately... I was very entertained. It would be very nice to have a DVD of this movie in your collection. "},{"Title":"Lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame lame","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Man in The Iron Mask is one of a few films I have seen that has more negatives than positive aspects to it and worse unlike some terrible films such as 'Plan 9 From Outer Space' and 'Mega Shark Vs Giant Octopus' this film attempts to be good and some people see it as being good.With the opening 'The film is based on a legend however the following is true... a Man in An Iron Mask was imprisoned in France in 1662', I was tempted to turn it off, but I decided this is only the start and the film does have some good actors so maybe it will save itself. However it did not. The script was appalling, a majority of the acting worse, John Malkovich was okay in his role and with the bad lines he was being forced to tell and Leonardo Di Caprio was probably the best in the role of Phillipe; although he was also the worst in the role of Louis, honestly who decided to cast a guy who did brilliant in the naive roles of Jack from Titanic and Romeo in Romeo and Juliet in the role of an arrogant king. It was just so unbelievable.At so many points during the film I let out groans, it was just painful and then the ending with the whole father-son thing I was actually on the verge of sleep.Honestly the only thing that saves this film from getting a 1 is Di Caprio as Phillippe. DO NOT watch this film... its a waste of time.2/10 "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Unfortunately, the movie was disappointing. I thought script was too boring with awkward silent gaps in-between and acting was probably even worse both from male and female actors. Frankly, it was a waste of 2 hours. Di Caprio was not able to portray the evil king or the iron man to full extent of his abilities. The mother and the girl were astonishingly bad. D'Artanyan's statementMy love is treasonous to my heart....can we really expect this coming from a soldier? - romantic poet - yeah maybe! And then there were scenes after the prisoner was released. Who would want to spend time hidden in the room after being released? Wouldn't one try to enjoy his freedom or at least get angry at Aramis who helped to put him in prison? After the guy took off his mask, the supporting actors' glances were like, yeah we see u and..... There was even a moment when Malkovich' sight was wondering around - wow, who edited the movie? Anyways, 3 out of 10 - is the max i can give. "},{"Title":"A tad ridiculous but some honest fun","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" A short review.This film needs to be looked at again, not as a period epic but as some good, honest entertainment. A swashbuckler in the true sense of the word, 'The Man In The Iron Mask' is worth a look.If you can believe the premise that the King Louis has a secret twin you're half way to enjoying this film. Obviously the all-star cast is a huge plus. Irons, Depardieu and Malkovich are awesome as usual and Di Caprio is decent. Do not expect a believable story because you will be disappointed.It works best as a fairy tale and is fairly enjoyable if you watch it with that frame of mind. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea, but very difficult to criticise","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Paris is starving under the rule of King Louis XIV (Leonardo DiCaprio) The musketeers played by Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich and Gerard Depardieu devise a plot to save France from the tyranny of the king, only D'Artagnan (Gabriel Byrne) stands in their way.The production value is very high, and this is reflected in the cast and the appearance of the film; the story works nicely and has a strong script. Like i said this film is not really suited to my tastes, but i still found it enjoyable to watch, and the casting is fantastic.6/10It's a must see for fans of the genre "},{"Title":"Loved it . . . One of my all time favorites","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I don't know why I did not see the 1998 version of Man in the Iron Mask while it played in theaters. In a way I'm glad I didn't see it then &#150; I surely would have embarrassed myself, because it would not have occurred to me that I would need a half-box of Kleenex at the end! I finally watched the movie in my own living room when it came to HBO several years ago, but while I enjoyed the movie at the time, it did not leave me with the urgent desire to see it again. However, I did watch the movie again recently, and now for some unexplainable reason, I can't seem to get enough of it. I have the DVD, and it is the movie I most often reach for on a quiet evening of lousy television.Those who are expecting a faithful adaptation of the book will come away sorely disappointed, and if that is their measure of the movie, they will do best to avoid this one. However, those who love the characters, who don't mind seeing new adaptations and interesting plot twists, and who love rich costumes and set designs will find this movie wonderfully entertaining. And that is what it is all about, isn't it? Entertainment.I have read many reviews regarding this movie, and am puzzled, even dismayed at times, by some of the criticisms levied at various aspects of it. Some people have complained about the dialogue in the movie, calling it flowery, but truthfully I loved the fact that Randall Wallace did not modernize it. So many new films and TV series are dumbing down the dialogue of period pieces to make them more compatible with today's manner of speaking. I applaud Mr. Wallace for keeping the dialogue consistent with how it likely would have been spoken in the 17th century.Still others complained of the unlikelihood of all four Musketeers surviving a volley of musket fire during the final charge. If they had been watching properly, they would have noticed that the young Musketeers were turning their faces away, closing their eyes as they pulled the triggers. And after the first few shots, powder smoke begins to fill the corridor, obscuring their vision. So the lack of accuracy in their volley is adequately explained on more than one count. Moreover, if the critics had been watching more closely, they would have noticed that there are woundings -&#150; D'Artagnan is hit in the shoulder, Athos in the thigh. The other two are also limping, and the script confirms that all four are wounded in the barrage.As for the complaints that the four leads have four different accents, I did not find them distracting or annoying, as some have claimed. I expected it, since this is an International Cast, and with an International Cast, you get International accents.And speaking of the cast, I must say that in all the Musketeers movies I've seen, this is the strongest cast ever. The primary performers, Jeremy Irons, Gabriel Byrne, Gerard Depardieu, and John Malkovich, all turn in exquisite performances, and Leonardo DiCaprio is, in my opinion, convincing as Louis and Philippe, even though he is upstaged by the other four. Anne Parilloud is simply lovely as the Queen Mother, and the moments she shares with Byrne's D'Artagnan are some of the best in the film. The love scene between them, as brief as it was, is as beautiful as any I've ever seen (this coming from someone who is not a true fan of romance! I was left wanting more!). The music is brilliant and sets the mood perfectly for each scene. The wardrobe is exceptional, especially the black uniforms of the old musketeers.Particularly nice touches in this movie are the attention to detail The roses left for the queen speaks as decisively of D'Artagnan's love for her as words ever could (And yes, I really liked the plot twist involving the twins' paternity); Philippe dragging his masked head back and forth over the grating in frustration while in prison; the unmasking of Philippe in a dark blacksmith's forge, his hair wrapped around his neck where, as it grew, it was unable to escape the confines of the mask; Lieutenant Andre's devotion to D'Artagnan throughout the film and the way he looks away when the king orders the volley, unable to watch his captain cut down; the rich, fancy costumes contrast the torn, sweat-stained clothing where appropriate.The movie is not without its faults, though. The first scene involving Porthos and Aramis, for example, contains some crude language regarding parts of both the male and female anatomy and Porthos's flatulence, both of which seemed out of place, and actually got the film off to a shaky start. The first time I watched it, I almost turned it off at this point. Another reviewer here commented on the bulls-eye glimpses of Porthos' naked rear end, and I am inclined to agree with that reviewer! While I'm sure some of Depardieu's fans loved it, the scene did nothing to advance the plot, in my opinion, and was something I could have lived quite happily without ever having seen. There is hardly an actor or actress out there these days that has not done a nude, but quite frankly, some things are just better left to the imagination. I'm smiling as I write this, but truly, the scene was unnecessary. Thankfully, there is a skip button on my DVD player! And yes, I do use it.Those few faults are forgivable when surrounded by so many other details that are so elegantly done. For me, it was a very pleasing movie experience, one I enjoy over and over again. Kudos to everyone involved. Now, if I can just convince Randall Wallace to release a director's cut version . . . . "},{"Title":"The greatest film I ever watched","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The greatest film I ever watched. The story is not the one Mr. Dumas wrote once - I nearly want to say  it is better. There are great actors (especially Gabriel Byrnes as D'Artagnan), wonderful costumes, an amazing scenery ... Very good plot. When I saw the film for the first time at the age of 15, I have been very struggled about the ending. I watched the film for so many times, I could not count, only to understand why there had to be a tragic ending. Today, I'm only fascinated of the scenery. Is this the life at the court in the days of the french absolutism? At the one hand, it seems to be so realistic. At the other hand, you really cannot believe in what is shown to you ... "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie! Highly recommend! *spoilers*","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now, most people don't care for the film for various reasons.  I've heard that it's not historically acurate, noticeably, but it is fiction.  I've heard the mixed accents threw people off, true.  But all that doesn't matter.I've seen this film a couple times before and it didn't really affect me.  But after this last time I saw it, I was affected beyond reason.  Why? Beacause I am currently reading The Three Musketeers.  Though I am near the end, I'm still not finished, and yet, I'v gotten to love the characters SO much, that this movie moved me beyond words.NO movie has ever made me cry like this one.  The death of D'Artagnan saddened my heart.  I've gotten to know his character so well, and I'm only on the first book, that his death was tragic to me.  This film is far better if you read The Three Musketeers.  But I must say, I am now afraid to read The Man in the Iron Mask, because if he dies in the book as well, then I may never recover.Fictious or not, D'Artagnan is a wonderful, inspiring character.  As are the three Musketeers.  This film may not be acurate, or even make complete sense, but if you know the chracters, then it doesn't matter.  These fine actors brought to the chracters what the book could not.Should you choose not to read the book, this is still a magnificent film.  But to get the full affect, and perhaps a good cry, I suggest you read at least the first book, the Three Musketeers.Very few films move me in such a profound way, and this is one of them.  10/10  "},{"Title":"I give it a perfect 10","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I did not see this movie in the theater. I bought the video several months ago because I love period piece movies, and I like Leonardo DiCaprio.I finally watched it for the first time a few days ago, and I liked it so much I watched it four times in 24 hours. The acting was fabulous (and I don't give a whipstitch about the various accents), the scenery beautiful, the costumes exquisite, and the music divine. There was nothing I dd not like about this movie.I can't wait to get the DVD so I can hit repeat play and go to sleep and wake up to it.It is said that to read fiction, one must sometimes suspend belief. That can also be applied to watching movies. If you are looking for great acting, beautiful scenery, and a classic period piece, this movie is for you.Be willing to suspend belief and just enjoy watching 5 beautiful men. I did, and this is now one of my top 10 favorite movies. "},{"Title":"This should be on the list of the 100 best movies of the 20th Century","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie in the Theaters when I was nine. It took a while to understand the whole story, it's very complicated. But I loved it right away. It has not one, but five great performances, six if you call Leonardo DiCaprio's double for playing two roles. Leonardo is great as the spoiled, selfish, and wicked King Louis XIV, who doesn't take care of his people and plays a part in all the deaths in the film, and as Phillippe, the king's tender and sweet natured twin, who spent six years in prison in an Iron Mask and does not now why till he is rescued by Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, (The Three Musketeers, brilliantly played by John Malkovich, Gerard Depardieu, and Jeremy Irons) and then must take his brothers place as king. Gabriel Byrne plays the noble D'Artangan, who was once one of The Four Musketeers, and is a good man but is loyal to the evil king for a reason that we don't know until the end and I won't give away. Leonardo DiCaprio is amazing, John Malkovich is passionate all through the movie, Gerard Depardieu is touching, lovable, and funny, Jeremy Irons is noble and wise, Gabriel Byrne is so good. Other good performances by smaller roles are Anne Parillaud as the Queen Mother, Peter Sarsgaard as Athos's romantic son Raoul, who dies a tragic death towards the beginning, Judith Godreche as his fiance, Christine, who is horribly seduced by the king, not knowing he was responsible for Raoul's death, and Edward Atterton as D'Artangan's noble lieutenant. My guess is that the book is very different, same with The Count of Monte Cristo as a film. The Man in the Iron Mask was probably made to look more of an exciting epic than the book but the Drama is there. This is a must see film. If I could I would switch it's popularity, with DiCaprio's much more popular film Titanic "}{"Title":"Another installment of the Four Musketeers.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Critic Ebert gives an accurate description of the film, Man In The Iron Mask, and its genesis. Most of the critics agree that making a movie of a rather lengthy novel suffers by compressing too much of the story, and ignoring character development. Reasonable conclusions.However, this film is fun to watch. The King of France and his imprisoned identical twin brother is a good reason to tell yet another saga involving the Musketeers. And this is a Musketeers move, not a movie about the King of France. We get to see them re-assemble and attempt the swap, whereby they spring the twin out of prison and try to substitute him for the king.  The sound and cinematography are excellent, and the whole movie is good entertainment, if one just enjoys it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Absolutly The Best Three Musketeers Movie Ever","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is Absolutly The Best Three Musketeers Movie Ever! Never have the three Musketeers been played out so briliantly.The movie has a great story, excellent acting, beautiful settings,exciting action,good humor, and a wonderful music score. Its a wonderful movie and a motion picture masterpiece that you will watch over and over again. This is (in my opinion) the 4th best epic-period film ever(the only 3 Ilike better are Les Miserables-1998, Brotherhood of the Wolf-2001, and Cyrano de Bergerac-1990--- And this film absolutly deserves to be mention right along side those other films. Its that good. I would love to see this cast re-united for a follow up(sequel),but I know it will never happen, and besides I dont believe this story could be followed up.I give this film 5 out of 5 stars- A perfect film "},{"Title":"Can't anyone buckle a swash anymore?","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a reasonable interpretation of the classic story I suppose, it just lacks a few vital elements that make a decent movie in this genre, i.e. drama, excitement, characterisation, action etc etc. DiCaprio is pretty pants as both evil King Louis and his nicer twin, although to be fair he's not really given much to do; the evil one just has to sneer a bit while the good one shambles about looking dumb all the time. The four musketeers, played by an international team of top actors, are also a bit dull, lacking both the humour that made Richard Lester's Musketeer films so much fun and the element of charisma and vitality that would convince the viewer that these are indeed the hardest men in the world. There's not much character shown by anyone, so you never really start caring about the heroes or hating the villains, and there's virtually no action until the last ten minutes or so, where a few half-arsed swordfights are thrown in as if in afterthought. Pretty lame all round really.  "},{"Title":"Good Leo, Bad Leo...Good cast.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a flick where you have to simply set yer mind on stun and just enjoy the great cast you have here-two of the primo psycho actors of the '90s-Irons and Malkovich, and Depardieu doing his slob thing, and of course Gabe Byrne who was also decent in Stigmata and End of Days and Usual Suspects. There aren't many who work together as well's these guys did, and there aren't many who I would sit through this kinda drivel through to see save them.Period detail and etc was up there with the Richard Chamberlain/Mike York '70's Musketeers flix and the '93 Charlie Sheen/Keifer Sutherland Opus. I prefer this one to Sheen's but York's is still the best of the lot.I do think that everything was a little too clean-after all this was in the time of rotting teeth, no bathing, sores, pox, measles, few indoor plumbing options and the like. But sod it, here yer going for a 'never never' France of the 1660's, not a documentary.Now Leo.As Louis the Sun King-forget it. PooPoo. Not convincing at all. Sounds like he's r-e-a-d-i-n-g h-i-s l-i-n-e-s in some scenes. Not good. As the Iron Mask guy-well actually he was alright.There are some really BIG leaps of logic and imagination you have to look the other way for this to work-perfect twins Despite one being in that mask 6 years, yeah right, etc etc.  And the volley of gunfire where NO ONE gets Hit?? WHAT THE-?!? Goofygloo time guys....But did I like this? Sure-because of the 4 leads. You can load up a flick with alotta crud and Still have a decent time watching it if Malkovich, Irons and co are on hand. It's a fun flick and I enjoyed it, despite itself.**1/2 outta ****, nothing great... "},{"Title":"Laughably awful adaptation with great cast.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I rarely have laughed this much in such an awful film. Randal Wallace (screenwriter of BRAVEHEART) directs this Dumas adaptation and manages the almost impossible he takes a great book and a great task and makes a deeply flawed film. The dialogues are unintentionally funny. The four musketeers overact badly - which yet again causes many laughs. Leo DiCaprio tries to resist the obvious overacting traps a double role offers - not always successful. And couldn't anyone have insisted on only ONE pronounciation of the name D'Artagnan? Now we hear British, French, and a couple of American versions - by people who are all supposedly French. Well, nevermind. It's a good laugh. Who cares then that it actually is supposed to be a historical action-thriller... "},{"Title":"What could have been...","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only reason I didn't score this movie lower than a five was the presence of Irons, Byrne, Depardieu, and Malkovich.  The story was fine, the acting great, but Dicaprio dragged the whole movie into the gutter.  For a period piece such as this, it helps to have real actors in the critical roles, of which the producers seem to have forgotten when they cast this girly-boy wanabee actor into this movie.  I actually preferred the Three Musketeers from a few years back, at least all the main cast could act. "},{"Title":"could have been a good film but erm....wasn't","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, so we have an english musketeer, a french musketeer and an american musketeer. Couldn't they have at least tried to make their accents vaguely the same?? I remember this film as being good at the cinema but having rented it recently I have discovered that it's really quite boring. Irons, Depardeu and sometimes Bryne are good, Malkovich was just totally wrong though, I cringed every time he uttered a line. DiCaprio was OK but couldn't he  have even attempted to make his french king a little bit less 90's american?? I mean the guy gets paid millions he could at least have a go. I got the feeling that if the actors had tried a bit harder, even with the admittedly pants script, this could have been a different movie. Apart from that it is visually very attractive and if you haven't seen it yet then see it anyway cause it was alright the first time round but if you want to see a much better adaptation of the musketeers stories then see the Richard Lester films with Oliver Reed. Oh yeah and one last dig, I'm 16 and even I know that under Louis XIV France was not peaceful and his people were deffo not happy as the film claims at the end;it was at war with us for 30 years;. Someone needs to sort their facts out! "},{"Title":"Ok story, read the books instead.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a fairly well acted movie with home excellent charactorsand some nice scenery.  What are the problems?  The swordfighting!  I've never seen more poorly choreographed sword fighting in my life!  Not just that, the screen writer totally cut the original story to pieces!  I have to ask myself whether they even read the book.  Sure, Aramis was the Vicar General of the Jesuits, but they were religious men, not assassins.  And Athos, some poor retired musketeer living in a small apartment? Athos was a wealthy Count who lived in the country and had tons of servants.  Of course, they had to make the Raoul and Louise (her real name in the book)  out to be some happy couple who were torn apart by the king.  Louise herself was the one who went after the king really, and Raoul, devastated, went and got himself killed charging a line of muslim riflemen.  What's with the love affair between D'Artagnan and Anne of Austria.  The haughty creature would hardly ever condescend to speak to D'Artagnan in the books, yet they tried to make D'Artagnan the father of Louis XIV.  I have, in fact, barely touched the surface of all the differences between the movie and the book.  My advice, if you want a far better story, go pick up The Three Musketeers, read all five stories and get a far better idea of what great heroes they were instead of watching this silly story.  "},{"Title":"An Incredible Sleeper Hit","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Where did this movie come from?  The Man in the Iron Mask is one of those films that few saw and even fewer know about, but is still a terrific movie experience.  Great performances abound, especially those of John Malkovich and Gabriel Byrne, and even a more than adept turn by Leonardo DiCaprio as the boorish Louis XIV.  Rent this film and watch it, you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"poorly done film wastes talents of some excellent actors","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film must be popular on Leonardo's bounce, because it surely has little else to offer. I'm not a huge fan of his (Romeo & Juliet was pretty good) but I can't believe the waste of such talented actors as Irons, Depardieu, Malkovich, and Byrne. They must really have needed the dough. The sets and art direction reminded me of big Hollywood films of the 50's. The plot was confusing and had little of the drama and tension of Dumas' story. And the ending, with Louis XIV portrayed as the savior of the people, was a hoot.   "}{"Title":"This movie was the Absolute Best!!!!!!!","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I've seen several versions of this film. The one with Richard Chamberlain was , up to seeing this film, my favorite. I have to say though this one blows the others away! The sound quality, the musical score, the excellent acting of the four main characters were rewarding to say the least. I know there are critics who say the Di Caprio's acting skills weren't the best but I thought he played the whiny, spoiled, self-centered King to perfection. The on location settings, the comic repartee' of the three aging musketeers, the grandeur of the palace, all make for a sweeping tale of adventure and excitement that's sure to entertain one for an evening. For anyone that hasn't seen this one yet, get thee to a DVD rental store or better yet, buy a copy. You'll want to watch it over and over. I do. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies I ever saw. I don't know why so many people hate it. But what I sometimes get annoyed at (and Titanic had the exact same problem) is that everyone is oohing and awwing at Leo's hotness when they don't realize the philosophy behind it. One of the themes of this movie is the difference between good and evil. The movie shows that what makes a person good or bad will be forever unknown. Another theme of this movie was the bonds between family and how they can never be broken. I love the characters in this movie. Every single one had an amazing story behind them. Whether it was Louis, Philipe, Athos, Portos, Aramos, T'artangnan, the mother, Christine, Raoul, or even minor characters such as Lt. Andre or the king's advisors. Their stories involved suffering, hope, and love. That is true with real life as well. So even if this story is absolutely fiction, it captures the essence of the pains and the joys that come with the gift of life. "},{"Title":"Bland and uninspiring","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Can somebody please explain to me why Gabriel Byrne is constantly saddled with trite nonsense like this when he is one of the finest actors working in cinema today? He shines like a beacon here putting even the great Jeremy irons in the shade The script in this film is just awful and while Depardieu and Malkovich also struggle manfully with their thankless roles the whole thing just sinks into a miasma of blandness. Leonardo Di Caprio must cringe with shame when he is reminded of this travesty.Byrne alone elevates the film above a one star effort. He gives a masterclass in acting and somehow manages to make a facsimile of a silk purse out of this sow's ear.The man is a genius. "},{"Title":"Truly Stunning","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I watched this late at night coming home with my fencing team, it was not favored among the guys to Family guy and there were some complaints, but by the middle of the movie, we had made a quick stop and paused the movie, they were yelling to turn it back on quick to find out what happened next. I believe it got two thumbs up from all of them.This movie definitely gave me all the aspects of humor and adventure and a bit of romance. The tears that came for me at certain times was surprising for us all. I looked around and my friends, who NEVER cry in movies, all had eyes filling with tears. I swear I was sitting there clutching to the arm of one teammate the whole time. I felt the acting was amazing and definitely recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"No, D'Artagnan has not been killed by Louis the 14th in the catacombs of La Bastille","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I just seen the movie and I found it very ... funny, Mel Brooks style ! At some moments it was so ridiculous I was waiting for Di Caprio to start singing It's good to be the king !  If you are an history teacher don't look at this movie, you will commit suicide ! No, D'Artagnan has not been killed by Louis the 14th in the catacombs of La Bastille. Louis the 14th who didn't live neither at the Vaux le Vicomte Castle where the movie has been shot, eared about Versailles ? Anne d'Autriche, his mother was not a seducing young woman and D'Artagnan was not his lover. Ok i know this is an adventure movie...but all the characters are real, and for European audience all this look ridiculous. Imagine a Gone with the wind version with Scarlett having an love affair with Abraham Lincoln and you'll be close to it ! "},{"Title":"The Very Best Of Leo","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm writing this to praise Leonardo Di Caprio to the heavens for his acting in this film. I didn't appreciate what all the fuss was about over Titanic to be honest.  He was quite good in Romeo And Juliet, and then I found this little gem.  Now I understand why people make a fuss.  This is Leo at his best.  I'm going to have to go away and watch it again, because it is a film that had a very profound effect upon me.  The ending is spectacular.  10/10 "},{"Title":"All for one and...","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a massive DiCaprio fan - I have been for about ten years now, and Phillippe in The Man in the Iron Mask is one of his better performances. Sure there are a few cringy lines in the script, a couple of the scenes are a bit unbelievable and as for the twist at the end - Hands up who did not see that one coming in the first ten minutes or so? It is the performances that save the film and make you believe the pretty unbelivable dialogue and action.All of the leads are fab, but DiCaprio shines as Phillippe. As I said, I honsetly think it is one of his best roles, up there with Arnie in What's Eating Gilbert Grape, Frank in Catch me if You Can and Amsterdam in GONY.As for the film as a whole, well if you just go with it, and don't dwell on the flaws, it's pretty enjoyable really! I can't help but like it in spite of the bad bits.7/10 - Would be less, but I just love Phillippe. Awwwhh!!!  "},{"Title":"Intrigue, romance, and treachery in old France","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a great dungeon. I'd like to make my home there when I wasn't snugly ensconced in the royal palace with it's secret passages and hidden chambers. This film rivaled the one made in the 70's, but I don't think it was done any better....if memory serves. Great props and costumes made me feel as though I was really right there in 17th century Paris. Superb acting and a well written script made the flavor of this adventure even tastier. I was all for this one. "},{"Title":"The WORST movie EVER !!","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Again one of my sneak preview experiences. When the trailer started, half of the people got out of the theatre. I decided to stick around and give this film a chance. One of the worst ideas I ever had. The biggest mystery (which has been discussed in innumerous other comments) is - how could these great actors end up in this trashy B-Movie ? Did they read the script before signing the contract ? Were they forced to do it ? Maybe the producers kidnapped their children, or they owed the Mafia some money - just my guess... Seldom have I seen a movie where the dialogues are so full of clichés that you can actually figure out before what the actors are going to say. Just take a second to find out what the most pathetic, unbelievably stupid thing is you can think of and - KAZAAM - someone will say it in this movie. But why be so negative - there is a positive side to it. Finally Hollywood provides us with an unfailing cure to insomnia. 1/10  "},{"Title":"Worst movie in a long while","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie. It's one of the worst and most laughable movies I ever saw. Jeremy Irons, Gabriel Byrne and Gerard Depardieu did the best they could. DiCaprio is completely miscast. John Malkovich overdoes his part.The dialogues are so unbelievably bad! Many scenes are extremely badly designed (such as the Dartagnan's apple  cutting) - I especially disliked the masked party in which Phillipe took his brother's role, it is so artificial - unreal. "}{"Title":"Okay, I know people don't generally like Leo, but Jeremy, John and the rest of the guys did a splendid performance","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I always loved the story of the musketeers and this sequel was just great. The reason I think it got such low ratings is because Leo was the star. I personally have nothing against the kid so I was able to see the film with a clear head.  The twist was just thrilling. Although for the people who think the movie was a total flop, I would say they have reason to believe so. The uncanny show of bravery from the revitalized musketeers was stunning - in a confusing way. I thought that walking through bullets was to be left to the 'terminators'.  Anyway, that didn't ruin the whole movie for me. That's why the Lastword 2 'The Man in the Iron Mask' awards a 7. "},{"Title":"Better than I would have thought.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I avoided seeing this film for quite awhile and then one night I was at the video store and decided to check it out. The film is pretty good, except for being a little long, it is very exceptional. The cast obviously is very talented and I loved the performances. Randall Wallace did a great job directing this story and writing the screenplay. This film is definitely worth a look, check it out.  "},{"Title":"Inconsistent movie","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I haven't seen any other Three Musketeers movies, and I couldn't get through the Dumas novel.  However, I liked Randall Wallace's script for BRAVEHEART, so I thought I'd give it a try.  Wallace did such a good job combining historical fiction with old-fashioned adventure with a modern twist in that story (to be fair, Mel Gibson did a good job directing it), but here, he's not consistent; there are some scenes and especially dialogue which are real clunkers, which alternate with scenes that are rousing or dramatic.  It's not bad, but it just goes all over the place.The acting reflects this inconsistency.  Of course, a lot of the initial box office was due to DiCaprio, and while I like him, and thought he was surprisingly good as Phillipe, he was all wrong as Louis; not bad, just wrong.  Amazingly, Depardieu, perhaps the best actor in the cast, has almost nothing to do except clown around, and the lovely Anne Parillaud seems forced here.  Irons has some good scenes, but is hampered with some of the bad dialogue.  The ones who rise above are Byrne and Malkovich(it's nice to see him play something other than a bad guy for a change).  It should be said that the swordfight scenes are all excellent. "},{"Title":"horrible!","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  What a horrible movie! And such a waste of talent too!John Malkovitch, a truly excellent actor, is particularly nauseating as Athos. Br-r-r-r-r.   "},{"Title":"I have only good things to say about this movie","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  After seeing this movie I am wondering what took me so long. Academy award winning performances by a marvelous (not to mention) hot, hot, hot cast of male actors.  A marvelous adaption of the old tale, the best yet.....I love the way this one turned out......All for one and one for all..... "},{"Title":"I really did like this!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought this was a great piece of film-making.  The performances are great (to be expected with such an all star cast), and I love that era anyway. Fabulous. "},{"Title":"A feast for both our eyes and emotional centre","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, so I'm a bit biased because The Man in the Iron Mask is my favourite movie of all time, but I really feel that this movie has been overlooked and criticised by the movie world because of the snobbish attitude that 'the original will always be better'. People seem to prefer the original because it's more a swashbuckler movie than the remake is. The remake, however, is truly a feast for the eyes. Just look at the sumptuous costumes, the fabulous sets - Queen Anne's mourning dress of elegant black and the various rooms in the palace are prime examples.The Man in the Iron Mask also carries enough emotional weight to touch the emotional core. In the end, this is a tragic story and I can't see how anyone could say that it isn't. The love affair between Queen Anne and D'artagnan, D'artagnan's death at the end, Christine's suicide - build a swashbuckler with that material alongside Dumas' story of how the Musketeers decide to exchange the corrupt King Louis for his twin brother who has languished inside the titular iron mask to prevent his identity from discovery.This is only a brief review, only the tip of the iceberg of what I could say. All I can do is urge you to see this movie and not to fall victim to the snobbery that has prevented this gem from shining as brightly as it should. "},{"Title":"I was totally disappointed in this film","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Now, seeing that I am a fan of the classic books written by Alexander Dumas, and enjoy a good movie, I had high hopes for this one. I must now tell you that those hopes were crushed when I watched this. It didn't even resemble the classic work of Mr. Dumas, in fact, he probably would have rolled over in his grave to see what they had done. The title is nearly the only thing that remains the same. The film makers relied heavily upon the use of nudity to try to make up for the lack of a good screen play. The acting was, to be fair, decent and the scenery was beautiful, so in my mind they wasted good acting and location on a terrible movie. Honestly, Dumas' book is very long, but that is no excuse for dragging his well know work through the proverbial mud. "},{"Title":"Really, a pretty bad movie","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How can so many actors whose work I have liked be so bad together?  Perhaps its Malkovich, whose modernity worked in another period movie, Dangerous Liaisons, but is disasterous here.  Perhaps it is DiCaprio, who can ocassionally act but here seems to be channeling Keanu Reeves.   Or maybe it's one of those anti-Gestalt things; the whole is markedly less than the sum of the parts. "},{"Title":"Excellent remake of a wonderful story.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first read this story in high school.  I loved it then and love it now. I wasn't certain I even wanted to see this (might tarnish my feelings about the book, right?). I'm really glad I did, though.  Byrne is absolutely wonderful as D'Artagnan, the costumes are sumptuous, and the settings gorgeous.  I wouldn't let my kids (age 7 and 9) watch it just yet, though, as there are some scenes (especially the seduction of Christine and the final battle) which I don't feel are appropriate for them.  A thoroughly enjoyable swashbuckling good time. "}{"Title":"Magnificent Valor","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The true reason why Alexandre Dumas' epic of the Musqueteers is as unforgettable as the fairy tales of Andersen, Grimm and Aesop, is of course because everyone is a musketeer. As we all know, the three friends are really one person. Aren't we all one of the other, hoping with the passion and vigor of an Athos to combine the love of the flesh and savoir-vivre of Porthos with the wisdom and contemplation of an Aramis.D'Artagnan is the hope in achieving that equilibrium. This tale has been filmed almost 500 times. Coming soon will be a megalomaniac attempt of prototype American Peter Hyams, which will be a film completely opposite of THIS glorious picture-tale. Where Hyams, as always, searches for the (special) effect and too grand but empty gestures, this film is about people. Heros alright, but people with their weaknesses none the less. Those who love the swashbuckling epics, see this film because it is lovely even though the fighting is restrained. People who hate the swashbuckling genre please don't miss this wonderful film, with a superb cast and wonderful art-direction. Maybe one day we will have the ultimate '3 Musketeers', which will mean that the three friends will be played by one truly great actor. Watch this film over and over again and wonder ... should it have been Malkovich or Depardieu ? Irons maybe ? All playing wonderful here in the sequel, based on Dumas' other Musketeer novels. The answer maybe lays within this film. If 'we' hurry, maybe Gabriel Byrne can play this 'All for One & One For All' Musketeer !! If 'we' wait too long, let's hope DiCaprio has sunk his last boat and comes back to the breathtaking roles he started in '... Gilbert Grape' and culminated here, in his double-role as the French King Of The Sun.But maybe it's better not to hold our breath and have Vincent Cassel play this triple role... "},{"Title":"****SPOILER WARNING!!**** THIS FILMS STINKS!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How can a guy who wrote a winner (Braveheart) and 5 fine actors, Bryne, Depardieu, Irons and Curry and one mediocre wannabe, DiCaprio, take a great, classic story by Dumas and turn it into a limp parody of an adventure film. UGH!  Scenes where DiCaprio makes his bland transitions from the bad guy into the good guy are bad enough, but when Depardieu goes to hang himself and mutters, Goodbye, cruel world, only to fall on his tush, is ghastly.  And, Tim Curry's Snidley Whiplash version of the Cardinal only need to say, Heh-heh, Heh! to fill in the gaps.  Bryne, Irons and Malkovich must have been paid a lot of money to do this dog.  But, they did little service to the film industry or medium in doing so.  This film was made for the teenage set and even adds a teenage king and queen to an already limp storyline that is merely a whisper of the fine original story.  But, for those of us who have seen some very fine productions of the original Dumas story, this is disappointing to the max.  It would do well for some of those young hormone-driven kids who found DiCaprio's flouncy performance awesome, to read the original and then see this shallow characture.     "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been really surprised by all the negative comments about this movie. Especially the ones that say it was the worst movie they had ever seen.I thoroughly enjoyed the movie and it is one of the few I can watch again and again and never tire of it.  I feel that if all the actors had spoken in French accents then that would have taken away from the movie.  Besides, do they notice French accents in France?  I don't think so. "},{"Title":"Under-performance of the Decade","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Given the presences of J. Malkovitch, G. Depardieu and J. Irons, I expected an enjoyable Musketeers movie.  Instead this was a film I had to endure to reach the credits.  This has to be the most disappointing movie I have seen in the past few years.  The above actors appeared to be sleep acting and L. DiCaprio was annoying and all around pathetic.  If you want to see a musketeers movie, it is not possible to find a worse choice than this film.  If it were possible to rate this movie less than a 1 I would do so. "},{"Title":"Not even close to the original story .. ugh!!","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" It's really a shame to call this movie (The man in the iron mask), it should be called (The idiots in the paper mask!!) .. really this movie DID destroy the charm and the glory of the original Alexandre Dumas père's novel with fatal mistakes and distortions !! Take for example - The 3 musketeers (D'Artagnan, Athos, Porthos and Aramis) were the original heroes of this novel and not Leonardo DiCaprio (King Louis XIV and his twin) - Athos wasn't that grave looking guy - Porthos wasn't a desperate, dumb pimp that in a moment wants to suicide and in the other moment offering a prostitute to the twin of king Louis XIV ...- D'Artagnan was the main Character of this novel - In the original story- Porthos died by the soldiers of king Louis XIV trying to escape and defend his comrade Aramis - In the original story Athos died after his son - In the original story, D'Artagnan died in the war between France and Netherlands in the day he was promoted to be the grand Marshall to all the French army and this was the end of the story - In the original story (Marchialli) the twin of king Louis XIV was captured by D'Artagnan and couldn't escape at all and the whole plan was destroyed- It's a shame to say that the cardinal was the real father of king Louis XIV and his twin and not king Louis XIII - Leonardo DiCaprio - by any measure- is not suitable to perform the role of king Louis XIV and his twin Really I was shocked when I saw this movie which is by any measure not even close to the real great novel Sorry Leo *** Lo'ay "},{"Title":"Worst film I ever saw (and I've seen lots)","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't know how to put this, but I was appaled at this film's extreme badness. Everything seemed to be in place for a great film, you see. especially the cast. I had just seen Jeremy Irons in Lolita and was anticipating a lot from him and the other cast members of MAN. How wrong was I. whether it was the cast itself, or their annoyance with the ridiculous script and dialogue I can't tell, but this film is easily the worst stinker I've ever seen. Oh and an honorable mention goes out to Judith Godreche, whom I'd nominate for worst supporting actress ever.You see I enjoy films. I even enjoy bad films. Most of them. I thought Godzilla was supremely bad, but I enjoyed it. But this is one of those few films that I was just angry at having spent money on. So far there's only 4 other films that has happened with for me (Asterix & Obelix Contre César, The  Avengers, The Runaway Bride and The messenger The Story Of Joan Of Arc), so for your mental health avoid this (and the others mentioned) AT ALL COST "},{"Title":"The reasons why I like this film.","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The actors are very good. The landscapes are beautiful and there are lot of suspense. The story is very interesting. It's the film I like best. The characters suffer all of something. That can be a secret, don't have a friend... It's what the movie is so good. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Are positive reviewers studio plants, or do they just watch different movies than I did? DiCaprio sucked, the lines were ludicrous, the ending was not true to the book nor history, and the action scenes (especially at the end with Leo running around with that mask on) were filmed so badly it made me laugh. Watching the masked man ready to fight in the final battle reminded me of bad robot effects in 1950's scifi flicks.  "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible pile of rubbish!","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" this is one of the worst films ever to come to screen - there is soooooooooo much wrong with it!!!!!!1) None of them have the same accent, some are English, some American and others French...why?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?! 2) The acting in the final death scene is disgusting, all for one, and one for...for...(dies stupidly, over-the-top- dramatic death) 3) You really think that they would be able to survive a hail of bullets without a little scratch? 4) Leonardo DiCaprio cannot act! 5) How stupid does that ridiculous mask look? hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahhahahahahahahaaaaaaaaaaaaaaar 6) it is sooooooo predictable - yeah cus no1 had worked out he was the father half way through the first scene!!!! 7) Why would you go hang-yourself naked? 8) it is awful 9) yes awful! 10) awful some more!DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enough, I liked this movie","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a 14 year old girl, and I actually liked this movie (and not because of Leo or John).  I have this movie and watch it regularly.  I don't care about accuracy, all I care about it is the story, and how the actors portray it. I liked the acting, the script, and the costumes.   "}{"Title":"An absolute work of art!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found this film to be an absolute masterpiece.  Aside from the fact that the acting in it was superb, aside from the fact that the storyline was interesting and exciting, and even aside from the fact that the characters were made to be so believable, each scene was like a work of art!  This is definitely a movie that can be enjoyed over and over again. "},{"Title":"All for the exit, the exit for all","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Yes run to the exits. The film is not as bad as some make out. The dialog is a bit cheesy. The plot is a bit silly. It certainly is not a good movie. At the beginning I thought it was a kid's movie. What really bothered me was the voices of DeCaprio and Malkovich. Every single line out of Malkovich's mouth was wooden, and was obviously fake-- a community theater actor just mouthing the sounds. His American accent did not help. I don't like much of anything Malkovich has done, so I was not surprised. I don't know if it was because he did not fully learn his lines, or if he can't do the overdubs, or he over-enunciates, or it was something that the audio people could have fixed. I doubt it. He might be tone-deaf.Equally bad was DiCaprio, who reminded me how boy-toy heartthrobs just get by on their looks. He was miscast and the whole plot over-stressed him since they figured it would get the gal demographic. His dialog always sounded fake and forced and phony. There was one scene where he got mad and yelled and he was pretty good, a little boy throwing a tantrum, but much better than fellow boy-toy Ben Affleck, who rolls me on the floor when he tries to act angry. I understand that Leo and Ben have careers because women need to look at something while their vibrators recharge. Fine with me, but the mistake is giving them speaking parts. The gals will like Leo and Ben even more if they don't open their mouths in their films.I wonder if Wallace did re-writes after Titanic hit big and they had DiCaprio already under contract. Other reviewers noticed there were too many leads and I agree. The king should not be a focus, and Malkovich should not have made it past the screen test. With him out, then make Leo a Musketeer (notice they never carried muskets?) Make Depardieu the King and get rid of the clown character. Bring the dang women more into the story. The queen was great-- make the whole story center around her and have her direct the hijinks. Get us to like the other gal so we can kill her later, and get the sympathy vote at the Oscars. Take all suicide out-- this is Catholic France for gosh sake. Have the king kill the fluff babe when he cannot seduce her. Although hard for Hollywood to believe, most gals actually care when their lover is killed in war and won't jump into bed with the King. Now that she is pure, we really will care when she dies.Take the sneak the twin out under a toga bit out. If Dumas wrote it then was it was stupid in 1850 and even stupider when filmed. Also you can't have a Musketeer stabbed and then just get talked down and walk away.So now you got Leo as one Musketeer, and you can keep the other two but why pay those high-dollar great actors? Make the other two Musketeers non-speaking parts and pay them SAG minimums. The Raoul guy does not need to exist, other than in reference made by the fluff-babe who is going to die anyway. Or better yet, have DeCaprio the Musketeer save her from Depardieu the King, and then he gets the girl in the end.Yeah, that's the ticket. A nice story about the Queen mother and D'Artagnan her secret lover. Leo pulls in the gals and keeps his trap shut while getting the girl. That should get the budget from $35M down to $20M. Step C, profit. "},{"Title":"Brooke DiCaprio?","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was recently aired on a local TV station. I was passing by the channel and figured I'd watch it since I missed it in the theater. That, and there wasn't anything else on worth watching.I guess at first I thought it odd that someone would cast Brooke Shields as King Louis XIV, but wanted to watch to see if she was somehow able to pull it off.About 20 minutes into the film I thought her acting was a little odd, even for her. So I checked the movie info on screen and discovered it wasn't Brooke Shields, but rather, Leonardo DiCaprio.After that, all suspension of disbelief was gone. It was replaced with utter amazement at how much DiCaprio looked like Shields. "},{"Title":"It's GOOD to be the king.","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Three Musketeers by Alexander Dumas! All for one and one for all! Who can forget them? Their names are carved into our collective memories -- D'Artagnon, Athos, Paramus, Dopy, Goofy, Donner, Blitzen, and Rudolph! In this story, helas, the four musketeers are aging, like gunfighters, and have gone their separate ways. Gabriel Byrne, as D'Artagnon, remains in service, devoted to King Louis XIV. (That's Louis the Fourteenth, also known as The Sun King; cf., The Beatles.) Jeremy Irons as Aramis has become a Jesuit priest who doesn't much like the king. John Malkovich is Athos, whose much loved son, Raoul, the king has sent off to war to be killed, in order to have his way with Raoul's fiancée. Athos is pretty bitter. Gerard Depardieu is the comic Porthos, the wine-swilling lover of life who despairs as aging cripples his diverse enthusiasms. I'm going to hang myself as soon as I'm sober. All of the musketeers are well served by the players.But who is this king anyway, the one that everybody dislikes so much except D'Artagnon and the assorted terrified subjects? The population at large is not so obsequious. They're starving and the king sends them rotten fruit that's been rejected by the army now fighting Holland.I'll tell you who the king is. He's Leonardo DiCaprio, that's who. He's not only a cruel and selfish king but the poor guy, no matter which of two opposing roles he plays -- the sneering king or the pathetic waif -- looks and sounds like a recent graduate of some high school in St. George, Utah. A huge hole appears on the screen whenever he speaks. He turns the Musketeers into the Mouseketeers.The plot is too twisted with intrigues and mixed identities and the like. It can't be described in detail. DiCaprio plays twin brothers. One is the evil king and the other is the nice man in the iron mask, who is liberated and substituted for the bad king. It gets pretty tense and enjoyable, watching people sneak around, grieving and plotting. One particularly delightful moment has the bulky Gerard Depardieu in a hay stack. His head emerges from the straw and he moans, Ach, it's no good. I can't do it anymore. And then the head of a pretty young lady arises from the hay and reassures him. Depardeiu shakes his head. Another pretty face appears from under him. Then a third.The action scenes are fun, combining ancient matchlocks with period smallswords. None of the actors have any skill in fencing so the scenes are subject to speedy editing and a lot of brute force is used. No guts or gore, however.It's an old-fashioned adventure yarn with a budget as lavish as the decor of the palace. It's strictly a commercial enterprise with no attempt at naturalism or genuine tragedy. The original music by Nick Glennie-Smith is imitation baroque, so as not to be too alien to modern ears. The lighting and photography are in the bright classic style, and never mind the candelabras. None of it was shot at Versailles but the impression is effective. The editing challenges no one. The camera wobbles not. "},{"Title":"So underrated!","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" That's very sad. It's too underrated, and this movie is really good. The story is good and emotional (not in girly way), the cast is nice and talented. I don't know what people were expecting more. Leonardo DiCaprio is such an annoying little brat here, but acts so well. Jeremy Irons delivers such a powerful and empathetic character in a way that you can actually feel and see in his eyes the pain he's going through the whole movie. At the end you find out why Aramis was acting that way towards his old friends that you wonder how he resisted and not broke down in any moment. We have some comic relief coming from Gérard Depardieu's Porthos. He manages to calm down the tense atmosphere and give some sense of relieve to others as well. He is a very talented actor, and he really made me laugh in this.It deserved some more nominations for sure. At least DiCaprio and Irons whom gave some really wonderful performances. It's very sad. I hope in the future the users will rate this higher. It doesn't deserve 6,3. At least a 7. AT LEAST!Worth watching, very good movie, way underrated. It stands in the 3rd place in my own personal favorite movies of all time (The first is Les Miserables 1998, the second is The painted veil 2004).9/10 "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I've always been intrigued by the legend of The Man In The Iron Mask. I am also a big fan of the writing of Alexander Dumas. So quite obviously I had high expectations from this movie.I was not disappointed. The story grips you right from the beiging to the very end. The cinematography,costumes and scenery are nothing short of breath taking. The script was written to perfection staying as true to the original Dumas story as it possibly could.The performance from Jermey Irons was good. Unfortunaly the same cannot be said about the rest of the cast.Leonardo Di Caprio was patehic. He constantly speaks with a distinct American accent despite the fact that he is portraying a French King. The same goes for John Malkovich(which surprising considering how talented he is.) On a whole despite some dismal performances, The Man In The Iron Mask is an engrossing tale that should be viewed at least once in your life time. "},{"Title":"Fantastic classic","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I love this movie , Leonardo Dicaprio's performances were stellar! This was a beautiful rendition , of the classic novel by Alexandre Dumas. Though I have seen it many times, it is still one of my favorites. The cast was incredible, and the acting was superb! Especially from the four acclaimed and seasoned actors, who portrayed the aging Musketeers. The only part about this movie, was the mistreatment of the good twin Philipe. Forced to hide his face, and having to live in solitude in a dark dank cell. I really felt sorry for him, because he didn't deserve that punishment! The King (also Dicaprio), was a vindictive spoiled brat especially when he didn't get his way! I didn't care for him to much, but behind the betrayal and deception. There was one character that added levity and that was Portos, I found him to be quite comical! This was one of the best versions of this classic , I have ever seen. I would give it an A++! This is my daughter's take on the movie.I too loved this movie it is just as good as,the one that;Richard Chamberlain was in. "},{"Title":"Poor Remake Of A Dumas Classic","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Oscar-nominated Randall Wallace made his directorial debut with this adaptation of the 1848 classic by Alexandre Dumas, featuring Leonardo DiCaprio in a dual role in The Man in the Iron Mask.The movie centers on the aging Musketeers Athos, Porthos, Aramis and D'Artagnan and the reign of King Louis XIV of France. It attempts to explain the mystery of the Man in the Iron Mask, using a plot most similar to the 1939 film.Years have passed since the Three Musketeers, Aramis,Athos, and Porthos fought together with their friend D'Artagnan. The arrogant, tyrannical King Louis XIV desires the beautiful Christine, so he orders her suitor Raoul, the son of Athos, off to face death at the front. He also sends Aramis to kill the leader of a Jesuit rebellion. Louis is unaware that his loyal protector and informant, D'Artagnan, is the secret lover of his mother, Queen Anne. Louis' younger twin brother, Philippe is the man in the iron mask,imprisoned for the past six years. Arthos and Porthos plan to free Philippe, abduct Louis and replace him by putting Philippe on the throne.The four Musketeers and Philippe then charge at Louis's front line. The soldiers are so amazed by their magnificent valor that they close their eyes before firing their muskets. The smoke clears to reveal the five men still standing; all the shots, barring a few flesh wounds, missed.An enraged Louis lunges toward Philippe and tries to stab him. However, D'Artagnan jumps between them and is fatally wounded. Philippe knocks Louis down and begins to strangle him, but D'Artagnan, with his dying breaths, reminds Philippe that Louis is his brother. Philippe embraces his father for the first and last time as he dies, commenting that D'Artagnan was the one wearing the mask all along. D'Artagnan's right-hand man, Lieutenant Andre, furious at Louis for killing D'Artagnan, orders his men to leave and swears them to secrecy. By the time another battalion breaks in via another door, the three Musketeers and Lieutenant Andre have made Louis and Philippe swap clothes and locked Louis in the iron mask. Philippe introduces Athos, Porthos and Aramis as his royal council and truest friends. Posing as the King, Philippe orders the guards to take Louis and lock him away. Philippe, Athos, Porthos, Aramis and Queen Anne attend D'Artagnan's funeral, in which the three Musketeers are finally redeemed. After the funeral, Philippe asks Athos to love him like a son and Athos accepts and kisses Philippe's chest. With Louis whom Philippe, for the sake of their blood relation, granted a royal pardon now living in a house in the country, France is at peace under Philippe's rule.The only thing that the movie features is Leonardo DiCaprio in dual roles.Nothing more.I also think that he was some sort of miscast since though a talented actor, DiCaprio is no Errol Flynn. With his choirboy face and chess-club physique, he is scarcely fit to play swashbuckling hero or villain.Overall,it was a poor remake of a frequently told Dumas classic. "},{"Title":"A Little Trivia!","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I just noticed that this modern version of the 1939 original features two characters named Christine and Raoul, the same names of the star-crossed lovers featured in the Phantom of the Opera. I encourage everyone to see the original version of this film if possible. It's a true classic. This version is more eye candy than substance, especially to those familiar with the original Dumas novel. However, this movie is shot in color and does take me back to a trip I made to Versailles a few years ago. It captures what life must have been like for French royalty.I feel DiCaprio was miscast in this 1998 version. It's not his acting that is lacking, but his American accent seems out of place with the otherwise mostly foreign cast. It's too bad Di Caprio didn't attempt a British accent. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm not sure what could have turned people off at this movie. It had wonderful actors, brilliant touching scenes, the design of clothing and of the scenery wall also well put together and the musical score I loved, especially when they charge at the end. And yes I was also a wary Leo type person. I was not impressed with titanic at all when it came out and have tried my best to stay away from his other work but this movie was brilliant. And with the exception of Leo's American accent which really isn't that unbearable I say that things were definitely good. And I especially liked the interaction between Malkovich and Dicaprio, made me tear up a couple times. D "}{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Leonardo Dicaprio as Louis XIV? John Malkovich as one of the Three Musketeers? What are they going to do next? David Hyde Pierce as George W. Bush with Halle Berry as Condoleeza Rice? The casting in this thing was appalling. I don't think Leo would have worked in a high school production of this thing, much less a major motion picture. His adult, monarchical gravitas is precisely zero. This perpetual 15-year-old really ought to be hanging out with Robbie Benson someplace retired from acting exchanging stories about the good old days. No wonder this film wound up on the This re-run channel when it is only ten years old (sandwiched between 40-year-old Fiddler on the Roof and 20-year-old Quigley Down Under) on a Sunday afternoon. This thing is just plain awful. "},{"Title":"The Man in the Iron Mask","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I do remember seeing some of this in a history lesson or something, so I thought I might as well watch the whole thing. Basically it is 1638, and young King Louis XIV (Leonardo DiCaprio) prepares to rule France, and unfortunately he is a very cruel ruler. He becomes the one responsible for sending the love of Christine Balfour (Judith Godrèche), Raoul (Peter Sarsgaard) purposely to his death so he could be with her. Retired musketeers, I assume the famous Three Musketeers Father Aramis (Jeremy Irons), Raoul's father Athos (John Malkovich) and Porthos (Gérard Depardieu) get back together to overthrow the king. Captain D'Artagnan (Gabriel Byrne) also has dislikes about the king, but he is loyal to him and refuses to help the musketeers. The musketeers eventually find out about Louis's secret twin brother who he has kept prisoner, named Philippe (DiCaprio again) and hidden by the infamous iron mask. They have a plan to swap him with the real king and make France a much better ruled and controlled place. Obviously Louis discovers the plan, and is not afraid to kill anyone who was part of it, i.e. all of them. In the end, thankfully Louis is defeated and put into the iron mask to go to prison and classed as insane by Philippe (as Louis), D'Artagnan died, but not before telling Philippe he was his dad, and the musketeers become the king's close friends and defenders. Also starring Anne Parillaud as Queen Mother Anne, Edward Atterton as Lt. Andre and Hugh Laurie as King's Adviser. As the critics say, the performances are good, in fact, I can't understand why DiCaprio won the Razzie for Worst Screen Couple (as twins), a good story. Leonardo DiCaprio was number 94, Gerard Depardieu number 90 and John Malkovich number 59 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Jeremy Irons was number 30 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Good! "},{"Title":"movie is so-so","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I thought some of the acting was mediocre (including wonder boy Leo DC). The eyes and mouth of the mask wearer were always perfectly aligned -- obviously the mask would have to be customized for each individual. When don't-care-about-anybody Louis discovers his mother was part of the plot, he does nothing with/to her, although he gratuitously executes others for no valid reason. When the mask is removed after six years (the fire showing through the eye and mouth openings is corny) his face is clean and minty fresh, has little hair, etc. Wouldn't hair grow over his mouth? Wouldn't an iron mask leave rust stains when he sweats? Wouldn't his face be filthy? Give me a break. "},{"Title":"If Only They Could Re-Cast the Lead Role...","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie had a lot to offer. Great score, costumes, dialogue, scenery. And most of the actors were magnificent, especially Gabriel Byrne.There was one very notable exception. Leonardo DiCaprio was appalling in his performance as both Louis and Phillipe. His emotions seemed studied and fake, his manner immature, and every time he opened his mouth or posed for a dramatic facial expression I was pulled right out of the moment.Sadly, I think I could've really liked this movie. If only the casting director hadn't buckled under the studio pressure to cast this flash-in-the-pan actor (who by the way, at the end of the day is neither very attractive or masculine).So close. Yet so far away. "},{"Title":"Gabriel Bryne and Jeremy Irons in the same Movie=Dynamite!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Wow! What does one say now! It's all pretty much been stated in the above comments. I first saw this movie a year ago and was so taken by it, that a week later I bought the DVD of it. I did'nt even realize that I liked this type of movie until I watched this! And I'm not quite sure I would have even watched the whole movie, had it not had that certain combination of Actors in it. Gabriel Bryne and Jeremy Irons are in my opinion, Consummate Actors and Give Brilliant as well as their all in any movie I've seen them in. I could take or leave Leo Di Caprio until I saw this movie and now he has been definitely added to my list of Favorite actors. The Great Sword fight towards the end was AWESOME! I only wish that D'Artagnon would'nt have had to die in it. That scene where he/Gabriel Bryne dies lying on the floor made me weep right along with Leo/Phillipe. And the line that I Love the most and keep going back and playing over is Superbly delivered by Gabriel B.  You have taken my King and Now I shall take your's It drives me crazy! And makes my heart race! A definite 10 Popcorn boxes out of 10 to watch. "},{"Title":"Actors, not story!","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The plot sounds pretty bad on paper The Three Musketeers come out of retirement to save France by replacing the King with an impostor. This movie could very well be another dullsville story. However, the performances of Gerard Depardieu, Jeremy Irons, Gabriel Bryne and John Malkovich save this potential clunker. These actors shine every time they're on screen. Depardieu is charming, Irons dramatic, Bryne tortured and Malkovich intense. Together, all four save this movie and make it a guilty pleasure to watch over and over again. However not much is said for DiCaprio, unfortunately. He is merely eye candy for this piece and that's sad, considering he has so much potential. "},{"Title":"Iron Maiden","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This is premised on the notion that, if one DiCaprio is good, two must be a whole lot better...The costume drama has always been a good point of departure for movies. The best ones invest in a world. Consider one of the champs of this genre, like Barry Lyndon; in comparison, this is a day pass to Eurodisney.It's a two-ton clunker and Byrne is stuck with all the heavy lifting. Malkovich and Depardieu phone in their contributions. The real star is Irons, who shines in everything he does. He doesn't need this, so he stays above it all, and that alone is fun to watch.If you want a Fab Four with derring-do, stick with Lester's two Musketeers features from '73 & '74. "},{"Title":"Had the makings of a great film, but....................","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" With the starring cast this could of been a really great film if the main characters would of made an better attempt at a french accent. Even only a slight french accent would of been something, especially Leonardo DeCaprio. His non attempt to deliver any french accent as well as his acting ruined what could of been a great film. He delivered the cockiness of the king, but his acting was most effortless, like someone had interrupted his life to do this film. The backgrounds, costumes, storyline, and humor as well were wonderful. John Malkovich is a superb actor, but his attempt at a french accent was lacking as well. Jeremy Irons played Aramis, not D'Artanan. "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated Musketeer Film","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is one of my all time favourites yet for some reason it has received some very harsh reviews. I first saw the film when it was released in the cinema and loved it so much I went to see it again and have watched it on VHS and DVD countless times since. Firstly many thanks to Writer/Director Randall Wallace (the bloke who wrote Braveheart)for crafting such a compelling tale. In the film Leonardo DiCaprio (a fine actor who frequently suffers criticism for being pretty) plays King Louis XIV of France and his imprisoned twin brother Philipe. King Louis is a cruel tyrant who cares only for himself and not for his people. Retired Musketeers Athos, Aramis and Porthos hatch a plan to replace the King and try to enlist the help of their friend (and Captain of the King's Musketeers) D'Artagnan for their scheme. Unfortunately for them D'Artagnan feels it his duty to remain loyal to the King even though he recognises his failures and so he tries to prevent the Musketeers plan from coming to fruition. There are many interesting twists and turns as well as a clever revelation that I will not spoil here. The acting in the film is great. This being the best bunch of Musketeers ever assembled for a film in my opinion (Yes I've seen the Michael York/ Oliver Reed etc ones). Jeremy Irons has great presence as Aramis here leading the Musketeers. John Malkovich is good in the most sympathetic role I've seen him do as Athos. Gerard Depardieu seems born to play Porthos and lastly Gabriel Byrne fits the bill perfectly as a more mature D'Artagnan. I don't really have anything bad to say about this film, my only minor niggle is that there are some scenes I feel may have benefited from a larger budget. I always enjoy watching a good sword fight on screen and to be honest here you may not find anything in that way as thrilling as say, Gladiator but in my opinion this is the superior film of the two. If you haven't already seen The Man in the Iron Mask I suggest you rent it soon.All for one.. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies i have ever seen","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" the man in the iron mask is one of the best movies I've ever seen, Leo DiCaprio is perfect as Philippe,and he's great as Louis even if he has not the right face to play the role of the bad guy. I think the three musketeers are really well played, especially Atos played by John Malkovich. I don't like the role of the queen mother (the actress was good), cause in my opinion it's an important role but in the movie it isn't given the importance it should have. In general I can say that it's a very good movie, even because I think Leo DiCaprio is the greatest actor in the world.P.S. I'm Italian and I apologize for my English which isn't very good!!! "}{"Title":"The Adventure Continues...","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Leonardo DiCaprio, John Malkovich, Jeremy Irons, Gabriel Byrne, and Gerard Depardieu display the continuation of a legendary tale known as The Three Musketeers.The year is 1662, and Louis XIV, the King of France, has become a cruel and heartless heir to the throne. He seduces young women galore, only to discard them at a moment's notice. He abuses his power, ordering that spoiled food be given to the people, instead of the fresh amounts being reserved for the French Army. The citizens of France riot in the streets, and aging heroes Athos, Porthos, Aramis, and D'Artagnan have long since parted ways.Aramis is now a priest, seeking retribution for his sins. Porthos, ever the womanizer, has grown old and fears becoming useless. Athos lives peacefully with his son Raoul, and D'Artagnan has become a pained-but-loyal servant to a King unworthy of the title or the glory.But when Louis commits an unthinkable crime by sending Raoul to the front lines to die so he may court the man's fiancé Christine for himself, Aramis hatches a plan to restore the honor of France...by replacing its king with another. Locked deep in the dungeons lies a prisoner with no name, known only as the Man in the Iron Mask.Six years earlier, this man was condemned to life in prison by King Louis XIII, for one reason alone his face was that of Louis XIV himself, in fact a twin brother. Made to disappear for the sake of peace for France, but imprisoned by the elder King for fear of discovery, this twin has never known why he was condemned...until now. Trained by the aging Musketeers in an elaborate deception, the man known as Phillipe replaces his brother, but is soon caught in the crossfire when the plan backfires, pitting friends, comrades, royalty, and devotion against each other in a battle for the honor and integrity of France. "},{"Title":"Better than its reputation suggests.....","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The ensemble cast make this worth watching. This is a dream cast of Oscar winners and Oscar-calibre actors. Don't make the mistake of avoiding this because of its reputation. It isn't meant to be very cerebral, just to be energetic and swashbuckly. It is. The end ( although quite obvious ) is a tremendous climax. Come on people, do you not feel just energised watching that? Watch it for the end alone. It makes you feel so good. The music may not suit the film much ( being synthed in a period film ) but it makes it feel so exciting. It is a great achievement.It's not all brilliant obviously. In fact, most of it is quite tired and lackluster but the end really isn't. Watch it for the actors and the ending. Clichéd it may be, but clichés wouldn't happen if they weren't good things. "},{"Title":"And if only he kept the mask on...","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I've always had a soft spot for a great period piece. A well made historical drama should be able to suck the viewer in, make them feel a part of the era the film depicts. Disney's The Three Musketeers was not one of my favorite historical pieces. The juvenile plot and idiotic one-liners made Dumas' epic adventure into the standard kid friendly crap that Hollywood seems to pump out in great volume nowadays. That said, I was more than a little intrigued when I heard of The Man in the Iron Mask, another adaptation of a Dumas book that would be given a more serious treatment than its predecessor. With a great story and stellar cast, they couldn't go wrong, could they? Unfortunatally, the actual adaptation is far less compelling than the concept. A feeling of unevenness lingers through the whole film. At times the drama is simply overbearing and bogs down what is supposed to be an epic adventure. Little tension or suspense is ever felt on screen, and the sparse action scenes do little to invigorate the viewer. Instead of being exhilarating and inspirational, the climax comes off like a bad cliché and takes away any emotional effect that the crew intended. The characters themselves provide other problems, in particular DiCaprio's portrayal of the royal brothers. To his credit, he plays both roles quite well Louis as the spoiled, selfish and obnoxious king, and Philippe as the insecure, innocent and passive prisoner. This is another major flaw of the film for an adventure picture, the protagonist/antagonist are just boring. We have a villain who doesn't so much need to be defeated as he needs a spanking, and a hero who isn't so much heroic as he is meek. Like DiCaprio, the rest of the cast gives good performances, but none of them really amaze. So what we have is an adventure film that isn't really adventurous and a historical drama that seems over-dramatic and sentimental. At times entertaining and even potent, but overall poorly executed. As crazy as it may sound, I think I'd have to consider the swashbuckling camp of The Three Musketeers over this film. "},{"Title":"Not half bad...","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" It would have been a lot better with a real actor playing Louis XIV instead of Leonardo Dicaprio. What a dud! His acting was wooden and his pronunciation of D'Artagnan's name horrid; the others in the film managed it OK. DiCaprio managed to sound like he was from New Jersey.Other than that, it was not a bad flick. Most of the actors worked well together. The character Porthos was especially engaging. I'd recommend seeing the film, though I'd have to say that it is less of a film than it is a movie, meaning that it is less art than entertainment, a sort of a 17th Century Western/James Bond blend and not to be taken too seriously. Especially considering Dicaprio's performance. "},{"Title":"Terrible in so many ways.... but all the while so wonderful","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this movie a while back, and OK, so yes, i am one of the fairly secretive clan of mid- adolescents who still in their concealed hearts adore Leo and his Titanic days- but please believe me when i say that i think this movie is actually not half bad in its' own right, and you have a fair chance of enjoying it. Everyone knows the story, and its' a good one- there's a lot of pathos and intrigue and thrills to be got out of the tale of the separated twin brothers--one locked away and masked in iron by his evil sibling, who sits on the throne-- and although i have many doubts about the film as a whole, i personally ended up deciding that the old-fashioned, damn good swashbuckler likability of the movie totally overcomes the many weaker aspects- including several duff lines and countless clichés that even this wonderful cast can't really save.As Philippe (the man in the iron mask) and his brother (kind louie, teehee), Leonardo Dicaprio attacks the role with varying degrees of success. at some points, his American-boy accent was just a wee bit cringe-worthy in the circumstances, and in a couple scenes he possibly goes over the top- on the whole, however, he acquits himself well and at his best moments he is totally wonderful, (as the fabulously camp-looking Louie especially) stunning and touching to watch (if anyone on earth can play a Don Juan-type spoilt brat rich king dude, it's gotta be Leo) and all performance technicalities aside, i for one will give him snaps on having mustered the courage to wear those outfits (not to mention the hair).altohugh the movie has a billion and one flaws that i won't even go into, I gotta admit that i just found it very enjoyable- the music and cinematography are lovely and inspite of John Malkovich's extremely distracting accent, the movie is really pretty evocative- if not always of 18th century France, then at least of old Hollywood, when they really weren't afraid to be cliché riddenly, buttock clenchingly and just plain generally BAD, with sackloads of style. "},{"Title":"Great period film","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I haven't read the Alexandre Dumas novel or seen any of the other film versions but I was very impressed with this movie. The truly all-star cast does a terrific job in defining each character and the interaction is spectacular. The themes of chivalry, loyalty, duty, honor and so forth were movingly conveyed by the story. The costumes, settings, sets, and props, were also top notch in transporting the audience to that time and place. When 'the man in the iron mask' takes it off for the first time, movie magic is created. Terrific mix of drama, action, and characterization, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"eh...","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  the film has an essence of retired adventure. the characters that are known and respected in the film, D'Artagnan, Athos, Aramis,and Porthos; have lived out their days of adventure, and deal with age, and the king that they despise. the new king poorly portrayed by leonardo dicaprio, makes his entire kingdom suffer, as well as the rest of the cast, and the audience. the rest of the cast has all great and well respected actors. but dont get enough time as they should. as much as like gabriel byrne, i dont think he fits in this movie, and role. i always look where you can pull back, and make it a more important movie. like with the three musketeers, they spend too much time trying to get the modern day audience to relate. if they would focus, on loss, sacrifice, brotherhood, and honor. the themes of the musketeers, they would have far superior results. the dialogue serves these purposes, but the story moves to fast, and has a lot to balance, and the director didnt take his time. some how in all that goes on, most time is spent on the demise of the film, dicaprio. i enjoy it every now and then, but the production and the movement make it difficult to watch, and take seriously. "},{"Title":"Who Wears the Mask?","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The King of France (Leonardo DiCario) is an evil manipulating king. He finds out that he has a twin brother named Philippe and has him jailed. When the king of France places an iron mask over Philippe's face, nobody can know his true identity. The only other person who knows there is a twin is a musketeer,a priest named Aramis(Jermy Irons). This priest has decided to end the king's tyranny. He recruits his fellow musketeer friends Athos(John Malkovich)and Porthos(G'erard Depardieu). and the three musketeers plot to replace the king. There is only one man who stands in their way, Capt. D'Artagnan(Gabriel Byrne), a fellow musketeer sworn to protect the king because of his great love for the queen mother(Anne Parillaud). She has given the captin twin boys, both of whom the captinhas no knowledge. This movie shows the great lengths a greedy kingwill go to keep his crown. the king is so evil that not only does he harm his own brother, but also sends a young man to war so that he can steal his future wife. In doing this the king has semmly ordered the death of the young man. The switch is made but a mistake by Philippe sends the captian in search of the real king. Finding him with the musketeers, he rescues the king,sending Philippe back to prison and the Iron Mask. The Musketeers ride to the rescue, but the king tries to trap them. The captain and the other musketeers reunite,thus saving Philippe. They then place the evil king in the mask. The director Randall Wallace is successfulin transporting us back to the seventeenth century with his wonderful scenery and costumes from the Dumas novel. Both novelist and director bring this story to life. This story is full of action and drama.I would watch it over and over.  "},{"Title":"Not bad but not that great either","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first thing that struck me about this movie was the international cast.Jeremy Irons,Gabriel Byrne,Gerard Depardeiu and John Malkovich are the musketeers,and each one of them has a different accent! Leo DiCaprio however still seems to be recovering from the after effects of 'Titanic'.For those who have read the book the screenplay is quite different. The other thing that really got on my nerves was DiCaprio who seemed very limp and bored. Gabriel Byrne is actually the only one who takes this movie seriously and is very impressive.Unfortunately he has very little screen time.Irons,Depardieu and Malkovich are mostly playing themselves,but they are still quite good.There are certain things that are quite overdone; especially the 'One for all and all for one'. On the whole, the film really had potential but failed make the impact it could have made. This film is not a masterpiece, but it is more than just bearable. "},{"Title":"Not a complete failure.","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Leo is Leo, Jeremy Irons is great, Gabriel Byrne and John Malkovich are good, Gérard Depardieu is repulsive (as usual--Of all the derrieres they could have shown, did it have to be his??) Only Aramis' and Athos' characters seem genuine, d'Artagnan's, though noble, is predictable, and Porthos is just plain disgusting--not true to Dumas' character at all. Louis/Philippe's development had potential to be better-Leo is a good actor when allowed- but perhaps the producers felt Leo's face was enough.There are enjoyable moments of the film, and the Musketeer uniforms are snazzy. My favorite Musketeer film is Salkind/Lester's 3&4 Mustketeers, and that's a tough act for anyone to follow. I'd recommend it to rent, but not buy. "}{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Although this wasn't a great film, it was still highly enjoyable. It probably wouldn't stand up to multiple viewings, but it is worth watching if you have the chance. There is a very good cast with excellent performances from John Malcovich, Jeremy Irons and Leonardo DiCaprio (who looks gorgeous too). Definately worth checking out.6/10 "},{"Title":"Surprise! Leo Can act, but barely!","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have not seen Titanic.  I have seen the 1968 version of Romeo and Juliet and feel no need to watch Leo's version.  Leo to me was a pretty boy actor, like Tom Cruise has become lately, who wasn't really acting but just walking through, having his lines handed to him.  Then again, I dislike Backstreet Boys and 'N Sync, so I might be prejudiced!My friend gave me the DVD and said just watch--it's not bad.  At her slight pushing, and having the movie in hand to watch, I went ahead and took the plunge (popcorn and soda in hand!) thinking Leo would be ~horrible~ in this since he had two roles.  I was surprised.Now, I wouldn't say Louis 14th is a big stretch for a star of Leo's background--he probably has women throwing themselves at him, every whim handed to him, and etc; but Philippe was pretty well acted.  I didn't pay as much attention to the words (or lack of accents) but rather watched Leo's eyes as he became the two characters.  As Philippe, his eyes gave away the potential that lurks inside this young man as an actor.  He's almost there--hopefully soon he'll reach that, but then again, Tom Cruise was a punk when he took a stint in a movie called Risky Business. The Musketeers themselves were rather good.  I used Closed Captioning, and that DOES help, grins, in figuring out what words are when the accents conceal them.  Ignoring the obvious accent problems, I honestly enjoyed the acting of the 4 men.  I did think something oddly strange about John's Athos, but I think that was because he was so perfectly American in his accent.  Again, just me. The man acted quite well, though.I haven't a clue where all these people get Tim Curry from in their previous reviews--Tim was NOT in this movie.  Trust me, I know. If he had been, I wouldn't have waited to be thrust into seeing it!  Tim Curry has been a favorite actor since RHPS and Time Square.  Richelieu was NOT in this because the historical basis, and the character WERE DEAD!  He died, iirc, in 1643, although I could be off a few years.  His protege Marazan (spelled right, I hope?) another Cardinal took his role in raising the young prince.  I didn't see M. in here, so I assume the setting of the movie was after his death.All in all, it's not a bad movie.  Take it from the .99 rental stack, bug your local library into letting you take out the DVD, or watch it on HBO/etc.  It's worth the couple hours.  Still not sure if I'd have watched it on the big screen!  Smiles.It's fun, though.  I did enjoy the pig-romp in the gardens. "},{"Title":"Great cast- bad movie!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  You think a film starring Leonardo DiCaprio, Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich, Gerard Depardieu and Gabriel Bryne would be fantastic! Well, unfortunately 'The Man in the Iron Mask' proves to be yet another bad Hollywood version of an adventure with the Musketeers. The script wasn't that great, and the action sequences and swash-buckling nature of this film was practically non-existent. John Malkovich, who is normally brilliant, was really bad in this movie! Leonardo DiCaprio does a semi-decent job in the dual roles, but he seemed the wrong choice in the first place. He doesn't seem to be playing a character, as opposed to just acting all smug. Well, he certainly makes you dislike him but I found myself not convinced with Leo as the King! Jeremy Irons is really given nothing much to do in this movie, except recruit people. Gerard Depardieu is excellently cast in his role, even though his over-the-top silly character had some annoying scenes and line- but Depardieu performs it admirably! Also, Gabriel Bryne was also very good in his role! The whole film just irritated me immensely. Oh well, check out 'The Three Musketeers' with Charlie Sheen if you want a more action-based film, or better yet, check out the 1970s versions of the story with Oliver Reed. Oh, this is 'The Man in the Iron Mask'...okay, well I haven't seen the original version of the film but it would be a strain for it to be any worse than this version. The 1998 version of 'The Man in the Iron Mask' scores a ** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Leonardo the Antagonist and Protagonist","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  A chance for Leo to be on the other side of the credibility line as an antagonist. The iron mask itself could symbolise the Victorian state of the slave (black and isolated), or, the king and his lookalike could be a statement that certain sections of the Caucasian community descend from the black community. "},{"Title":"Some Fine Elements-----BAD SCRIPT!!!!!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well I am a Dumas fan, I read through the first two in the series some years back(The Three Musketeers and Twenty Years After) and found them to be some of the most enjoyable literature I've read. I stopped for quite some time after finishing Twenty Years After and have only now started (forgive the spelling) Raul de' Bragellone, the first of three making up The Man in the Iron Mask. Well I've made it through the first 120pages and the book seems to stay true to the series in character developement and style, so I think I'm qualified to make my Critique. First of all I'd like to simply state that Gabriel Byrne and Jeremy Irons are incredible and perfectly suited for the parts of D'Artagnan and Aramis. As for Deperdiu and Malcovich they don't seem to posses the right charisma for their roles. Athos is the wisest, bravest, and most reveried of the group apart from D'Artagnan, He is a Count with some of the highest decorations obtainable for anyone under the Kind himslef, including the Holy Ghost. He is quite bluntly Nobility. Porthos is strong, proud, and an excellent companion, also of modest nobility. He is not some bumbling, foolish, love-making, old fart. Nor is Athos some old, mentally unstable, unloyal, farmer. Athos would never dream of killing D'Artagnan, their friendship is unbreakable. D'Artagnan does not have an affair with the queen of France, he is in love with a servant of hers who is tragically murdered by poison in a convent. The movie seems to condesend to the general film audience-----Joe Movie-Goer and family will find this movie to be filled with family fun. The true Dumas fan will find the script quite flawed however. Anyway that's my rant, In all my 14 years of existence have I scene such a classic so brutally butchered into this condensed, unaccurate piece of filth. Dumas is most certainly rolling over in his grave. As for any pros, Good costumes, adequate fight scenes, and good acting on the parts of D'Artagnan and Aramis. I'll re-itterate the major con, BAD SCRIPT!!!!! "},{"Title":"Another great story ruined by americanisation","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought Leonardo Di Caprio was the only actor in the film who didn't fit into the period it was supposed to be in, maybe it's just the hair or summing.Why do only some of the actors talk with fwench accents....(the others with english or american????)....aren't most of the people portrayed supposed to be fwench (and certainly not american!)How is it the man in the mask doesn't have any type of facial disfiguration/skin diseases from having the mask on for such a long time??In scenes where there is obviously enough lighting, why do they also have candles lit???Why is it that when in an unescapable death situation all the main characters always survive???Apart from a few flaws, an entertaining movie and definatly not as easy to critique as one would think ) "},{"Title":"A confusing mess","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am amazed that for all the talent that went in to this film, very little of it shows up on screen. Where do I start?, the inconsistency of the accents, the over-the-top acting by John Malkovitch (why is he yelling all the time), the poorly written script (with dialogue so stilted and corny it makes The Ten Commnandments sound like Shakespere). The only thing that was good about this film was the set design and costuming. Jeremy Irons is the better of the Four Musketeers and Leonardo DiCaprio is simply too much of a Gen X'r to play the role of Louie/Phillipe. This is one muddled mess that should have stayed in the dungeon with the mask on. "},{"Title":"Dreadful!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  How could they do this to a wonderful book?  And what were these otherwise wonderful actors thinking when they agreed? The movie bears absolutely no resemblance whatsoever to the book- only the characters are the same.  And the overblown, maudlin dialogue?  Please!  "},{"Title":"Nice swashbuckler skewers the heart, misses the head","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  If only the dialogue had been better, and if only DiCaprio hadn't been in it, this movie could have been great.  As it is, it's not bad though.The Sun King, Louis XIV, is oppressing his subjects to pay for costly and bloody wars.  The four Musketeers of Dumas fame, now aging, plan a secret meeting, and Aramis proposes that the royal monster be secretly deposed and replaced with his twin brother, who has long rotted in prison with his face concealed behind an iron mask.  D'Artagnan alone refuses, opting to remain to remain true to his oath of loyalty to the king.It's an exciting story, even if Dumas would never have recognized it, and the musketeers are wonderful.  Depardieu is weakest as Porthos, playing the role as a buffoon, but he is funny at times.  Better is Jeremy Irons as the drily witty, conceited Aramis.  John Malkovich is strange as Athos; he seems to deliver every line with an acid-etched intensity.  It works very well for his most dramatic lines, but why doesn't he ever change his tone?  By far the best performance in the movie comes from Gabriel Byrne as the tortured, loyalty-imprisoned d'Artagnan.  The movie's best scene is not any of the sword-fighting sequences, but d'Artagnan on his knees before the king, recounting his brave and devoted service over the years, and urgently requesting as his reward that the king show himself worthy of that devotion. I once composed a list of my all-time favorite movie heroes, using as my criterion those heroes I would most want to be like.  D'Artagnan from this movie is number five on that list.The production is sumptuous with wonderful costumes.  The action scenes are decent and well played once they arrive, and the score reasonably evocative.Now the bad news.  Randall Wallace's dialogue stinks.  Inane one-liners intended to sound cool are falling flat everywhere; probably the worst is Aramis' line, It's judgment day!  Byrne is forced to recite some unbearably sappy love lines to Anne Parillaud, causing a potentially interesting romance to sink amid a chorus of groans.Leonardo DiCaprio can act, but you'd never know it by watching this picture. His good twin, Philippe, is flat and boring.  His evil twin, Louis, is far too tender and considerate in his love scenes to properly represent a man who throws lovers away like used toilet paper.  He cannot get a proper tone for his performance.  Too much screen time that should have gone to the far more interesting musketeers is wasted on DiCaprio-in-bed scenes that have no apparent purpose except to lure teenage girls into the theater.As many others have noted, the idea of the latter half of King Louis XIV's reign being some kind of golden era is absurd; his subjects celebrated in the streets when he died.As director, Wallace took a risky choice by saving almost all of the action scenes for the last half of the movie.  Because of the aforementioned problems, the risk doesn't pay off.  If the movie had slowly built tension for the first hour, which was no doubt what Wallace intended, and then explosively released it toward the end, the idea would have worked. Instead, we spend most of the first part of the movie rolling our eyes at the inane dialogue and at DiCaprio showing us a ruthless tyrant playing kissy-face in bed.THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK could have been a classic.  Instead, it's disappointingly ordinary, but still enjoyable for the charismatic performances of the musketeers alone.Rating *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Worst film for the last 5 years","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Incredible scenario. Bad acting. Boring ! Good Kings and Bad Kings .....no action at all.a lot of boring dialogs.Only good thing nice picture framing. "}{"Title":"Not worth the time or money.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It always intrigues me that filmmakers can take a wonderfully intricate plot and turn it into an utterly unremarkable movie. DiCaprio's simply going through the motions, and although he's not bad, couldn't he at least TRY to master an English accent? The truly captivating performances come from the sub-plots involving the Three Musketeers, particularly Gabriel Byrne and Gerard Depardieu. Their performances are the only light in this otherwise dull picture.  "},{"Title":"What could've been a perfect adaption, ruined by two horrible performances","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really wanted to like this adaption. It has a great script and directing job from Randal Wallace, the guy responsible for Braveheart, and brilliant performances by Gerard Depardieu, Jeremy Irons and Gabriel Byrne. So what was wrong with the movie? John Malkovich, first off, is awful! I think his performance was the worst I've seen this year, though I would've said Tea Leoni for DEEP IMPACT was the worst I saw. Lately, Malkovich has been so full of himself it's not funny, and sleepwalked through what could've been great movies (Mary Reilly/Con-Air/Portrait of A Lady). The other thing that ruined the movie was Leonardo DiCaprio. As much as I liked him in his other films, he was horrid in this playing a French king with a surfer dude accent. I just couldn't imagine him as King Louie, I more pictured Arnie from Gilbert Grape in my mind. This movie could've been awesome, but why was the miscasting so poor. DiCaprio should still keep going, I'm looking forward to his other projects.  "},{"Title":"Fifty years too late in the making.","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Journey way back to when moviegoers were thrilled by all the kings, queens, princes, chivalries, and masquerade parties. Fifty years later, it'll be hard to appease anybody who'll be interested. Using the old school styling approach in film making, it feels like a modern-day 90s film with the usual twists. The giant busty sculptures of 17th century broads might be new to you if attention was paid little to endless reruns of HERCULES and XENA. Anyway, Leonardo DiCaprio is the main attraction here. For acting purposes, he's more of a role model this time compared to what he did brilliantly in TITANIC. Don't you think pretty young gals will fall in love with him? His own double as the man in the iron mask is worthy of interest, but overall, he hardly does anything except for having sex and dressing up in costumes. More action sequences would be greatly appreciated along with a greater interest for the much older generation who grew up watching movies based on the its given theme. It's hard to take recent movies too seriously as they try hard to evolve. THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK is just adequate enough to rival a Hollywood golden oldie, but it comes up real short on innovation. Too late.   "},{"Title":"france? contractions? uh, no...","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  John Malkovich is just not suited to this part...every time I heard him talk, it took me out of the movie, and into you're just an actor mode. Horrible movie in general, very thin character development, and also very short and unbelievable scenes in which much of the important stuff goes on.don't can't?  C'mon, at least use do not or cannot...christ, see Elizabeth, and forget this atrocity with otherwise (less JM) good actors.  "},{"Title":"Patchy","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Gabrille Byrne, Gerard Depardieu and Jeremy Irons were all excellent.  But as other reviewers have pointed out, Leo De Caprio was appalling, and the script was nothing special.  Viewers would be far better off to see the original Man In The Iron Mask, or even the recent Three Musketeers for a real fix of swash-buckling. "},{"Title":"Good, entertaining movie","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie did not deserve all the bad reviews it received.  There are clunky moments, but they are few and far between and not that noticeable. Gabriel Bryne is great, and Leo is too! He does a terrific star turn.  The audience I saw this with really enjoyed it, alot, and you probably will too. "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Bad","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  All I have to say that this film is as bad as it gets.  A movie that adds  laughs with passing gas.  Please. "},{"Title":"The Man With The Boring Film","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Had been on a Di Caprio binge and thought I'd reach out into unchartered back catalogue fodder blasts. Pompous costumes, wooden, stilted dialogue and no sight of the man in the iron mask!For a lot of talk of nipples I in fact found this to be a load of balls.Still... it was only the first 10 minutes.Now if Iron Man had turned up then this might be 10 minutes that I won't spend one in every further 10 for the rest of my days wondering how I could ever get them back. "},{"Title":"Great acting","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I have to say, the acting was amazing! They are so convincing that you actually believe it is happening in your face! The cast was amazingly fit. Gabriel Byrne was truly amazing as D'Artagnan, I believe it was an honor for him to play the hero he all wish to be in our childhood. Aramis, Athos and Portos were amazing as well, their performance was a success as their interprets Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich and specially Gérard Depardieu. Leonardo DiCaprio's performance was convincing as well, as he really let us to believe there were 2 actors instead of one, something the special effects could never do properly. I think playing a king is a true honor for any actor, but playing a musketeer it should be an honor for any man. A way to show your love for bigger reasons then a king or a country... For love and for friendship... And JUSTICE as important as them all. "},{"Title":"Substitution for a Solution","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Leonardo DiCaprio is King Louis XIV. A pompous, womanising, selfish King. Hated and feared by his people he has no trouble persuading the beautiful young women of his court into his bed. Until he meets the young and beautiful Christine. (Judith Godrèche) But unlike many of the other courteous women, she will not simply fall into his bed. Upon the death of her fiancé Raoul, his father Athos, (John Malkovich) a former Musketeer of the Kings regiment, declares revenge on the selfish King who allowed his precious son to die and so recruits his two former trusted comrades Porthos (Gérard Depardieu) Aramis (Jeremy Irons) to replace their King with his identical twin brother, Philippe. (Also played by DiCaprio) Who has been locked away deep in a dungeon, his face enclosed in a steel mask. Its all for one and one for all as the Musketeers face a race against time to train Philippe to become Louis and rid their country of the King they all despise. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first saw the movie, I wasn't sure about it, but then the more that I have been watching the movie I started really liking it. I do think all the actors did really good job. I always think that Leonardo DiCapprio did really good playing the twin brothers. You would honestly think that it is two different people. I would also say that Jeremy Irons,John Malkovch, and Gerard Depardieu worked really hard too. They are excellent actors and very interesting to watch. I did like when they got king Louis confused at the ball. Like making him think that he is hallucinating. That movie does have a lot of action and some friendship and it also has excellent actors. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Great idea, great movie!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Randall Wallace did not have to make movie exactly like the book was, so this is a great idea, so as the film! Especially the Gabriel`s Byrne role as D`Artagnan-he was excellent, he`s just fits like he was born D`Artagnan! Everyone else was good, as I suspected. Music is also great, pity there was no more of that. I am listening over and over soundtrack, also watching this very beautiful and inspirate film. The love scenes of D`Artagnan and Queen Anne are the best I have seen in movies, so truly passionate, think that one movie about just that theme would be probably very successfull!This is a kind of film that inspires you to think about you in that century, in that circumstances, and for me, that gives to film a high quality rang. "},{"Title":"Worst musketeer movie ever, best Porthos ever.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Depardieu is the only one who tried to give a good performance as Porthos, and he did. I truly think the big guy produced the best Porthos on the screen ever.Malkovitch also was a good Aramis, but besides him, all the other actors were only there for the paycheck.The script is very ridiculous, and would only give shivers to my 14 year old niece, who thinks that Pearl Harbor was a good flick.I think this is the worst musketeer movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Bad bad bad","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the worst films of the last five years.Such big names among the cast and so little they produced.It seems like only Byrne can hold his ground.Malkovich sucks,Irons is dull,Depardieu doesnt really act and DiCaprio is laughable the harder he tries.I really wonder what purpose with this was.All you can see is lavish places,bad dressed people and nonsense. "},{"Title":"Terrible!!!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I actually made the mistake of going to the movie theatre to see this piece of manure a while ago, but thought I'd add a comment here because this is probably the worst movie I have ever seen. I'll tell you why.1. I am not a DiCaprio-hater but giving to his performance being so bad, I could easily become one. 2. I think Alexandre Dumas rolled over in his grave when they decided to add a little drama to the movie by making DiCaprio's Louis the son of D'Artagnan!!! I mean, come on, what the hell is that??? This is only a tiny step away from the plot of a Latin American soap opera, which in its turn is the worst thing that could come out of the contact of man and camera.What a f#@?!%* waste of time!!! "},{"Title":"Sharing a title of a novel by Dumas and some character names but nothing else.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This appalling piece of dreck is an insult to Alexandre Dumas.  It bears no resemblance to the novel and is one more piece of evidence to support the assertion that the majority of people in the film industry are illiterate asses.  The 1970's Three and Four Musketeers were so true to the spirit of Dumas' work, it is sad to see this awful departure from his excellent novel.   The attribution to Dumas in the film should have read  Using a title of a novel by Dumas and some of the same character names in that novel, but bearing no resemblance to any aspect of his works beyond that. The sole redeeming feature of this bucket of pus was Depardieu's Porthos.  It is a pity it could not have been performed in a work more accurately resembling what Dumas had written. "},{"Title":"Not even worth a scoring of 0, this is abysmal !!","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst ever made, and for this only, should be kept preciously to show future directors what NOT TO DO. How good actors like Jeremy Irons, Gerard Depardieu and Gabriel Byrne could accept to play in stays a mystery for me. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Movies like this are the ones that will definitely make you think twice about spending even $7.99 for a DVD without having seen it.  And here I thought it was only the $5 B films you had to skip... Absolutely horrible, probably the worst DVD I have. "},{"Title":"The worst man in the iron mask I have ever seen","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Based upon a very famous French story that inspired several movies, this one is undoubtedly the worst one.  It is really a pity for such great actors to appear in such a thing.  The end is simply ridiculous (D'Artagnan, father of King Louis XIV !!!???).  Just to be forgotten. "},{"Title":"the worst book adaptation for the srceen ever. Good costumes though","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  It is true that Dumas once said that history was a nail on which he hanged his picture. Now, Dumas is a nail himself. Naturally, I cannot expect people at Hollywood to be 100% true to the original. Furthermore, many changes are necessarily for screen adaptations. But this movie has virtually nothing left form the book with the exception of characters' names.In the book, Philipe DOES NOT finally remplace Louis, D'Artagnan dies on the battlefield and NEVER has an affair with the Queen ( Louis XIV - as D'Artagnan's son? come on!!) etc. - the list goes on and on. It is a mystery to me how they could get Depardiueu to be in the movie - how could he possibly agree to play in a castrated version of his country's classic book? I can't say that performances were terrible. All actors do their best to save an awful script, but to no avail. Watch this one for laughs only, especially if you read the book and know the history of the period.  The very end when they say something like Louis (undercover Philipe) will always be remembered as a king, who brought France peace and prosperity (Springtime for Louis and France...), made me laugh uncontrollably Louis XVI's reign was a period of constant wars and poor hungry peasants.  "}{"Title":"Great Leo","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The movie itself is nothing special. The dialogues are not very good (Or should I say bad?) and often very superficial (I hate this dialogue between Raoul and Christine... I love you. And I love you, Raoul.). So the movie is nice to watch but not great. And... It is my favourite movie! So why? Because Leo was great in it. I often heard even from other Leo fans that he was not bad enough as Louis. All I can say to them is read the book. You'll see that Louis isn't described as the typical onedimensional bad guy. In fact he's very similar to the Louis who Leo has played. I admit I was very surprised when I discovered this. I thought the book would present the king as cruel and heartless but it absolutly doesn't do it. So no one can blame Leo for not being bad enough as Louis because the only thing he did was playing the king how he's described in the book. BTW, I hate Aramis in the book.As Philippe Leo did a great job, too. You absolutly believe him that he was in prison for six years wearing an iron mask. Right after he was freed by the musketeers he's so shy and unsecure and then he gets his self-confidence slowly back but he's never a real tough guy. No wonder. Imagine, this man was arrested when he was just a teen. They put him into the mask and nobody told him why and then he suffered six years in prison. So he can't act like a tough hero. That would be totally unlogical. I applaud Leo for his work in this film. He gave a damn on Hollywood-cliches and shew us the truth. Go Leo!!! "},{"Title":"Awful and ridiculous (spoilers)","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Dumas would have eaten his quill, if he had seen this movie.What? D'Artagnan (Monica Lewinski of middle ages) is a lover of the Queen of France? Aramis is the leader of Jesuits?  Louis XIV is brought peace to France? What a sick mind created this script?Really, do not waste your time watching the worst humiliation of the History. "},{"Title":"One Too Many Leos.","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" The Man in the Iron Mask (1998) Dir Randall Wallace / Cast Leonardo DiCaprio, John Malkovich, Jeremy Irons, Gerard Depardieu, Gabriel Byrne Fantasy about identity that takes a familiar concept and reworks it with the Musketeers as a factor. Set in 1662 with the separation of twins. One is put in chains and fastened into an iron mask while the other becomes a sadistic ruler. He is defended by a Priest and the Musketeers. One of the Musketeers loses a son in one of the King's battles so he gets together with the others with plans of switching the twins. Randall Wallace does a skilled job directing but humour is often too corny, such as a scene where the Musketeers slice vegetables that are thrown at them. We know where this all ends and only the sets make it worthwhile. Leonardo DiCaprio is a fine actor but unfortunately overplays two roles here. John Malkovich plays a vengeful Musketeer. Jeremy Irons is terrific in his loyalty to the King. He is outsmarted during the switch but will become involved in the action violence climax that these films tend to be reduced too. Gabriel Byrne is also featured although he has played broader roles than this. Gerard Depardieu is hilarious but the other roles seem more or less cardboard. The film contains impressive sets that are the strongest element in the film. That is the one element that allows the film to see the light of day. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"The Four Musketeers (and the Man in the Iron Mask)","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Loosely based on Alexandre Dumas' classic adventure novel, specifically the third part of the third part of the d'Artagnan trilogy (yes, I worded that correctly), 1998's The Man in the Iron Mask stars Leonardo DiCaprio in a dual role as both the titular Phillipe and the spoiled, oppressive King Louis XIV of France. Gérard Depardieu plays d'Artagnan, the loyal captain of the guard who's also in love with Louis' mother, played by Anne Parillaud. Jeremy Irons, John Malkovich and Gérard Depardieu star as the legendary aging three musketeers (d'Artagnan is the fourth) while Judith Godrèche plays the king's love interest. The plot revolves around a scheme by the three musketeers to depose Louis and replace him with his twin brother, the mysterious man in the iron mask imprisoned in the Bastille.For some reason I thought this was going to be a roll-your-eyes take on the story, like a mishmash of The Three Musketeers with Indiana Jones, but I was surprised and pleased to see that it's actually a serious quasi-historical drama/adventure, which isn't to say that there aren't eye-rolling movie moments. Basically, if you liked Ever After A Cinderella Story (which came out four months after The Man with the Iron Mask), but would prefer a slightly more realistic tale, you'll probably like this, as long as you don't mind the blatant deviations from the classic book.Some people complain that DiCaprio is too effeminate as Louis, but the real Louis XIV was effeminate, so what's the problem? As for Phillipe, the man the movie's named after, the story focuses more on the four legendary musketeers, which explains my title blurb, but that's okay on account of the four formidable actors in the roles.I would've thought that having an imprisoned commoner suddenly becoming the king of France would be a good story angle, but that's not the direction the movie takes. In fact, the entire third act piqued my interest because it was so unpredictable. At first, I was turned off by d'Artagnan's sudden and curious change of mind on something, but the ending reveals why.Unfortunately, I can't give the film a higher rating because of a few aforementioned eye-rolling parts. The highly unlikely way Phillipe is rescued from prison is one and another is the way the three musketeers try to drive Louis batty at the dress ball by making him think he sees iron masks everywhere. Lame elements like this needed to be tweaked or worked out of the script altogether.The film runs 132 minutes and was shot entirely in France.GRADE B- (or 6.5/10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Boy, this was bad!","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" How can there be so many 'good' actors playing so badly? It was a horrible acting, as if the actors were playing scene-to-scene, without any glue between them  oh, now is time to cry, let me act it out! And really loud! Not enough inner play! For instance, when Gabriel Byrne has a rose in his hand, and in a very cliché way, Anne Parillaud puts her hand to her lips! Beuhhhh!Terrible! But funny though! As it is cruelly nice to look at some of the most revered actors and see that they can be really flawfull.Don't get me wrong. I really love them. But it is interesting to also see them in bad acting. That makes them human.I wonder why it has gone that way though. Was it the directing? Don't know. "},{"Title":"Surprised Pleasantly , DiCaprio never fails me !","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Astonishing story directed , produce , written by Randall Wallace with a very huge great cast and an incredible performance from DiCaprio , Malkovich but especially I loved also Gabriel Byrne , Jeremy Irons & Gerard Depardieu these 3 last ones it's the first time that I see them in a film I think so and it was just awesome .A story about King Louis XIV and his twin brother sent away blocked in a prison with an Iron Mask after Louis finds out he lives and doesn't want to risk the throne so he punished Philippe with this awful suffer , that in fact he didn't want to murder him thinking it's too much .There's some great stuff around the film you see romance , action , drama Christine hangs herself in the end after finding out Raoul's death was planned by Louis , D'Artagan is the father of Philippe loved the Queen until his last breath in the end they trick Louis into the iron mask replace Philippe as Louis and he will be known as one of the greatest rulers in his nation's history .Great movie don't miss it old fashion classic , perfect 10 D "},{"Title":"Great film, a must see!","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this film about a year ago and loved it the minute I saw it! The plot is wonderful, the acting perfect, the costumes are beautiful as are the locations and sets, the whole thing is great! The story is well told and intriguing, keeping you interested through the whole film. And I loved some of the unexpected plot twists, especially near the end. WARNING BIG SPOILERS HERE The fact that D'Artagnan loved Queen Anne and that King Louis and Philippe were his sons, the was a great idea! I didn't like D'Artagnan dying at the end, that was really sad but Leonardo Dicaprio gave an amazing performance in that scene so it wasn't all bad. Also that they put Louis in the mask after, I thought that was a little cruel for good guys to do. I mean he was evil and everything but still, almost no one deserves a fate like that. But I guess he got a pardon later so... END OF SPOILERS Anyway as for the leading man, I think this was one of Leonardo Dicaprio's best films. He was perfect in playing both the spoiled brat Louis and the kind, oppressed Philippe. His performance was, I think, the best part of the film. The scenes where the twins are together was an example of some amazing filming. The two Leos fit perfectly, it was like it really was twins instead of the same actor! Jeremy Irons was really good as Aramis and I loved Gabriel Byrne's D'Artagnan too! All in all a great film. Bravo! Encore! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, professional film!","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I watch it over and over again. All actors are well chosen. The director didn't waste the story - on the contrary, he turned it out in a beautiful film, which I watch with pleasure. I was afraid first that Dumas' novel won't come up well on film. But the film turned out to be better than the book. So powerful and impressive performance. Excellent work, the staff didn't miss any detail and didn't ruin the classic story. I am glad Randall Wallace did his job so well and professionally. More historic films would fill our entertainment with more pleasure and I think, would change the values of the young people of our days. Excellent! "},{"Title":"A Well-Acted & Well-Directed Film!","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Directed, Produced, & Written by Randall Wallace, 'The Man in the Iron Mask' is one of the finest entertainers from the late 90's. A Well-Acted & Well-Directed Film, that is a good mix of drama & humor. 'The Man in the Iron Mask' Synopsis The cruel King Louis XIV of France has a secret twin brother who he keeps imprisoned. Can the twin be substituted for the real king?What makes 'The Man in the Iron Mask' work, is its engaging story, that isn't dry of dark, but, in fact, dramatic, humorous & even emotional, at places. Wallace's Screenplay deserves brownie points for bringing in almost every element in this adventure film. Wallace's is skilled. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are amazing. Costume Design is perfect.Performance-Wise Leonardo DiCaprio is excellent. He plays both the parts with diversity & immense confidence. Jeremy Irons is highly effective. John Malkovich is, as always, flawless. Gérard Depardieu raises some great laughs. Gabriel Byrne is simply mesmerizing. He is the real scene-stealer here. Hugh Laurie leaves a mark. On the whole, 'The Man in the Iron Mask' is an adventure worth watching. "},{"Title":"Bad directing, boring visual style.","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" *no spoilers, just a spoiled movie* One of the worst movies I've seen. Okay, maybe not that bad, but sh*t, it was sh*t. The script was decent until the end. I can't help but think some disneyfied jerk was brought in to pretty up the ending. The directing though... the directing was absolutely abominable. I've avoided this movie for a long time, but I figured now I was in the perfect mood for it. Thought I'd probably even end up loving it. Hey, with that cast, how could you go wrong? All of the characters lines were delivered flat. Each of these great actors who have given so many great performances, in this movie, failed miserably, and one cannot help but see the mark of a terrible director marring their good talents. And of course the production design, lighting, and camera work, were all stale grade B disney style, with a tragically pop-feel score ruining every one fo the few moments that could have been strong. "}{"Title":"Disappointment to Dumas","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie, although interesting on its own, unfortunately does not do Dumas' novel any justice. First of all, D'Artagnan, who had supposed to have lost all interest in love affairs in his later years (due to a tragedy long ago), was made to be the Queen Mother's lover. I guess that was an interesting twist, but again, it was not very true to the novel. Too many things were changed (for example, the fact that everything was Athos' plan, and not Aramis', which makes no sense to me, since Aramis has always been the conspirator of the four). I think it's because I'm such an avid fan of Dumas that I found this movie quite disappointing since I have high expectations that they would have stayed true to the book.If that were the only problem, I'd have given this a fair 7 votes, but not only was it a bad adaptation, but it also had no technicalities. The pronunciations of their names were too widely differing (DiCaprio's pronunciation of Ay-thos, Por-thoes, Dar-tay-nyan was just too terrible, especially since the others pronounce it correctly), they had no detailed follow-up of French court etiquette, and had horrendous casting. John Malkovich definitely killed Athos' character. He didn't even bother faking a British accent to match along with his other comrades, making him stand out from the wrong reasons, and his acting wasn't so hot either. He was all over the place he was either too over reacting, or too under-acting, if that's a word. I think Jeremy Irons, who plays Aramis (a part they made too insignificant), would have done better to be in that role. As for Gabriel Byrne, I would say he was okay, since he had that persona and charisma that I always imagined D'Artagnan would have. The only thing lacking was the humorous and witty air about him, since he portrayed him to be too solemn and grave, in my opinion. DiCaprio, on the other hand, I think did the best performance out of all, being able to capture both the bratty Louis and the goody-goody Philippe. This brings it down to a 4--although I got to say the fighting choreography was awesome swashbuckling, so it ups it to 5. It seemed like they used up all their resources into making sure the fighting scenes sold. Too bad the rest of the movie didn't. "},{"Title":"It's okay","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I like this movie, but not for what it is. Vicomte Raoul should have been a bit older, considering he was a teenage in the novel 10 years later. That novel was at least 20 years away from The Man in the Iron Mask. The entire cast is way to young. Every Musketeer should be over 60. Athos is a supposed to be a Count, Porthos is a Barron. The two romance novels leading to this one explain everything. Before someone becomes a fan of this movie, they should read Dumas' writings. Not to mention that Raoul's love affair was not named Christine.Anyway, at least either way we look at it Leonardo's character dies a horrible death. Both Louis and the man in the mask. This was based upon a true story, at least the characters. There was a man in a mask at this time, and the Musketeers existed. Alexandre Dumas wrote these stories from the information he got from his uncle Napoleon. He wrote some of his works while sitting on D'Artagnan's actual grave. "},{"Title":"Poor casting for the hero character","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" As a fan of historical films, I thought that I would appreciate 'The Man in the Iron Mask', but I could not have been more wrong. Casting Leonardo Di Caprio in the role as the king's twin (and hero of this film) was a bad call, for a start. This really was not the type of role that Di Caprio could work well in, and the acting as a whole was below average. On top of the poor acting and casting, the film lacked an engaging plot because of the characters and the use of cameras, which seemed to work behind the scenes and let the weak characters/actors and actresses become the focus. However, I think this film could have been much better than it was if they had cast someone other than Di Caprio for the main role. (I do not have a problem with Di Caprio, but he just did not fit well in this type of role.) "},{"Title":"Ever seen something so bad it's funny?","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay, so it isn't terrible but it comes pretty close in a couple of areas. I think what saved it was the complete air of ridiculousness about the whole thing. Irons, Malkovich and Depardieu overact to enormous fun and Leo's spoiled brat king needs a good kicking. The fact that none of them can seem to muster any semblance to a French accent (except Queen Anne and Depardieu - and if it was anyone else you'd swaer he was faking) is not so much terrible as entertaining. However I do feel sorry for Gabriel Byrne. With one of the few serious roles in the film he doesn't get to be as lose as the others and has to make do with some of the worst lines, but he soldiers bravely onwards like the musketeer he plays. A fairly decent romp all round. "},{"Title":"Ambitious, but often shallow and predictable.","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ambitious movies that often tries to make itself better than it is, sadly this is achived by constantly trying to make subplots and various random dramatic moments rather than building up the movie slowly it ends up being a jump around.In 1662 france is ruled by a dominant king who is not worthy of being a king, it's ruled by terror and greed, the civilization is working against him, He, Louis, makes no one stand in the way of his dreams. Until one day he makes a big mistake and gets a son of a former Musketeer killed, this makes the former musketeer wish for his death and replacement, together with other former musketeers working against him he forms a plan to have him replaced by his look-a-like twin, kept away in a lonely prison wearing an iron mask.The plot is from the start obvious and sadly very predictable, after watching about 5 mins you know HOW it will end, though there are still some surprises under way, sadly the movie makes a big mistake in my eyes and runs very fast through the explanation period, here i could have wanted some more explanation on why it happened, and maybe how, also the movie does not focus on the struggle of the good twin at all, Phillipe's total struggle is somehow explained briefly in words, but not very detailed, being a main element of this movie you could wish for more here, would also add more depth to the character in a movie where all the characters are rather hollow, this i feel is caused by the fact that the movie is trying to focus on a million different things at once and never gives itself time to explain what is going on.It's obviously a very ambitious movie, but somewhere along the way it fails, it wants so bad that it tries to get around it all, but somewhere in between it seems as the director have lost control a bit and sometime the story is rather nonsense, and some of the scenes seems uncomfrotably squeezed into places where they could have been left out.All the actors in the movie are pretty average, none of them really shines out, it's once again obvious that Dicaprio do indeed have a lot of talent and i'm forever certain that he will be a very large star one day, he has a lot of talent, and it is visible in some parts of this movie, although his character seems shallow, actually all of the characters are rather uninteresting, and the dialog doesn't make the actors job any easier, trying too hard maybe to be true to its time age, and still it doesn't work convincing that way either.Now i know i have been negative towards the movie, and i do think there are many flaws, but it's not an entirely crap movie without positive sides, there are scenes that are dramatic and moving, however it also feel like some dramatic scenes are added just for the purpose for a dramatic scene, but the recreation of the old Paris is also magnificent and pretty much flawless. Furthermore the movie is kind of entertaining, though just don't put your hopes up for a cinematic masterpiece that will hunt your dreams for weeks to come.In an average movie that has the potential to be great but is full of flaws some things are still shining and does make the movie rather watchable, therefore it deserves the rank of an average movie, nothing more, but neither nothing less.5/10 "},{"Title":"Leonardo DiCaprio + Three Musketeers = so-so Medieval flick","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Man in the Iron Mask is okay once you forget the whole Leonardo DiCaprio thing.  Of course, I don't know where the producers get off calling DiCaprio a man.  I mean, how old is he, fifteen?  I'd assume the reason he took this project was so that he could get an A for effort in grade ten history.Of course, Gabriel Byrne, John Malkovich, Jeremy Irons and Gerard Depardieau play the Three Musketeers!  Who wouldn't like that?  The swordplay in this film is fair, but it doesn't match Zorro or The Princess Bride at all.Overrall, when you ignore the DiCaprio part (about 70%), it's pretty good, 3/10. "},{"Title":"A bad movie","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was really captured by Leonardo DiCaprio's performance in Titanic, and I planned to go to the cinema to watch this film. I'm glad that I didn't go. It was a huge disappointment. Maybe the actors had a bad season, because they were really...I can't find the words for it. My vote would have been 2 out of 10 but the clothes and surroundings were beautiful so I voted a weak 3. Don't see this movie, it's a waste of time! "},{"Title":"Very disappointing considering what it could have been.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't say that this was a really bad movie, but I have to say that I was disappointed considering the quality of the cast.  Sad to say, I think the story was not the problem with the movie (obviously, it has been done before and done much better), but rather the actors and acting were.I must take exception with some of the other reviewers; I think John Malkovich's performance was dismal.  He shouldn't have been in this movie at all.  Gerard Depardieu was not given anything to work with; perhaps he should have had Malkovich's role.  Jeremy Irons, obviously a fine actor, chose (if he in fact chose it himself) a completely wrong attitude for the role.  The three of them seemed totally uninvolved in the story, and had virtually no emotion at all.  Even when his son was killed, Malkovich merely goes through the motions, not displaying the least amount of real passion.  His vow of vengeance rings completely hollow.The movie is saved from being bad by three performances -- actually four, but by three actors.  DiCaprio, in the dual role, rises above the dismal acting of most of his supporting cast to give two solid performances.  But the movie is completely stolen by Gabriel Bryne, who gives the best performance I've ever seen him give (indeed, I think it might have been award-winning in a better film), and Anne Parillaud, as the mother forced to choose between the son she raised who is a monster and the one she abandoned who is good.  Their characters were so much more interesting that I found myself wishing the movie were about them, and the whole iron mask thing was used as window dressing. "},{"Title":"BORRRRRING!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm amazed to see that other people (or androids with no taste, more likely) actually LIKED this boring waste of invaluable time! This movie had no action, no excitement and  no reason to be made...except possibly to cash in on Leonardo DiCaprio's popularity from Titanic. This movie was not only a waste of time, but a waste of some really first-rate actors such as John Malkovich and Jeremy Irons. I haven't read the book but am encouraged to note in other negative reviews that the movie is nothing like the book (so what else is new?) so maybe reading the book will make me forget about this awful film. I'm amazed to read that other people out there (or possibly androids who have not been programmed to recognize the difference between good and bad films) actually liked this snore-filled cure for insomnia. If someone thinks this movie is good (or worse yet, great) I'd hate to see what movies they hate! I hate this movie & so should everyone else! If you want to see a REAL action film, try The Three Musketeers (1974) or The Four Musketeers - both based on the novel The Three Musketeers by Alexandre Dumas, who also wrote The Man in the Iron Mask. "},{"Title":"appalling","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  Given the potential of the cast, you'd expect *some* value to this movie, but unless you're in the mood for something seriously lame, give it a wide berth. Neither Depardieu and Malkovich, truly excellent actors, seem to be taking the film at all seriously and ham it up shamelessly. DiCaprio, well, he's embarrassingly bad. "}{"Title":"Total Crap","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is simply awful. What a great cast! What an absolutely awful script. Nothing interesting happens, the dialog is terrible, the cast accents are inconsistent. Costumes and idea are good, but thats it.This film totally sucks. 0/5 "},{"Title":"..huh?..","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure","Review":" I must have missed all these wonderful performances so many users write about. How many versions of this wonderful story do we have to see? Randall Wallace certainly didn't read the original book (which is considered to be a masterpiece) written by Dumas. I'm not certain if I can recognize which period of French history the film was supposed to depict. Only in the end did we hear Louis IV; that would have put it in the period just before Marie Antoinette, who married Louis VI, right ? France had too many Louis; I don't recall ONE Philippe in French History. One user commented it was a good portrayal of 18th-century France, but it was set in 1662. AND, the location was at Fontainbleau, not Versailles, which IV built.At any rate, I didn't hear one French dialect in the entire film. Malkovich (whichever Three Muskateer he played, and so many users raved about) sounded like the average man from Kansas. Raoul (Peter Sarsgaard) was rightfully deleted from the film at the beginning, killed in front of a part of some castle used again in another scene. I found the other cast-members just as wooden in their performances, and wondered why they were in the movie.Earlier black-and-white films told this story much better wasn't The Count of Monte Cristo one of the men in the mask? I was totally unimpressed with DiCaprio's acting here another man from Kansas.Yes, the cinematography was bright and the settings were appropriate. The masked ball (supposedly shot in the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles) was beautifully choreographed and the costumes were almost as lavish as those worn in Marie Antoinette (black-and-white from the early '30s). BUT - none of the contrived action in this movie overly entertained me......very risqué action in some scenes. That's good, if it fulfilled its purpose to make one laugh. I didn't.AND - if I heard correctly - the prison-guards where The Man in the Iron Mask was imprisoned were speaking Spanish, so he certainly wasn't in The Bastille. Those who think Dumas would be pleased with this weak presentation of his novel certainly are mistaken there was nothing authentically French in this film except the Palace of Fontainbleau (which was given thanks in the credits). If one is familiar with the lay-out of Versailles, the King's rooms were at the center of it with the entire palace built around them, therefore his being called The Sun King.I guess Mask was intended for a younger audience, who had not seen the many versions of this story. I'm glad they enjoyed it, but - except to fill some idle hours - I saw nothing in it to rave about.Sorry - I wouldn't recommend it to anyone..... "}]