[{"Title":"So True Its Scary","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this film it reminded me so much of my family I actually got nervous.  The story depicted in this film is so true especially in many Black families, especially mine.  The story is pretty much about how a family breaks up after the matriarch becomes ill and eventually dies causing rifts to develop due to the fact that the one person who keeps the family grounded is no longer around to mediate disputes and to show love and guidance to the younger generation.  This is definitely a wonderful film that should be viewed by every family no matter what race they are. "},{"Title":"Superb Movie!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is fantastic! The acting is first-rate (especially Vivica A. Fox and Brandon Hammond). The storyline is touching, funny, and poignant. This film wisely avoids being a chick flick and tells about a regular middle-class African-American family, something we don't see in movies that often. "},{"Title":"Touching.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't really want to see Soul Food that much but I thought I might as well give it a go. I was fully impressed. I was glued to my seat the whole way through. The acting is superb, the storyline is both funny and touching. It is an unmissable film telling the story of an Afro-American family going through hard times.Trust me, Soul Food is a good film which left me shocked at how touching and how nice the film was.My rating  8/10.  "},{"Title":"Family Love","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I totally enjoyed this movie. It had me full of emotion and rubbing my belly all at the same time. It's hard to understand why all families cannot sit down and enjoy times like the Joseph family had. Lem getting arrested, Teri & Max at each others throats, Mama Joe's illness, and Faith and Myles' bad deed really tested that love. This was a film that brought to light about hard times and rising above them. One person can make a difference. Ahmad proved that by getting the whole family back for sunday dinner. It is always a silver lining to a negative situation. That food would definitely bring me back! We need more of these times in today's world. Forget materials things, love is bigger. "},{"Title":"Yum...","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. I just saw it for the first time and could kick myself for waiting solong. Brandon Hammond is a hoot and Viveca A. Fox was wonderful. It isso nice to see a movie centered around an African-American family thatwasn't about hoods or hip-hop. Every family, black or white orwhatever, can identify with the kinds of problems this family had.There is a poignant, endearing quality to this movie that just appealedto me and I would recommend it to anyone who needs a feel-good fixwithout the sweet-as-saccharine quality so many movies have. "},{"Title":"Where was the Preacher in time of need?","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excellent movie. identifiable with the African American Families. Mama Jo was a strong parent seeking only the very best for her fatherless family. The responsibility of raising a child after a parent dies is so right! The jealousy of siblings is right on, and the ability to still love each other was so familiar. African Americans may see themselves in this film. We do love to cook big meal, and we do love to feed others. I wonder if inviting the Pastor to Sunday dinners is happening. One thing is a puzzle to me....Rev. enjoyed the dinners, and the wedding, so where was he when the great cook Mama Jo was in the hospital, and at her burial? It is strange because after Mama Jo passes away, The good Rev. is again sitting at her dinner table. And how can one believe all the money that was packed in the back of Uncle's portable TV. In the movie, the narrator says that the Uncle had not left his room in years but sits there watching his TV. "},{"Title":"Good, would see it again.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The actors do a great job.  It basically lays problems right out on the table which instead of ignoring problems that a lot of families are used to doing, this movie casts these things  out to give us a sense that problems should be worked out.  It follows the theme of how one should see that family is a commitment to one another and not an obligation very well. "},{"Title":"A movie that keeps it real","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, so I waited for 4 years to see this movie. Silly me. This movie was very good. Not great, but very good. The acting really carried what was a mediocre script. The movie did peak my interest in how this family addressed issues openly among themselves. They did not try to sweep things under the rugs. Rather, they used Sunday dinner as an opportunity to address tough family issues such an infidelity, gambling addition and encarceration.The film was also successful at capturing many aspects of a typical, 90's African-American family. Being half African-American, I can see traces of my very own family in this film and thought that the script was very true, open and honest. "},{"Title":"fabulous movie","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" the movie exemplifies what the black family can and should be. strong through the tough times. As a black lady, I can relate to the drama that the family goes through and how their Sunday dinners kept them close. To the person who said Kingdom Come was way better than Soul Food just proves that no movie can satisfy everyone. This movie was incredible and believable. But I felt that Kingdom Come was to put mildly boring. It does not stick out to me at all as a memorable movie. It was alright. No to bash anyone but obviously taste in movies differs person to person.. but I must say Soul Food was great...the acting was magnificent...especially Vivica and Vanessa. LOVED THIS MOVIE. Plus the movie features fabulous music. "},{"Title":"Flavorful African-American Family Melodrama","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Appetizing, home-cooked Sunday dinners save a family in stress in writer & director George Tillman, Jr.'s autobiographical movie Soul Food, an emotionally satisfying but occasionally saccharine tour-de-force family melodrama. Comparisons with Waiting to Exhale are inevitable, but Soul Food shuns a sexist agenda that attributes its many ills to one sex at the expense of the other. Neither men nor women escape the devastating toll of the storyline. An ensemble cast of charismatic performers, an entertaining plot that alternates happy moments with tragic episodes, and Tillman's imaginative helming gives Soul Food a memorable if sometimes schmaltzy appeal.Eating Sunday dinner at Mother Joe's house constitutes an age-old family tradition for three Chicago, Illinois, based sisters, Teri (Vanessa L. Williams of Eraser), Maxine (Vivica A. Fox of Batman & Robin), and Bird (Nia Long of Friday). Mother Joe (Irma P. Hall of Mo' Money) lives to indulge her quarrelsome trio of daughters as much as her adorable grandchildren. Her favorite is Maxine's oldest son, Ahmad (Brandon Hammond of Mars Attacks). Tillman filters the poignant story of this family from the juvenile perspective of Ahmad.As Soul Food unfolds, Bird has just married Lem (Mekhi Phifer of Clockers), a guy whose criminal record has already cost him his job. As the elder sister, Teri acts as the chief financial genius of the family. She has an eye and a heart for dollars. As an affluent attorney, Teri has bankrolled her youngest sister Bird in the beauty parlor business. Teri also supervises her mother's estate and manages the family's purse strings in woebegone times. Teri never lets anybody forget her pecuniary sacrifices, especially Maxine. Teri's overwrought attitude alienates her younger sister Maxine. Rivals since high school, Maxine stole Teri's boyfriend and took him to the altar. While Teri persevered with her college education, Maxine dropped out. Her husband Kenny (Jeffrey D. Sams of Waiting to Exhale) and she started their own family. Two girls and a boy later, they have managed to survive on Kenny's blue-collar salary with no ill effects. Teri struggles to make her second marriage a success, but her greed and holier-than-thou attitude sabotage her well-intentioned efforts. Eventually, Teri's attitude jeopardizes her marriage to Miles (Michael Beach of White Man's Burden). Although Miles and she are both well-heeled attorneys, he has been bitten by the music bug. Miles wants to form a jazz band, something Teri holds in utter contempt. She argues that Miles could be earning more money at the bar&#x97;the legal bar. No matter how much these sisters bicker, they always show up for Sunday dinner at Mother Joe's house. No sooner has Tillman set up the plot than he introduces a string of predicaments that starts with Mother Joe's tragic trip to the doctor. It seems that the indestructible matriarch must have a leg removed or she will die. Reluctantly, Mother Joe consents to surgery. During the operation, she suffers a stroke and slips into a coma. The sisters maintain a vigil at Mother Joe's bedside, but their relationship continues to sour. They argue over Mother Joe's hospital bills, and the traditional Sunday dinner is the casualty of their rage. Young Ahmad doesn't understand the family fracas. He doesn't understand why Teri and Miles have drifted apart or why Lem has been arrested and jailed for brandishing a firearm in a bar. Ahmad holds his own vigil at his grandmother's beside. If Mother Joe cannot physically reunite the fragmented family, then perhaps Ahmad can. The ambitious youngster cooks up a plan that he is certain will bring the family back together for a traditional Sunday dinner. Nothing particularly original distinguishes Soul Food from a hundred or so similar family melodramas. The formulaic Tillman script plunges each character into a soup of despair. Indeed, Soul Food would rate as little more than an ethnic potboiler were it not for Tillman's nimble directing. Although the soap opera storyline alternates one sister's plight with another sister's predicament, the characters are so believably drawn and the atmosphere so filled with genuine sentiment that the film succeeds in spite of its clichés. At times, Soul Food degenerates into plain, old-fashioned mush. A subplot involving an elderly, anti-social relative named Uncle Pete (John M. Watson, Sr. of Groundhog Day) who hides in his upstairs bedroom is pretty warmed-over. Ahmad's plan to reunite a family as suspicious as each of these relatives is seems a little far-fetched, too. Although Soul Food is a movie about a family, some of its content may not be appropriate for all family members, especially juveniles. The performances are all marvelous. Each cast member plays a substantial, flesh-and-blood character with hopes and dreams. Hall steals the early scenes as Mother Joe. When one of Lem's curvaceous old flames threatens to disrupt Bird's wedding reception, Mother Joe adroitly rescues her son-in-law without stirring up discord. Mother Joe's speech about how one finger accomplished less than a knuckled-up fist is one of the movie's rousing highlights. Williams has the plum role as the materialistic sister who always gets the rough end of the stick. As her chief rival, Fox is less materialistic and more maternal. Phifer brings credible dimensions to his role as an ex-convict who faces the same song and dance from every employer who is afraid to hire him. You don't have to be African-American to appreciate Soul Food. Although the movie is aimed at mainstream black audiences, the problems that this family confronts are universal to any family. Ultimately, the sympathetic characters and the rich atmosphere of loving kindness that permeates the action compensate for the sappy story. Tillman boosts things immensely by rejecting a happily-ever-after ending, give the film a significance that it otherwise might lack. "}{"Title":"FOOD FOR THE SOUL","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think Soul Food does more than reveal a truly selfish brood of sisters (Williams, Fox, Long). Through the eyes of a child, it looks at family and blood values and finds them strong enough to beat any adversity. These are real people with real problems (unemployment, depression, desires, frustrations, goals and greed), there is no logic in those situations. You work with the essentials and learn as you go along.  The sisters learn to accept each other's kinks and twists, even if it means swallowing their pride. This truly is food for the soul.A searching movie!!! "},{"Title":"Soul Food gave me indigestion","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie tries too hard to have a message, but I think it uses the laziest tools, and poorly develops any real connection to the characters.Granted, there are a few redeeming elements (VERY FEW) that at least offer us something in the way of decent depiction.My wife loves this film, but she admits it is perhaps more because she can relate to coming from a big family with a big mama at the centre of it.It's hard to comment on the acting because I think the script was so poor the actors didn't have a chance to do much with it. There was plenty of missed opportunities to develop characters and drama with a proper scene here or there, but they skimmed by providing us with info via narration. Movies with narration CAN work, but only if done right, and NEVER at the expense of proper dialogue and development.-- SPOILERS AHEAD -- YOUVE BEEN WARNED -- (go to end of Spoiler section for my summary)For example, by the time mama dies, we haven't had a real chance to feel for her. And, when Lem goes to jail again, why don't we see Bird visit him? --- END OF SPOILERS, read on..  ---There are too many scenes missing that SHOULD have been there in order to establish some emotional connection with the characters - and, in a movie without token action, suspense, horror or comedic tones, theonly play left is to establish emotional connection. If emotional connection is your bread and butter, do it right. Soul Food didn't get it done.For example, if you've seen Full Metal Jacket, many will say the movie is split in too distinct movements. There is some narration, but the movie takes its time and leads us to the brink of the end of the first movement, patiently using scenes and dialogue that capture the emotions that will come into play, by which time we fully are connected to the development of character and pain - it can be done.For a similar look at black families trying to deal with each other, try Kingdom Come - it was MUCH more believable, much more touching, and didn't take itself seriously at all, which lent a refreshing non-preachy tone. The part of the reverend was also played much better, it wasfunnier when it had to be, and more touching where it had to be, and the matriarch was a lot less perfect and real than the one in Soul Food. "},{"Title":"A Warm and Engaging Family Film","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SOUL FOOD is an entertaining and, at times moving film that chronicles the lives of a tight-knit African American family. Big Mama (Irma P. Hall) is the widowed patriarch and referee who always knows exactly what to say to her children in any situation. Vanessa Williams is Terri, the oldest daughter, a no-nonsense attorney who spends a lot of time bailing family members out of tight spots and never lets them forget it. Terri's husband Miles (Michael Beach) is also an attorney who really wants to be a musician and is fighting an attraction to Terri's flaky cousin Faith (Gina Ravera). Viveca A. Fox is Maxine, the middle daughter who is married to Kenny (Jeffrey D. Sams), who we learn she stole from Terri when they were teenagers and has a son Ahmad (Brandon Hammond)who assists Big Mama in her job as family referee. The story opens at the wedding of youngest daughter Bird (Nia Long)whose new husband (Mikhi Phifer)is having trouble securing employment because of his stint in prison. The family manages to handle their differences until Big Mama is incapacitated by illness and can no longer be peacekeeper, but young Ahmad, seeing his family crumble, steps up to take up the slack. This entertaining comedy-drama has a surprisingly smart screenplay and first-rate performances, with young Hammond a standout. Lovely family drama that affectionately embraces the experience of a loving African American family. And the food looks delicious! "},{"Title":"Appetizing (you're right, I'm not funny)","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonderfully acted and well-written comedy/drama (more drama, though) about an extended family who spend their sundays together with a huge dinner. What's on the menu? Soul Food of course!But when Big Mama Joe (and the glue of the family) falls into a coma the family fall out, it's up to Maxine's boy Ahmad, (and story narrator) to bring the big family together again for another sunday dinner.Of course when portraying a realistic family it helps to have good actors, and with a stellar cast including Vanessa L. Williams, Vivica A. Fox and Nia Long they pull it off successfully.Just like what the tagline says Reality with a bite. "},{"Title":"Warming to the heart","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Soul Food is one of the best family films ever made. The cast led by Vanessa Williams is superb. Vicva A. Fox and Nia Long are also great as the younger sisters. Micheal Beachmen and Mehki Pffeir are also great. But the real standout is Brandon Hammons who plays Ahmad. He shows great acting talent in his first big role. 10/10. "},{"Title":"the most feel good movie evermade","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this is the most feel good movie evermade and the best family movie evermade. brandon hammond gives a great performance as the favorite grandson and mekhi phiefer does good as the trying to go straight new man in the family overall this movie is one of the greatest movies evermade and the most fun to watch everybody can relate to it especially me. A++++++ "},{"Title":"Delightful Film, but Should Not Have Been Rated 'R'","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best movies of the 90's. Although it was a hit at the box office when it came out and received very good reviews, it surprisingly received no Oscar nominations and didn't quite mark a revolution in African-American film-making that many critics predicted. However, speaking as a fan of the film ten years later, the film did spark a minor revolution that may have indirectly resulted in Tyler Perry's recent success.Also, Irma P. Hall should definitely have been nominated for Best Supporting Actress for her role in this movie, because she truly represented the glue that held the cast together. You could blame racism on the fact that she didn't get nominated, but when you consider that this movie came out the same year as such monumentally great films as L.A. Confidential, Good Will Hunting, As Good As It Gets, The Full Monty, Donnie Brasco, and (perhaps most especially) Titanic, one can understand why Soul Food got a bit lost in the shuffle.However, if this movie has one fundamental flaw, it is the fact that it was a movie about family, and really should have been a family movie. Heck, it was one of those movies that really transcended the boundaries of race. What stopped it from being one of those movies was it's R rating.Of course, the MPAA really isn't to blame on this one. For one, they could have eliminated all but one of the F-words (except perhaps for Vivica A. Fox telling Vanessa L. Williams, You are getting on my F**king nerves. I thought that use of the F-word was appropriate enough given the context). For instance, I thought Williams' f**k the family rant, as much as her frustration was significant to that point in the film, could have been expressed using other words.Second, related to Williams' rant, was it necessary for Miles (Michael Beach) to back Faith (Gina Rivera) up against a wall and hump her with his buttocks completely exposed? That scene alone was probably the straw that broke the camels back. The scene could have been just as effective, not to mention tense, if Miles was passionately kissing Faith. The scene that instead remains a permanent fixture in this movie borders on soft core porn. I'm not saying this because I'm a moralist. I'm saying this because this film really would have been a bigger hit if it was not rated R.Otherwise, the film was great. The acting was top notch, and the story line was very intriguing. I'm predicting that this film will turn out to be the black It's A Wonderful Life. By that, I mean that like the Frank Capra classic, it will gain much more of a following in the next decade or two. We shall see. "},{"Title":"the title of the song miles played at Faith's audition","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excellent movie....does anyone know the name of the song Miles played for Faith at her dance audition? Initially, I didn't want to see Soul Food because I thought it would be one of those typically movies. But to my surprise it was not. I really enjoyed every aspect. The story line was alive and fresh. The characters real and developed completely. Their relationships true to life and relate-able to my own family. Until Michael Beach appeared in Soul Food, I really did not care for his acting style. He proved to be an actor with academy award acting potential. The casting director surely earned his pay. Every member of the cast played their role well. "},{"Title":"Excellent Family Film","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In most families, one person is the keeper of the traditions, the organizer of reunions, the glue that holds everyone together. In this movie, Big Mama is that person - a powerful presence who dispenses love, advice, prayer and her homemade soul food in equal measure. When Big Mama dies, the family's traditional Sunday dinners are abandoned, lines of communication break down, squabbles erupt and siblings start to drift apart. But one young family member has a plan that just might bring them back together.I wasn't interested in this film when it was first released -- the ad campaign made it appear to be just a sentimental bit of fluff. But today, a rainy day trapped me inside while Soul Food was on TV. I watched and - much to my surprise - found that the cast is just fabulous and I enjoyed every minute.  "},{"Title":"A rare, beautiful movie","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One night, I was bored, so I turned on the TV and stumbled upon a gem of a movie called Soul Food.  Told through the innocent eyes of a small boy, this movie presents a touching, beautiful story about a close-knit family struggling to stay together through hard times.  It is rare today to find a movie which promotes old-fashioned, family values.The characters are deep and developed, with flaws as well as strengths. Talented performances allow the audience to sympathize with these people and see into their emotions.  This movie is a tear-jerker, but it will make you smile too.  It will also make you appreciate the ones you love.My rating 9/10. "}{"Title":"A yummy food movie -- highly recommended","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was totally charmed by this movie. It was warm and well written with some good character development. The cast was lovable-- especially the child narrator -- yet it was about struggle and conflict.  Brandon Hammond deserved the Oscar for Best Child Actor, if they only offered one (Why not? by the way.)Oddly, the top-billed character (played by Vanessa Williams) was way too stereotypical, although she have could have pulled off a much more complex role, like the supporting cast did.Surely some will accuse the movie of being overly sincere but I am a sucker for well done sincere movies. If you liked Preacher's Wife you'll probably like Soul Food.  "},{"Title":"A Good job done","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After seeing this movie for the first time I thought what a movie but since then it has become the center for my entertainment. All the actors have portrayed their individual talents which with the use of the genius director and producer a hit is developed. It shows all the characteristics of a family sorrounded by true love not like most of the families that are being raised in today's environment with egocentric individuals who think that life revolves around them. Mama Joe has done an excellent work of keeping the large family together while integrating the in-laws into the family with ease especially being a single parent and with her mouth watering soul food what can go wrong?The setting is great and there is a lot to learn from especially we the young generation which is aspiring to start families in the near future. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Story about a large black family who are overseen (and kept in line) by Mother Joe (Irma P. Hall). She has four daughters--three are married and she keeps the families together. She is especially fond of 10 year old Ahmed (Brandon Hammond). She ends up in the hospital in a coma after surgery. The family starts to fall apart--the couples start bickering, one man can't get a job, one has an affair. Ahmed attempts to keep the family all together.MILD SPOILERS It sounds hopeless (a cute little kid getting everyone together) but this actually works! The characters and situations are realistic and the acting is great by everybody. Hammond and Hall are easily the best--Hammond does a great job of not making his kid seem TOO perfect. Vanessa Williams and Mekhi Phifer also lend very strong support. This is one of those rare films that has strong family values without shoving them down your throat. You see these people go through hell but they make it through and it makes it clear that they'll always be there for each other--even when they hate each other. Warm, realistic and just great.It's really too bad this film has an R rating--it's mostly just for VERY strong language and a discreet sex scene--because the values it promotes would be great for a child to see and hear. My only complaints is that it DOES drag a little and sometimes the language gets too strong (Phifer's character really lets loose). Still it's well worth seeing. It lead to a fairly successful Showtime series. I give this a 9. "},{"Title":"Doesn't hold up after ten years but still has fiery performances","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" SOUL FOOD was a huge deal back in the holiday season of 1997. Everyone was talking about the huge leap African-Americans had taken in getting a non-stereotypical movie about black family values out on the big screen. There would be no shoot-em-up by the corner scenes, or baby momma's walking around. Here was a story depicting Middle class black people supporting family values and good ol' family Sunday dinners.Of course, earlier in the year we had LOVE JONES, a superior film that starred Larenz Tate and Nia Long. That movie didn't sugarcoat as much about relationships as SOUL FOOD did. And still, EVE's BAYOU, also released around the same time, was overlooked even though it staggers high above the rest of the list. Boldly, I enjoyed Showtime's version of this film better then the movie.We begin at Bird's wedding, played by- again- the gorgeous Nia Long. Long has seemed to blossom from amateur school girl roles (MADE IN America), to now the mature and sexy kindred she deserves. Her voluptuous cleavage bursting from her blouse, she is peeved her ex-husband (Mel Jackson) has arrived to tamper with her ego, and new husband Lem (Mekhi Phifer), perhaps because Phifer has just been released from prison.There's Maxine, played by the talented Vivica A. Fox, and her husband. Maxine is pregnant again, and her oldest son- Ahmad (Brandon Hammond)- tells the audience his story about how the family holds it together. Maxine is stronger and more blunt about everyday situations, so as she observes Lem dancing with a stranger, she claims 'Let's go beat that ho down'. Not exactly proper etiquette, but SOUL FOOD must let out a few 'ghetto' terminologies if it wants to attract its urban audience.Finally there's the rich couple- Terry and Miles. Played brilliantly by Vanessa L. Williams and Michael Beach, the attorneys with money are of course- not happy. He wants a music career. She loathes that Maxine's husband gives her security, while she feels her independent sculpture has caused drama no one can understand. Terry is snobby, bitter and a workaholic. Her main power hold in the family is that she has the dollars to pay for things like Bird's wedding and beauty shop, Maxine's car payments or Big Momma's hospital bills. Speaking of the latter, Irma P. Hall delivers a brief but powerful performance as the Queen of the nest who holds it all together. A widow of a gambler, she's seen hard times but knows how to work around them. Of course the cliché' in the film finds her dying mid-way through, which of course causes more drama amongst the family. Mysterious cousin Gena rolls in with the wind and finds her content with Miles, since both like music. After they have a roll in the hay, Terry files for divorce and finds even more bitter complaints to have. Meanwhile Bird struggles to find Lem a job when no one will hire him due to his criminal background.While entertaining after 10 years, SOUL FOOD seems thin and drawn out. I didn't have as much fun watching it this time around, even though I still think the performances are top-notch. Vanessa L. William by far gives the best performance in the film, and yet I still wish there was more to Terry Joseph. At least on the show I found solitude with Nicole Ari Parker. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Touching movie that tries hard but works due to great performances.Nothing original but still very enteraining if you are expecting a family movie.Everything was just adequate and the music was good.Very good casting is the secret of this movie.Not for racists!  "},{"Title":"Commenting on Soul Food","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have also seen this movie and i have to say that i don't remember Angela Bassett being in this movie. This movie was a great movie and it was heart warming and all the emotions that life has to offer.When you have a movie that has all of that a great cast and a great script you have an excellent movie. Everything that you seen in that movie happens in life off of the sliver screen. To say that that this movie did not show Blacks in a good light (black men for the most part) is wrong. Things happen like that in every culture every ethnic background in this world and it just so happened that the writers and director and producers of this movie happened to paint this piece for black actors. It was and still is a beautiful movie. "},{"Title":"Big Mama's Brood","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Major Spoilers AheadBig Mama is the loving matriarchal figure of a large Family who gather every Sunday to enjoy the 'soul food' that she cooks for them, and to hear the nuggets of wisdom the old girl habitually dispenses regarding Family. Big Mama is big on Family. In fact the word 'Family' pops up in almost every sentence that she speaks. And every time she speaks it, it sounds just like it's spelt here &#150;with a capital F. Now, the reason Big Mama bangs on about Family so much is because she realises how unimportant the concept is to her three equally sassy but divisively different daughters. It is only their mother that has held the Family together for so many years, so when B.M. falls into a coma after an operation, the ties that bind them quickly begin to fray&#133;SOUL FOOD is an over-sentimentalised movie that, in terms of its story, operates largely on the level of a soap-opera, and therefore wastes the acting skills of a talented young cast. The characters are all stereotypes, and are forced to recite such awful lines as You got to learn to love yourself (this nugget of wisdom coming from a pre-teen boy to his uncle, who is driving around town with a gun in the glove compartment of his car), and A man has to be a man. It makes you wonder whether scriptwriters of stuff like this ever think about what they are writing, whether they ever sit back and ask themselves whether anybody ever talks like that outside of a church in a tent, and whether they actually speak the words out loud to try and divine whether they sound ridiculous or not. The worrying thing is, they probably do&#133;The story is made up of three clear acts, in the first, BM's influence over the Family, and the relationships between the various characters, is established; the second act focuses on the deterioration of the Family after BM lapses into a coma, and the final act shows us how they are re-united following her death. Of these three acts, the second is by far the best. For a while we actually grow interested in these characters who seem shallow only because they have been so poorly sketched. Even during this brief improvement in quality, the plot twists are too often telegraphed long before they arrive, and too many inconsistencies arise; for example, one of the daughter's, a successful, yuppie-type lawyer calls out the thugs on her brother-in-law, whom she mistakenly believes has beaten her sister. She does this at the hairdressers where the attack happened, while they are still trying to coax the crying sister from the ladies&#133; Lawyers do that, you know &#150; they never bother to find out the facts before taking a decision to act. And this is during the better part of the film, remember. The last forty minutes is completely laughable. Every character is suckered into a rendezvous at Big Mama's old house by the precocious young son of one of the daughters, to whom BM, in the few brief moments of consciousness she enjoyed between her five-week coma and death, has entrusted the task of holding the Family together. He does this by kidding all the adults individually that there is a small fortune hidden in the house. Daft, eh? Even dafter is the fact that there actually *is* a small fortune hidden in the house, hidden in Uncle Pete's room. Did I mention Uncle Pete? Well, he's this old guy who never emerges from his room. His meals are left on a tray outside his door, and he pulls the tray into his room with his walking stick so that nobody gets to see him.No, really it's all true, I swear&#133; "},{"Title":"Trivial feel-good pap","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After reading and hearing the buzz about this movie, I really wanted and expected to like it.  Alas, it stunk. Character development was really superficial . . . the whole effect was as if the Republican National Committee had decided to make a film glorifying the black family.  I couldn't remember anything about it five minutes after seeing it.  A perfect waste of good actors (like Vanessa Williams). "},{"Title":"Too many sermons","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yet another film which decides that messages from kids telling the adults (or from the older generation) how to live their lives.  The potential was here for an African-American EAT DRINK MAN WOMAN, but this is wasted by some structure problems (some of the characters get short shrift) and sermons which lecture us instead of inspire us - at least, that was my reaction. There are some good individual scenes, and the food at least looks good, but it doesn't add up.  And is Michael Beach going to be forever typecast as a cheating husband? "},{"Title":"Unbelievable...and not in a good way","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't find this movie to be touching, uplifting, or empowering for African-American women (as Oprah so put it years ago). If anything, it just reinforced that stereotype that spurned women (and more specifically African American women) resort to violence and retaliate in such a way that is completely destructive.While I thought that Angela bassett did a wonderful job and the acting on the whole was very good, the whole message fell completely flat for me. I can't believe that women (regardless of race) would see this as a feel-good movie to watch with your gal-pals that bears scrutiny more than once.IT also didn't cast a particularly good image on men either. A hubby who can't seem to keep it in his pants etc. It portrays them as slime for the most part.How on earth this movie got so much attention is beyond me. If anything, I would tell my friends to avoid it. IMO - it would be like telling someone that The English Patient was a beautiful romance story, when in fact all it's doing is glorifying adultery. A message that I just don't care in sending out. This movie falls into that category - the message was awful.  "}]