[{"Title":"Let us not forget the trace buster buster buster","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"57 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Indeed Mark Wahlberg is a bit cack in most of his films, but The Big Hit is a masterpiece of comedy. The action is fun, but is not meant to be taken seriously. I think that some people might have watched this film expecting a standard action film, in which case I can understand their disappointment. It's just good fun and Lou Diamond Phillips is brilliant. His over-the-top performance is perfect and is something I'll never forget.The Big Hit is one of those films where you either get it or you don't. If you don't then I can understand how it might seem a bit two-dimensional. However, anyone who hasn't seen it should take a chance. "},{"Title":"If you think the movie was supposed to be serious, you missed the point...","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"47 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had absolutely no idea that this movie was supposed to be a silly, spoofy action film when I saw it at the theater.  The first 10 minutes makes this perfectly clear.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie for just being guilty pleasure escapist entertainment.  Yes the movie is silly and corny - but that was the intent of the film.Its more than understandable that this movie isn't for everybody, either you love it or hate it.  However, if you watched the movie and took it seriously (ie the breakdancing during the first 'hit'), then you definitely missed the point.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mark Whalberg Urban Hit man - Gen X style","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is about a day in the life of a hit man played by actor Mark Whalberg. Melvin (Mark Whalberg) has good life thanks to his talent as a hit man, but has very working class mentality going about his life. But none of the girls he associates with shares his work ethics, but just sees him as a cash cow, and a guy to dump all their troubles on to, until Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips) kidnaps a Japanese mogul Jiro's (Sab Nishi) daughter Keiko (China Chow) and dumps her on to his lap. Keiko is the first to sympathize with Melvin and hits it off with him.There are three stories going on simultaneously in this movie One with Cisco and his boss Paris (Avery Brooks) who's a friend of Jiro's and wants the guy who kidnapped Keiko dead (not knowing that it's actually Cisco who did it). Second with Melvin's girl friend Pam (Christina Applegate) who's Jewish, and has a mother who is against her marrying this Irish Catholic guy. Third with Melvin and Keiko who's being kept at his house. All three converge at Melvin's house at lunch, and pandemonium breaks loose.The story line is one of the most original, and is a feel good movie '90s style where the under dog anti-hero gets the good he deserves in the end. The riot is seeing all the other materialistic people around Melvin all trying to take advantage of him showing how nice of a guy he is despite his choice of profession.Was this movie great ? Yes !! And is highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A great action comedy.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"36 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You must not think of this movie as a pure action movie,because it is not ment to be. This is one of the best action/comedys that are ever made. It mixes the humor with the action so well and the story is just plain nuts.The movie takes new directions all the time and it never stops to surprise you. The main characters gets involved in the most redicolues dilemmas you have ever seen and I guarantee that you will laugh many times.This movie also has some very violent scenes and some bad language.So it is not for kids. In the main roles you will find  Mark Wahlberg,Christina Applegate and Lou Diamond Phillips which is my best friend Ole Martin's favourite actor.So if you are looking for a laugh and some great action then this is the movie for you.    "},{"Title":"Ideal party-movie!","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Watch Melvin Smiley's more than complicated life erupt in chaos. His fiancée's parents are coming for a visit, his (other!) girlfriend is to blame that he's kind of out of money, he really ought to return the tape of King Kong Lives... On top of all that, Melvin soon gets problems of an even worse kind. A professional hit-man, Melvin suddenly finds himself in terrible danger of getting killed by his own co-workers when a kidnapping turns out to have been a bad idea.It's crazy. Exaggerated, chaotic, full of somehow weird characters, often unrealistic action scenes, fun. I'm surprised this movie is so little known, and I am even more surprised that so many people hate it. Sure, if you expect a serious, realistic action movie, The Big Hit isn't the movie for you. You really need a sense of humour for this. Expect an action comedy, almost a parody, and you'll be entertained for sure. "},{"Title":"Organized crime has never been so funny","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mark Wahlberg portrays Melvin, a professional hit man whose financial problems make him a reluctant partner in crime in a kidnapping scheme. Melvin's closest associate, Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips) plots to kidnap the daughter (China Chow) of a wealthy foreign film maker (Sab Shimono) and demand a huge ransom in the process that will help all of their financial positions. What originally seemed like the perfect crime soon turns deadly when their boss (Avery Brooks) who also just happens to be the godfather of the kidnappee finds out about their scheme. In an effort to save his own skin, Cisco pins the entire thing on Melvin. Now Melvin is running (and gunning) for his life from a squad of deadly hit men as well as the power hungry Cisco. In the process, he also begins falling for the beautiful kidnap victim (only in the movies, folks). Sure, the film is hokey at times but it makes up for that with an abundance of gripping action scenes and hilarious comedy.  "},{"Title":"A HIT!","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When a group of hitmen kidnap the goddchild of their boss all hell breaks loose.This is plot for this awesome comedy/action thriller starring Mark Wahlberg, Christina Applegate and Antonia Sabato, Jnr.This is a high-octane comedic look at hitmen - and what would happen if you double-crossed your boss. Turn up the sound on this one, sit back, and be amazed.It's movies like this that show how good an actor Mark Wahlberg really is. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"watch it for fun","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are some movies that you just watch to relax and enjoy some great one-liners, and some movies you watch for the hilarious plot. This is one of both of those types of movies. A situational dark comedy, watch this one when you just want entertainment that makes you laugh. This is the story of a hit-man who is trying to get ahead by doing the dirty work all of his friends create. Turns out he is very talented at what he does. If you would like to see Mark Wahlberg in an early role, I'd recommend this one. He plays the straight-man so well. The characters are so well-casted. I enjoyed the humor. To like this one, you can't take life too seriously. If you've ever seen Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, this has similar humor, but it's like L, S and TSB on Prozac. Tame enough for most of your friends, but still funny enough to get a belly-laugh. I bought it sight-unseen and have been very happy with it! "},{"Title":"Very cool!","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"26 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When you watch this movie,you can't return it to the videostore because it's great.This is an action comedy and it will laugh you to death. There is enough action and humor in this movie,and great actors but still,...I don't know what but there something missing.If you see Pulp Fiction,you will know what I'm talking about.Melvin Smiley, a successful young hit-man, is living a normal all-day life for his Jewish fiancé Pam, but kills for money in Paris' organization. In addition, he has a relationship with a beauty from the neighborhood and gets bothered by a pimply video store guy, because he did not return King Kong Lives for two weeks. He and his three teammates Cisco, Crunch and Vince one day decide to kidnap the daughter of super-rich businessman Jiro Nishi - off the record. What they do not know, is that Jiro just went completely bankrupt due to a successes movie production, and, even worse, that his daughter Keiko is the god-daughter of Paris, the boss of the kidnappers. He and his men are now searching for the kidnappers in order to grind them up properly. Meanwhile, handcuffed Keiko falls in love with killer Melvin while both preparing a kosher meal in order to satisfy Pam's visiting parents, who are out of the house with Pam - with a body in the trunk.And when I remember of Christina Applegate,...Mmmmmmmmmmmm! I would rather recommend you Pulp Fiction,because it's more funnier and more tens than this film!But you must see this one too! "},{"Title":"Hitman with a heart","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wahlberg plays a contract killer who wants no more than to be liked in The Big Hit; a solid three star flick which features good action, stunts, pyro, CGI, camera work, etc. Protag Wahlberg  juggles two difficult girl friends, a double cross, and a cute kidnapee (Chow) with the demands of his profession in this not-to-be-taken-seriously film with a spritz of romance. A fun and kinetic watch for those into the crime/action/comedy/romance genre mix. (B-) "}{"Title":"Feasting On a Diet of Scenery and Ham","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Big Hit is a nice fast paced black comedy where a whole lot of actors get to chew the scenery without getting in the way of each other's diets. Everyone looks like they're having a great old time in making this film.A team of four hit men who we first meet doing a job for boss Avery Brooks decide to do a little weekend moonlighting into kidnapping. They kidnap China Chow the daughter of Sab Shimono a Japanese industrialist who they don't know is going bankrupt. He couldn't come up with the payments on his own.What they don't know also is that she's the goddaughter of Brooks who is determined to find the kidnappers and eliminate them. Like Nixon's staff when Watergate got going, they all start bailing.The quartet's head, Lou Diamond Phillips does more than that. He turns on the others and names as the scheme's mastermind Mark Wahlberg. In the whole cast Phillips is absolutely relishing every minute of his role. He's stealing the film whenever he's on screen.Poor Wahlberg, he's the schnook of the bunch who apparently has only one talent in life, he can kill people with efficiency. Away from the trade everybody just intimidates him. He's got two girlfriends, one a Black American Princess, Lela Rochon who's bleeding him dry and a Jewish American Princess, Christina Applegate who's engaged to him, sort of. Even the obnoxious clerk at the video store is getting on his case.While Phillips is turning on the group, Wahlberg is having a meeting with Applegate and her parents, Lainie Kazan and Elliott Gould. Next to LDP, Kazan and Gould are the best thing in the film also playing their ethnic stereotypes with relish and ketchup on the side.Believe it or not, it all works out in one crazy way for poor Wahlberg, but you'll have to see and enjoy The Big Hit to find out how. The Big Hit assembles a cast of familiar players who all look like they're having a great old time, burlesquing their own images and feasting on a diet of scenery and ham. Cut yourself in for a slice. "},{"Title":"School Uniform","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I don't know why this didn't get wider circulation. It is one of the best crafted comic-action projects I have seen. The characters are stereotypes for sure, but extreme, quirky versions. Designing a film like this is a high art because you need to have a pre-existing notion of where to place your created world. You need to find a niche that hasn't been occupied by others, but it has to be close enough to thousands of other films that you can create humor by the difference. I think this film does that successfully.It also has two other elements I find notable.Japanese film (and comic) sexuality relies heavily on the adolescent school uniform, particularly the short skirt and cotton panties. It's roughly the same spot that western film fills with breasts. The team behind this film used that to their comic advantage, explicitly contrasting the schoolgirl type to the whole pantheon of film sex types, including the extraordinarily tight butt.The other point of interest is the self-reference. It's an interest of mine, especially in films like this. These are films about films. All the humor comes from referencing and tweaking the genre. The writers here include that notion explicitly the father of the schoolgirl is an aspiring filmmaker who ends up making this film of what happened; there's a running joke about an overdue video and the climax takes place in a video store; one of the hitmen develops an obsession with porn films that is identical to the obsession with action films that underlies the tone of this. This film hits the target that I think was intended by `Boondock Saints.'Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Turn your brain off and enjoy","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Is the film flawed?  Oh YEAH!!  Are there ridiculous lapses in logic?  You bet!!  Is it fun?  I think so.I'm not quite sure how to describe this movie.  It's about a likeable hitman, who kicks serious ass and racks up a huge body count, but he's the only person we care about in the movie.  His co-horts are untrustworthy and (gasp!) lazy, and his two girlfriends are both horrid in their own special ways.The movie is an action comedy...but not in the way we might expect (a la Rush Hour or its ilk).  It is obvious the budget was low, so the makers of the film obviously decided the whole tone of the film should be cheesy.But almost everyone in the movie gets into the style of silliness, and thus a non-finicky viewer has an amusing 90 minutes.  Here's one example of the ever-shifting tone  Mark Wahlberg (our likable hit man) is coming home to his fiancee (Christina Applegate...a jewish princess with an over-the-top accent and really tight pants).  He is driving with a chopped up body in the trunk, and pulls into his suburban driveway...except its not his house, just one that looks exactly like all the other houses in the neighborhood. Someone yells out Wrong house! and Wahlberg pulls back out and into the right driveway.  The scene takes about three seconds, but it's funny because it's incongruous.  How many hit men live in suburbia...at least in movies?Everyone in the movie is WAY OVER THE TOP in their performances.  Lanie Kazan actually seems reserved...if that gives you an idea.  Elliott Gould is totally gross and very funny.  Bokeem Woodbine is amusing in the role of a thug with a fixation on masturbation.  Lou Diamond Phillips is totally unlikeable as a character, but gosh darn it, he sures seems to be having fun.  The whole film is a lark.It also plays right into Mark Wahlberg's strengths.  Wahlberg seems to have the nice guy act down very well.  It's why Boogie Nights worked so well...he was just so innocent and likeable.  In PERFECT STORM and THREE KINGS, it was his innocent nature that worked for him.  As soon as he starts getting serious or pensive or angry...it stops working.  And in FEAR, with Reese Witherspoon, he tries sinister and comes off silly.  He takes the aw shucks nice guy attitude to the nth degree in THE BIG HIT, and we really root for him.This is not a movie for film criticism.  It would totally fall apart under scrutiny, whether for logic, continuity or artistry. But if you're in the mood just to have a little fun, and like guns going off, and cars crashing, and a bit of satire while you're at it...you could do worse.  "},{"Title":"Good and Silly","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nobody will ever mistake this film for Shakespeare, but it's got something. True, the car scene is ridiculous (although any car enthusiast will tell you that the yellow car Melvin drives is a Trans Am, not a Camaro), but the timing of the film is-- well, pure Grosse Pointe Blank.  Where GPB works subtly and gives us an amoral antihero trying to pretend to be good, The Big Hit gives us Melvin Smiley, a basically good guy who tries, and occasionally succeeds, to be bad.Running gags like the kidnapping victim who keeps getting away, the turncoat friend who just won't die (played with wonderful reptilian zeal by Lou Diamond Phillips), and Elliot Gould's prune juice, the nasty video store clerk (reminiscent of the two dollars kid from Better Off Dead, and Bokeem Woodbine's love affair with his hand, keep the whole thing fun.This movie will never win an Oscar.  Y'know what?  Man cannot live on Oscar-winners alone.And it beats the heck outta Batman and Robin. "},{"Title":"I hate to admit it.....but I loved this picture!!!!","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Alright, alright, alright.  I know what you are saying.  It was cheesy, it was dumb, blah blah blah .  I personally found this picture really, really entertaining.  It was filmed so cool.  All-in-all, I thought it was a very entertaining picture. "},{"Title":"it's not all that","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An action-packed comedy that's neither very thrilling nor funny. This sophomoric romp follows hitman Mark Whalberg through a kidnapping scheme that gets him into big trouble. I guess the moral is plain and simple killing is better than abduction. There are a few genuine laughs, but not enough to balance out the moments of utter frustration as testosterone-fueled characters strut about uttering self-important bull. Antonio Sobato Jrs' (very underused) body is worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"Some hit men are just really nice people at heart","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When approaching this movie you must take a light hearted look at it. The Big Hit is not meant to be a serious movie and if taken as such then you probably won't enjoy it. Fortunately I read a few reviews of the movie before seeing it and I knew what to expect, so I am thus warning others. It is a great movie if you don't take it seriously, otherwise it sucks.The Big Hit is what I would term as a comic book movie. The title is drawn in a comic book style, the characters dress brightly and the scenes stand out. Bright colours are used in many parts of the movie making it stand out. The Big Hit is not a dark serious movie, it is light hearted and is incredibly funny if taken as such.The movie is about a hit man (Mark Whalberg) who is basically a nice person. He has two girlfriends who take advantage of him constantly. He is easily led and his partners are constantly worming him out of money. Then one of them decides to do a little job of his own and kidnaps the daughter of a failed filmmaker. As it turns out, the filmmaker is the friend of their boss (Robert Avery) and the nice hit-man is accused of being the mastermind behind the plot.I quite enjoyed the Big Hit. It has a satirical look at action movies, and then it is simply a good laugh with lots of action, and it is far from being slow. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected. Potential spoilers","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    My viewing of this movie was pure accident, since I borrowed a tape from a friend and this movie happened to be on the tape.  Seeing Matt Wahlberg as contract killer with a personal promblems was a delight. Wahlberg is not as funny as John Cusack in Gross Pointe Blanke but he has his funny points.   The lengths that Wahlberg Smiley goes to find and return the rental movie 'King Kong Lives' is unbelievably hilarious.  Christina Applegate as a gold digger girlfriend with a predjuicous jewish mother is also a treat.   Off the subject, I.M.H.O. I believed that the tv show Nanny should have hired Christina Applegate as the jewish nanny instead of Fran Dressler. At least viewers would not be subjected to Dressler's high pitched cackling laugh "},{"Title":"Lou Diamond Phillips steals the show","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie can be described in one word fun. It has great action and comedy, is sexy and just a rollicking good time. I have never seen a movie with such a perfect blending of hilarity and action. Lou Diamond Phillips is absolute genius. If you want to watch a movie with some friends and just have a good time, this is the one. "},{"Title":"Silly and fun!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was thoroughly enjoyable!  Yes, it was unbelievable and the characterization was not so great, but who cares?  The movie's humor comes from the very fact that it is completely absurd and way over the top.  It was fun to watch, good for a laugh, had a lot of action, and the nice guy wins out in the end.  What more do you want?  Besides, Mark Wahlburg and China Chow are about the two best-looking people on the planet, so even if you don't like to movie you can still enjoy it. "}{"Title":"It's a spoof, people!!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was not to be taken seriously.  From the incredible gunfights to the car chase in the woods, it was an action packed humorous thrill ride through and through.  Mark Wahlberg was terrific as the compassionate hit man, the movie's worth seeing for his performance alone.  Just take it with a grain of salt. "},{"Title":"Good combination of fun and action!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I saw this movie I sat together with 4 people. We pretty much agreed that this movie was great.I strongly disagree with the current score (5.9)! And when I read the user comments I get the impression that people is judging this film too hard. My opinion is that The big hit is a combination of action and a lot of funny remarks and events, like the trace-buster and the trace-buster-buster and Aly's suitcase with a fragile content(which were treated with care even if the owner were dead). It also contains a bit of romance. And most important...A happy ending. The special- effects is great and the actors did a good performance.Some people complain about the unnatural scenes. Well...name one action- movie that doesn't contain some unnatural scenes! You can't enjoy an action- movie if you sit there and think about all the unnatural stuff which is happening. It's a movie!It's not difficult to see that The big hit is influenced by both Quentin Tarantino and John Woo. There is nothing wrong with that. I like their movies and we need more directors like them.I strongly recommend that you take the time and see The big hit. It's worth it!8 stars "},{"Title":"the big comedy","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For those of you who don't like this movie there is something wrong with your sense of humor. When do you get an action movie as cool as this, that is really a comedy? This is a movie that you have to just let entertain you. This it does very well. For those you who are debating whether or not you should see this movie just do it and be prepared to laugh your heart out. "},{"Title":"A change of pace from the standard action film.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Melvin Smiley (former rapper Marky Mark Wahlberg) is the typical Mister Nice Guy. He cannot say no to any proposition being made. Melvin is also engaged to a wonderful fiancée, Pam Shulman (Christina Applegate). Did I mention that he also has a gorgeous mistress too? Well, Melvin's mistress, Chantel (Lela Rochon) is quite upset right now, and for good reason.What does Melvin do for a living?  Well, let's just say he's very adept at disposing the trash of society. The pay is groovy too!  Anyway, alongside with Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips), Vince (Antonio Sabato Jr.) and Crunch (Bokeem Woodbine), Smiley and company are responsible for dispatching a certain amount of bad guys for a hefty sum...and bonuses are included too!Realizing that they have been manipulated and cheated by their bosses and the agency, the four contract killers have decided to kidnap the daughter of a prominent Japanese entrepreneur.  Keiko Nishi (model China Chow) becomes the victim of the four depraved hunters. They hold her for a voluminous ransom of a few million dollars. The father of his kidnapped daughter, Mr. Nishi (Sab Shimono) knows that he cannot withdraw a great sum of money from his account so he hires an elusive figure (Avery Brooks) to track down the contract killers...and to finish the job...As a Jewish professional killer, the whimsical Melvin Smiley begins to lose plenty of motivation and respect in his job. He also develops an infatuation for the sumptuous Keiko Nishi. Unfortunately, a change of heart won't do for the rest of the crew, so once the kidnapping scheme has become inevitably botched, Smiley has turned into the primary target for elimination...and he must pay restitution...with his life...One of Smiley's colleagues has happened to have gone nuts.   Smiley must now face his greatest challenge...finding out who the invidious enemy is from within...THE BIG HIT is an engaging display of firepower and utter hysteria. The motion picture is enlivened by a fine cast of caricatures and this film contains a vibrant sense of humor. The creative dialogue amid all of the profanity keeps the hilarity level at a sustained, adequate rate.  Plenty of violence and energy help keep this film moving at an adequately vigorous pace.Inventive action sequences includes Mark Wahlberg break-dancing while taking down an army of gunmen with his ambidextrous skills! The all-out gun battle at the beginning is a cinematic example of meticulous photography. Another highlight includes a psychotic driver chasing Wahlberg by means of a damaged, banged-up vehicle through the secluded woods. The climax unfolds with an impressive martial arts battle taking place inside an elaborate video store (!)THE BIG HIT is a flick which is also a good natured parody that is reasonably palatable. THE BIG HIT also shows how one man must learn to juggle so much in his life, including his job working for the agency, his obligations with dealing with his boss, his commitment to his true love, and all of his financial encumbrance as well.While the film may be weird and simply strange at times, THE BIG HIT is no doubt entertaining with hip characters who add more dimension with their sardonic performances. There is plenty of over-the-hill laughs and you may cringe at Lou Diamond Phillips trying to act *ghetto* but THE BIG HIT remains fun on a personal level. In terms of trying to be a classy, film, THE BIG HIT does not quite succeed. As a piece of escapism for those who do not like stressed out reality, THE BIG HIT accomplishes that mission alone. Action purists will appreciate this movie the most.  Although THE BIG HIT may not be a major hit, this film will sure delight action fans.  THE BIG HIT is a nicely drawn out parody.RATING **1/2 out ****.  "},{"Title":"Martin Blank, Meet Melvin Smiley","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There's a parallel btween THE BIG HIT & GROSSE POINTE BLANK. Martin Blank of GPB & Melvin Smiley of tBH are both hitman. Both are total pros in their job ,dispensing their victims with some ease.Both are martial arts experts.Both hold two guns while shooting people,Chow Yuen-Fatt style.Both know how to look good while kill,er,doing their job.Both came from suburban areas loaded with nice people & friendly(sic) neighbours.Both have a bunch of rivals to boot.And both have a one helluva mess of their lives. But as always,there are differences.Martin Blank looks like a 30-year old teenager while Melvin Smiley is a hunk.MB is a classy hitman while MS is the new-age killing machine.Unfortunately,a hunk like MS has to live with a geekish name.And while both are nice guys,poor MB is disillusioned while MS looks unfazed.Both movies are black comedies.GPB is pure black comedy while tBH is an action-packed black comedy.Where GPB tackles the absurdities of its plot, tBH tackles the the absurdities of situations in the movie itself.tBH is more colourful than GPB, has a kick-ass soundtrack and more attitude to boot.So if you want to watch hitmen movies with wittier,mature stories, get GROSSE POINT BLANK. If you want more adrenaline in this kind, watch THE BIG HIT.But,seriously,you should watch both because they are funny,fun & strangely charming.It's all up to you.Either of these two may suit your fancy so watch either at your own risk.You have been warned "},{"Title":"True Lies with a twist...","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you look at all the posted reviews about this movie, you can clearly see there are two distinct opinions some say it's trash, some say it's smashing... The thing is, you should take this movie for what it REALLY is a GREAT cartoon full of laughs and action, very much like True Lies actually, where the idea behind watching it is simply to have FUN. In that sense, it is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time, and unlike many other ones - very unpretentious. So if you are up for some good kicks and pumped-up action, this is THE movie to see! Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"Hits the spot","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was excellent. It had a perfect mix of action and comedy, especially the running gags. The visuals are great especially the way the flashbacks are done. It seems that a lot of fun was had making this film and I sure had a lot of fun watching it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, but vulgar","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'd absolutely recommend this movie if it wasn't for the incredible amount of profanity and vulgarity it contains. If that doesn't bother you in the least, then this movie might get 10 stars.I'm used to it, so I found it really, really funny. I mean, side-splitting funny. It was the campy, silly sort of funny, not intellectual. So if you like smart comedy this won't be what you are after. If you like The Simpsons sort of silliness and can suspend your disbelief (like, if you're an A-Team fan) then this will probably be exactly the right kind of show for you.Each character in the show was spot on. Lou Diamond Phillips played his role perfectly. He was charming and despicable at the same time. Not far behind him was Mark Wahlberg, making an unbelievable combination (hitman with a heart of gold?) actually work.This could easily have been a wasted script if the actors didn't have the right chemistry.If you're an average Joe, you won't mind the crude language and adult humor a problem and will really like this comedy.A cult classic in the making. "},{"Title":"At least SOME people know fun","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK, so this film is silly.  This film is predictable.  This film has no redeeming qualities(Except for the scenes featuring a Catholic School Girl Skirt!!).  This film is FUN, though!!  It has all the requirements.  Beautiful women, major gunfights, and a freaked-out video store clerk.  Too often, people think every movie that comes out needs to be Oscar material, and this one isn't, but WHO CARES???  Any film that has the movie King Kong Lives as a major gag is worth watching again and again!!  I am picky about the DVD's I own, and I bought this one! "},{"Title":"Pure Genius","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is basically a modern masterpiece. It's right up there with The Shadow (almost!)I'm guessing that the people who are saying this movie is the worst film I have ever seen (the most cliched, hyperbolic, and tedious comment that  one can possibly make) have only seen maybe two or three films in their  lifetime. That is not a comment one should *waste* on just any film--and this film in particular could *never* merit that distinction.To be avoided only if you are entirely humourless. Lou Diamond Phillips'  maniacal overacting is frankly mindbogglingly brilliant--if he never  makes another film again, his place in the all-time acting hall of fame  is already firmly assured by this work of the purest genius! "}{"Title":"A Big Hit","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Along with the sadly underknown Mark Dacascos film Drive, this is one of only two US-made films that are good and true disciples of the Hong Kong action film tradition.  Of course, not every US movie tries to follow in the HK action tradition, nor should it, but many do try, and most fail miserably.A lot of people seem to totally 'miss' this movie -- they complain that it's unrealistic or that there are continuity problems.  They might as well make the same complaints about Airplane! or a Monty Python film.The Big Hit is intentionally absurdist.  Yes, it's intentionally amoral, too.  This is a movie about being an action movie, a reflection and self-deprecating parody of its own condition.  You're intended to understand that it's not meant to portray things that could or should happen in the real world.It's not for everyone, granted.  It's aimed at people familiar with the genre because it's built on top of the genre.  If you're looking for a serious, moral, and realistic action film, this isn't it (although you're pretty much out of luck with any Hollywood film anyway), but if you want to see something funny, clever, and -- for a US film -- highly unusual, then The Big Hit is certainly worth a shot. "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit is the funniest movie I have seen in a long time.  It made me laugh so hard at times that I had to pause the movie until I stopped!  The melodrama and obvious attempts to make certain scenes humorous can be somewhat annoying at times, but it's the sheer in-your-face crazy behaviors of each of the unique characters that makes this movie a must-see.  This move blows Titanic out of the water.  "},{"Title":"Cleverly Stupid","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie I have found is very charming because of how unrealistic the story and characters are. The screenplay is well written.  Lou Diamind Phillips is definitely superb as a bad guy and I somehow get the feeling that his performance in this movie will be overlooked. The Big Top Video worker is very funny.  I didn't think much of Mark Wallberg when I found out he was seriously getting into acting.  I stand corrected. 2 out 3 movies that he has been the main star as have complete entertained me including this movie. This movie gets a 10 from me for being cleverly stupid. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, over the top.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  So it starts out like an action-flick... you think you're watching the usual self-referential, ironic modern action movie, one with a sense of humor but that's all... WRONG!... it's a out-and-out comedy, the writers slowly build up to a huge climax which is so *obviously* ridiculous that I'm surprised anyone didn't get it. It's a refreshing change from the average overdone action films that try to make you take things like people outrunning explosions, ludicrous amounts of destruction and nigh-invulnerable heroes seriously. It's in the tradition of Hong Kong action-humour. Think Jackie Chan, The Tick or The Blues Brothers... this is to the Action genre what Army of Darkness is to the Horror genre. "},{"Title":"Seriously under rated","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this movie. Its funny, tense and action packed. Sure its over the top, most action movies are. And some of the dialog is silly, as most movies are. And there are tons of only in the movies moments... cause it is a movie after all. No, its a great movie...there is only one thing that really bothers me about this movie...its the sexual innuendo during the cooking scene. Are we to be turned on by the fact that they're stuffing a chicken? Its an obvious reference to a hand job. Its not sexy...just...GROSS. The other thing the movie has going for it is its comedy. Elliot Gould steals his scenes. And now that this movie is on Blu-Ray, it looks so much better. I'm in love with it all over again. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Silliness.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had been wanting to see The Big Hit for a long time before I finally picked it up at the video store, despite bad reviews. I wasn't expecting it to be all that good, but the actors intrigued me. I was pleasantly surprised at this film, it was thrilling, exciting and thoroughly entertaining.Mark Wahlberg plays Melvin Smiley, who, despite his standing as a lethal, two-timing hitman, is a far cry from the type of character he played in Fear and Boogie Nights. Smiley, you see, just wants to be liked and will go to any lengths to avoid upsetting anyone. That's probably why he's been juggling his mistress and his fiancee, just so that nobody gets hurt. And just to placate his vicious, unscrupulous partner (Lou Diamond Phillips), he gives up his well-earned bonus for what has a spectacular job.The Big Hit was cruelly underrated, I cannot see why people didn't enjoy it. The scripting was funny and interesting, the performances were excellent (including a brilliant debut from China Chow and an unforgettable Wahlberg), the direction was full of effort and the sound matched everything perfectly. Although this movie has its problems, sometimes lots of them, it is still an enjoyable film with kick-ass style.I rate The Big Hit 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I ever saw!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you walk out of the theater thinking you were witnessing a car wreck - it's disgusting and horrible, and you don't know why you were looking at it. Given another chance, this would be the first movie I would have walked out of. Where to start? Firstly, it just goes to show that actors of some caliber (Mark Wahlberg, Lou Diamond Phillips) can be REALLY bad if the script is that bad. These guys seem like they're acting for a film school project - and they would have gotten an F for this assignment. The worst part of this whole mess is the movie itself - it tries to be an action movie, then a comedy, then a little drama - but the problem is that the story is so flimsy and the dialogue is so lame that there's nothing to hold this mess together. How funny is it supposed to be that Mark is a hit-man who DESPERATELY wants people to like him? They got it right in The Whole Nine Yards - they had the likeable guy played by a 'bystander', Matthew Perry, and the hit man played with coolness by Bruce Willis. Also, that movie didn't do what this movie does too often - play down to the absolute lowest common denominator possible. I mean, how often is Lou Diamond Phillips' character supposed to be dead, only to pop back up again? This tripe makes me want to gag. I hope to G-d no one ever makes a movie like this again. "},{"Title":"Smart action comedy","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'd rate THE BIG HIT a notch higher if it weren't for the incredibly vulgar language used throughout. I realize this is a comedy crime thriller, and the characters aren't exactly from Miss Porter's finishing school. Nonetheless, the constant use of vile language is a bit off putting. Other than that, HIT is a very funny comedy about a grab bag of hit men who have a bit of a falling out over a kidnaping. A bit of a falling out is a major understatement, by the way. This R-rated quickie has some incredible fight and flight sequences, including one in which Mark Wahlberg is pursued through some woods by a runaway car flipping end over end directly behind him. Now there's an image to take to the grave. Also, Wahlberg and Lou D. Philips have a great, incredibly destructive fistfight near the end that precedes one of the best building explosions I have ever seen in a movie. The plot of HIT is pure hokum. The incredible interplay among the many crazy characters is what matters here. They also have the most interesting array of accents. Elliott Gould and Lainie Kazan contribute nice quasi-cameos as Wahlberg's future in-laws. "},{"Title":"What is it?","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Is it a farce? A blood-n-guts gangster flick? A romance? A comedy? An action film? That's the problem The Hit doesn't seem to know what it wants to be, and as a result isn't much of anything. Even Christina Applegate (God, she's a fox!) can't save this one. "},{"Title":"A Big Flop","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not only one of the worst entries for 1998, but one of the worst films I've ever seen. Startlingly unfunny, this film is so bad that a golden turkey award would do it too much justice. Simply skip it. "}{"Title":"This Film Should Be Hit Big With A Baseball Bat.","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Big Hit (1998) Dir Kirk Wong / Cast Mark Wahlberg, Lou Diamond Phillips, China Chow, Christina Applegate, Avery Brooks Action packed geek show demonstrating objects distorted from idiocy. Mark Wahlberg plays a hit-man who hates his job. Remember all those people you killed? Lou diamond Phillips presses on. They have relatives that probably don't like you. Plot regards the accidental kidnapping of the goddaughter of their boss. She remains at Wahlberg's home where she cooks dinner for his fiancée and parents. Then a gunfight at the dinner table will end at Big Top Video. Pointless and stupid big budget trash directed half-heartedly by Kirk Wong. Wahlberg should have wings for all the dashing about he does. He is unsympathetic regardless of his feelings toward his job. His friendship with Lou Diamond Phillips is confusing where they are best buds one moment and then blasting away at each other behind a rack of the latest new releases the next. China Chow is the victim who is cooking one minute then escaping the next. Finally she awaits her knight as Big Top Video comes crumbling down. Christina Applegate is wasted as his fiancée and deserves better material than what this junk offers. Avery Brooks is flat as the mob boss who has the personality of a flat tire. Extremely dumb film should be called The Big Miss. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Action with a Chinese flavour","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" At first glance, THE BIG HIT looks to be an ensemble action comedy, in which a team of kidnappers pick on the wrong target and soon find themselves victims of the Mob. Look a little closer and you'll see that Hong Kong director Kirk Wong (CRIME STORY) helmed it and John Woo executive produced; this then is an American film with a distinctly Chinese flavour.That flavour is present in the style and execution of the action sequences, which contain the kind of stunts and situations familiar from both the knockabout '80s comedies starring Jackie Chan and the harder-hitting gun films of John Woo. Certainly, watching Mark Wahlberg jumping onto chandeliers, flying in the air, and spinning on railings makes for unique spectacle, even if it is incredibly cheesy for the unsuspecting viewer.The script is one of those efforts brimming with snappy dialogue and adult humour, the kind that became exceptionally popular after the success of PULP FICTION. The casting director has had a field day, drawing in the likes of Bokeem Woodbine, Lou Diamond Phillips, Elliott Gould and many others to play the larger-than-life characters. It's occasionally funny and often mildly entertaining, although not the big hit that the title would have you believe; watchable if nothing else. "},{"Title":"Kidnap and run","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Big Hit can only be approached as a tongue in cheek, comedy action film, albeit the immoral kind. Well just checkout the way a well meaning chauffeur is brutally gunned down.Mark Wahlberg is a kick ass bad guy who just cannot bear to upset people (except those he kills.) It does mean he is taken advantage of by friends, lovers and fellow hoodlums and also means his acting can be a bit blank.Wahlberg's character is skilled at what he does, you see early on shooting people while he is break dancing or machine gunning while driving in reverse.Things get rough when the gang kidnaps a daughter of a Japanese businessman and their boss (Avery Brooks) happens to be her Godfather. Lou Diamond Phillips the leader of this motley crew double crosses them in order to save his neck and fingers Wahlberg for the kidnap.The result is a lot of comic book violence and black humour. Diamond, Bokeem Woodbine and Wahlberg get the tongue in cheek spirit of the film by filmmakers from Hong Kong, which means the trademark balletic violence much in vogue in the late 1990s.The film can get a little too silly, its unpretentious, entertaining. Simply a popcorn flick, but also unmemorable once the film is over. "},{"Title":"Funny, one of Mark Wahlberg's quirky and crazy earlier works","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched this movie a few times on a local TV and still I don't change the channel if this movie is airing. It's quite a good entertainment, despite it's stupidity in the concept development.The basic premise is an average and common, no doubt about that. One that's about a small crew within the mafia and kidnapping. The stupidity and quirkiness begins when the story develops into one with the coincidences of the kidnapping target is the god-daughter of the boss of the crew, and that the Japanese Yakuza boss has a close tie with the black American mafia boss. All those are added with the ingredient of Melvin Smiley's wrecked up romance with two girls, a Jewish and a black girl. The twist of having the mastermind of the kidnapping betraying the rest of the crew is a nice touch.But the strongest attraction of this movie is the comedy, both in the dialog and in the mayhem caused by all the action. It is indeed a good entertainment for me. And since the local TV doesn't re-air it very often, it is still a good option to watch. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" for the story itself. for the precise mixture between action and humor. and for the characters portraits. a kind of tutti - frutti. clever, indecent, violent, romantic, image of a good script and smart direction. and that is the important thing in its case - the manner to not resume all story at a genre/formula. the great atmosphere and the use of an error for define a world out of ordinary recipes. a film for fun and for action fans. and a meritorious performance for each actor - Mark Wahlberg is the perfect example -. a film who reminds old film noir and, in same time - the language is key - is part of every day popular culture. correct stories , parts from large puzzle. an interesting film. first - for inspired solutions who defines it more than another movie with guns and bad boys. "},{"Title":"Wahlberg and Phillips are not comedians","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Melvin Smiley (Mark Wahlberg) is a professional hit-man. His other girlfriend Pam Shulman (Christina Applegate) lends all his money $50k to her father. So he decides to join his hit-man co-workers Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips), Crunch (Bokeem Woodbine), and Gump (Robin Dunne) on a kidnapping scheme. The problem is the father of their kidnap victim Keiko Nishi (China Chow) just lost all his money on a movie vanity project.The HK action isn't really up to scratch. The wirework, the style, and the effects are all slightly below the expected level. It feels inferior. The bigger problem is that the sarcastic brand of humor isn't that funny. These guys are annoyingly stupid and mean-spirited, but not in a funny way. Wahlberg and Phillips are not great comedians, and they can't pull it off. The script needs better comedians than these muscleheads can provide. "},{"Title":"good for the boring sunday nights","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  True, some may say that the movie was almost childish, and anything but realistic, but I think those are just people who expected the movie to be an actual action movie.  Honestly, in my opinion it's just simply a comedy from beginning to end.  It's pretty easy to tell that there wasn't much attention put into the action, but otherwise, the comedy was really good.  Several scenes will without a doubt make you laugh out loud, but only if you begin watching the movie with an open mind.  It's no comedy classic, but it's definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was a sight to see Mark Wahlberg playing this sensitive yet innocent guy. I can also say, he was one of the reason why I chose this movie....I really liked the first action scene, where Wahlberg did all the worked...it was an awesome scene. The whole Kidnapping of the bosses Goddaughter was alright. Lou Diamond was great! Antonio was, well what can I say..he has a good butt. China Chow...what a performance by her, love to see more of her works. Christina Applegate was as good as her acting go. And the rest of the cast was the tip of the iceberg.Overall the movie is fun to watched with you and your mates. "},{"Title":"So bad...So terrible...I loved it","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know. The movie was cliched, the dialoge sucked, the whole idea was absurd...but that's the point (I hope) and I absolutely loved it! The actors rocked especially Lou Diamond Phillips, the action was top notch for such a low budget flick, I love the car chase. This movie sucks, but it sucks so well it's one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"Popcorn Movie","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I recently rented this movie with several friends.  I had already seen it and recommended it.  To my surprise, the others did not like it.Wake up people, this isn't Die Hard or T2.  Its a popcorn movie with cool stunts, big explosions, and funny characters.  If you are one of those people that disect every scene you won't like this movie.  And you probably don't like your life either.  But if you want a movie that you can laugh at and take it for what its worth, GET THIS MOVIE.  Its clever (in a Seinfeld way) and originalI give it an 8.   "}{"Title":"One of my favorite action comedies.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A hit man that is too nice to his multiple girlfriends when he is away from his work.A prep school girl that likes to make fun of hit men when they kidnap her.Break dance shootings, with teabreaks.Buildings exploding in beautiful pool reflections while one is flying through the air.What more could you want? I won't miss another John Woo movie. "},{"Title":"Great film, but did not do quite as well as the title might suggest!!!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw The Big Hit when it first came out and I absolutely loved it! This film has it all action (in the usual John Woo style), comedy, car chases, gun fights, martial arts and even romance. It is a good thing that the film is so mixed, because had it relied on being a pure action film, it would not have been even half as good as it is. This definitely is a cult film. The few people who have seen the film either love it, or hate it. Most people have not even heard of the film, which makes me believe that the film should have had another title!!! ) The film is completely over the top. Just about every scene makes you think, No Way!, but this is the type of film where you don't expect anything else. The cast was generally good. Mark Wahlberg and Lou Diamond Phillips are great as hitmen, each one having a completely different personality. Christina Applegate and Bokeem Woodbine are also great. This film is definitely not for everyone, but if you like over the top movies like MI 2, Face Off and Con Air, then give this a try. You just might like it.  "},{"Title":"I liked it very much - It's much better than Austin Powers","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  The opening scene was very good with the explosions, and action. The humor was was unique and sometimes really funny.  I think this movie was trying to be a comedy with action also thrown in and that is probably a hard combination to do. However I found this to be very entertaining and even went back a second time (mainly to see the opening scene again).  I'm not sure why there's a lot of negative comments on this movie.  I think it must be the type of movie you will either really like or really dislike.  I thought this movie is much superior to Austin Powers movies (Austin power movies are soooo stupid).  This movie has more action and the humor is more intelligent and much better.This move has a lot of irony to it and that is part of the humor.  It's basically about a hitman who is a nice guy and who get's caught up in some unusual and funny situations.I think you should give this movie a chance. I'd give it a score of 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Ok.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie started good. I loved the begining action scene. Mark Walberg has to be the action star of the 20th centeryWhat ruined this was that the touchy garbage.Why did Melvin Smiley show remorse for a women yet he kills people. He says he sorry for all his rudness but is he sorry about all the people he killed for money to make a living. Hell noThats what went wrong with this movie. The Action scenes saved it. But the touchy sides in the movie killed itA 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I liked this film...","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit subconsciously managed to tread a very thin line surprisingly well - at some moments it borders on being a spoof, at some moments its firmly a fancy action flick (some bits being surprisingly emotive) Likeable characters, inventive stunts, flashy Hong-Kong paced direction, awful special effects. Okay so the plotline is wafer thin, some situations are ridiculous but if you can waste and hour and a half of your life away being entertained, by a faced paced, often funny, overblown action flick without feeling the need to pick it apart scene by scene, you're in for an unashamedly fun film.  "},{"Title":"Just for the fun","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It amazes me that there are actually people out there who can negatively review this movie, I mean, get a life!!  Hel - looo...it's NOT meant to be taken seriously, you can watch Schindler's List or American History X if you want to get serious.  But if you want to have an hour and a half of fun and laughs, try The Big Hit next time you rent a video.  Lots of great effects....car chases, explosions, cool actors and particularly hilarious scenes with Elliott Gould as Christina Applegate's dad.  We had tears streaming down our cheeks from laughter. I give it a good solid A-. (the minus because there should have been even more scenes with Elliott)  "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a cool movie. The Beginning is cool.The Story takes place.Melvin Smiley is a hit Man. He gets paid to kill. Along side his team Maters Sisco,Crunch,and Vince. He has a soon to be wife and a girlfriend who hassles him about getting money for her bills. A videotape thats due late and gets harassed by a geeky kid at a video store. Then one day Sisco plans a kidnapping. He kidnapps the Bosses Goddaugher. Then Sisco is asked to bring in the person responsible. He goes affter Melvin. Tries to hide it that hes the kidnapper. I won't spoil the ending. But this is a funny movie. Rent it "},{"Title":"Cheesy but enjoyable","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I recently saw THE BIG HIT and altho it definitely wasn't Mark Wahlberg's best (ie Boogie Nights) It was indeed enjoyable. Very cheesy also. I sometimes think people get too critical when it comes to well critque movies. I say you can be a critic when you can make a better movie. "},{"Title":"Big Hit review","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Story - 1.  A wrongfully accused professional hit man, must kill the man who sit him up and an entire organization of hitmen who are after him and find time to save his crumbling relationship.  Cool.Characters - 1.  All of the characters were created in a semi-comic book manner which made it even more interesting.  A professional hitman with an upset stomach and a failing relationship to a jewish girl.  It works!Acting - 0.  Ok, so nobody could be eligible for an Oscar, but the movie is about the GUNS baby!Cinematography - 1.  The film has a significant John Woo influence, but with a flashy Hollywood twist.  Excellent.Beginning - 1.  Began with a blast.Ending - 1.  Ended with an even bigger blast.Believability - 0.  It's fiction at its best.  No Jaguar or ANY car for that matter can survive all the stuff that car went through in the woods.  And no man alive can kill all those people and come out without a scratch.Attention Holding - 1.  Don't blink or you may just miss another intense shoot out.Memorable - 0.  Even though Big Hit is a good movie, I have to watch it now and then to remember what its like.Could Watch Again - 1.  Absolutely.  I own it on DVD and when ever somebody comes over and wants to see an action movie I pop it in.7 out of 10.  A good action/comedy movie.  Loud, fast and fun!  "},{"Title":"Its Faults","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I would have gave it a rating of 8, if these faults haven't occured 1)Lack of creativity; it seems to be a mixture of Pulp Fiction, most of John Woo's films(ironically, he's one of the producers). 2)One dimensional characters such as those played by Lela Rochon(completely wasted), Antonio Sabato Jr(who was only seen in the beginning and ending), Lou Diamond Phillips(Why did he choose this?), Christina Applegate(...and that's why she's back on TV) 3)The editing--it seems like it was a nip and cut, MTV-style type of editing.  I could go on, but I wont.  However, there were some good elements in the film, such as the debut of China Chow(whom I hope will make more films).  Don't get me wrong, this can pass off as a great escapist flick, but it needs some improvement. "}{"Title":"Good, but Pulp Fiction is better.","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit is a funny and good Action / Gangster Comedy. Looks like Pulp Fiction? Looks like! But Pulp Fiction is better. The Comedy in Big Hit is good, but not so funny like the Comedy in Pulp Fiction.The Big Hit is produced by big Stars (John Woo, Wesley Snipes) but, sure, it is directed by an (unknown??) Director. I think, the film is good, but it's a too BIG Pulp Fiction copy. (sure, not the story, but the genre and they wanted to copy the Comedy from PF) "},{"Title":"Slightly unrealistic but fun","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As many of the other comments by people who have seen this movie suggest, this movie has a really weird ending. It was good, don't get me wrong, but when you hang off a cliff and are at a video store a minute later something just doesn't click! Christina Applegate was really good as Mark Wahlberg's girlfriend but the other actors weren't too convincing, especially given the task of bringing a character to life with a weak script. If you want to see this movie, don't take it seriously or you will be disappointed, but if you don't, you will have experienced a couple of hours of fun. "},{"Title":"a whole lot of nothing, but...","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow, what a pointless and stupid movie. I walked away from it knowing this and thinking that I should have disliked it, but I just couldn't. It was too damn much fun. This is just a big, loud, fun ride that pretty much goes 90 from beginning to end. It's hokey, but it knows it, and it seems to play off of it's simplicity and predictability really well. Wahlberg's I just want everybody to like me kind of got old, but this movie isn't about character or plot or dialogue, it's about ACTION and FUN, and LOTS OF IT! Just pop some popcorn, sit back, turn your brain off, and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Is there a BIG HIT 2 in the works?","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I personally enjoyed THE BIG HIT.  I thought the silliness of the scenes added to the film.  I also enjoyed the fact that when you saw something & didn't know what happened (i.e. the return of Cisco & Melvin's return from the exploding video store) they went back and showed you what happened. But, we all have are likes & dislikes about a movie.  "},{"Title":"Hit's the Mark","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought The Big Hit was a great film, it showed what every action movie over the last ten years has showed - impossible action, but this is done in a way that makes the viewer laugh. The particular style of john woo is evident, not in the drama, but in the action, as the young characters Melvin, Vince, Crunch and Cisco show the are physical as well as emotional actors.Most people who look to this movie as being dramatic and believable will be disappointed, but those who watch the Big Hit for pure entertainment purposes should love it. "},{"Title":"Very good movie with lots of action and comedy. My fav. for 1998.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is really a good one. It's the perfect mix of a movie, a Romance/Comedy/Action that the whole family will enjoy! There are some hotties in the movie too for me, that would be Christina Applegate, and for girls Mark Wahlberg. The movie was very well done until about 1/2 hour before the end, when some mistakes were made. Overall, this was a movie worth seeing. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Definitely THE Big Hit","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was a great date movie. It had plenty of action and romance and GREAT looking guys and girls to make this a must-see movie for all movie lovers.  While the plot was a bit shallow, this movie had great side gags and special effects. And the clothes that the actors wore were absolutely the best wardrobe that I've ever seen!! Anyone know where I could get some?  "},{"Title":"I comment on how well the film appeals to me. I don't really care about the technical factors, just as long as the story is good, and the film was put together good enough to understand and enjoy.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great movie. I thought this movie was really great. It had it all, action, comedy, romance, even a little sinister twist. I thought the beginning was great with the action scenes, I loved the filming on that one. I also liked how after they kidnapped the girl, they added a twist by having the girl be the boss's goddaughter, and the boss hired the kidnapper to find her, not knowing he was the kidnapper. This was great. And I love the best buds turn enemies type movies, it adds a lot of character to the film. Also, I thought the romance of the movie was good. Like a love at first sight kinda thing. Of course there were some faults towards the end of the movie, certain mess-ups, but small ones. But that doesn't matter, the movie in itself was great.Oh and I especially loved the nerd at the movie store. Now that's a great add in. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, action-packed comedy.","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all, do not take this movie seriously.  If you realize this is all one big joke, you'll have no problem with it.  All the actors were hilarious.  The funniest person was China Chow who, when reading the threatening ransom note reminded me of Margaret Cho, a great comic talent. Also, some of the action sequences were well choreographed and involving. It's not a good movie, but it's exciting and entertaining. "},{"Title":"King Kong Lives","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Melvin is a killer and a nice guy who desperately tries to please everyone, which causes a lot of trouble, involving the most costly movie ever made, the kidnapping of the daughter of the man who made the most costly movie ever made, two girl-friends, the somewhat difficult parents of one of them, a kosher meal, some fragmented corpses and a video which badly needs to be taken back to the video store... What starts with some cool John-Woo style action soon becomes a very amusing chaos. Big fun! "}{"Title":"Definitely very entertaining","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am shocked IMDb gave this a 5.1, this movie deserves MUCH higher and here is why, first of the action was quite brilliant, the gun slinging was great! The here and there comedy moments add ons they shot in the movie ended up being great laughter, in fact VERY good laugh, the acting is great no doubt, everyone played a nice role in a great story too, Mark Walberg and Lou Diamond Phillips were most certainly the best off course, great decision to put those 2 in the same movie and work together they make a great team, this movie deserves an 8 and not a 5, so give it a chance and shot, you will love this forsure, This is Mark Walberg at his best. "},{"Title":"Applegate Gets Sweezed In","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great Drama, Comedy and plenty of slap stick killings with Mark Wahlberg, Lou Diamond Phillips. The Hit Man in this fill loves to kill, but has a heart of gold and is a sucker for women and especially Gold Diggers who rob him blind. The Hit man does anything his buddies in crime demand of him and even gives back $25,000 dollars which he gets cheated out of his bonus money. Christina Applegate,(Pam Shulman) is one of the Hit Man's girl friends and is Jewish which proves a problem for Pam's mother, who wants her nice Jewish daughter to marry a nice Jewish man. Elliott Gould,(Morton Shulman) gives plenty of comedy and lots of laughs. However, there is non-stop intense action through out the film and it will keep your interest right to the bitter end. "},{"Title":"Fast, Funny, Full-On, Fantastic Film","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Big Hit is a great film for its genre. Its genre is Action/Comedy and in just 88 minutes it delivers the viewer with both a comical and realistic view of the modern hit-man. The storyline is well written and well thought out. Both Mark Wahlberg and Lou Diamond Phillips nail the leading roles of hero and villain respectively, with Lou Diamond Phillips offering one of the best performances of his fantastic career. The action is full-on and fast-paced and adds spice to the already well developed characters and plot. If you want a film that can take you away from reality on a crazy action-packed ride that requires little complicated thinking of the plot and sub-plots, The Big Hit is the perfect film for you. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Trace Buster Buster","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was looking through IMDb and found what the previous person had said about this film an feel it doesn't do it justice. This is a non stop fast paced comedy action film, If u wanna watch something serious then this definitely isn't the film for u. Mark Wahlberg plays the S.N.A.G well and Lou Diamond Phillips plays the ultimate villain you just love to hate. Its no Oscar film, (Half of them Oscar films are boring anyway) but it still has plenty of punchlines and action scenes that will keep you talking about it with your friends for years to come. I saw this film around 1999 and i am still telling jokes from it. Great movie, 8 out of 10.Trace buster buster.... "},{"Title":"Funny, Action-packed B-Movie...","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Critics (including more than a few here) have been unkind to THE BIG HIT, Chinese director Kirk Wong's first American film, ever since it first appeared on screens in 1998. There was a tendency to take a film about a likable hit man a bit too seriously (particularly as John Cusack's brilliant black comedy, GROSSE POINTE BLANK had come out the previous year), and forget that the film was intended as an 'over-the-top' parody of Hong Kong action and American 'caper' films (John Woo and Wesley Snipes are two of the film's eight producers). With references to schlock-master Troma Films (and the worst tendencies of 'Blockbuster'-like video stores), jabs at 'upwardly mobile' gang members who have more 'looks' than brains, a funny subplot of a middle-aged Chinese millionaire who blew his fortune starring in his own sex-charged super-epic, and a pre-MY BIG FAT GREEK WEDDING sequence as a Jewish family deals with a potential German/Irish Catholic son-in-law, THE BIG HIT attempts far more than it can possibly deliver, but never loses sight of an underlying truth that in a 'B' movie, which this certainly is, 'anything goes'! Mark Wahlberg (in a role originally intended for Jason Scott Lee) is Melvin Smiley, a courteous, considerate kind of guy whose only desire is for everybody to like him...which can be a real problem for a contract killer. His fellow gang members (Lou Diamond Phillips, Bokeem Woodbine, and Antonio Sabato Jr.) make him take the majority of the risks, his mistress (Lela Rochon) steals his money and cheats on him, and his fiancé (Christina Applegate) is a spoiled Jewish princess who casually empties his bank account to help her father (a gross Elliot Gould) while lying about their relationship to her mother (Lainie Kazan, who has made a career out of these roles). Guzzling down liquid antacid, Smiley is forced to participate on a side job for Phillips, kidnapping the daughter of (bankrupt) Chinese millionaire Jiro Nishi (Sab Shimono)...who turns out to be the goddaughter of the crime lord the gang works for (Avery Brooks). As Phillips convinces the mob that Smiley was behind the kidnap scheme, the victim (the lovely China Chow, in her film debut) and Smiley discover they have a LOT in common, and fall in love...all leading to an explosive climax!This is a 'beer and popcorn' kind of flick, with no pretensions of being 'art', and if you can accept it on those terms, you'll find that THE BIG HIT is a LOT of fun. Wahlberg, coming off his first major film success (BOOGIE NIGHTS), proves himself adept at physical action, and shows a flair for comedy that he hasn't had an opportunity to use, since. The real star of the film, however, has to be Phillips, who combines menace with humor, and delivers one-liners like a born comedian. Whenever the two actors share the screen, there is terrific chemistry.THE BIG HIT is certainly worth a rental...but, as the film makes painfully clear, be sure and return the film ON TIME!  "},{"Title":"China is so fina...","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wish she was mina. Sorry. I know - bad pun. The first thirty minutes was horrible. Then came Christina Applegate, and especially China Chow. She is such a natural. Unfortunately for the movie, it's not enough. "},{"Title":"the consequence of judging","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a very interesting movie. The average jaded critic wouldnt give this movie a high score, but i watched this movie with no pre-biases or judges. The action is way over the top, with some rather unrealistic sequences.. but the comedy and querkiness make this movie hilarious and very watchable. If you waste time looking for details, it wont be fun, but if you sit back and just enjoy the film its wonderful- there are several hilarious scenes and the actors have great personalities.. 6/10 (it was a fun flick) "},{"Title":"*1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mark Wahlberg stars as a nice guy assassin named Melvin Smiley who finds himself in deep trouble when he aids his friends in a kidnapping plot of an Asian teen named Keiko (China Chow) who turns out to be the god-daughter of his crime boss in this largely lame Hong Kong wannabe which is a perfect example of style over substance. Some okay actionscenes help but not enough. "},{"Title":"Probably the most underrated movie of 1998","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wonder what some people from The Big Hit must have done to annoy the film gods (reviewers)?This movie is probably the most underrated, forgotten and sloppy reviewed movie of 1998 it features a fun (silly with a lovely spin) story that has an ironic view behind the curtain of Hollywood action films... Maybe that's the reason the distributor wanted the movie to be a failure?In Europe I saw the movie back in 1998 in a Sneak Preview. The director Kirk Wong has learned his leassons well from executive-producer JOHN WOO (Yep! That's the one from FACE/OFF and MI-2). The movie delivers a well thought out parody and many inside-jokes. When you laugh too long you'll miss the next joke!The cast is gorgeous with Mark Wahlberg, China Chow, Christina Applegate, Lou Diamond Phillips and Avery Brooks (honory note) and many more!The story a contract killer has problems with his job because he wants to be a nice guy (HAHA!) and his name is Melvin Smiley (!!). I mean how can anybody take this film not for what it is a big screwball hong kong style hollywood actioneer close to perfection! Alone the whole story about the movie business is absurd... it's plain and simple a high class comedy.The action sequences are great and stylish like John Woo's best scenes in other movies. The soundtrack is great and creates a top atmosphere. I bought the DVD and it's one of the best with picture quality, sound and extras!!!GO BUY THE DVD!!! The normal version is already great you don't have to pay more for the SuperBit collection (except DTS is a must for you).It's a great sleeper hit because most people don't know this film! If I want to show off my DVD/HiFi at home I always use this DVD. After watching it ten times it's still fresh.I don't know a person that didn't like the movie and didn't laugh 'till he or she dropped of the couch.For me, The Big Hit is the HIT MOVIE OF 1998. "},{"Title":"Average action movie that replaces style and thrills with swearing, dumb jokes and speed","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mel is a hitman who works as part of a crew for Paris.  However he has money problems and stress that gives him a constant upset stomach.  His main stress comes from his two women.  His fiancé has arranged for her disapproving parents to come to stay with them for the weekend, while his girlfriend Chantel is determined to get every penny she can out of him.  When Cisco offers him a job outside of Paris's contracts he takes it and kidnaps Keiko, the daughter of a rich industrialist who also happens to be Paris's goddaughter.  Betrayed by Cisco, Mel finds himself with the hostage but also targeted by plenty of firepower.I saw this on TV recently and had never heard of it.  I wondered why an action movie with Mark Wahlberg had managed to slip beneath my radar?  Watching it I realise why.  The plot is silly but could have worked, however the action scenes don't really have any character and are best described as functional rather than special.  The director has chosen to give the film a constant energy and pace rather than work on giving the film it's own character or style.Some of the scenes hint at what could have worked in the script.  Quiet scenes between Mel and Keiko show a character that should have been worked into the action better.  Instead these are rare and make way for meaningless, overblown action sequences which also, surprisingly for Wong, lack a sense of character or excitement.  The effects aren't as good as you'd hope and several blue screen bits are poor.Wahlberg is likeable in a goofy innocent role as Mel.  He does well with the action as well as the insecure character.  Phillips is either bad or brilliant depending on your feelings about what his role needed.  He hams it up so much that at times he's hard to take but he compliments the absurd vein of comedy running through the narrative.  Woodbine is wasted despite an amusing running gag about his discovery of masturbation.  The biggest waste for me was Lela Rochon.  In `Knock Off' she proved that she is talented and sexy enough to rise above a bad film, here she hardly has any screen time &#150; a shame cause I like her loads.However this is disposal more than anything else.  It has enough pace and energy to fool you into being entertained and in fairness the time does pass quite easily.  But afterwards I looked back and wondered `what was all that about'?  Overall this is an average action movie who's weaknesses outweigh any strengths it may have had at the time of writing the original script. "}{"Title":"Pure Pulp Fiction - a Hoot","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one very funny movie. had me laughing from beginning to end, the kidnap scene had me in stitches. A very underrated movie, with Phillips and Walberg making a great team. Very quirky, lots of over the top action. Rent it, buy it, it will be one you watch over and over again. Highly recommended. 7/10 "},{"Title":"let go and just enjoy the goofy feeling of this film","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Firstly, I would like to say that The Big Hit is one of my favorite films of all time.  Why?  Because it does not take itself seriously. Please note that this film is produced by Wesley Snipes and co-produced by John Woo.What does this mean?  It's going to be silly.  It's going to have action sequences that don't make sense, guns that don't run out of ammo (ever seen The Killer by Woo?) and cars that don't die, even when we know that they would.  But that's what's enjoyable.  It's fun to watch, the comedy is original, and it's NOT supposed to be a serious action film!  Get over yourselves, all you folks that don't like it!  If you actually think that the fight sequences in this film are off-the-wall, than maybe you should give up on action films in general, and never, ever watch anything with Jet Li, anything directed by John Woo, or anything starring Bruce Willis; it's action/comedy for god's sake, get over yourself and just surrender to the reality of the film! "},{"Title":"Kick back, make no assumptions & enjoy the ride!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was upset when I read the plethora of bad reviews this movie received by other users. This is a great movie for a date, lazy afternoon, or to enjoy with friends. Every movie isn't set to be a classic. This movie does not make the attempt to be anything more than a fun action-packed wacky comedy. Bokeem Woodbine is great in his supporting role as well. Enjoy the Ride!My score would be a 7.5 out of 10 but due to the other unfair reviews I will be giving this movie a (9/10) "},{"Title":"Action comedy at it's best","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit is exactly what it intends to be a action comedy. Mark Wahlbeg shows his acttion star staus for the first time in this movie and the action sequences by Kirk Wong were some of the best in 1998. Lou Diamond Phillps and Bookem Woodbine provide great one liners in a very good film. My only complaint is that the movie was to short. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hilarious. This is one of my favorite action comedies just because they manage to incorporate the humor with the action. The action scenes are the best I have seen which makes this movie one you'll want to watch over and over. I suggest that you atleast rent this movie because some people won't like the content of the film but this is definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"It is just entertaining","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, if you want to be watching a thought provoking film with gobs and gobs of meaning, don't see this movie to try and get that.  On the other hand, if you want to see some great action sequences and some funny lines, then this is the movie for you.  There is a nice mix of young and not so young actors in this movie.  Mark Wahlberg does any excellent job as usual.  Some of the stuff in the movie is unbelievable, but that is why you watch movies, to step out of reality sometimes.  Also, the movie has lines that you will be reciting to all your friends for years and years to come. "},{"Title":"Great popcorn movie","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bottom line, this movie is NOT meant to be serious, and it never does take itself serious.  The action can only be appreciated by the creativity of the ways that Mark Wahlberg can kill a person.  Especially the break dance shooting, the driving on reverse while firing a sub-machine gun, the blade vs fist fight in the video store, the bungee on arm and gun on other arm bouncing up and down stairs shots... the list goes on.  The comedy is great, even after the numerous times I've seen this movie.  The amazing thing is, the producers and directors are mostly from Hong Kong and you'd think their humor would be alot difference than ours.  Elliot Gould was funny in his few moments.  The Japanese businessman plays the part great with his attempted Harikari suicide and bankrupt scene.  Mark plays the innocent hit man perfectly.  Bokeem Woodbine is funny if only strictly limited to his running joke.  Lou Diamond Phillips plays the villain to what a villain in a comic book would be.  One of the best action-comedies I've ever seen, better than Charlie's Angels, even though Charlie's Angels had a budget about 100 times greater than The Big Hit.Rent it and don't critic it as a arthouse film and you'll definately enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Hollywood, take note","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You need to make more of these pictures.  This is, taken in concert with Charlie's Angels, a wonderful comedy/action flick that helps Americans realize that moviemaking isn't all about Mel Gibson and Jim Cameron.  Feel this was a mess?  Missed the point?  Go watch Titanic again, then, because there's no hope for you... "},{"Title":"This action/comedy rules","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Director Kirk Wong's first US film is great.  All the characters are cool and fun.  The plot isn't much, but it doesn't have to be.  Action and comedy blend together here to form an explosive good time.  I found myself watching over and over again.  I still love it, and I would recommend it to anyone.  Kirk Wong should make another film.  I think he has a lot of Hollywood potential and is a masterful director.  This movie falls in my top 50 and deserves more popularity than it has received.  If you haven't seen it, see it.  If you have seen it and don't like it, then I don't think you really understand what a good movie should be. "},{"Title":"Poor Attempt at HK Action","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the worst movies of 1998, The Big Hit is a saturated action flick with some lousy humor.  The attempt at comedy fails because there's no effort to make things funny.  There are two scenes that were any good.  One, the gunfight at the beginning of the film.  Two, the climax of the film.  Even through it was produced by John Woo doesn't make it as good as Woo's best.  The whole kidnapping angle is something out of a Italian Crime/Delitto movie.Christina Applegate pretty much plays the same kind of character she did on Married With Children(1987).  Mark Wahlberg does an average job in the role of Melvin Smiley.  Lou Diamond Phillips overdoes it in playing the villain.  The only positive point is the appearence of China Chow as Keiko, the Kidnapped victim.  The mixture of action and comedy does not work well in this movie.  The problem is that it has an MTV quality that hurts the style of the movie. If anyone wants to see a good action flick with some black humor then I recommand the film, FudohThe New Generation(1996). "}{"Title":"Starts great, good music, good action, ends quickly","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It starts really great, good music, nice shooting show and Melvin is really pathetic. At the end the producer seemed to think he had to explain how certain things happened like the car explosion and the explosion in the video, that spoils it I think ... "},{"Title":"Cool.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am beginning to come a fan of Mark Wahlberg's work now that I have seen Boogie Nights, The Basketball Diaries and The Big Hit. This is probably his most underrated film. Why does everyone hate it? All these makers wanna do is shoot guns, have a laugh and let us enjoy the film.This film is funny as, it is about a bunch of hitmen capturing a young high school student and then the leader falling in love with her, this then becomes mayhem because the hitmen may have to leave town, or even skip the country! I really enjoyed this film, it had good acting and a funny script. Don't miss it!   "},{"Title":"The Big Hit definitely a Big Hit!!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie was excellent.  I loved every minute of it.  The action was great.  If you haven't seen it, I suggest that you see it.  I plan on buying it.  I loved the comedy also.  The only reason I that I could see why it is rated 'R', is because of the language.  As I said before, it is a must see film.  I give it 10/10!! "},{"Title":"The Big Horrible Movie","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've been reading that The Big Hit is a great movie if you take it as it is.  Apparently, to enjoy this movie I am required to remove a portion of my brain.  Even with my willing suspension of disbelief, this movie still was very very awful.  If we had to take a movie for what it is, every movie would be the greatest movie ever made. On the plus side, this movie gave equal time to drooling teenage girls as it gave to drooling teenage boys.  Both sexes should be satisfied with that. We as the audience have the distinct opportunity to see - gasp! - Marky Mark's naked butt!!  In fact, the men get more naked than the women.  I giggled at the part when Wahlberg pulls into the wrong driveway because the houses all look alike. The action sequences weren't that great on a whole with the exception of the bungee jump down the stair thingy and that whole bit which required Wahlberg to roll down the stairs, miraculously failing to break his nose. As for acting (snicker snicker) Wahlberg should have improvised the whole thing instead of reading from the script.  Lou Diamond Phillips couldn't be more obnoxious.  The jewish couple, was...jewish.  And Antonio Sabato, Jr. was incredibly good looking.  As a matter of fact, I liked him most of all because he wasn't in the movie much. I recommend that if you do feel the urge to watch this movie, make sure you have your movie beer goggles strapped on tightly. "},{"Title":"Eh, not bad.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is just that, not bad. Its action sequences are well done and very entertaining. The comedy is generally amusing and fun (although some of it is very subtle and the rest pretty low-brow). Don't expect too much from this movie and you won't be disappointed. If you want a light, fun, action movie with some interesting characters, give this film a try. I would have to say that the cast, on the whole, does a fantastic job considering the absurdity of their situations. China Chow does well in her film debut, fortunately the part only requires her to be cute and Asian which she does very well. Mark Wahlberg also makes a good attempt at being a kind-hearted killer. I gave this a 7/10 because it's fun, not because it's a clever movie.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad Movie","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  They took a decent cast and made a pretty bad movie.  Mark Wahlberg was good, but the rest of the cast was bad.  There were so many filming goofs (where camera angles would change and people would be standing in different places, or wearing different clothes, etc.) that it was hysterical.  The wackiest thing is that 10 minutes into the movie, Antonio Sabato Jr. leaves the cast, no explanation, nothing.  He's just gone and replaced with a new guy - who disappears later on as well.  I gave the movie a 4 out of 10, only because I didn't shut it off and stamp on the cassette with my feet.  "},{"Title":"The Big Hit is a BIG HIT!!!","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  DO YOU WANT TO SEE ONE OF THE BEST ACTION MOVIES OF ALL TIME? If you do, then please, read on!!! This movie did very well at the box offices... Why? Cause it's an awesome action flick with some really good comedy thrown in. John Woo is one of the film's producers, and that really shows. The action scenes are sharp, clever and powerful. As for the cast, I would like to give credit to Mark Wahlberg. He's a great actor (he showed that in last year's hit movie Boogie Nights) and does VERY well in The Big Hit. Lou Diamond Phillips is also great. He's got to be one of the meanest bad guys I've ever seen. A big, bright, shining star in this movie is Christina Applegate (From NBC's new hit-sitcom Jesse). I know many people went to see this film just because of her! ) I won't tell you too much about the plot. All you need to know is that this flick is about a super-cool, but not always too- successful bunch of hit-men! Every scene in this movie is either filled with a raw action scene, or a hilarious line from one of the characters. I especially laughed hard when the hostage *tried* to read the badly-written note the hitmen made for her to read, so that they could make a tape and play it for the hostage's father. The Big Hit is one AWESOME film!!! This baby is very well worth 10 stars, and more!!! "},{"Title":"The Big Hit is a Big Smash","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a very cool movie. The movie was funny and action packed throughout. There wasn't a part in the movie where it all of a sudden just becomes very boring. The bit with the Tracebusters is hilarious and Lou Diamond Phillips gives his coolest performance since Young Guns. Mark Wahlburg and the rest were cool also. If you haven't seen this movie please do. You will find it as one of the most fun and enjoyable movies to come out this entire year. "},{"Title":"Good blend of action and oddball humor","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is a lot of fun.  All the characters have a unique and fun personality.  The villian is different, he's not some scholarly, bible quoting baddie that the 90's action flicks seem to always carry.  The action is furious and well choreographed. Mark Wahlberg's breakdance move while firing his gun is really awesome.  This is no masterpiece it is entertaining and has great action.  What else would you expect from executive producer John Woo. "},{"Title":"The Big HUH?","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Why hit men Mark Wahlberg (Melvin Smiley), Lou Diamond Phillips (Cisco), Bokeem Woodbine (Crunch), and Antonio Sabato Jr. (Vince) are nearly naked in an early locker room scene in this dreadful movie is beyond me. Bokeem Woodbine has one up on his muscle-bound buddies he's simply fascinated with the subject of masturbation; he's even the Customer of the Month at his local video store. The Big Hit never knows if it's a comedy, a parody, an action film, or a love story. The four genres, so mixed up, simply meld into one big mess. Christina Applegate (Pam Shulman) plays well as Mark Wahlberg's girlfriend; the only funny segment of this hopeless flick happens when her parents, the Shulmans (played by Lainie Kazan and Elliott Gould) come to visit. Melvin and Pam want the Shulmans' marriage blessing, but Melvin isn't Jewish, and that doesn't necessarily sit right for the Shulmans, especially Mr. Shulman, who has a rather interesting way of looking at things. Lainie Kazan and Elliott Gould breathed life into this dead zone (Elliott Gould looks pretty darned good); their appearance in this dull film upgraded the IMDb rating from a 1 to a 2. "}{"Title":"These Are Not Your Three Kings Or Four Brothers","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A little less than two years ago I became a fan of Mark Wahlberg as an actor. That affection for him as an asset has only grown. He's darned good. It's not that he played a foul-mouthed cop so well in The Departed, nor that he was good as Charlie Croker in the remake of The Italian Job. It wasn't 'Boogie Nights or Traveller, as I have not seen either of those films. It wasn't his role in The Perfect Storm that won me over, either, although that is a smashing good movie.It was the way he held his own in Three Kings with George Clooney, that first impressed me, and then in the revenge-drama Four Brothers, I came to realize that this fellow has an absolute talent for playing the damaged hero. His acting in that ensemble made the ensemble click. It was pure and driven hatred being expressed by an adopted son for the ( unknown ) killers of his adoptive mother. It was done simply and most brilliantly, without crowding out the other three actors ....True, seven years elapsed between the champion with the broken heart, that we meet in Four Brothers, and the cartoon comedy role -- as Smiley -- that he played in The Big Hit. Maybe he was expected to carry everything himself in this abysmal crime comedy, which isn't really funny at all. Or, just maybe, Laine Kazan and Elliot Gould had more funny lines than were actually included in the film, or whatever -- but it ain't funny.The Big Hit is a big, mangy, slobbering, smelly and disgusting cur.It represents everything that is wrong with movie-making in the U.S. and therefore Hollywood, and in a real sense it does have one strong and valuable element in it. The Big Hit demonstrates exactly how the process of the degenerate overtaking the sublime in Hollywood has been in motion since the moment this film was given the Green Light.Whoever took the decision to finance this incredible drivel, deserves to be horse-whipped in a public square. It offends every sensibility of any person with any humanity left intact. It isn't funny and it isn't a cautionary tale wrapped in a fantastic farce, and it isn't anything worth seeing once, much less twice. However, I was suckered into renting it because I do so admire Wahlberg from Three Kings and Four Brothers. I don't know who Ben Ramsey is ( or whether he really wrote all the insidious and villainously bad dialog in The Big Hit ), but it seems clear that he didn't get another screenplay sold for four years because he was credited with spawning this devil dog. I do know how hard it is for good writers to pop up in Hollywood, but if he deserves the blame for this toxic 'comedy,' he too should face a public whipping, a dunking or stoning or being force-fed overcooked hot dogs. With no honey mustard.A vote of one only because negative numbers are not allowed. "},{"Title":"You need a good sense of humor","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Dr. Gore's got this one in the bag. It is a great action comedy. Everyone i have showed the movie to has loved it a bought it. It is starting to get more recognition, mainly because when it came out many people do not understand its sense of humor. The plot holes are not mistakes i.e. how did Melvin and the girl get down from the cliff?? That is part of the humor. People should have understood it from the beginning fight scene, or fight scene after Melvin's. If you have not seen the movie you need to. "},{"Title":"More Like The Big S**t","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie gets dumber by the nanosecond!  Now, I understand its intention. It's supposed to be a tongue-in-cheek action-comedy that requires you to check your brain at the door.  So it's a trashy film.  There's fun trash and there's dull trash.  This is dull trash.There's lots of humor, lots of high-energy action.  But neither works out. The humor is so low-brow, awfully timed and delivered.  The action sequences seem straight out of a video game.  As Roger Ebert said, This is the kind of flick where the bullets have read the screenplay.  The only ones who get shot are the ones who HAVE to get shot.  Mark Wahlberg busts in, in the first sequence, facing an army of baddies--every one armed--yet he manages to nail every one of these b*****ds with his magic machine gun.  Not once does a bullet even brush through his hair.  The action is so stylized it's like a ballet.  I'm waiting for MarkyMark to get into his tutu and do a couple of pirhouettes, as he flamboyantly fires bullets left and right.The storyline doesn't make a bit of sense, and if this were an entertaining action piece I would excuse the weak storyline.  People come back to life after getting caught in the midst of massive explosions.  I've seen tons of action and horror flicks where people come back to life after being virtually mutilated, but this movie takes the cake.The characters are completely one-dimensional, and not the least bit interesting.  Wahlberg is a mild-mannered hitman (what a cool oxymoron!) who just wants to be liked.  Awwww, such pity.  Lou Diamond Phillips is a trash-talker who will do anything for the buck.  Bokeem Woodbine is a chronic masturbator (yes, you heard right) who's addicted to smut.  And there's another dude who's...an utter dumbass who can never get his words right.  Christina Applegate plays the stereotypical Jewish girl with stereotypical Jewish parents (Elliott Gould and Lainie Kazan).  But Lainie Kazan, as the mother who bashes his daughter for dating a non-Jew, has some amusing moments and I actually got some chuckles.  You seem like a good...German-Catholic fellow, she says sarcastically in the middle of a card game.  And Gould has some funny moments as the alcoholic father. Sure, the two characters are alarmingly one-note, but at this point I don't care about artistic integrity.  I just want to be entertained!Mark Wahlberg is not EXACTLY a terrible actor.  I thought he was good in Fear and fairly good in Boogie Nights, though I can't understand why he was even considered for an Oscar nomination.  In this movie, he has absolutely NO expression whatsoever!!!  A piece of cardboard could've played this role better than him.  I've seen Wahlberg in interviews and he seems to have virtually no personality.  I think he should've stuck to being a rapper/underwear model.  If he didn't have the looks and the body, he would've been tossed out the movie biz in an instant.  He could easily be replaced by any other young, good-looking actor--with more talent.  Lou Diamond Phillips has showed off his talent in several early films including LaBamba where the played rocker Richie Valens.  But recently, he's sunk into the direct-to-video circuit.  And he lets his talent be even lesser known in this hammy performance.  Avery Brooks is also extremely hammy as the villain Paris.You can say this is a guy flick, but the chicks will probably love it too and overlook all its flaws as the sight of the gratuitous male locker room nudity takes over their psyche.  Yes, women will probably appreciate this flick because there's no female nudity.  So there ya go, chicks.  You got your wish.Even the soundtrack is lame.  I was wondering why I saw the soundtrack for this movie on the discount rack, selling for $3.99.  The title song is I'm the Man in which that's the only lyric you hear.  It's goes like I'm the man, man, man, man, man, man!  The man, man, man, man, man!  You think with a big-budget like this they could afford some real artists.No, I didn't take this movie seriously.  But I wasn't laughing either. It's just stupid, stupid, stupid.  The kind of film that caters to the lowest common denonimator of movie audiences.  If you're under the age of 17, ignore my comments.  But if you have a shred of maturity, please avoid this clunker at all costs!My score  3 (out of 10)              "},{"Title":"avoid it like the plague","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  By far one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my entire existence.  And that is saying a lot, cause folks, I've seen thousands of them.  I'd thought we'd gotten beyond the stereotypes of Jews talking Yiddish and worring about money.  I thought we were past the idea that all Asian men are fools walking about talking with a bad accent will their women spread their legs for just about anyone. I was insulted, even though I'm a white non-jew.  For a movie that is supposed to simply be a no brainer action flick it lacks on the action and definitely meets the no brain required standard.  In fact, I'd say that if you have even a single brain cell left, do something else with it.  I could care less about the masturbation jokes.  The dialogue was so repetitive that I felt like putting a hit out on the writers just to do the world a favor.  If this is the kind of crap that hollywood is churning out nowadays, count me out.  The funny parts, like the video store clerk, were more annoying than an itch you can't scratch.  The only reason I watched the entire video was because I was hoping, this has to get better.  It can't possibly get worse. 1 out of 10 only because the scale doesn't go any lower.   "},{"Title":"Uh, no...","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well it has the John Woo flair with the explosions and the classic dual Berettas but this mish-mash of a comedy/action really falls flat when it's trying to be silly. It's sort of like some screwed up manifestation of a Tarantino-flick. I don't know. It might have tried to parody hit man movies in general with the cheesy dialogue and out-of-the-blue romances between overly-cliched characters. However, all this really produces is an unfunny bore-inducing dribble that should have been shelved from the start. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  2 hours of my life that I will never get back. All I have to ask is why? Why would anyone ever direct such a bad, bad movie. I think I would rather watch Orca for 72 hours then watch this again. I will steal the souls of whoever made this movie. "},{"Title":"1... for lack of a negative number","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember watching the news one night and seeing an article about a man being murdered while walking his dog in his own neighbourhood and after seeing it just wondering what's going on in the world. Seeing that there are far more people who deemed this film better than the 1 it so sorely deserves has left me shaking my head and wondering the EXACT same thing. To be fair, I'm sure there are movies that exceed (and not by much, I'm sure) The Big Hit's level of utter sh*ttiness, but there aren't many of them. I think what did it for me was when Marky Mark and his band of fools stormed the hotel room and actually moved SO quickly that their clothing left streaks in the air. This however, was only the tip of the iceberg, as I was left sitting in front of my television completely dumb-struck by what looked like Mark Whalberg break dancing AND shooting bad-guys.After the first action sequence I had to collect myself and wonder What is going on here?  Is The Big Hit a sick joke? No. I have a theory. It has come to my attention that there are far more bad movies than need be in the world, so there has to be a reason for this. Therefore, I have decided that these movies are merely money-laundering schemes organised by crime syndicates and various other groups of unsavouries. Alas, The Big Hit is one such film. Owing to the movie's purpose in the world, such aspects as story, direction, diologue and basically everything else were overlooked and it was the finished product that they were looking for. This has helped me sleep with a clear conscience ever since. What Lou Diamond Phillips was doing here is still beyond me, I don't think I've ever found a movie character more outrageously annoying and I don't think I ever will. And finally, the turkey stuffing scene should have prompted some form of legislation to make it illegal in each and every country this film was distributed to in order to spare everyone foolish enough to rent the film of their own sanity. This film is SO BAD, I didn't even want to buy it for the sake of laughing at it.  IMDB should develop a negative scale, or at least a 0, because the 1 I gave this film has left me feeling far too generous. "},{"Title":"Would you just die!?","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have serious concerns about the 219 people who voted this movie a 10. This is one of the worst films I've ever seen.  In fact, had I not been there just because I wanted to see a bad film, I would have left thirty minutes in.It's not just the highly implausible plot or the ridiculous dialogue. Really, I think it is the fact that Lou Diamond Phillips keeps teasing us into thinking that his obnoxious character is going to die only to find that he is still alive.  I actually stood in the theater and shouted, Would you just die!?  The audience applauded.There is one high point.  Elliot Gould is actually quite funny as the future father-in-law who can't hold his liquor.  And really, Mark Wahlberg really does a pretty decent job.  He's an underestimated actor due to his Marky Mark past.Do yourself a favor.  Watch the movie trailer.  It's much more enjoyable than the movie. "},{"Title":"The Big Hit bites!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie sucks big time!  It's not funny or interesting.  I turned it off mid-way and I normally will sit through almost anything.  At least we get to see Antonio Sabato, Jr. nude from behind.  But he's hardly even in the film. ZZZZZZZZ. "},{"Title":"Nothing worse!","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Could you possibly make a movie worse than this? Biggest mistake Chinese director Wong made was taking himself seriously. Instead of treating this as a full-on wild action romp, he should have done the whole thing tongue-in-cheek.The entire film is incoherent, from its ludicrous action sequences to its indeterminable plot to its totally unfathomable characters. A young Asian kidnap victim has her boyfriend's head blown off right next to her and is totally cool about it, while Mark Mark is doing back spins while shooting bad guys in an opening scene. Need I go on?In the meantime Lou Diamond Phillips and Christina Applegate have committed professional suicide. Goodness knows why they signed up for this trash.Monday, July 13, 1998 - Hoyts Entertainment Centre Sydney "}{"Title":"The Big Sh*t...","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Spoof or no spoof, this movie was incredibly painful to watch.  I found no humor in the outlandish gun fights or car chases, and the dialogue was utterly reprehensible.  And that cooking scene...ugh, I did not need to see the stuffing of a bird used as foreplay.  What a great big pile of crap. "},{"Title":"We are wizards we can conjure light or darkness, this crap movie is of darkness","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" At first I was offended by how crap The Big Hit is, a hyper-macho action/comedy completely ridiculous. Then, I let the movie continue to play and changed my mind all together, I became very sad. Such sorrow for everyone involved with this farcical miserable affair, with each passing scene my pity for these wretched creatures swelled. Who would ever want to force actors to say so many cringe-worthy lines? What sort of sociopath would want to film a movie like this? God! watching this movie its like a f*cking parade of burn-unit patients trying to walk along unaided unassisted they are in obvious agony and no one helps them no one tries to stop them, the patients from the burn-unit ward just keep marching along and the band plays on. "},{"Title":"Big Hit Has Its Moments...But **","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Inane farce regarding a hit man whose girlfriend is in debt. He therefore decides to kidnap a Japanese young woman, not knowing that her millionaire father is really bankrupt, and that the kidnapped girl is the goddaughter of his crime boss.To add to this nonsense is the extra comic relief brought about by Elliot Gould and Lainie Kazan, as the girlfriend's Jewish parents. Kazan, a riot, is against marriage for the couple as the Wahlberg character is Catholic.Lou Diamond Philips is the heavy here. We have the usual explosive scenes along with periodic car chases.Fun, but quite silly. "},{"Title":"the definition of idiotic is defined here","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" yes this is what this whole film about starting mark wahlberg the guy cant act for sure but movie critics sucks his movies & i hate movie critics they had no business seeing film.the big hit 1998 is about a gang members kidnapping & daughter of a movie producer & then series of comedy,sexual & nonsense action goes till the end of the film.one of the thing i hated about is the plot about a VHS rental who the hell would risk everything to return a VHS common .thank god there are DVDs now.that whole point about this was stupid.Lela Rochon was the only & sexy girl i liked.the big hit is big, just forget it i don't wanna say it here this is IMDb it will get censored.my rating i wish i could give zero but 1/10 is fine.stay away from this film.what some adult film instead "},{"Title":"Fun, sexy (thanks Mark Wahlberg)","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This action, comedy movie is fun for the guys -- lots of explosions, car chases, bro-banter, one-liners, etc. AND women love it too -- funny, romantic and SEXY Mark Wahlberg!! Women will love his character, however guys might find it hard to measure up to his romantic, manliness! This is a fun date night movie that guys & girls will enjoy. It might even cause more action later -- if you know what I mean ;-) There are some twists in the plot that make it even more fun! And a Hollywood happy ending -- it's all about entertainment!Take a chance.You (and your date) will be glad you did! "},{"Title":"Non dairy creamer?.....","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Melvin Smiley, a successful young hit-man, is living a normal life.He and his three teammates Cisco, Crunch and Vince one day decide to kidnap the daughter of super-rich businessman Jiro Nishi - off the record.What they do not know, is that Jiro just went completely bankrupt due to a flop movie production, and even worse, that his daughter Keiko is the god-daughter of Paris, the boss of the kidnappers.He and his men are now searching for the kidnappers.Meanwhile, handcuffed Keiko falls in love with killer Melvin while both preparing a kosher meal in order to satisfy Pam's visiting parents, who are out of the house with Pam - with a body in the trunk....The first twenty minutes of this film are amazing, a pure adrenalin rush of action, something that seasoned action monikers would be proud of.And then we go to the story, and meet some of the most unlikeable characters on screen ever, and the whole film goes down here. It's not the casts fault. Wahlberg is good, and this was probably one of the last films he made before striking A-list, it's just his Melvin is such a walk over, and is hard to like.I can see what the film is trying to be, it's trying to be some coll, hip Tarantino-esque quotable movie, and it fails big time.The worse culprit is Phillips, who is just begging to be killed from the word go. I have never endured a character so unlikable, that you actually want to skip his scenes.With some sub-plots surrounding video tapes and money, The Big Hit is best watched like this.Sit and watch the first ten minutes.Leave the film on and do something like house work, so you can still hear it.As soon as Elliott Gould vomits, sit and watch the remainder.A perfect half an hour action fest with limited dialogue. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Big Hit is perfect for people with a certain sense of humor. If the idea of Marky Mark doing break-dancing moves to avoid being shot during a gun battle sounds cool or makes you laugh, you will love the rest of the movie. If it sounds lame, you're better off not watching.The movie is silly, clever, witty, and absurd, and yet it's not just a lighthearted romp it has enough plot that even after watching it a dozen times there's never a dull moment.It's a shame there are so many people who don't get the movie and give it bad reviews. Its sense of humor reminds me a lot of Arrested Development--as does its frosty reception. "},{"Title":"In a word cool","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As far as spoof movies go, this is one of the best out there. It's an action film making fun of action films. The first few minutes of it are so intense, exciting and entertaining that it's really a pity that the film moves so slowly for most of the film, whenever there's not an actual action scene. Not long after said first scene, the film slows down to a very slow pace... it gets worse around the middle point, at which almost all interest is lost, all humor and entertainment fades and becomes a far too distant memory. Luckily, not long after, for the last half of the film, it picks up in pace, and there's barely one dull second after the long period of slow pace. The plot is somewhat original, though it's full of typical action-movie clichés(undoubtedly intentionally). The pacing is off for a fourth of the movie, around the middle, but apart from that, it's right on, all the time. The acting is quite good, I didn't find one single performance to be objectionable. The characters are all caricatures, which is obviously the point. The humor almost always works, mainly because it's making fun of generic action films, which have definitely had it coming for at least a few decades. The timing is spot-on, and the delivery has the sense of irony that is necessary for a film spoofing films of its kind. This is the Scream of action films, people. The action is grand; the stunts, the shots, the style... very impressive. The writing is great, Ben Ramsey really has a sense of irony, humor and good story. I suggest you also check out his other movie, Love and a Bullet, which he himself directed. It's almost as good as this. The direction is superb; apart from the pacing around the middle, it's perfect for this kind of film. All in all, a very entertaining flick(but just that, a flick... nothing more, nothing less) with a few shortcomings. Well worth watching. I recommend this to fans of action movies as well as people who can't stand them, pretty much for the same reason. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Action , Flat jokes.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The one word for this movie is disappointment. Although the action sequences in the movie are very impressive, the flat wooden jokes ruin everything. Even the dumb plot is forgotten being dumb thanks to the jokes.Well the plot here is not the issue. It's not meant to be smart, just enough to deliver action and fun. The former is good. Specially the one at the beginning of the movie. It seems that Woo's magic hand was responsible for this. But it is too rare ( at least it seems like) and the holes between the action supposed to be filled with comedy that is barely tolerable. Waisted potential.Can be watched once because of the action, nothing more. "},{"Title":"The Big hit. What a film","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" what can i say i love this film. the film could have been very serious and still been excellent. instead a lighthearted overture comes through making it better. i wouldn't say that everyone will like this film but if you find the humour your style then I'm sure you'll agree that this film is ace. i would highly recommend it to anyone who liked gross point blank. worth a look at any way. its been awhile since i watched it but have been looking to buy the film. as i remember its quite a fast paced film with little to no dead points(areas where you find yourself watching just in case you miss something, otherwise reaching for the fast forward button)alittle corny in places but still within the style of humour. the actors play their parts well and an understanding for each characters different angle is easily picked up. "}{"Title":"What the secret of good com-(timing!)-edy?","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, la, la, la............I'm sitting here thinking of why The Big Hit is such a Big No-No, when on the face of it, the set up (Grosse Point Blank lite) and bits of the script seem fairly promising.Well, for a start, Mark Walberg ain't no John C - but Three Kings showed that he is, with the right direction and supporting cast - better than this.So - maybe it comes down to the fact that good comedy requires a lightness of touch and subtlety that the Director and most of the supporting cast just don't have?None of the banter that is done so well is a movie like - shall we say Ocean's 11 - flows the way it should. It's wooden. The timing is all out. If I was going for something pretentious (and, sod it, this is IMDb after all so why not) I'd say that there is no negative space for the humour to sort itself out. But that would be meaningless, wouldn't it, and fairly unhelpful.So, I simply feel it my duty to report to you, dear reader, that there is no compelling reason ever to watch this movie. I strongly suggest that you watch GPB again instead and compliment yourself that you might have been spending your time viewing something very, very much worse. "},{"Title":"Hongkong style action versus comedy","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  During the last years Hongkong cinema became a heavy influence of modern Hollywood action movie. The output of this mix are films like The Big Hit. It has John Woo style Killer action (as seen in The Killer) with an American Action-Comedy. Mark Wahlberg plays his role as a nice guy killer which has serious relationship problems perfect - it seems like it fits to his personality. Not to mention his counterparts that play their crazy characters flawlessly. Indeed the characters are too crazy to tell as they fit perfectly to the story. You oughtn't take it too serious but it's what makes this movie such fun.One thing left - have a look and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"More befitting title would add the letter S somewhere in there...","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Ranks right up there with Spawn and Lost World Jurassic Park 2.  How is it possible to like a movie that not only has utterly unoriginal plot line and predictable characters, but also simply obnoxious people playing them?  I wanted to slap every single one of them after watching this movie, and then punish myself for watching it in the first place.  You know, I've forgotten about this crap because I saw it when it first came out, but the memory of my brain shouting at me for the 90-minute torture still lingers on.joe k. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is absolutely great.  I can't get enough of it.  There are a few corny jokes, but the rest is great!  Mark Wahlberg is really good in this movie.  And it has some pretty good action.  A few parts and jokes make me laugh no matter how many times I see it. "},{"Title":"Could've Been Better (Contains Minor Spoilers)","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought the first maybe 40 minutes was good but after that I never liked where the story was going. The best parts where when the 4 hitmen were together and had their little chats and had many one liners that left me laughing wanting more, Lou Diamond Phillips was excellent as Cisqo, he probably had the best one liners, Mark Wahlberg was good but not great, I absolutely hated that Chinese girl that they (SPOILER START) kidnapped (SPOILER END), she is so annoying that I was hoping that one of em would kill her and shut her up. As for the ending, i thought it was useless, when you see it you'll understand why, what they did to Lou Diamond Phillips was stupid.Also a character that was good was that homie kid 'Lance' that was part of the kidnapping, he was hilarious, he was like Cisqo's sidekick, he has some good one liners there was so many it was just great. The storyline was right at the start but the ending was stupid. Altogther a good movie but it was just the ending that ruined it for me, actually, the first 40 minutes was only good. The only thing that saved this movie was Lou Diamond Phillips, the homie 'Lance' and the other 2 hitmen 'Crunch' and 'Vince',Christina Applegate was okay as Wahlberg's fiance. But still its the funniest 40 to 45 minutes start to a movie i've seen. "},{"Title":"class of its own","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has it all, its stylish, classy and very sexy. In case you mistaken this movie for a serious action film let me remind you its a comedy, and an extremely hilarious one at that. From the sexual conotations to the extremely over the top use of bad boy language this movie has all the laughs. Packed with some cool action effects straight out of Hong Kong this movie is surely a classic. Mark Wahlberg shines and has been recognized for it with many recent roles in big budget movies. Just sit back and enjoy it, if you arnt binded by trying to make sense of a spoof / comedy you will throughly enjoy it. Otherwise if you cant handle reality being as it should then this aint the movie for you, but your sure missing out.  "},{"Title":"Get blown away!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The big hit is right. Action packed with a touch of comedy makes The Big Hit a must see. Expect the unexpected in this fun thriller... plus gaze upon hotties Mark Wahlberg and Antonio Sabato Jr! I could watch this one over and over again. If you haven't seen it yet, you've been missing out! "},{"Title":"Only one good thing about this movie and it ain't the plot.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie is unadulterated junk - but you'd expect it from a Hong Kong director. The only redeeming feature, or, saving grace with this film is the simply knock-out gorgeous looks of actress China Chow, who,( on her film debut) surprise, surprise can actually act a bit. She's rather endearing, natural and unaffected in her role. I especially liked the scene where, as a kidnapped school-girl, she's made to read the kidnappper's note. The scene was slightly comedic, enhanced greatly by China's sardonic and disdainful manner; but at the same time, she is very engaging with her quirky expressions; she's an incredibly sexy actress - without evoking dirty thoughts. "},{"Title":"A slick and stylish action-comedy hybrid.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like your action thick and fast, your comedy un-subtle and crude, your actors handsome and gorgeous then this is the film for you. Hot young actor Mark Wahlberg plays a befuddled assassin entangled with a scheming mistress, a self-centered girlfriend and double-crossing colleagues in this wild action comedy. It all starts with the bungled abduction of the not unattractive China Chow and from this point on Melvin (Wahlberg)has to deal with everything in his path. As for the film itself it is directed by Hong Kong Director Kirk Wong (usually associated with gritty urban thrillers) and the action is great, the only drawback is some of the 'comedy' and the over-the-top performance of Lou Diamond Phillips but on repeated viewings they tend to grow on you. This is one Unique action film but also one worth watching (maybe even twice!) The Big Hit hits the spot with me. "},{"Title":"THE BEST AND COOLEST FILM EVER !! THIS IS A MUST SEE !!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this movie !! I love the characters, Graeme Revells superb score, the astonishing script by Ben Ramsey, Che Kirk Wongs brilliant directing, and of course Lou Diamond Phillips in the best and coolest performance I've ever seen him give.Also good to see that Wesley Snipes still has at least some taste to produce a good movie like The Big Hit, since he has starred in and produced nothing but B-movies like Blade for a couple of years now. "}{"Title":"The hit is aimed at the intelligence of the audience","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit is the kind of movie that asks you to suspend your disbelief to such a degree that it is positively tiring.  I gave in about a third of the way through.  It's not that I can't accept implausible situations in movies; I would not have a very good time watching many of them if I couldn't.  This movie just didn't earn my willingness to do so.The movie stars Mark Wahlberg as a contract killer name Melvin Smiley, who is part of a secret society of such people run by no less than Avery Brooks of Spencer fame and more recently Deep Space Nine.  Melvin is a pathetic, gullible guy who is very, very good at killing people and very, very bad at standing up for himself.  He is being taken for a ride by two women who are constantly demanding money from him, and is engaged to one, played by Christina Applegate.  An obnoxious video store clerk is harassing him because he hasn't returned his copy of King Kong Lives for two weeks. Melvin is played with a certain strange detachment by Wahlberg, who never seems to know exactly who his character is or how he would react in the situations he is in.The opening sequence in the movie involves Melvin and his cohorts, including Lou Diamond Philips, infiltrating a high-rise apartment on a hit.  Melvin barges in, blasting away, with lots of cuts between him shooting at targets and his targets being shot.  His technique involves what appears to be breakdancing and bungie-jumping, while firing with uncanny accuracy at his foes.  As is always the case in such movies, he never misses, and his opponents never hit him.  Meanwhile his cohorts hang out in the hallway and casually drink coffee.In the meantime, we get a flat satire of suburban life, with cuts to Melvin's home (he's always pulling into the wrong driveway because all the houses look alike).  His Jewish fiance invites her parents over, apparently for the purpose of trying to portray as many Jewish stereotypes as possible in the shortest time.  Elliot Gould, an accomplished actor, appears here as the would-be father in law, a belching, moronic guy whose drinking habits leave much to be desired.  I am baffled as to why Gould took on this role; it would be difficult to come up with a more demeaning one.  Meanwhile the kidnap victim hops around the house just out of view of the potential in-laws.The movie moves from one unlikely situation to the next.  Jokes about dead bodies and inept killers are liberally applied, and there is a running gag about the late video, which keeps popping up.  Some scenes are obviously fake, but by the time they appear it was too late for me to care anyway. I can see how some of this material could have been used with humorous results, but the filmmakers here did not know how to do it.  The Big Hit fell flat on its face for me. "},{"Title":"No S missing in the title","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A nice blend of action and comedy. This is a movie that laughs at itself, near the end it laughs even louder (car scenes in the woods. Hmmmmm, didn't know Jags could go through that much punishment!).This is the third movie I've seen Mark Wahlberg in (the other two being Boogie Nights and Reniassance Man) and I just gotta say.......hey, Marky Mark CAN act! Nearly all the actors in this movie were well cast, with the notable exception of Lou Diamond. He's a good actor, but this part doesn't quite fit him well. It was nice to see Avery Brooks as something else other than Captain Sisko. Definitely one to grab when at the video store. "},{"Title":"A great movie unless you didn't get the joke","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit is a great movie once you understand the movie iswinking at itself.  The direction is excellent, the music isfantastic, the cast is very funny, and the action is wellexecuted.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"I would give it  3 and 1/2 stars out of 4 for over all content but for Antonio Sabato Jr. and Mark Wahlberg fans I give it a 4","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It was Action Packed and funny.  It's not a serious film. Mark Wahlberg, and Lou Diamond were they main stars, China Chow,  Avery Brooks, Antonio Sabato Jr. (Whose part was way to small but extremely worth seeing in the first 15 minutes of the movie), Bokeem Woodbine, Lela, Rochon, and Christina Applegate.  If you like Tarantino or Rodriguez stuff then you understand what I mean when I say the movie is out there.  It really stretches.   Bokeem's character really made me laugh, and I thought the King Kong thing was silly. Marky's character just wanted to be loved, and that's funny, and hitman that wants to please everyone and wants everyone to like him.  He was a cold hearted Killer with a big tender heart at the same time.  If you didn't see the action at the beginning of the movie you would never think he could kill anyone.  "},{"Title":"Misses","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   The hit man wants to please everybody but his gang's kidnapping of a girl and blackmailing her broke father almost kill him. This terribly lame caricature of the daily bread=  of criminals and Jews fails because the film-makers try both to evoke sympa= thy and be cynical at the same time. * out of ****   "},{"Title":"absolutely brilliant action /comedy/ dysfunctional hit men movie","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" this movie blew me away.it is absolutely brilliant.it seamlessly combines action,comedy,awesome dialogue,with shamelessly over the top fighting and stunt work.There are are even some tender romantic drama scenes.there is a large amount of swearing but it fits with the movie,so is not gratuitous. i won't give any of the plot away,because it has too be seen to be believed.this is an ensemble piece,with great performances across the board.the film is paced perfectly and never loses steam for a minute.some of the situations and actions are so ridiculous(and intentionally so)absurd,you just can't help but howl with laughter this movie is an absolute riot from start to finish.i can't recommend it enough.if you haven't seen The Big Hit you owe it to yourself to do so.i don't' understand how anyone can dislike this movie. 10+*/10 "},{"Title":"Funny and full of action scenes","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought this was an entertaining film, if not a really great one. There is comedy aplenty, with much of it revolving around a gorgeous kidnapped girl, played to perfection by newcomer China Chow, trying to escape. The plot has been covered by several reviewers, so I'll not bother with another recap. The film has several large names in it, such as Mark Wahlberg, Lou Diamond Phillips, Christina Applegate, Avery Brooks, Lanie Kazan and Eliot Gould. The acting, however, isn't the film's strong point - surprising when you consider that cast. Chow, in fact, steals the show from nearly everyone. The dialog overall isn't particularly good either. These guys (excepting Wahlberg) use the F word far too much. While I know that criminal elements do use that sort of language, it was used so much in this film that the viewer gets sick of it (I did anyway). The writing is this film's strength, with humor nicely interspersed with violence. The humor scenes are very funny, the violence scenes are very violent, so there's not much middle ground in the film anywhere. There is some intrigue, a double-cross (or is it a triple?), plenty of action and adventure, a little romance and lots of humor thrown in for good measure. The film has something for everyone. I just wish they'd toned the language down a bit...it hurts the film overall. Overall, I enjoyed the film and, while it's definitely NOT a family film, due to both language and violence, once the kiddies go to bed, this one might be an option for a rental. "},{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  minor spoilersthis movie is awesome and probably the best action/comedy movie out there, even the soundtrack is great. It only gets flack from people who take it seriously and don't get the humor you have to catch quickly(SPOILER i.e. the part when Mel is looking for Cisco in the jag... Mel is looking in the forest and even looks up toward the canopy of the trees...for a car.)Some people just don't get it, but I hope it starts getting some cult attention and around my area the popularity is snowballing, maybe it'll show up in some midnight showings in a few years. All my friends, who i have shown the movie to, think its awesome (even the girls) "},{"Title":"Horrible! Stay far away from this bad, bad film!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie because when I saw the preview on TV a few years ago it looked like a decent action-comedy. But it is anything but that. There is nothing funny about it at all. The gang of hitmen, led by Melvin Smiley (Wahlberg), do many missions for cash that are mostly about killing mob leaders and such. They decide to kidnap a young Japanese girl, whose father is the president of a multi-million dollar film company, and he happens to go bankrupt only a day before the girl is kidnapped so he is unable to pay the ransom. The boss of Smiley's gang (who pays them for their missions) turns out to be the young girl's godfather, so he sends out many, many men with guns to kill Smiley and his friends. All of the action scenes are shot horribly and all of them are in blurry slow-motion which makes it very hard to see what is happening. This movie is so fake and unbelievably stupid that I had a hard time sitting through the whole thing. It is basically a Disney film with guns and people getting shot (with no visible bullet wounds or blood showing). It has no humor for people seeking laughs and no action for people seeking excitement. Don't waste your time on this unless you happen to be under 10 years old and are trying to see as many R-rated movies as possible. Otherwise, stay far away. Feel free to email me if you have any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"The Big Hit is silly, but undeniably fun.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ** 1/2 out of ****I remember first seeing the previews for The Big Hit and thinking to myself, this is going to be one terrible film.  Then I actually rented it, and found myself enjoying the movie immensely.  Oh, it's one silly action film, but it's fun usually for all the right reasons, so that's why I'm recommending it.  And this says a lot, believe me, because I find 3/4's of the movie's cast utterly revolting (Antonio Sabato, Jr., Christina Applegate, Bokeem Woodbine, Lela Rochon, and Elliot Gould all in the same movie, and I still somehow enjoyed it).Mark Wahlberg stars as Melvin Smiley, a hitman with a heart of gold, sort of.  Outside of his dubious career, he's a relatively nice guy with an airhead fiancee (Applegate).  Anyway, his hitman buddies, specifically Cisco (Lou Diamond Phillips), devise a plan to kidnap Keiko Nishi (China Chow), the daughter of a super-rich Japanese businessman, not knowing the man has just went bankrupt (shown in a hilarious scene).  Anyway, they have to store Keiko at Melvin's house, and he's forgotten that his fiancee and her parents are visiting for the weekend.  To make matters worse, Keiko is the goddaughter of the hitmen's boss, Paris (Avery Brooks), who's looking to crack down on the guys who kidnapped her.The Big Hit desires to work as an action and comedy, and succeeds quite well at both.  The shootouts are pure Hong Kong-style (no surprise, it's directed by Kirk Wong),  outrageous but cool to watch.  The fight scenes are kinetic and well-choreographed, with the performers displaying some nice, agile moves without really going into all-out martial arts (by this, I'm referring to the final fight in the video store).  None of the action is superspectacular or completely memorable, but it's all exciting and lots of fun, which is what it should be.Director Kirk Wong also shows a capbable hand at humor.  For once, the majority of the film's jokes actually work.  Even a long-running gag involving Melvin and his overdue rental of King Kong Lives pays off in the end.  A lot of people are going to find this humor stupid, but for me, it was stupid and funny.  Some of these jokes probably wouldn't naturally be funny, but the cast (particularly Lou Diamond Phillips) pulls them off with a great sense of comic timing.  Hell, I even laughed during that obvious tracebuster joke.As I said before, most of the cast members are those I generally try to avoid when I watch movies and they're terrible here, but they're offset by the film's leads, thankfully.  Mark Wahlberg is not a great actor by any stretch of the imagination, but he's likeable and perfect for this part. The lovely China Chow is a spirited foil for Wahlberg, she's smart, funny, and sassy, and also the film's most genuinely likeable character. Naturally, the film progresses by developing some romantic chemistry between her and Wahlberg, and to my surprise, those scenes actually work.Stealing virtually the whole film is Lou Diamond Phillips (who I've always liked), who's hilarious as the two-timing hitman Cisco.  Off the top of my head, I believe this is his only comic performance to date, and he's so good at it, I wish he'd delve into the genre more often.  The always solid Avery Brooks has a few throwaway scenes, but it's always nice to see him in a role outside of Deep Space Nine.  All in all, The Big Hit was a good time, never truly excellent as an action/comedy (it needs more even plotting and less superfluous characters) but just enjoyable enough, and that was good enough for me.  "}{"Title":"Bottom Line What Could Have Been Wasn't...","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big HitMark Wahlberg stars as a subtle martial-arts man in The Big Hit, in which Wahlberg, along with Lou Diamond Phillips, kidnaps a young woman from her rich father to hold her for ransom. But, of course, Mark falls in love with her and fights against Louie at the end in an attempt to save her, or impress her. One of the two.The Big Hit had a lot going for it, and really let me down. It just didn't work as well as it could have. How it should have been Ancient martial arts techniques mixed together in today's world (as if it is normal for everyone to be a kung-fu master), while still attaining an interesting plot and deep characters. What we got Ancient martial arts techniques mixed together in today's world (as if it is normal for everyone to be a kung-fu master), period. No deep characters, no fulfilling dialogue, no great plot development, and awful camera work. Mark Wahlberg plays the film like he's in a very bad commercial. Quite frankly, this film could qualify as a commercial it's so lousy.Phillips doesn't seem to know what to do to help out this story, so he just plays for an aggravating character that is supposed to be loathed as a bad guy, but is instead hated as a character. Compare the two and they're different. And every time I saw him I thought how much of a better job Jim Caviezel could have done (no, really!).The very end of the film, which includes a fight-out between the two men, looks like it's straight out of a model commercial. We see ex-model Wahlberg fighting in his stylized clothing, and Philips fighting with nice clothing. It makes one want to vomit.I'm not sure what it is about this film, but there's something about the way it's filmed...it seems to have an bright tint to it...and I don't really enjoy that. It works in some films (Ocean's Eleven, Erin Brockovich, Traffic - mainly all Steven Soderbergh films have an ORANGE tint to them), but it's too bright and orange in The Big Hit. Bottom line? What could have been wasn't.1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"This will be quick.....","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  All I have to say is that this movie completely sucks. Period.  No one should ever try and tell me there is something good about it. I thought this movie looked good, so I rented it, and I couldn't even finish watching it it sucked so much.  Dont put yourself through the agony I went through. 0/10 "},{"Title":"Half way decent.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit was an experiment in blending the Hong Kong action>  genre and American humor. It failed to make a cohesive package that it needed to be but it does have it moments.  Plus it has a cool mid 90's soundtrack featuring No Doubt. Watch if you have nothing to do for a two hour and if you sufficiently lower your standards, you'll enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. I don't know why, but I kept feeling Tarentino throughout this one. Marky Mark was pretty good in it, too. Not only did the film have good acting and action, but also it was VERY funny. If you've seen the film, you know what I am referring to. It may not have been incredibly believable, but the Big Hit was good non the less. If you're in the mood to see some good action, and laugh along the way, rent this one. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was, without a doubt, one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The acting is atrocious all around, the stunts and action sequences are quite laughable, and the plot is ridiculous.  I almost felt bad for Lou Diamond Phillips.  Is this the only kind of role he can get?  I expected the film to be at least watchable, but the film lost me within five minutes when the Wahlberg character's girlfriend walks into his apartment, eyes a dismembered body, and says, He's kinda cute!1 out of 10.  Ugh! "},{"Title":"So bad, it's hilarious","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is nothing good to say about this film, except that in its sparse, futile attempts to be an action film, it's absolutely hilarious.  It's attempts to be serious are gravely foiled by atrocious acting, a rancid script, and ghastly directing.  Avoid at all costs, if you've any sense of film dignity at all.  "},{"Title":"Talk about plot twists...","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit is one of those films that start off well, but then take a turn for the worse. Its as if two different people wrote the beginning and ending to this film. There is simply no cohesion.The acting in this film is non-existant. Mark Wahlberg gives a forgettable performance as Marvin Smiley, a character who seems overwhelmed by his contract killer lifestyle and all that go with it. The only problem is that I really didn't care if he had problems or not. Sympathy might be aimed for, but is not achieved. I spent half of the film laughing at Lou Diamond Philips' try at being a gangsta'. I don't know if comedy was the directors intention, but I doubt it.The only thing that remotely saves this film is the action scenes. They are really done quite well. However, even some of the scenes themselves seem somewhat unrealistic. This is as much a Hong Kong film as I have ever seen, all action and a pathetic story. The stereotypes are also very well present (Japanese, Jewish and teenagers).The plot twist that sends the film into a Pulp Fiction-like frenzy is not very well thought and does nothing to save this film. The whole Christina Applegate character and her parents are completely unecessary. The story would have been more interesting had they concentrated on the Lela Rochon character and her relationship with Smiley.All around a sad attempt. 5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"what were they thinking?!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  words can't describe the horror i felt while watching the second half of this movie!! it was like the people said, oh shoot, we're almost out of time, let's get this over with!some people are saying that the film is not to be taken seriously and it's in the tradition of silly HK-no brainers. No, this was worse than i could have imagined...little things in the movie like...the annoying video store clerk and Lou Diamond Philips acting all hard; the non-stop obsession with masturbation jokes; the incoherent last 15 minutes of the movie i have no idea how the jaguar became unstoppable going down that mountain, flipping over and over again...then again, marky mark and china chow end up on a branch on the side of a seemingly dangerously high cliff edge and the next scene later(!) they're walking around in the woods again, and then again voila!, they're right in front of the videostore?!i think the thing that annoyed me the most was not the style of the movie, as i am beginning to see it as a Westernized version of some of those WongJing HK comedy-action-exploitation flicks he churns out every year...i think the bad part of this movie was that it totally just went kaput the last 20 minutes or so.i don't know...i just have to rave about it and get it off my chest...p.s. what's the deal with that Sabato guy? how come he got top billing and is in for about 5 minutes of the movie? "},{"Title":"The Big Hit-missing the point","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Reviews of this movie that say it has lapses in logic at points have some truth to them, but this movie shouldn't be judged on a CITIZEN KANE level. It should be taken for what it is a HK action movie that happened to be filmed in Toronto (if memory serves).  Everything is there the nutty subplots, the gratuitous destruction of property, the wild overacting.  If you watch it with this in mind, you're going to enjoy it immensely. "},{"Title":"The Depth Of A Comic Book","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A limp script, unimaginative plot and one-dimensional characters undermine decent work by the actors.  At times, the film is more embarrassing -- particularly for the actors involved -- than entertaining.  Fans of Elliot Gould would be advised not to watch this film.  And aside from a great opening fight sequence, not even the action scenes are good.  Hollywood has produced hundreds of great crime and action films -- check out anything by Sam Peckinpah -- so save your time and money and watch one of them instead.  "}{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever?","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Man. Bad, just bad. I can remember the trailer for this movie. A well editted glimpse, with all the explosoions, and feminine body outlines necesary to look like another good kill people and then have sex movie (knock 'em all you like people dig james bond syndrome). All with the back drop of Wycleff Jean's Stayin Alive remix.....got you real excited.Then I saw the movie. I submit that it was written by a 14 year old. Dialogue stupid enough to make you feel ashamed at the thought someone might witness you watching the film. Action scene's with no real thrill, pathetic little attempts at comic relief. And let's not forget, suggestively stroking a frozen chicken........Worst episode ever "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What can I say, this is by far the worst movie ever, even worse than Battlefield Earth.  The plot and acting are horrible and even the jokes are stupid.  Everyone in the world should see this movie so that they would know how bad it is. "},{"Title":"The Big Suprise","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have visited IMDB many times for the past few years, actually almost daily. However, I never bothered signing up to give reviews until I saw The Big Hit come on TV a couple of days ago. It reminded of that dreadful day four years ago when I walked into Hollywood Theater hoping to see an entertaining movie. Without high expectations, I could have never guessed what I was in for. I still have nightmares from having to sit through that horrible movie. I cringe when I see those actors in their most recent disastrous. Do not rent this movie, if it comes on TV, change the channel. Protect yourself and loved ones from sitting through it. It is by far the number one worst movie I've ever seen, and I've seen some horrible ones. I feel better for writing this review, that ghost of watching The Big Hit may finally leave me alone after four grueling years. Ok, I may exaggerate a little, but it is a very very very bad movie either way. Don't watch it.  "},{"Title":"Soooooooooo bad !!!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, what can be said of a movie such as this one ... A total disaster, a car wreck, a complete crash landing...This movie is a total waste of celluloid and gets my vote as the worst movie of 1998 so far ...All the actors are so terrible, especially Lou Diamond Phillips that I have never seen so bad before.  Clearly his worst performance ever.  But what can you do with a script that is a joke from beginning to end.  What can you do with dialogues that seem to have been written by a 12 years old kid obsessed with masturbation (one of the characters keeps talking about this !!!) and some old King Kong movie ...0/5 for me ... which means I would rather have watched a blank tape than to see this !!!I was tempted at one point to be generous and give a 0.5/5 for a couple of nice action sequences near the end and the presence of a couple of gorgeous ladies (clearly not chosen because of their acting abilities !!) but when those action scenes don't lead to anything else it seems like such a waste after all ...Sorry for such a negative review ... but I can't find any positive aspect to this movie ... even Wahlberg's performance was just a big let down especially after his great one in Boogie nights, The basketball diaries, etc.Look for Wahlberg's wife's parents as the most annoying couple I have seen on screen in a loooooooooong time !!!  ... maybe as a hitman he could have taken care of them ... I wish ......  "},{"Title":"If I've missed the point, I'm grateful I've done so.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit (TBH) could have been a superior caper movie. My impression is that when production values, themes and market were being considered, some short - sighted decisions were made. If the intention was to release a hard - nosed, unflinching but human story of criminals falling out in a storm of violence and profanity, they could have got a few pointers how to do it properly if they had had the opportunity and inclination to look at Montana(director Jennifer Leitzes), which I understand hit the distributors' shelves the same year.Montana and for that matter, the exceptional Fargo, display far more of the craft of film making than this disappointing effort. Violence and obscenity are an essential and realistic ingredient in these examples of Leitzes' and the Coen Brothers' work; yet the stories grip, the fate of the characters quickly becomes of great interest to the viewer and, in my case, I was totally absorbed until the closing credits began scrolling up the screen. TBH moved in my mind from undecided to tiresome in about half an hour. I stuck it out because I follow the careers of some of the actors involved.Looking at TBH from another angle, if the film was to have been a comedy thriller - there are repeated attempts at humour - why was no effort made to expand the potential audience by avoiding an R rating? I have friends and relatives I wouldn't invite to a showing of this movie. There are numerous scenes that could have been funny or exciting, but the cast isn't allowed to exploit them with style or delicacy.There is a good cast. The more prominent players Mark Wahlburg, Lou Diamond Phillips and Avery Brooks, get through the material with frenetic professionalism. It was nice to see Elliott Gould and Lainie Kazan again too, even if they don't have much to do. Among the remaining cast, the modest contribution from Christina Applegate shines. This lady continues to be underrated by the moguls of the large screen. Also, China Chow makes a cracking debut as the kidnap victim. I hope to see more examples of her work in times to come. Another enjoyable experience is the performance by Lela Rochon, who gets the characterisation of the unscrupulous Chantel just right.There are performances worth watching in this movie. Having sat through it though, all I can say is that I can't bring myself to recommend it. If I've completely missed the point of the production, I don't apologise for saying I'm grateful to have done so.  "},{"Title":"If you can't make misguided ballistic bodily fluids funny, then there can't be much hope for a laugh","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  `The Big Hit'.  *1/2.  (1998, USA, R, ??? min. Directed by Kirk Wong with Mark Wahlberg, Lou Diamond Phillips, Christina Applegate, China Chow, Lela Rochon).  Melvin Smiley (Wahlberg), Cisco (Phillips) and a couple of their friends are just bunch of fun loving hit men.  Smiley's only fault; he can't stand the thought of someone not liking him.  The idea that the relatives of all the people he's killed might not like him causes him stomach problems.  And, even though the contract killing seems to be a lucrative business, Smiley is always out of money.  He has two girlfriends, Pam Shulman (Applegate) and Chantel (Rochon) and they both demand more money than he can ever earn.  Smiley can't stand the idea of a breakup.  They might not like him.  Cisco just wants to earn enough money to buy a boat and sail around the world.  The ever upwardly mobile pair decides to pick up a few dollars on the side by kidnapping Keiko Nishi (Chow), daughter of one the world's richest men.  Unfortunately for them she's the goddaughter of their boss, one of world's meanest men.  All heck breaks loose.Wong tries to humor us with a parody of the Hong Kong/John Woo genre. (Woo is one of the producers.)  The big problem with `The Big Hit' is Wong never decides if he's directing a parody, comedy, or action/drama.  How does one do a parody of a genre that really doesn't take itself seriously to begin with?  And, funny it's not.  Even the scene where Pam's dad (Elliott Gould) pukes on Cisco isn't funny.  `The Big Hit'.  *1/2.  (1998, USA, R, ??? min. Directed by Kirk Wong with Mark Wahlberg, Lou Diamond Phillips, Christina Applegate, China Chow, Lela Rochon).  Melvin Smiley (Wahlberg), Cisco (Phillips) and a couple of their friends are just bunch of fun loving hit men.  Smiley's only fault; he can't stand the thought of someone not liking him.  The idea that the relatives of all the people he's killed might not like him causes him stomach problems.  And, even though the contract killing seems to be a lucrative business, Smiley is always out of money.  He has two girlfriends, Pam Shulman (Applegate) and Chantel (Rochon) and they both demand more money than he can ever earn.  Smiley can't stand the idea of a breakup.  They might not like him.  Cisco just wants to earn enough money to buy a boat and sail around the world.  The ever upwardly mobile pair decides to pick up a few dollars on the side by kidnapping Keiko Nishi (Chow), daughter of one the world's richest men.  Unfortunately for them she's the goddaughter of their boss, one of world's meanest men.  All heck breaks loose.Wong tries to humor us with a parody of the Hong Kong/John Woo genre. (Woo is one of the producers.)  The big problem with `The Big Hit' is Wong never decides if he's directing a parody, comedy, or action/drama.  How does one do a parody of a genre that really doesn't take itself seriously to begin with?  And, funny it's not.  Even the scene where Pam's dad (Elliott Gould) pukes on Cisco isn't funny.  If you can't make misguided ballistic bodily fluids funny, then there can't be much hope for a laugh.  The action is there but I'd recommend any John Woo movie I've seen over this one.  Sorry Melvin, I didn't like your movie..  The action is there but I'd recommend any John Woo movie I've seen over this one.  Sorry Melvin, I didn't like your movie.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Big Hit is a ridiculous movie, which is why I liked it so much. It is a very stylish movie with the action scenes having lots of crazy jumps, flips, and explosions. My only complaint is that the film's style goes overboard towards the end of the movie, watch it and you'll see what I mean. A great, and fun film.     "},{"Title":"(I could make a great joke about the missing S in the title, but I won't)","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jeez... It started as a random, typical funny-smart-enjoyable -black comedy-of-the-second-half-of-the-90's, with memorable action sequences (particularly the big-boss house storm scene in the beginning of the film) and a gentle hitman (Whalberg does his best), but the movie hits the floor by the end of it. The action scenes are few, and the laughs don't come out right (although I have been waiting to see Gould's vomit since MASH). Sabato Jr. and the Chump guy also disappear, pity teamed up with Nice Killer Melvin they could move a somewhat dull movie a little bit. Two stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"I'm pretty sure they left out an S in the title","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What is this thing? I think it is supposed to be a comedy, or maybe a cartoon with live actors. Yeah, a cartoon. That would explain the fact that all the characters are immortal, like the Coyote in those Roadrunner movies. People survive megaton explosions, falls from Skyscrapers, car crashes down a canyon, a rain of bullets, encounters with Eliot Gould's vomit, you name it.Yuh, it must be a comedy, because in a drama I don't think you're allowed to have these continuity problems like cars out on a tree limb from which the characters casually walk, or cars that miraculously improve after a crash. (Attention insurance companies!)Wahlberg is a really sweet guy who happens to be a contract killer. I guess because he gets to make his own hours, and learn at his own pace. When he's not carving up victim's bodies to erase the evidence, he's preparing kosher meals for his prospective in-laws. Oh, what's the use?It's lame. It has a few cruel, sick laughs which may sustain you through a viewing on cable. If I were you, though, I wouldn't pay to see it. "},{"Title":"No audience for The Big Hit","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While watching The Big hit I couldn't help but wonder what kind of audience would leave the theater afterwards entirely satisfied and next day at school or at the office tell everyone who was paying attention what a terrific movie it was. I came up with a blank. The film is too lame for people who have a sense of humor, too bright for people who are really stupid, too obvious for people who like an entertaining storyline and too highbrow for people who never wonder what the story is about in the first place. The Big Hit is a empty film in no man's land, enjoyable for the kind of average person who doesn't exist. If only the director and scriptwriter had thought about these matters before the shooting (no pun intended) started.  "}{"Title":"Yet another American attempt to make a comedy!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why do some people attempt to make comedies when they have no concept of what is funny? i found nothing at all funny in this film accept the the concept that it was a comedy. They should of just labelled this film as a thriller and be done with the so called funny bits. The film is about a kidnap that goes wrong and that is about it! Only to say the victim is a Japanese girl( who is dressed as a schoolgirl throughout the movie) who's father is bankrupt and just happens to be the best friend of the local gangster boss. Yawn!! 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What's all the fuss about?","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is very far from all it's cracked up to be. Sure, it's fun sometime´s, but that's about it. The action is mediocre and fuzzy - it's clear that they had neither the cash or the brains to make it juicier. Instead, most of the action is blurry, too fast to see and sometimes outright lousy.Logic? Forget it. Some of the most erratic minds I've ever seen have been working with this flick - for instance, what the hell is that cliff just a few yards from the video store? And how do they suddenly end at the bottom of it? Weird.Dialogue? Pathetic. Given a script like this, anyone will fail. I happen to like Mark Wahlberg, but here...well...he doesn't stand a chance.So what's funny about it? Well, it sure isn't the running about the house trying to hide Keiko, that's just Disney-kind of fun (ie not at all fun). Actually, I can't put my finger on it. I'm just happy it's not supposed to be a serious movie, but then again, others have done very well in that genre... "},{"Title":"Some fun parts but mainly a stupid, dumb mess","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My Age 13Melvin Smiley, played by Mark Wahlberg, is a successful young hitman leading a double life, trying to be like a normal person for his fiancee, Pam, played by Christina Applegate.  He and his hitman buddies, Cisco, played by Lou Diamond Phillips, Vince, played by Antonio Sabato Jr, and Crunch, played by Bokeem Woodbine, do a kidnapping, off the record, kidnapping the daughter of a rich Chinese guy.  What they don't know is that the Chinese guy just went bankrupt, after an unsuccessful, expensive film production.  What they also don't know is that the kidnap victim is the goddaughter of their boss, Paris, played by Avery Brooks.  Paris gives Cisco the job to find the girl, and he tries to distort the facts to make it look like it was all Melvin's fault.  Meanwhile, Melvin falls in love with Keiko, the kidnapping victim, played by China Chow.The Big Hit had promise from its plot and some parts of the film, but it ends up a huge disappointment, despite some good elements.  The film is just too dumb.  The main thing in the film is Cisco distorting the facts to make it all Melvin's fault, but why did he do this?  He and Melvin were friends, and there was no reason for him to try and send him to prison.  That alone made the film a stupid, dumb, and utterly preposterous mess.  The good parts include tracing phone numbers, and how Melvin is consistently bugged by a guy from a video store because he hasn't returned King Kong Lives yet.  The end comes up with the only good action, which is quite exciting, but it was only there for stupid reasons.  Then the conclusion was absolutely implausible and preposterous, yet alone unrealistic.  Despite the promise and good parts, give this stupid film a miss.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level Violence, Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 33 out of 100 "},{"Title":"The big _hit","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm sure you can guess what the blank stands for.I have been forced to watch this movie twice with my girlfriend because she's in love with Mark Wahlberg. I swore I'd die before I watched it a second time, but luckily my will to live is strong.First off, I know this movie was intended to be stupid, but there are a few main problems with it...#1 Mark Wahlberg...AM I THE ONLY PERSON WHO CAN'T STAND THIS ARROGANT, TALENTLESS HACK!? #2 everything else. I think Leslie Nielsen is probably the only actor who could pull off playing a bumbling hit-man, at least that would make more sense then casting Lou Diamond Philips and pretty much everyone else in this film as 'home-boy'-esque moronic hit men.(possible spoilers) okay, girl gets kidnapped by the hit men and her boyfriend is murdered right in front of her in the process, yet she manages to fall in love with the man behind the trigger...go figure (hey that rhyme is more entertainment than the entire movie!) oh and what else...ah yes, while everyone is trying to kill Mark Wahlberg he risks his life for a 3 dollar video tape that's overdue at the video store because the clerk at the store wont stop harassing him to return it...ah yes...because hit men have such a hard time paying a late fee, or just going and shooting some obnoxious little dork in the head. but no he manages to risk his life to return this tape...but it's all in vain when the video store is completely destroyed at the end of the film anywaysthe only reason I gave this film 2 stars instead of zero is because it DID make me chuckle in a few parts...but come to think of it...that was more pain than enjoyment "},{"Title":"Did The Title Miss Out A Letter ?","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a movie mixing Hong Kong action movie with Hollywood style romantic comedy . Unfortunately the two genres totally fail to gel and it's mainly down to the Hollywood aspects . What's the name of that awful movie with Ben Affleck GIGLI ? Is that it ? Wasn't that number one in the IMDb bottom 100 movies ? So you've got a very similar type of plot here The action scenes are okay if you like John Woo type balletic violence but for some reason director Kirk Wong and writer Ben Ramsay decide to try and ruin them by injecting humour into them . In one scene anti hero Melvin Smiley is tied down by a gang of vigilant body guards and radios his buddies to save his ass who are on a coffee break . They pretend they're also fighting off massed hordes of gunmen while passing round cream for their coffee . Hmmm so hit men sip coffee while taking on armed gangs ? Actually all this sums up entirely what's wrong with the movie - It's not funny because there's no type of realism or internal logic involved . A movie like THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY may not be realistic but the idea of someone getting attacked by a dog force fed speed still has a ring of truth about it mainly because of how characters react to situations , with this movie however there was nothing to make me believe the characters were drawn from the real world . A teenage girl called Keiko is nearly raped by her boyfriend who is then executed by Melvin and Keiko is now the victim of a kidnapping by Melvin . Cut to the next scene where Keiko gets into a slanging match with Melvin . Right so her boyfriend just tried to rape her , he was killed , keiko was kidnapped by his killer and she gets into an argument with him like he jumped the queue of the local grocery store or something ? There's no realism or credibility as to how the characters interact or react at it's this that ruins the movie "},{"Title":"promising movie that falls to the ground like a dead hen after 75%","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This concept have been tried before, action comedy, but this movie, well... It simply falls flat to the floor.. nice effect, self-repairing vehicles, a bad guy who survives until the last minute, and a girl that falls for the nice guy. horrible, go waste your money on something with a little more quality, like out of sight, this is a mediocre try to do something... which we all would understand would we've only looked at the so called actors in this move... beautiful faces, no talent, like the movie itself. "},{"Title":"Has the B'nai Brith seen this?","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Shortly before he died, Gene Siskel  gave a series of lectures to Jewish groups about the antisemitism that masquerades as comedy in so many movies (even in some movies written or  directed by Jews).  The way Jews are portrayed in this movie is so insulting that I felt like crawling under a rock whenever Elliott Gould and Lainie Kazan, as the parents of JAP Christina Applegate, were doing a scene -- and I'm not even Jewish.  There are many other things wrong with the movie, but this one overshadows them all. "},{"Title":"The Big Miss","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well, the Big Hit began as a clever and fun action-comedy, and a= bout three quaters through, it suddenly fell apart.  The yellow Camaro, with it's mysterious, self reparing panel-work, the Jaguar that just would not fal= l apart, a cliff high in the air with a path leading off it that only take= s a few steps to walk... this movie has it all.  It seems to me, that the la= st quater was re-edited by a person who cared very little about the initial style and character of the film.  The makers of this not so perfect leng= th of celluloid have more than likely intended to out-confuse those who hav= e braved Highlander 2 or Heaven's Gate... "}]