[{"Title":"A Great Feel-Good Comedy.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     All I Wanna Do, or Strike was a great and funny movie. I don't know why it's called Strike on this website, but on the cover it says All I Wanna Do. This movie had a great cast Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffman, Lynn Redgrave, Rachael Leigh Cook, Heather Matarazzo, and Matt Lawrence. This movie is about Miss Godar's School For Girls, and when Odette comes, she meets Verena and all of her friends, and becomes a part of a club that is named after cold raviolies, is held in the attic of the school. Then, when Miss Godard's school is to become a coed school, the girls have something to say about it, and plan to ruin the Ambros School for Boys permanantley! This is a real feel good comedy. I give All I Wanna Do a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to be in the right mood to watch and enjoy this movie. It's actually quite good though. The movie is based on a true story of a few awesome girls who want to have a voice. The movie is funny and charming with fabulous acting. If you're in the right mood for an awesome uplifting story that rings GIRL POWER then see this groovy flick. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Cute Teen Film!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Strike is a great teen 'girl-power type' film with a cool cast including Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffmann, Monica Keena and Heather Matarazzo who are all brilliant in their roles. Might I just add that the film also includes some VERY cute guys. Anyway, if you like all the other teen films about, I'm sure you'll love Strike. I give the film a 10/10. Great! "},{"Title":"Teen pranks with a purpose.","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Cute movie with lots of laughs and teen attempts to change the world.  I enjoyed this one for the humor and the realistic aspects of what teenagers can and will do. Young love not to be over looked. Whether prep school, college or finishing, kids will find a way to out smart the school administration and that's what this movie is about. If you want humorous entertainment, this is the one for you.    "},{"Title":"All I Wanna Do...is watch this movie.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so that's a little much. But seriously, this is one of the funniest teen-related movies I've seen, and I've seen most of them. The cast is delightful, especially Kirsten Dunst as Verena, the quick-witted ringleader of the Daughters of the American Ravioli. She and her friends Tinka, Tweetie, and Momo take Odette, a new student at Miss Goddard's School for Girls, under their trouble-making, big-dreaming wings and try to stop their beloved school from going co-ed. It sounds like a thin premise for a movie, and maybe it is, but the characters are real and humorous and some of the scenes are extremely funny. The dance, where Verena and Momo spike the punch and intoxicate the choir boys of St. Ambrose, is hilarious, especially if you can pick out Hayden Christensen as a drunken student. And Tom Guiry, Scotty Smalls of The Sandlot fame, grew up and got himself some muscles. My one real problem with this movie was Gaby Hoffman as Odette. She was, for the most part, the one dull person in a crowd of comical characters. Her main goal is to be an ex-virgin and then become a politician. She's rather boring and expressionless compared to the rest of the DAR. This movie is funny and charming and perfect for a group of girlfriends to watch together. I'd suggest it along the same lines as Ten Things I Hate About You. I give it 7 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not all girls just wanna have fun.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Cute and sassy. Both the movie and Kirsten Dunst. Also known as ALL I WANNA DO. Miss Godard's School for Girls is about to go coed. A small group of students led by Miss Dunst gather around cold cans of ravioli to plot their futures and scheme of ways to stop their school from merging with an all boys school. Not total girlish whimsy...there is the underlying recognition of togetherness. And some girls even have ambition. No brainer, but enjoyable.Very fine support fromGaby Hoffman, Rachel Leigh Cook, Monika Keena and veteran actress Lynn Redgrave. "},{"Title":"LOL!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From the moment Odette Sinclair sets foot in Miss Goddard's School for Girls, disaster is sure to follow. She then hooks up with members of the DAR (Daughters of the American Ravioli), a secret club of girls who discuss their futures over ravioli. Then comes the big news Miss Goddard's may go co-ed. The group splits up over this issue, but then are reunited when they realise how awful the St. Ambrose students are (with a little help from some local townies).It also doesn't matter that Tweety is bulimic, or that Odie hates being separated from her boyfriend; nothing matters anymore when the girls come together to fight the boys. I thoroughly enjoyed the film...and I'm in my early twenties, for pete's sake!Up your ziggy with a wa-wa brush! "},{"Title":"A MOVIE ALL GIRLS SHOULD WATCH WITH THEIR BEST FRIENDS.","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The in-crowd at Miss Godard's,a highbrow New England girls   boarding school,has waged an all-out war against the  administration,which wants to merge with St.Ambrose, a nearby  boys prep school.Although the St.Ambrose boys are the very same  boys these young women want to be at social events,and event  on occasion,lust after,they do not want them in the same classroom.Odette (Gaby Hoffmann),the clique's brainy ringleader ,takes Verena (Kirsten dunst),tinka (Monica keena) and tweety  (Heather matarazzo)and Merrit weaver along on a bumpy-but often  hilarious-road of misadventures as they attempt to keep their school boy-free while constantly fighting with Abby (Rachael  leigh cook),Miss Godard's tattletale moniter.What it lacks in  suspense (you know what's gonna happen the first 15  minutes)STRIKE!makes up for its CHARM! "},{"Title":"I've been in a all girls' school and they are playing our lives!","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is definitely a movie that touched my heart and made me moved to LOTS of tears!I've recommended this movie to some friends, expecting them to feel the same way that I felt. It's so good to see somebody playing your life in a movie.This is a movie based on a private girls' boarding school and also a true story happened on the director herself years ago, in her teenage life.In the movie, those girls have dreams of their own. And they all achieve their goals after stepping into the grow-ups' world (they really are very successful in real world). I was touched because I saw how much they cherish each other's secret and how heartedly they help each other through the difficulties in reaching out for their dreams. I , like them, have lived in a all-girls boarding school for 6 years. The movie reminded me those times at many nights, in our beds, my friends and I listened carefully to each other's dream about future, we share our young hearts, just like the girls in the movie do.I don't know what other people would think of this movie, especially males. But after reading some critics about this movie, I know that it is time for girls to stand out. There has never been any movie like this to tell what a girl really wants and how we girls think ourselves are. Any girls who have spend their teenage time in Wesley would love this movie like I do , because during the movie I cry out several time that it's just like what we do in school!. I think mothers would love this film because don't they always want to know what their girls are doing in school! Also teachers in school would pleased to see this movie because many things they want these girls to know but don't know in what way to teach them is the best way are shown in the movie. We will all smile and understand that what a girl's responsibility is to respect our own dream and to think that we are so important. Strike is definitely fitted to girls who want to prove the real woman in them. It shows how friendship will eventually conquer all. I really liked this because it showed the value of friendship and trust in our teenage life. I hope everyone has a great time seeing this because I did. "},{"Title":"5 girls at an all girls school find out they're merging with a boys school, and are totally against it...","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has got to be my favorite movie of all times- i've watched it at least 50 times, and I know the entire script! its about a girls school, and they found out they're going to merge with a boys school, so they try to stop it at all costs. It shows i twisted version of how life was back then, and its hilarious to see all their plans to stop the merger.Kirsten Dunst is the leader, and she's great at it! Also Gaby Hoffman is the new girl and is split between whether to support th merger or be against it, as half the DAR(daughters of the American ravioli- they eat canned ravioli in a secret room in the attic of their school)love boys and want to go through with the merger, and the other ones think it will pull down their grade average, and all their friends will become bimbos to impress the boys. She doesn't want to lose either of her friends, so tries to be for it and against it at the same time. It shows that not all teenage girls at girls schools are obsessed with boys, and even though it's a bit over-the-top, it's so fun to watch. I give it 2 thumbs up- definitely a must see! "}{"Title":"The Hairy Bird doesn't Strike! out, All I Wanna Do is recommend it far and wide!","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To end the confusion once and for all, the film was made as THE HAIRY BIRD and, yes, the title is wordplay on the male wedding tackle (hilarious really, that cute little cartoon bird that fails at its attempts to take to flight in the title sequence is, in fact, a comically animated 'man's nether bits', and quite ballsy, huh?) but then the distributors backed off not to be offensive, and it was released in Canada as STRIKE! (bland!) and in the US as ALL I WANNA DO (passable, I suppose). There is the referral early on in the movie 'this school eats the hairy bird' which (would have) fitted in nicely with the far more clever original title.I downloaded the trailer and wasn't entirely convinced that it would be great, but I have loads of Kirsten Dunst movies in my RavenGlam collection, so what the hell, I bought it because she is in it. And I'm glad, no THANKFUL, I did. Movie only became a hit with me in the second half, mainly because Gaby Hoffman failed to impress, let me not pussyfoot around that any longer. She's mostly boring, and ensemble cast 'up your ziggie with a wah-wah brush!' she's virtually the female lead. There's too little zing in the way the character is portrayed, so there you have a Flat Critter. Okay, so RavenGlamDVDCollector will always play favorites with the prettiest actresses, but here I have a rock-solid case! Go on, admit it! Three years later Canadian actress Jessica Paré (LOST AND DELIRIOUS) would have been perfect! Dammit I know you're gonna hate me for this suggestion, but surely there were much brighter candidates for this central part?I just have to mention that Lynn Redgrave played the character of Miss McVane with a quiet rage that played off beautifully. I'm a guy, and I'm here to talk about Chicks, so if I break down, you have to know that Ms Redgrave did something tremendously right. Yes, the little folk has to stand together to have a voice!And the song at the end just takes the cake! The Hairy Bird! I am well rewarded for my steadfast devotion all these years towards wading through everything, including end titles. I pity YES, PITY the lot of you who walked out of the theater or switched off on your rented DVDs because you missed the cherry on top! A hilarious, passion-killing rendition of the woes of an inexperienced young girl expecting a lovely surprise, but instead having to get acquainted with a guy's pecker on the first date on the back seat of his car... (Smaller than a mailbox, but bigger than one of those cocktail thingies...) And how the tables were turned! Ouch! I was out of there like a comet, I guess I slammed the door on it... Tell me, have you heard, how she crushed that Hairy Bird... Gee, that will teach you to switch off immediately!Let me just say that Kirsten Dunst is oh-so cute, and then there's Monica Keena, the added surprise, she is lovely, ooh yeah. Enough to make hairy birds all over the world wanna dance with 'em. ) "},{"Title":"Classic girl-power movie","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Every single female should watch this movie. It is empowering to watch these girls pull together and 'fight the system' to ensure they receive the best education they can - by using some well planned hi-jinx! Set in the socially turbulent 60's, the girls know that if their school is changed to co-ed, no longer will they focus on learning but on looking cute. through their brilliant and intelligence they foil the plans made by the board of directors to introduce male students into the all-girls school, and manage to make the boys all look like fools and trouble- makers. Though a few of the girls to fall prey to the 'love-bug', they all realize just how crucial their education is to their life-long plans. and nothing is going to stand in their way! you just Have to watch it! it's fun, touching, and as i said, very empowering! o) Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A Chick-flick that us Guys can Like Too!","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's much more to this movie than such sitcom catchphrases as Up your ziggy with a wa-wa brush, and Masterly. As I said in my comment on Can't Hardly Wait(1998) this is the kind of movies that teenagers need, and I didn't just mean teenage boys. Unfortunately, this was in and out of the theaters much too quickly. The only reason I saw it was because it was on Encore as part of a block of movies that were introduced by Alison Sie, who I'd like to thank for letting us know about it. To make matters worse, in order to see the more suggestive and erotic aspects of this movie, you'd have to go to Canada. We Americans are being ripped off.Our story begins in early 1963, where a Motor-City Maiden named Odette Sinclair(Gabby Hoffman) is determined to lose her virginity, until her mother catches her with a birth-control device and ships her and her horse off to Miss Goddard's School for Girls, an all-girls boarding school, supposedly in Connecticut which she think is surrounded by high walls and lesbians. The high walls part is right, but the lesbians,... you'll find that out later.While at first she and they want nothing to do with each other, eventually they warm up to her and decide to help her out, by getting her to join an organization called the Daughters of the American Ravioli. Miss Godard's Girls aren't just talented and organized, they're the wildest boarding school girls since The Belles of St. Trinian's, and believe it or not, kind of cute too. This is helpful, because they're not afraid of their sexuality and know how to use it to get what the want at a time when girls(especially upper crust ones) were expected to be prim and proper. The Flat Critters are the geekiest greaser gang ever to grace a period piece movie from the 1950's or early-'60's. And they also become a suprising relief in the face of a potential merger with the St. Ambrose Boys' Academy. St. Ambrose Headmaster Armstrong(Michael J. Reynolds) sounds like the narrator on Underdog(1964), and if I had been a kid in that period, I would've sworn he did that on the side. Nevertheless, it's the arrival of the St. Ambrose school for a school dance/test merger that leads to a prank rivaling some of the teen movies of the late-1970's and early-1980's. And when that doesn't work, Odie leads them all on a major student strike!In defense of us guys, I'd like to point out that when we lust for you women, it's not a conspiracy to drag you down to the bottom of the economic totem pole. It's just a conspiracy to get you into our beds, or get into yours. Perhaps over 20 years ago when I was a teenager I might not have understood the desire to keep such schools separate, but I can see the reasons now. Not that I'm endorsing sexual segregation, mind you. I'm just endorsing this movie. "},{"Title":"masterly...","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is really great film. I loved that it was set in the sixties, but it's the kind of script that could have been set any time including present day. Anyone thinking of watching it and hasn't, you should go out and hire it.  "},{"Title":"A Fun, Funny, Feel-Good movie","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I ALMOST skipped this movie on a shelf at the video store, but I'm glad I didn't because it turned out to be one of my favorites. I was surprised that with it's well-known (and well cast) group of actors it didn't have a bigger release, but it's worth searching out if it's not at your local Blockbuster.The story takes place in 1963 and revolves around a group of best friends at an all girls boarding school. The girls take place in countless adventures and mis-adventures, determined to get what they want and find ways around the school rules. They have an amazingly tight friendship and find fun and trouble in almost every situation. However, when they find out that they're school is merging with a boys boarding school, they have mixed feelings, but attempt to pull off their craziest scheme yet.The acting was great, it was full of timely AND timeless humor, and is a fun, feel-good movie. The more I watch it, the more funny moments I find hidden in. It probably won't be the best movie you'll ever see, but it's something everyone (especially teen girls) will enjoy. "},{"Title":"A hilarious must-see with an awesome cast.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious movie with an awesome cast of very funny girls.  I love the plot and the funny comments like up your ziggy with a wa-wa brush!.  Rachel Leigh Cook is such funny brown noser and the D.A.R. girls lead the movie's comedy through the whole thing.  A must-see for any Rachel Leigh Cook or Kirsten Dunst fan. "},{"Title":"Charming movie for girls everywhere!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lately, I've been very disappointed with teen comedies these days, but when I came across 'All I wanna do' (aka Strike!) I was impressed by the cast so I decided to give it a try. I was surprised and delighted to see that 'Strike!' not only has a plot unlike many teen movies today, but doesn't show teen girls in a trashy way using nudity such as movies like 'Road Trip'. The movie actually empowers girls. It's a great flick to watch with a sister or a best friend and I recommend it to anyone who is sick of seeing teenage girls being reduced to trash. Also, the movie has the exceptionally talented Kirsten Dunst who is wonderful. Another person who I thought stood out was Rachel Leigh Cook who did a great job as the snobby miss goody-two shoes. "},{"Title":"Required viewing for teenaged girls","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would group this 1998 movie -- along with its fairy tale counterpart Ever After -- among the must see movies for teenaged girls.  Watching this movie at 25, i wish that it had come out when i was a teenager -- it is an empowering and inspiring movies for girls of all ages.The movie explores the unique atmosphere of an all girls school in 1963. While a good number of the students dislike the cloistered atmosphere, a few individuals discover that their school is to become co-ed with a well moneyed yet bottom of the barrel boys school.They become worried -- after all, an all girls school is an excellent place to mature, to become independent and to think on your own without the overpowering and distractive influence of male students.  They are afraid that going coed will limit the possibilities for their future.  And, it will mean washing your hair every night, getting up at 6 to push those tits, blitz those zits. When you get to class, only the boys will be called on, but that's okay because you're so tired you can't even think.  So you drink nothing but coffee at lunch, but that's okay, because you're on a diet anyways.So, a small group of girls who definitely do not want to have their dreams squashed lead a rebellion against the oncoming changes.Over all, this movie is an effective look at the second curriculum -- the phenomenon of girls being less assertive, more quiet and more prone to downplaying their intelligent in a coed learning environment.  A phenomenon that unfortunately continues to this day.That's the reason why girls should see this movie -- it could open their eyes to the reality of education systems.Plus, its tonnes of fun. )Standout performances in this movie include Lynn Redgrave as Ms. McVane -- the headmistress of the girls' school.  She plays her role with the most perfect combination of school leadership, frustration at the unfairness of the world, and admiration and love for her empowered students.Rachael Leigh Cook is also very good as the good-two-shoes student. Prissy, pretty and in the end, defiant -- the role is a good one for her.Maura's review  8/10 "},{"Title":"A cool movie about Girl Power!","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie, not only because it had a great plot, it had great young actresses playing the lead characters. Each girl's personality was different and everyone had different opinions about the all girls school combining with an all boys school. Filled with lots of funny, poignant moments......a movie you don't wanna miss! "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Such a chick flick. Fun and great to watch with your girlfriends. Nothing like a mischief making movies for playful teens. Im a big fan on movies made set in the 60' etc and this movie about a group of young girls in a all girls boarding school was a little close to home for me. This movie is basically about these girls boiling up mischief and trouble when they find out there school will be joining up with the local all boys academy. Something for which they do not want to happen. Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffman, Rachel Leigh Cook and Monica Keena are great in this and especially enjoyed the role of Monica. She was delightful to watch. Kirsten plays another spiteful role but she is one of my favourite actress so she was great to watch once again. "}{"Title":"A Movie Almost all Teenage Girls Will Love","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie on my 15th birthday.  The theatre was quite empty, considering it had just come out. One of the problems was that it was given such bad reviews by all the newspapers.  The problem is the reviews were written by middle aged men, which is definitely not the target audience.  No wonder it didn't do well. I loved the movie.  Every second, every scene.  I wished I were one of the main actresses in it.  I was a fan of almost all the main actresses, Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffman, Rachel Leigh Cook, and the actress who played Tinka.  The whole movie looked like a lot of fun. Though it was full of cliches, it was still worth seeing, and I would see it again, and again, and again, if it wasn't for the fact that I can't find it in any movie stores.   This is definitely a movie that you would want to watch with your best friends, with a pint of ice cream. "},{"Title":"Congratulations, Sarah Kernochan","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very, very good movie. I'm a big movie fan, but I'm picky about what I like and I like this. The characters, in my opinion, were well-chosen for the parts they played.I, however, had a problem with Gaby Hoffman as Odette/Odius/Odie Sinclair who is a new arrival in this movie. It's like she's trying too hard to be cool among the girls, which rubbed me the wrong way, especially at the end when they fought back and she was the leader.But the movie was a big success, in my point of view. I loved how Tinka fell in love with Little Rascal-esque Snake (She's sucking his face off!) and how her St. Ambrose date was a little...premature but a major cutie, who grew up ALOT. All in all, it was a great hit of a movie and recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"THE BEST teen movie out there...","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Me and my girls ALWAYS watch STRIKE when we have sleep overs. YES, it is a chick flick and it is a teen movie. But it's always such a joy to watch this it's got great female characters you easily get attached to, good sub-plots that make it more believable and an unlimited amount of unforgettable quotes and jokes. The theme of the movie is really STAND UP FOR WHAT YOU BVELIEVE ME. But also ALWAYS BE THERE FOR YOUR FRIENDS. I, personally, love teen movies that are both hilarious and heartwarming at the same time. And this is definitely one of the best teen movies out there. I also really like ''Never Been Kissed'',''10 Things I Hate About You'',''Down To You'' and ''She's All That''. And if you've seen and enjoyed all of these movies and haven't seen ''STRIKE'' yet, get your butt of that chair and run to the video store. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Strike!Teenagers aren't allowed to vote in federal elections because they always select D) All of the Above Candidates.Luckily, the ladies in this comedy are more astute than their contemporaries.To keep her away from her boyfriend (Matthew Lawrence), Odie (Gaby Hoffmann) is sent to an all-girls school where she aligns herself with the less reputable students (Kirsten Dunst, Monica Keena, Heather Matarazzo, Merritt Wever).When it's announced that the school will amalgamate with the boys' academy, the girls set out to stop the merger by demanding that the board of trustees allow them to vote on the co-ed matter.Also known as All I Want To Do, this subliminal salute to the suffrage movement isn't as superficial, flippant or as badly acted as most of the Girl Power movies from the late nineties.Moreover, the only thing that girls learn at a co-ed school is where to buy Plan B.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Several Strikes Against It.","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Strike (1998) Dir Sarah Kemochan / Cast Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffmann, Rachel Leigh Cook, Lynn Redgrave, Vincent Kartheiser Combination of National Lampoon's Animal House and Rock N' Roll High School but lacking the comic wit of both. Title refers to Kirsten Dunst's refusal to change. Hopefully after being part of this film she will require a major change. An all girl school is threatened with the possibility of going co-ed. This threatens misfit Dunst who is often late for classes and sabotages anything she considers a threat. Gaby Hoffmann is the new student who believes that the school should speak out. Vulgar and somewhat sexist with Dunst stashing liquor bottles about a bus and the boys who arrive innocent end up puking on everything. Directed by Sarah Kernochan with some fine location areas. This film is also saddled with several names, which can be a bitch when locating it. Dunst and Hoffmann play opposites but neither character obtains a personality. Dreary supporting work by Rachel Leigh Cook as the standard rival who will stop at nothing to expose Dunst. Lynn Reggrave plays the headmistress who cannot think for herself. She is suppose to be in charge but too often she is taking advice from people who are seen as total morons. Everything seems recycled and terribly dull but its message at least rings true. Strong co-ed theme elevates but the crude humour poise a strike against it. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem","Date":"7 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I stumbled across this movie on TV and was surprised I'd never heard of it. The title is forgettable, but the film certainly isn't. This movie really captures something universal about women's education, starting with cute preppy girls acting all bad-ass and rebellious...then slowly realizing they have actual power to change things in the world. Delightful performances, hilarious situations and a positive feminine tone. I liked how the main characters got what they wanted&#x97;and then realized they were better than that.Having been part of the Mills College Student Strike in 1991, I also found this movie to be very meaningful in light of the fact that Mills was the only women's college to actually turn around a decision to go co-ed (Mrs. Godards's is, alas, fictional). Insightful and incisive writing is so subtly well-nestled in the plot you don't realize it's political. Kristen Dunst's rantings at the DAR's secret meeting and Vanessa Redgrave's bitter tantrum at the beginning of the third act provide some great insights into the state of women's education.Some of the reviews on this site are alarmingly condescending. One guy writes (yes, in all caps and with more exclamation points than a teenage girl), THE LIVES OF TEENAGE GIRLS ARE UNINTERESTING!!!! I find it so sad that this sort of judgment seems to have kept audiences away from what really should have been as big a hit as Dead Poet's Society (more interesting, presumably, because it was about boys and someone died) had been a decade earlier. "},{"Title":"Quite a funny rump...","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Without saying this is a great girlie flick, All I Wanna Do! (or Strike! in Canada) is good in many parts, as it shows girls wanted to keep their school as is instead of turning as co-ed. In 1964, the World was changing, so's the habits. Even if girls are crazy about boys, they have a secret place to blossom themselves. The Goddard School for Girls is the place, but economical reasons want to turn it into a co-ed school to make ends meet. To keep parents and directors for taking that decisions, the Daughters of the American Ravioli will do everything so their school remains an all girl only institution.At least you can have a good time here, Mostly if you are fan of Kirsten Dunst or Rachael Leigh Cook. For the rest, it's colorful, plain light, you don't get bored...*spoiler* Spot Hayden Christensen in a rather embarrassing situation ! "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This was a really fun movie! Kirsten Dunst was great, and completely believable in her role as a mischief-making girl in the '60s. It wasn't the funniest movie I've ever seen (not by a long shot) but there were some parts that made me laugh out loud. The actor who played Frosty Frost, as Kirsten Dunst's character nicknames him, was cute, as was Shawn Ashmore as the photographer. I also ADORED Monica Keena! The one bad part how Monica's character turned out to be lesbian, after being being boy-crazy the whole movie. All in all, though, this is one of my very favorite movies. Rent it sometime! "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. I have seen it over and over and never get tired of it! I love the club they made The D.A.R (Daughters of the American Ravioli) I just wonder about the girls and the boys sometimes....sometimes they want the boys and sometimes they want nothing at all to do with them! "},{"Title":"A MAJOR SURPRISE","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Smart and quite funny. A vast improvement over most in this genre.The cast is excellent and Kirsten Dunst shows, once again, why she will be a superstar in the very near future. If all teen comedies were this intelligently conceived, grownups like myself would be more inclined to see them. "}{"Title":"It is indeed a movie you should watch with your best friends.","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is indeed a movie you should watch with your best friends just as I did! It is not a movie you would want to watch more than three times but I still give them all credit for doing a good job. It was funny and entertaining and I really enjoyed it. Well done people 7/10. "},{"Title":"Classic Feel-Good-Movie","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Classic. Probably one of the best teen comedies ever. As a 20 year old guy I may be not the person this movie was made for, but i think that it is funny for both sides. This Movie has an excellent cast (besides the leader of the Flat Critters, who has extremely stupid lines and is definitely NO GOOD ACTOR), very cool dialogues and is very charming. Watching this, gives me an extraordinary feeling. I had a little smile on my face for almost half of the movie. But don't take it too serious. There are some parts (the Bulimie Scenes) that should have better been removed than makin' it look some kinda funny. One of the Films for cold and rainy days. Sit back and enjoy. And I'm sure you will  "},{"Title":"Youv'e gotta love it","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a great movie with lots of laughs. I rented this movie because of kirsten dunst, but I didn't know for sure if I would like it, but I did. Kirsten Dunst character is hilarious. The other girls are funny as well. This is a movie both girls and boys will, but I think it will appeal to girls more only because it revolves around them. If your'e a fan of the movie check it out. Parental warning- this is definitely not for younger children, it contains sexual content and oher themes that, some are funny, but not suitable for kids. I give this movie a 8/10 rated PG-13- teen sex-related material language and some substance abuse. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!!!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie! I first saw it right before my freshman year in high school. It was something that I watched many times because I thought it was hilarious, due to the fact that it reminded me so much of my High School. At my all girls boarding school it was funny to look around and see all of the characters and issues. Sure this movie is a chick flick for the younger crowd but I think anyone who ever went to a boarding school, especially an all girls school, can relate to it. Girls who see this movie want to be part of it and the girls that have a life like this love to see the movie. What do girls wanna do after all but have fun!? "},{"Title":"Fun movies are fun.","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hi IMDB friends! Wow, this is a funky fun movie. I rent it frequently because, alas, it is very hard to find in stores. Anyway, if you liked Now and Then or even if you didn't, you will still sweat this movie because everyone does. This is a coolio movie about a group of girls at a finishing school and the reek all sorts of havoc because that makes the movie fun. And you know what? Did you see X-Men? Yeah well the kid who plays Bobby Drake(Welcome to Mutant High) his name is Shawn Ashmore and he's a hottie.is in it and he's in his underwear. That's way fun. Oh, and Hayden Christensen is in it and he looks like he's 12 years old but really, he's like 17. And he is funny and drunk in it. HA! Anyway, see this movie or I may have to hurt you. Lovely. Bye.  "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so maybe this is a chick flick, but it's a good one.  It's a great rental to watch with your girlfriends.  All of the leads are terrific and Rachel Leigh Cook is particularly entertaining as the goody-goody antagonist. "},{"Title":"Starts slowly, gets hilarious...","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a nice teen movie with the interesting edge that it's playing in the 60's. It is far from spectacular, but a nice movie to watch when you want to have some fun.Monica Keena is extremely gorgious, Kirsten Dunst is playing with sweet fervor and after a rather slow hour, the movie is heating up when the boys from the boy school are coming for a visit.Good entertainment even when you're a male! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie three times, and even if it wasn't too successful in cinema, (no surprise - the german title was Maedchen an die Macht - maiden should get the power, and it looked like a movie for children), I think it is a masterpiece. I was fearing it could be only a feministic 'who needs a story? we are political correct anyway' like that 'G.I. Jane'-thing, but it isn't at all.Well, the story itself is that a girl (named Odette Sinclair) is put into a woman only school, for her parents found out she wants to have sex with her boyfriend Dennis. At the beginning, she really hates this place; but then she finds friends under the other girls, especially she joins a secret pupil gang named Daughters of the America Ravioli. The leader, Verena von Stefan, tries to help her with her plans about Dennis. One of the maiden, Tinka Parker, found out that their school, due to financial problems, will merge with a boy school. The reactions of the girls are quite different, for some are happy and some are angry about that.The whole plot is excellent, the main characters are described in a very detailed and realistic way, but at the same time this film is very funny, for it shows the weaknesses and strengths of the persons in it, so one can recognize oneself or others one knows in them. Not only the girls, but also the boys and the adults are described very well, I especially had to laugh about Dennis (the boyfriend of Odette) which remembers me about myself, when I was in that age (knowing nothing about women). Also there are such real-life-like jokes that a girl which doesn't want a boy at all suddenly - and in the totally wrong moment - gets one, while the other which has missed her boyfriend all the time finally finds out that this boy knows nothing about her and that she has to leave him.This picture is full of this, it is one of the seldom movies one may watch multiple times without getting bored by it. "},{"Title":"A nice attempt.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I appreciate this film, even if I don't like it much. It helps if you went to an all girls school and have had some of these experiences. But the plot isn't much to speak of, and a lot of the performances are simply over the top. It's shot poorly and the music isn't very good, but some of the performers are quite game, including Kirstin Dunst and Monica Keena. Overall, I guess this would be a nice way to spend a rainy afternoon with your girlfriends, if you're 15 years old and in school.  "},{"Title":"If You're a girl, you MUST see it.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This story is about the teenage girls who plays the dirty tricks on the school boys from the different school and saving the girl school in danger. I watched this movie in the theater AND with VCD and I love this movie. My boyfriend slept in the theater, though. Maybe this movie is NOT for the boys. Chris is a BIG fan of Kirsten Dunst and Gaby Hoffman, but he said he just didn't like the movie. I thought Kirsten Dunst played Verena really well. She's such a intelligent actress in Hollywood. Rachael Leigh Cook was cute in the movie playing a spoiled girl. I give 8 out of 10. If you want to watch a movie like this, rent 'Now and Then'. You'll see Gaby in 12. "}{"Title":"Stars of Tomorrow","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Odette (Gaby Hoffmann) is the new girl in Miss Godard's Preparatory School For Girls. Verena von Stefan (Kirsten Dunst) is the school bad girl and she quickly befriends Odette. Abby Sawyer (Rachael Leigh Cook) is the school monitor. Verena leads a group of girls called the DAR until plans to merge the school with a boy's academy turn the group upside down.This stars some of the best young actresses of the time. It's an uphill battle for sexual equality. Some of it is poignant and some of it is funny. But mostly it meanders. There are a lot of lead characters all going in different directions. It seems like the film wants Kirsten Dunst to lead, but she's just one of many.Writer/director Sarah Kernochan tries to get the right feel with the era music. But the writing isn't funny enough or sharp enough. While it's fun to see these stars at an early stage, it never really gets great. It's much more of a girls movie where the girls are smart. It's about girl power, and not just the easy sexy-girls-doing-kung-fu-fighting type of girl power. "},{"Title":"teen bitchery and bonding","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Highly recommended - in the tradition of Heathers, Clueless, The Craft. Super freakin cast - Gaby Hoffmann is riding high (her performance in 200 Cigarettes was the film's only redeeming value). Brilliant one-lines liners too many to mention.   "},{"Title":"Cool Teen Flick with the stars of tomorrow","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Im a 30 something male so I guess this film wasn´t really made for my focus group,but I liked it,intelligent script and good acting,cool with the whole feminist slant on a teen movie.Ok so the story was a bit thin and you saw the end coming.but its a feel good movie and supposed to be that way,the people that complain over such trifles are the ones whining bout the dancescenes in Singin in the rain or the logic of Where eagles dare,enjoy it for an intelligent comedy with a message for us all "},{"Title":"really bad in a good way","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, so first off I think this was one of the dumbest movies I've ever seen -- teen chick flick with no substance.  That said, I'd watch it again anyway.  In fact I rented it and watched it twice in a row -- it's kind of addictive.  The fairly-awful script admittedly has its funny moments of deliberate self-mocking.  But it also keeps trying to be serious when its anything but.The cast Gaby Hoffman drove me nuts throughout the film.  Kirsten Dunst does a decent job, but her role is generic -- the same goes for Welcome to the Dollhouse nerd-goddess Heather Matarazzo and Dawson's Creek bad-girl Monica Keena.  But there were some surprisingly nuanced turns -- Lynn Redgrave, who plays a militant yet sensitive headmistress is never anything short of sublime, and I particularly enjoyed the performance of Rachael Leigh Cook, whose snotty yet obviously insecure goody-two-shoes steals the show.  I also liked Vincent Kartheiser in a rare turn as a not-so-bad-guy -- he made me laugh.This movie is something to watch with your girlfriends when you're in the mood for fluff -- right up there with 10 Things I Hate About You.  But it's not winning any awards for originality or depth. "},{"Title":"A fun little bop comedy romp about girl power.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All I Wanna Do is about a girl's finishing school and the student body's girl power rebellion to prevent the school from going coed. A fun little comedy full of the usual comedic pubescent bop silliness which one would expect of such a film, AIWD is well cast and manages itself to a somewhat climactic feel good conclusion while not going overboard on all the no-no stuff to which mom or dad might object. A good flick for teenaged female best friends. "},{"Title":"Half A Strike","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not sure but I think a Hairy Bird is a euphemism for male genitalia. If that's true it's pretty descriptive if you think about it. This Canadian film originally was called Strike. It's about the students in a girl's school going on strike, protesting about the merging of their school with a boy's school, but as often happens with teen movies the film is mainly interested in the students and their love and other affairs.The Hairy Bird in fact tries to cover too much territory, not giving good measure to very much at all, but along the  way the film is entertaining enough with some very memorable scenes. One of the main characters is Odine played by Gaby Hoffman. She's a serious type interested in politics, but who, with a very human touch, tells her best friends that her main ambition in life is to have sex with her boyfriend David. Now that I can understand. First things first after all, especially when you're sweet 16.There then ensues a very funny and knowing scene between these two young lovers, one that is well worth seeing. Gaby Hoffman first came to notice as the little girl in Sleepless In Seattle and has had major parts in Volcano, Now And then and Man Without A Face. She has a sombre, pensive way about her that adds a lot interest to her characters.The other lead is played by Kirsten Dunst (the girl vampire in Interview With A Vampire, the vampire who wanted more). Dunst plays bad girl Verena, and by that description of her part you can rightly guess that The Hairy Bird has all of the teen, school stereotypes displayed for all to see.The girls don't want the boys to join the school, perhaps because they'll have to dress up more for class, or perhaps because they're worried that the boys will get more attention from the teachers and then presumably better marks. They were wrong there. It's the boys at school that we have to worry about these days. The  film is set in the 60's, when the feminist educational issues were gaining momentum, but this issue is given only a cursory treatment in a film that skirts as many topics as it raises.But still The Hairy Bird is fun and pleasant enough and Gaby Hoffman is in the cast. "},{"Title":"A movie to check out if you like edgy teenie dramas.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I admit it, I just rented the movie because I thought it would be a normal teenage movie, you know love story, a group of gals, and the whole 9 yards.  But I was wrong.  I think that all the females in the movie did a great acting job, and some of the males did too. I appreciate a fine written movie such as this.  I recommend it.  If you loved Now And Then, then you will love this movie almost as much. "},{"Title":"Silly contrived pre-teen fodder...not necessarily bad but lacked heart","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can promise you that there are probably thousands (if Thousands saw this) that would call this their favorite movie and giggle while they say it. Strike! (as I knew it as) or All I Wanna Do as Netflix knows it as is definitely set to impress a very specific demographic but does it even hit the nail on the head in that aspect? The film is set in the sixties and there is no doubt they are trying to capitalize on the popularity of a previous similar film in 1995 called Now And Then. But this one doesn't have flashbacks or flash forwards. Instead this is about a precocious (I think that's being too kind) group of friends getting into insane trouble while trying to keep their All-Girls School from going co-ed. The girls are barely likable, obnoxious in fact, and they certainly shouldn't be the role model for anyone that this film would be trying to sell itself to. The girls are really the group of girls you'd probably hate...and instead they're put as the 'heroes' of the story and you will have a good time with their antics but you won't fall in love with the story, the setting or the characters.One of the busiest actresses in Hollywood even in the nineties Kirsten Dunst was probably a wise choice to lead this cast. She does have a lot of personality but wow is she ever obnoxious in this. I mean I understand her character is loud and bossy but that doesn't make her fun to watch. Dunst is Dunst and if you like then she did a decent job and if you don't...well your annoyance meter will run high for this role. Another teen cult favorite Gaby Hoffmann (she was actually in the aforementioned Now And Then) plays tom-boy rebel Odette. I think she's probably the strongest actress in the film and her character is probably the most likable as well. Rachael Leigh Cook is also good in her role but her role is kept too small unfortunately because I think she could have done better as more of a main character than a supporting one. Monica Keena, Heather Matarazzo, Matthew Lawrence and Vincent Kartheiser all round out the supporting cast and I honestly think if you flipped this cast around in order of importance...giving more time to Cook, Matarazzo, Lawrence...and less time to Dunst...this might have been this films saving grace.I think that they had a good idea, and good intentions but the script really held this film back. You have to consider whether something that looks fun or sounds funny on paper translates to live action because sometimes it doesn't. Writer/Director Sarah Kernochan helms her own script and that might be a stumble on their part. Kernochan is a songwriter and maybe this is just an idea she was sitting on for awhile and decided to give it a go but either way the film definitely lacks a certain amount of expertise. The demographic that the film is made for I wouldn't let my 11-13 Year old daughter see the movie and everyone else older than that will just see it as fluff. You'll get a chuckle here and there but more groans than anything else. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This is a remake I think","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Just watched this yesterday and thoroughly enjoyed but 30 minutes in the film, the plot became very familiar. SPOILER WARNING - The exclusive girls school, the club they have created, the annoying head girl, the party, the spiked punch, and the lead girl getting expelled for having sex. Have a look at the 1978 film called Boarding School starring Nastassja Kinski. Maybe it is a remake but I see no recognition of that anywhere. The boys are introduced into the film differently but it is so close that it cannot be a coincidence. If is not a new version of that film then Sarah Kernochan should be ashamed. Enjoyed it all the same and the lead girls are all good but not a patch on Kinski. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Hott Guys, Fave Teen Actresses, a comeback from heather matarazzo(welcome to the dollhouse) and basically a cute teen movie!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i love it! Great Movie, Hott Guys, Fave Teen Actresses, a comeback from heather matarazzo(welcome to the dollhouse) and basically a cute teen movie!basically, these girls in the 60's at Miss Goddard's Prep School for Girls are Odie (Gaby Hoffman,  Verena (Kirsten dunst),tinka (Monica keena) and tweety (Heather matarazzo)and Momo(not sure her name. anyways, they basically battle against abby sawyer (rachel leigh cook) and letting their school go co-ed. Odie wuz sent to the girls school bcuz she got in trouble and the other girls try to get her and her boyfriend (Matthew Lawrence) to hook up.  at a school dance event/choir competition, they get the guys they'll combine wit completely drunk as to sabotage the merge. later, they go on a strike until Abby's mom, head of the school board, meets their demands.one of the many teen movies from 98/99 but its great and everyone should see it! "}{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been better","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I won't bother going into a summary of what the film is about seeing that many have already done so.So where do I begin?  On the whole I found the movie to be enjoyable, though there was plenty of room for improvement.  For starters the plot was pretty obvious - within half an hour into the film you can already guess the ending.  I felt that Kirsten Dunst, Gaby Hoffman and Monica Keena gave good performances but the other 2 members of the DAR were fairly dull and I never paid much attention to them.  Lynn Redgrave I thought was also good. Rachel Leigh Cook I found to be slightly disappointing - she did her best with her character but the film never gave her much room to develop.  I also felt the treatment of her character at the end was a bit harsh as well.  I also felt that Snake and the rest of his gang was basically pointless - their only real purpose was at the end so everything else they did in the film was just filler as far as I could see.Despite the shortcomings I did find the film to be on the whole enjoyable. I found it funny often (though not often enough) and generally had a good time.  I did however find the ending a bit of a letdown.  This may be in part due to the fact I found Verena (Dunst) the most interesting character so when she disappeared from the scenes late in the film I couldn't find any other character to latch onto, leaving me a bit alienated.  The dialogue at times was also fairly ordinary, if not ridiculous.Ultimately I'd recommend this film for those who enoy a bit of a laugh, but just be aware that this film does have a number of shortcomings which prevent it from being a very good comedy instead of being just a normal comedy attempt.  I'd give this film 3 1/2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not a comedy formula","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hadn't heard anything about this film. I'm not sure whether it made cinema release here in the UK, but I rented it because I was instructed to stay in with my 12 year old sister and thought the pubescent girl power theme might appeal to her. She actually fell asleep half way through, so it was, surprisingly, me who sat and watched it from beginning to end. I wasn't riveted. As it was a fairly slow-paced movie, I felt able to make 3 cups of coffee and fetch 2 tubs of ice-cream from the kitchen (which was probably why I stayed awake to see the end)without feeling as though I'd miss a crucial moment.Although I was impressed with the performances of Kirsten Dunst and Rachel Leigh Cook, I felt the script did not do them much justice. The fact that they shine in this movie does not very much praise their acting abilities as some performances were quite honestly unbearable. Particularly that of the leader of the local youth angst rebel society. I cringed for the poor actor. Also Monica Keena does not give the same convincing role as she does as Dawson's Creek's fatally destined Abbie.This movie would have been better if it had not tried to capture the humour of other teen flicks such as Clueless and She's All That. It's simply does not carry the same formula.   Although some of the gags made me laugh I thought the strong content of what the film dealt with such as female oppression in the 60's, teen sex, broken homes and sexual harassment should have been tackled with a more serious and opinionated view. This could have made a great visual anthem for many of these subjects had it only made more emphasis on them. Young people CAN actually digest these issues without them having to be sweetened with unsuccessful laugh-a-minute gags.It should have bee made in the same serious and nostalgic light as Now and Then, which I saw as a 13 year old and absorbed with great pleasure. it's such a pity it tried to be funny. "},{"Title":"UP YOUR ZIGGI WITH A WAH WAH BRUSH!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVE THIS FILM! its a classic, i cannot belive it isn't more popular, i was bored one day when i was about 11 and ever since i've loved it, but i cannot seem to find anywhere 2 buy it??? Can anyone help me?It's great because its a completely gross film, it adresses the issue of sex adn has people who are now well established as stars! i.e Kirsten Dunst and Racheal Leigh Cook.The plot is great, an all powerful girls comedy although it has parts that appeal to males as well. For once women aren't being shown as pathetic and weedy within society!GREAT FILM! "},{"Title":"Very Much A Chick Flick","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There were some amusing moments, but I guess the fact that I'm not a teenage girl was a problem.  There were some fairly intelligent moments, too (not exactly something I expected) but it's no cinematic masterwork.  (I suppose that's a given)  It is nice to see that teen movies are getting at least a little bit racier.  I can't wait for the day (or night, rather) that I watch this at a midnite art house screening on a double bill with something like Salo 120 Days of Sodom.  Now THAT would be something to talk about... "},{"Title":"Barely watchable.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I rented this film, I got it out of the comedy section of the video store. This is in no way a comedy film. I didn't find anything funny about this movie. Even if you think of this film as a drama, it still isn't any good. The fact that the film is based in the 1960's is just annoying.  "},{"Title":"why did they make this movie","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" first what the hell is that flat critters (excrement) was i the only one that thought that was just a little messed up and the squeak noises he kept making. why did they need to make this a movie wasted a few million stupid idiots! i about shot myself while watching that movie and that strike thing strike strike blah blah blah who gives a (they won't let me say it). and none of them are good actors and the 'ode' girl she should have stopped her acting career after uncle buck. that movie was just one big big waste of time i can't believe i rented it let alone watch,that movie was almost as bad as the Mary Kate and Ashley movies, and we all know how bad those movies are! "},{"Title":"Pretty lame","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Usually I enjoy high school hijinks movies, but this one was vapid.  The story revolves around five girls at an all girls prep school, four of which have the IQ's of one of Tiger Woods better rounds of golf.  As usual in these movies, we are treated to the escapades and mischief cooked up by bored teens, this time female style.  Unfortunately, most of the skits were woefully unfunny and stereotyped.    As the movie progresses, we learn that, out of financial need, the school intends to merge with a local boys' school and go coed.  The girls try to sabotage the plan with a plot at the next mixer to make the boys look like drunks and perverts.  When that fails, the film starts taking itself very seriously and the girls organize a student strike and lock themselves in the dorm demanding the right to vote against the merger.The direction of this film by writer/director Sarah Kernochan was uninspiring.  Other than some decent sixties props it was pretty insipid.  Kernochan made a splash as the co-writer of &#145;9 ½ Weeks' and &#145;Sommersby', but as a solo writer/director she just doesn't cut it.  The acting; well, there really wasn't any acting.  Other than Lynn Redgrave, who was far too melodramatic for this film, all we had here was a bunch of pubescent teens behaving sillily.  The only serious teenage character in the film was Odette (Gaby Hoffman) and she was far too dour and condescending.This movie is pretty much a disaster.  It had a couple of funny moments but they were far too sparse.  I gave it a 3/10.  I would only recommend it to girls 10 to 18 years old, or to anyone else who needs a 90 minute nap. "},{"Title":"the revolution of oversexed teenagers!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  okay. this movie movie does make a legitimate point about funding and opportunities for all-girls school compared to all-boys and co-ed schools. simply put, society still has more faith in a man's prospective success than that of a female. unfortunately, viewers must wade through about an hour and a half of the adventures of oversexed girls to discover this point. and then it all ends in a rather unbelievable five minutes when the girls stage a rebellion to keep the board of trustees from allowing their all-girl school to go co-ed.  so much more could have elevated this stupid star vehicle to a rather informative position. oh well.  "},{"Title":"So awful that i had to run out of the theatre.","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I sat in the movie theater, I knew this feminist film would be horrible. Now, some people would tell me, it's because I wanted it to be horrible. I just say no. This movie could be amusing interesting and passionating for some 7 year old girls who want to become feminists. But men, when you have to sit there and wait for the time to pass just don't think about it as a movie better think of it as trash. "},{"Title":"Shallow and unimpressive","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a 20-year-old male, I realize that I am not the target audience for Strike! (is the exclamation point part of the title?).  This is a film aimed at teenage girls and it is designed to make them giggle, cheer, and revel in the joys of being flighty and immature.  Telling the story of a girl's prep school, the movie puts forth a strong message of female independance and pride.But, wow, is it a bad film!  Good intentions aside, this thing made me wish for the disciplined, mature filmmaking of Now and Then.  Forgettable characters, cliched situations, and a flat script make this bastion of girl power tired, obnoxious, and moronic.It is hard to dismiss the offhand way the film deals with bulimia and sexual harassment.  We learn early on that Tweety (the wonderful Heather Matarazzo) barfs up every meal she eats, fearing she is too fat.  The film never, NEVER does anything to resolve the issue; it is as if Tweety's bulimia is a CHARACTER TRAIT, played for comic relief.  God.  Also, when a teacher tries to hop in the sack with Odette (Gaby Hoffmann) it is dealt with in a whimsical, hilarious manner.The plot is crowded and not very interesting.  Boys, co-ed education, strife among friends, yadda yadda yadda.  These things are part of a teenage girl's life, I know, but you know why these make uninteresting topics for a movie? BECAUSE THE LIVES OF TEENAGE GIRLS ARE UNINTERESTING!!!!  This film is a celluloid version of YM magazine; glossy, hollow, and superficial.The one redeeming feature is the actors.  Lynn Redgrave is fabulous in the tired role of the strict yet kindly headmistress.  Hoffmann and Matarazzo are good, Kirsten Dunst is strong, and the rest of the cast is effective (with one notable exception, see below).  The highlight, though, acting-wise is the charming Rachel Leigh Cook who gives her role a brightness and depth it doesn't deserve.  Cook is not just another pretty face; she can really ACT.  Someone please give her a movie deserving of her talents.The notable exception would have to be the entire gang of Flat Critters, lead by the smarmy, irritating Vincent Kartheiser.  If there was anyone as false and one-dimensional as this terrible character in real life, they'd be beaten half to dealth.  The whole Flat Critters posse is another fake nail in this movie's coffin of artificiality.    "}{"Title":"NOT JUST A LAME TEEN COMEDY; AN AGONIZING ONE!!!","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm glad this movie went straight to video, despite its plethora of big teen stars.  This is the type of flick that gives awful a bad name.  All I Wanna Do (or Strike, as it's listed here) takes you on this agonizing journey from start to finish.  The writing seems to be right out of a Babysitter's Club or Sweet Valley High novel.  I can only visualize young girls in the fifth or sixth grade enjoying this crap.  The humor is so flat, even the sex jokes are flat.  And the only significant elements of trying to fulfill the atmosphere of the 1960s are the use of a record player, a few vintage cars in the background and a couple of classic oldie songs.  This whole movie alternates between predictable, silly, annoying and sickening. This review is not a mere opinion; it's a warning!  I never thought I can be so appalled by a movie with Kirsten Dunst as a lead.  She's perfect eye candy, but even she couldn't get this comedy into gear.People complain about teen comedies like She's All That, Never Been Kissed and Jawbreaker.  THIS is the one to badmouth!  I had to watch this movie in 4 or 5 separate viewings, b/c it was agonizing watching 20 minutes of this crap, so I wasn't even going to try to watch it straight through.  And most of the time when I rent a movie, I watch it twice, even if it's horrible, just to get my money's worth.  This movie is beyond horrible.  I wasn't even dreaming of wasting another hour and a half on this pointless garbage.  "}]