[{"Title":"Lots of  Fun, But Check Your Brains At The Door","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Here's one of those films that wears you out. By the end, you're exhausted. I really liked this the first two times but three viewings were enough. By then, the absurdity of the whole thing had fried what few brain cells I have left.Ray Liotta is excellent as the psycho serial killer who puts on a charming Ted Bundy-like appearance for a short while before publicly showing his insanity. He's fascinating, start to finish here, even providing some very humorous lines. I wish I could say I enjoyed the other people in here but, except for Ben Cross, I couldn't. Lauren Holly, the female star of the film, is decent for much of the ride but becomes annoying and totally non-believable in the final phase of the film, becoming out-of-character profane and nasty herself. (Of course, her flight did turn out to be a tiny bit stressful which might have affected her patience. ha ha)Of course, with a film like this, there are going to be some severe questions with credibility, but when did that ever stop filmmakers? Other reviewers in here have already detailed some of the non--sensible parts, so no need to dwell on that. This is not brainfood it's just escapist entertainment for a night, something to show your girlfriend so she'll hold onto you during all the suspense!Anyway, I enjoyed the special effects, especially with the plane smashing a few buildings, and the sound was awesome, at least on the DVD. For much of the flight, they are flying through a storm and the rumbles form the shaking airliner, was dramatic. "},{"Title":"Hokum-and hugely entertaining","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Many people are very critical of this movie-but it does have some fans,including me!Okay,the whole thing is full of absurdities-but so what!Butler takes the old stewardess flies the plane cliche,runs with it,and delivers an enormously entertaining slice of hokum.The formula is paired down to basics,as mad serial killer Weaver(Ray Liotta),creates havoc aboard the plane,determined it will crash into L.A.-so he can go out in a blaze of vengeful glory.All that stands in his way is plucky flight attendant Teri(Lauren Holly).The stage is set for a frantic live action Tom and Jerry wing ding between monstrous male psycho predator,and winsome female prey. Liotta really seems to be enjoying himself here,and is given lots of goofy psycho speak to deliver with relish.Weaver has a sense of humor too!I'm never flying this airline again!,he shouts to himself,after being tumbled backwards down some stairs,a leg painfully crushed in a door. Then there's Terri-cute,willowy and Bambi eyed-I found myself pretty upset seeing what poor Teri goes through in this  movie!But despite insults,threats,punches,assaults,smoke attacks and all,she has the moxie to keep going.Battered,bruised and bloodied she still looks stunning!And at the beginning,we are told some guy just broke off his engagement to THIS girl!HE must've been crazier than Weaver! "},{"Title":"How's this for rationalizing?","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There's a bizarre human appetite for that which is awful. From lookie-looing at traffic accidents to Man Show mooks to Lettreman's stupid pet tricks to worst home videos, etc., people like to watch people being stupid, outrageous, and ridiculous. Therein lies the appeal of Turbulence, a not-to-be-taken-seriously white knuckle ride into the realm of the ridiculous with Holly as the Stew who's got to save a 747 jumbo jet with a handful of passengers against all odds including one very whacked out serial killer (Liotta). Ok, ok...this movie is stupid. However, for those who can get to that place in their heads where they don't intellectualize, just go with it, and enjoy the humor-tinged hair raising suspense and silliness, 100 minutes of entertainment awaits. (C) "},{"Title":"It's Airport 1975 meets Friday the 13th in this thriller at 35,000 feet.","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  - 3/5 STARS -It's Airport 1975 meets Friday the 13th in this thriller at 35,000 feet. Set aboard the ultra-sophisticated Boeing 747-200, a serial killer and flight attendant battle for control of the airplane as both his mental condition and the plane's altitude deteriorate.A group of U.S. marshals is escorting two convicts aboard a nearly empty 747 on Christmas Eve.  One convict escapes and kills all of the guards, along with the pilot.  (The copilot is taken out just as efficiently by failing to observe the fasten seat belt sign!)  After sitting back and letting them kill each other, serial killer Ryan Weaver (Liotta) fills the power vacuum and systematically secures control of the airplane.  He has no intention of mounting an escape, however.  Because he was already en route to death row, he plans to slowly torture his group of holiday captives while the plane flies itself into the ground.Flight Attendant Teri Halloran (Holly) will have none of that, and we find ourselves with a far more capable flight attendant than Karen Black (from Airport 1975) at the helm of this 747.  A lot can change in 22 years, and this time our flight attendant is strong-willed, empowered, and ready to brandish a gun, if necessary, to defend her safe passage to the ground. But just as significantly, it's the technology that has changed in two decades.The airplane, the set design, and the special effects steal the show. Airplane buffs will be wowed at the display of real-world commercial jet technology, including the autoland system, which effectively replaces Charlton Heston (from Airport 1975) as the emergency pilot-in-command. Most of these whiz-bang gizmos are already present and functioning aboard commercial jets worldwide.  By choosing such a high-tech plane, the producers were able to simplify the plot and omit the flight engineer altogether.  He's been replaced by a bank of computers, as is becoming standard practice among domestic carriers.The reality factor does have to be put on hold rather often, such as when the 747 flips over and our stars are forced to struggle on the ceiling of the cabin.  Or when the plane's landing gear becomes entangled in a rooftop restaurant and subsequently scoops up a parked car.  The 747-200's autopilot isn't nearly smart enough to recover from either crisis, but it's easy to let the disbelief slide because the visuals are so startlingly fresh.External shots of the plane are well lit and light-years beyond what we have seen in any other aviation disaster film.  Inside the plane, the sets are vibrant and alive with color.  Brilliantly lit instrument panels, along with a talkative computer warning system, keep the audience involved.  Even the avionics bay is bright and downright inviting!It's a good thing the director let the art designers run amuck, because the psychosis of our serial killer would've sunk the picture otherwise.  This character should have been penned as a standard mental case, but instead he's a serial killer and a sex fiend, which makes for a variety of uncomfortable confrontations between himself and the flight attendants. Women generally do NOT like this movie, primarily because the sexually-charged power struggles are repulsive to a modern temperament. The audience is officially fed up when Teri strips to seduce Ryan, just so that she can hit him in the head.  Of course, he regains the upper hand moments later.If just five minutes of this rubbish had been cut out the film, the result would have been much more satisfying. Liotta demonstrates his rendition of the crazed lunatic very well, and is highly entertaining until the script leads him to overly indulgent pastures.  But ultimately, Turbulence is reluctant to decide whether it wants to be an action thriller or a teenage slasher movie.  Although it eventually makes the right decision, half the movie has already passed by that point and those who would have abandoned ship, have already hit rewind.Compared to Airport 1975, Turbulence is at once both a much bigger and a much smaller film.  Turbulence has an abundance of top-notch special effects and is a colorful visual assault.  Yet, the simple story of a frightened stewardess, struggling to fly a jumbo jet, is lost in this psychotic game of cat-and-mouse.  In the world of the seven minute attention span, Turbulence plays by the new rules and thus belays its weakness  it is too youthful to know that by simply sitting back and letting the suspense build, the end result can be so much more satisfying.  "},{"Title":"Buffalo Gals, won't you come out tonight . . . . ","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" An implausible but intense thrill ride with a more than competent cast.As the film opens, it is Christmas Eve, and we get our introduction to our Bad Guy, Ryan Weaver (Ray Liotta, doing the kind of character he does best). He's a good-looking, charming-on-the-surface killer who has come to be known as the Lonely Hearts Strangler because his M.O. is apparently to target a single woman, romance her for a time, and then . . . well, they do call him Strangler. After leaving a toy store with a cute stuffed animal and arriving at his new girlfriend (next intended victim's) place, he is arrested and kicked in the stomach by the detective (Hector Elizondo) who has been after him for years and even framed him by planting evidence (although it's okay in this case because HE DONE IT! Who cares what they had to do to get him?) In a clever bit of opening misdirection, we see shots of Bad Guy on his way to his latest target's place intercut with shots of our Heroine (waifish but not anorexic, blonde-haired-big-blue-eyed Lauren Holly) in her own place in such a way as to make us think that she is his new girlfriend, when in fact she is not.The two do meet, however, since our Heroine is a flight attendant assigned to the Christmas Eve flight on which Bad Guy is being transported to prison to await his execution. Along with Bad Guy is another con (Brendan Gleeson, in a Glee-ful performance) who's first words are his reply to our Heroine's question, What would you like?, referring to drinks. His response? I'd like to nail you, baby,, in the slimiest-sounding Cornpone accent you've ever heard. Is this guy really British?! Anyway, our charming con goes on to ask to be taken to the plane's bathroom, uses the soap-thingy as a weapon to kill the officer who is guarding him, and proceeds to make like Jeff Foxworthy if Foxy was a BAD-ASS Redneck. He ends up holding our Heroine hostage with a gun to her pretty blonde head, and who talks him into letting her go? None other than our Bad Guy, who at this point is still making like an unjustly accused and convicted Good Guy. In another dust-up, the other con and several others are shot. (The pilots have, in the midst of all this, been killed).Our Heroine is told by our Bad Guy that the pilot hit his head but is all right and is going to land. He begins to win her sympathy, asking her if she believes in capital punishment, to which she answers No. Our Heroine is sharp, however, and notices that the plane does not appear to be descending. She decides to go to the cockpit herself to check things out and finds the pilot and his co-pilot dead. She manages to make contact with the ground, however, and they patch her through to a pilot (Ben Cross, who brings his presence and accent to the role)who instructs her on how to communicate with the people on the ground and how to operate the plane(to LAND it, of course). Our Bad Guy, however, is determined that they will crash and, he hopes, take as many other people with them as possible. He shows his true colors, and it is at this point that it becomes almost impossible not to enjoy watching Mr. Liotta; he simply seems to be having so much FUN playing this particular wack-pot. As the plane tosses them to-and-fro (did I mention that they're headed into a six-on-a-scale-of-one-to-six thunderstorm?) our Heroine must defend herself after being coaxed out of the cockpit by our Bad Guy. While not trying to come across as the Xena of flight attendants, Ms. Holly is determined and tough mentally and also physically when forced to fight for her life. Yes, at one point, she uses sex - or at least the promise of sex - to get our Bad Guy to let his guard down for a moment, but, hey, it's one of the few weapons she has at her disposal, along with the fire extinguisher she clobbers him with shortly after the bogus come-on. (Why, under these circumstances, does our psycho-but-sharp Bad Guy believe for a MOMENT that the woman he's terrorizing would have sex with him, even to save herself and the few other people on board the plane he hasn't killed? Because it's a movie, children!) Anyway, after kicking a little Bad Guy butt and ultimately getting ahold of a Marshall's gun and killing him, our Heroine manages to land the plane. Merry Christmas! If you just want to shut down your higher brain functions and watch a good psycho-killer-chiller, and especially if you like it when said chiller supposedly takes place on Christmas, this is highly recommended for you. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Very Silly Thriller","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  on the evening of the 20th June 2004 I had the choice of watching either Ray Liotta in GOODFELLAS or Ray Liotta in TURBULENCE . To be honest it wasn`t really a choice since I`d already reviewed GOODFELLAS and I hadn`t got round to seeing TURBULENCE so decided to watch the movie I hadn`t seen!!!! POSSIBLE SPOILERS !!!! As soon as the credits started I`d worked out how this movie was going to play out . Don`t ask me how but I`d got it into my head that this was going to be very similar to CON AIR with a serial killer taking over a jumbo jet with Ray Liotta`s character Ryan Weaver saving the day . In this respect my prediction was half right with a psychotic nutcase taking over a jumbo jet but it`s Weaver who`s the serial killer . I guess the producers can claim this is a shocking plot twist but for some strange reason it doesn`t feel convincing in anyway , in fact it feels downright ridiculous . Judging by the comments on this page it seems that many people like myself feel cheated as to how the story progresses , here we were expecting the doe eyed Weaver to risk life and limb to over come evil scumbags ( And getting a pardon from the President after the feds finally track down the real serial killer ) only to find Weaver`s the main scumbag I don`t know if it`s down to the script but Liotta doesn`t make a convincing bad guy . No hold on , the more I think about it the more I believe Liotta should start taking more and more of the blame for this fiasco . It`s difficult to tell how his career might have panned out if he`d been given roles as good guys but Liotta has always seemed miscast as a violent killer and TURBULENCE proves it . Just so Stevie Wonder and all the blind people in the audience can get the point Liotta goes so over the top that he`s in danger of going into orbit - into orbit around the planet Jupiter by my reckoning , there`s no subtlety at all to Weaver and would have probably brought the film down if it wasn`t for the fact that there wasn`t much of a film to begin with Note to Hollywood producers - Try casting Ray Liotta as a good guy . Considering he`s appeared in so many turkeys since GOODFELLAS I`m sure he`d be very cheap to employ    "},{"Title":"Worst film I have ever seen. Unintentionally hilarious.","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Contains Spoilers!! Was this a comedy??????? Because I was laughing out loud at many points during this 'film'. My laughs hit a peek when Lauren Holly, a.k.a. 'Terri the Flight Attendant', smashes down the cockpit door trampling the serial killer Ray Liotta, who was carrying an axe. Terri goes from being a meek scared little stewardess (yes, I called her a stewardess), into Trans Continental Ripley from Aliens. They don't make movies worse than this. The fact that 41 people to date have given this movie a 10 show there are at least 41 people who have yet to be treated for their mental illness. I cannot BELIEVE the IMDb staff averaged this out at a 6.9. You people need help too.Parts that were laugh out loud hilarious include 1. The fact that though it is Christmas Eve, the plane is virtually empty of passengers. All of us who travel during the Holidays can vouch for how empty planes are. Didn't the director ever see PLANES, TRAINS and AUTOMOBILES, or even HOME ALONE? 2. Ray Liotta taking time out during the F-6 storm to use the air phone to call the detective (Hector Elizondo) that arrested him to say he will be crashing the plane into LAX. 3. The 747 flying UPSIDE DOWN for NO reason (I have a hard time believing it would not crash). POSEIDON ADVENTURE meets AIRPORT 75. 4. The plane clips a restaurant/bar with the terribly clichéd Japanese tourists butchering karaoke Christmas songs. 5. Ray Liotta singing Christmas songs while he runs aimlessly through the plane, his favorite being 'Buffalo Gal Won't You Come Out Tonight'. 6. Liotta's air phone popping up again in the circuitry section of the airplane, so that he can call Elizondo AGAIN, just to let him know he's going to disable the autopilot. 7. The F-16 fighter pilot, who surely will receive a court martial, disobeying repeated direct orders to shoot down the 747. 8. The fact that they put the F-16 pilot in the air to shoot down the 747 over the dessert to avoid civilian casulaties, yet they wait until the plane ALREADY passes over LAX to order him to shoot it down. 9. The F16 pilot instead shoots the Ford Explorer off of the 747's landing gear (yes-that' right, the plane picked up this unwanted luggage when it sheared the top off of the parking garage - again failing to crash).10. The Ford Explorer not exploding during the first abortive attempt to land the 747 when it was dragged at 400+ mph along the runway. 11. The 747 crashes through a billboard and still flies. 12. The autopilot controls conveniently surviving the ax attack by Liotta. 13. The British accented airline captain who walks Terri through the 'landing' (also, he's not in the flight tower, but sitting in his plane on the runway). 14. The fact that Hector Elizondo appears at the plane seconds after it lands standing under an umbrella, despite the fact we just saw him in the Air Control Tower seconds earlier. 15. The fact that the before mentioned British Captain is the only one there to greet Terri as she leaves the plane, and they waltz away under an umbrella together.By the way, has anyone ever traveled in a plane packed with Christmas decorations??????????? This film makes DIE HARD 2 look like a documentary.If you're in the mood for a good laugh, don't watch Airplane again for the 20th time. Instead check this film out. It is likely to be in the Adventure section of your local video store, but it should be relocated to the Comedy section. "},{"Title":"More watchable than a broken television","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I guess September 11th of 2001 has eaten lots away from the entertainment value of movies like Passenger 57 or Turbulence but let's face it, this one was never a masterpiece to start with. The biggest reason to watch Turbulence is Ray Liotta's excellent, furious performance as a psychopathic killer Ryan Weaver. Without him the film would hardly be even half as good. There's very little of decent special effects and the plot is incredibly basic, providing not even a single surprise or a twist. In a nutshell, this is just one watchable plane flick if you really haven't got anything better to do and certainly more interesting than just an empty television screen. "},{"Title":"The Worst Aviation Movie. Period.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Disgusting.  That sums up the train-wreck-in-the-sky entitled Turbulence.  The DVD should come with its' own air-sick bag, because you'll be nauseaous from the time it lifts off the runway.A thin story is anchored even more by horrible, and I mean horrible acting from both Ray Liotta and Lauren Holly.  This is yet another Ray Liotta psychopath flick.  When is he not type-cast as a thug or maniac?  Very predictable lines from him.  Lauren Holly looked like a genius - in Dumb and Dumber.  Turbulence highlights the lowest point in her acting career.  From horrible make-up, to times in the movie where she goes from calm (when she shouldn't be) to a screaming mess defending herself from Liotta's killer habits.  Luckily, a friend lent me this DVD, so I didn't actually waste any money on it, but I did waste an hour and 37 minutes.  This is no Airport '75 - not by a long shot.   "},{"Title":"Unbelievable.  Contains lots of Spoilers!","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  *******************Contains Spoilers********************************Well, the whole movie is pretty unbelievable.  After all that had happened previously (the plane was hijacked by criminals, the flight crew were murdered, one of the criminals turned into a crazy murderer, the cabin depresurised, the killer hacked out the auto pilot with an axe, the stewardess lost her blouse fighting a fire, the plane flew into a full strength storm) the plane crashed into the top of several LA buildings without receiving any damage, apart from getting a Ford Explorer attached to one of the wheels!There were some plain ridiculous moments - like when the stewardess believed the crazy fool murderer (Ray Liota) over the advice of the Air Traffic Control Tower.It was also fairly ridiculous when the attached Ford Explorer was removed by a USAF pilot who disobeyed the order from the nasty FBI guy to shoot down the 747.Anyway despite more complications than your average transatlantic flight, it landed safely.  There was even a hint of romance at the end when the blouseless stewardess met the British pilot who tutored her down onto terra firma...Still, it was the best thing on at midnight and it's a darn sight better than the Matrix reloaded!Enjoyable, unbelievable, watch if it's on, if not, don't worry about renting it.6/10 "}{"Title":"This one will get your blood pumping!! (Possible minor spoiler)","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Sure, it's not the best movie in the world, but for action, suspense and a Lauren Holly/Ray Liotta combo, it's pretty darned good. I watched this on a lazy Saturday morning and ended up nearly hyperventilating by the time it was over, not to mention having enough excess adrenalin to turn the lazy morning into a more productive one. One viewer commented that this was the best worse movie they'd seen. I wouldn't go so far as saying it is in the 'worse' category, because it had a lot of good qualities. There was a long list of favorite character actors, enough suspense to keep you interested, great performances by Holly and Liotta (two of my favorite Soap turned Hollywood actors), one of everyone's 'worst nightmares come true', and...none of it was spoiled by a romantic element often inserted in a good heart stopper action movie.Kudos to Ms. Holly on her performance during the last fight scene. By this point, I was having to remember this was a movie, not live action. I was asking myself what I would do and how I would be feeling in a similar situation. That was the time when I realized I was hyperventilating and had to make myself take a breath. This is definitely a movie that I am glad I didn't watch just before bedtime. I would have not slept from the charge this movie gave the nervous system. "},{"Title":"highly entertaining mindless action movie","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Action/disaster movies involving planes are good and enjoyable (Die Hard 2, Snakes On A Plane, Con-Air, Air Force One, Executive Decision etc). Same goes for action movies where the bad guy is a total lunatic. So this personal favourite of mine has the best of both world's - a wisecracking total lunatic in charge of a 747 he intends to crash.Ray Liotta is absolutely excellent as a sarcastic lunatic in this movie! I love indulging in Turbulence every now and then. Just to watch Ray Liotta's character 'giving it large' to his nemesis - some cop who framed him - on a plane that he intends to crash, just for him (the cop) - to make him famous cos he was hopeless at catching Liotta and had to plant a teddy bear in his car to get a conviction (Liotta's character supposedly strangles women after giving them a teddy bear for Christmas btw).Anyway, the dialogue on the plane between the cast in the early stages is quite good. Especially the drinks and dinner menu scenes. Once the movie becomes cat and mouse between Liotta and the air stewardess, some of the dialogue is very good and quite amusing if you view it from the point that Liotta's character is a crazed psycho with nothing to lose but wants to have a bit of fun along the way.Some of the scenes involving the landing of the plane are quite good as well especially when it almost collides with a hotel restaurant and you get a POV on it. Forget that it is a stupid idea where a stewardess gets a crash course from the ground crew (pun intended) to land a 747. Plane movies are always spectacular when they involve some kind of crash idea or a novice attempting to land one.So Ray Liotta as a crazed psycho with a grudge against a cop and on a hijacked empty 747, a guy who is destined for the chair and with nothing to lose is pretty good idea for a movie....in my opinion. The premise may be mindless, but who cares - it's a wonderful life.LOL "},{"Title":"7.5 on a scale 1-10","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" First What I hate the most in action and thriller movies are helpless victims, what I want is people die while trying. This movie had evade that thing I hate, so I give this movie a very good verdict.Second I hate movies with such special effect, that when I watch it, I already knew it is only a special effect. (Like so many movies nowadays) This movie special effect is not perfect, but it gives the reality needed (real people tumbling, scattered stuff went flying all over the place, vacuum sucking effect). I literally hold my breath at certain times and jaw-dropping at later times. I also give this movie special effect a very good verdict.Third Many movies doesn't comply to logic. This movie also doesn't stray away from this situation. But let me give you some hint. Movie-Action-Fun to watch. If you want to find logic, go watch some news, documentaries, or heck, watch Dicovery Channel. This I write for those hatters.Fourth Humans are not perfect. Those actors and actresses filled each other, where some failed (not horribly though) and some triumphed. It's a movie, for crying out loud!!!Very Good Movie, 2 thumbs up. Enough Said! "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I happen to love movies that take place on airplanes, maybe because they're usually, or always about the same thing A terrorist (or more) hijacks the plane and threatens to kill the passengers, sometimes along with the pilot. Plus, there's a storm too, making matters worse. That's basically all you can do in an airplane movie. The only exception is Snakes on a Plane. Anyway, I had a good time the whole way through, even though I think the film could have used more characters (and complications), and a flight attendant who is a lot more smarter. This flight attendant, played by Holly, isn't very bright, even for a victim. Maybe she should have been the one choked to death. The other stewardess, played by Hicks, is more interesting. Besides, aren't the victims killed off in horror movies usually the not-so-smart ones? I suppose I could give the movie credit for trying something a little different.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Not bad ...","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Well, I don't like Ray Liotta. Luckily he's a mad bad guy. Lauren Holly does an alright job. All elements are average, but it comes together and many would be entertained. There's a slight ironic distance, some of the things are rather stupid, keeps things exciting, and then Lauren Holly is always good looking.Technically things works alright. However, a very low flying 747 too often travels at a ridiculous low speed. Also there's a fighter plane shooting debris off of the landing gear. Very funny.Well worth an afternoon ...-) "},{"Title":"Turbulence","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Distributor HBO Home VideoPlot When a 747 heading from New york to L.A. is taken over by a seductive psychopathic killer, and the only one who can stop him is a beautiful young flight attendant, you'd better fasten your seat belts because this trip is going to be a killer ride.Audio/Video The VHS edition has perfect picture quality and has an excellent sound quality.Extras No extras on the video.Final thoughts Turbulence is a thrilling movie with great acting ans excellent special effects, but after watching it a couple of times, it really starts to get boring. The sequel is pretty good. I have yet to see the 3rd part, but part 2 is cool, check it out. "},{"Title":"Sure the movie's cheesy...","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  But who cares?  Ray Liotta is hands down unforgettable.  Every time he gets hurt it's very funny to watch. I had to rewind the part where Teri blows the fire extinguisher in his face.  The way he reacts is priceless!  That and when Teri shoves him down stairs and closes an automatic door on his foot. He starts crying like a baby.  Hilarious!  And his lines, You aren't having much luck with men lately, are you Teri? or I'm never flying this airline again. are by far worse than anything imaginable but thats what makes it all the more entertaining.  Other than that the movie is pretty lame.  I would recommend renting Turbulence for Liotta's performance only, and yes that makes it worth renting. "},{"Title":"Pointless squared","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  at first I thought I had stumbled upon a TV Movie of the Week Then I realised we had seen it all before; Then I thought, People would PAY money to see this? Tho the gal that lands the plane was good-and cute, too. "},{"Title":"Shaky aircraft hijack/disaster film","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I would have considered this movie mediocre, if it hadn't been for a few factual errors and bizarre plot ideas.After the initial action, it's one (psycho) against one (heroine) and nothing much happens apart from the plane shaking around as it flies through a storm which swings the upper hand from one side to another. Unfortunately neither side manages to completely finish off the other quickly.The background story of the criminal's case and history with a certain detective is brought out a couple of times, but unsatisfactorily and just confused me.Like Dead Calm but much worse.  "},{"Title":"Not a stewardess but a flight attendant","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is sort of a Con Air ripoff. A better title would have been Psycho-Air. Obviously Ray Liotta is trying to follow in the footsteps of Tony Perkins to specialize in nut-so roles. Too bad Lauren Holly and the rest of the cast didn't follow in Janet Leigh's footsteps and get stabbed to death in the first reel. The dialog is so stilted and ridiculous that it actually becomes unintentional satire at times. For example When Sinclair (John Finn) asks how a f**ing stewardess is going to handle the plane, Rachel Taper (Rachel Ticotin) replies with conviction, She's a flight attendant! This line would have worked wonders in Airplane as a humorous comment on political correctness. Check out some of the other quotes provided by IMDb to laugh your ass off. This bizarre film about a mad slasher running amok at 30,000 feet is filled with guilty pleasures. It might even help if you're stoned when you watch it. Be sure and watch how the psycho arranges the bodies of the passengers he has murdered to look like a typical airplane flight before he observes, I'll never fly this airlines again. Also a hoot is when the runaway plane tries to land with a Ford truck attached to its wheels. Were those behind the camera and in front of it really serious or had they been sniffing the Elmer's glue again? "}{"Title":"Entertaining During the Christmas Season","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Got tired of all the Christmas Carols and stories and tuned into this film and enjoyed every minute of the thriller. Ray Liotta,(Ryan Weaver),Slow Burn,'05, played the role of a sweet talking character who simply loved women to death. Ryan was able to charm Lauren Holly,(Teri Halloran),Down & Derby,'05, who played an airline stewardess who was stranded by her former lover and was deeply attracted to Ryan and was not convinced he was as bad as people were saying he was. There is plenty of violent events on this aircraft which is decorated for the Christmas Season, but empty for only a few passengers and crew. Ray Liotta and Lauren Holly did an outstanding performance together and they made the sparks fly! "},{"Title":"Flight Attendant Kicks A**!!!","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Yes, the plot is stupid. Yes the cast is less than stellar (other than Liotta), yes you've seen others like this before...OR HAVE YOU? Turbulence is a great ride from start to finish because it IS so predictable; you don't have to pay that close of attention and think too hard to get the plot but it is suspenseful and a kick to watch Lauren Holly's character grow in her own self-confidence by the end of the film. At the beginning of the film she's the weak little blonde who lets men walk all over her. By the end she's a flight attendant who kicks butt. Liotta, as always, does a great job portraying his character. As Ryan Weaver, a serial killer, he did his homework on the nuances that make serials serials. He uses his good looks and natural charm to get women to trust him, uses his brain to take advantage of a great situation in his favor, is emotionally manipulative, and then masterfully becomes a complete psycho all in the blink of an eye. Probably one of the best portrayals of a serial killer I've seen on the big screen for a long time. Without spoiling the big moments in the film I will say that what happens to Catherine Hicks'(Child's Play, Star Trek IV, TV's 7th Heaven) character is a shame (sad, actually), one of the funniest moments of the film (in a sicko kind of way) is when Liotta decorates the plane with some of the passengers, and the ending is pretty schlocky and cheesy. But all in all, I was certainly rooting for Lauren Holly's stewardess (sorry, she's a flight attendant) when she outdoes Karen Black (Airport '77) by a mile in finally landing the plane and basically telling the officials on the ground to go to hell! The photography is decent, a few of the special effects very cool, and there are a few real decent laughs along with a little gore. Oh, and you will never watch It's A Wonderful Life in the same light again! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I would say that turbulence is one of my favourite movies.As a response to the above comment. In my opinion you could say What is the point of any movie?. Well the point to turbulence is to entertain. And entertain, it does. The special effects and realism of the movie were excellent and the acting was superb.I have seen the movie twice and would recommend it to anyone who is interested in aircraft. Although that is not the main unique selling point I thoroughly enjoyed it.8/10 - Excellent Movie  "},{"Title":"Plane doing acrobatics","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What starts off as an interesting plot for the movie turns into a rotten stuff.What i don't understand is Hollywood's obsession of letting loose psychos in every other lame situation.So there u have it all in this movie ,a bad weather ,a pilotless 747 plane, scream queen aspirant lauren holly,a few helpless passengers , FBI(woe is me ,what would Hollywood do if they never existed),a few expendable cops,not to forget its Christmas season and finally the reason for this hell ,Ray liotta as our friendly neighbourhood psycho.It pains me to see Ray liotta who acted in the phenomenal goodfellas to descend to such films. So i recommend this movie to all the people who like to kill time doing nuthin. I give it 1 otta 5.All the more don't blame me that i didn't warn u.Have a good day . "},{"Title":"All in all, well worth watching.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting this film to be the usual Hollywood action film i.e. no character development; the ending you can see right from the beginning (that will have been used a thousand times before); and a liberal sprinkling of 'powerful moments' when the music stops and someone says something sincere.However I was pleasantly surprised, Ray Liotta was excellent, the plot was good, and the action scenes not bad. All in all, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Completely mad","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Turbulence is just plain stupidity from beginning to end. But there is so much fun to be had in the madness that it's always worth a mindless watch.Our silly plot has Ray Liotta and Brendan Gleeson as serial killer and bank robber breaking loose from their captors aboard a virtually empty cross-country flight, killing the pilots and FBI before the runaway plane flies into a hurricane. Liotta promptly eliminates Gleeson and chases after stewardess Lauren Holly. All on Xmas Eve.Yes it's highly ridiculous. But director Robert Butler brings strong, vigorous direction piles on loads of wild atmosphere and lets cinematographer Lloyd Ahern get carried away with his consistently stunning, crisp photography.Action movies today nearly always have some ironic or political edge. Turbulence is just violence and action just for the sake of it. And why not. This is not a film made to change your life. It's just renegade entertainment.Ray Liotta isn't quite scary as the serial killer as he goes way over the top. But, thankfully, is never campy (always a mistake when playing serial killers, coughhannibalcough). If your into movies about nasty Xmas' then this, Gremlins and Silent Night, Deadly Night are the movies you ought to watch.The R1 DVD is in very cool Dolby 5.1 and is shown in the incorrect aspect ratio of 1.781 (16x9 enhanced) instead of the theatrical 2.351. The R2 DVD however is in Dolby 2.0 Surround but shows the film in the proper ratio of 2.351. "},{"Title":"A more appropriate title for this terrifically tacky trash would have been Airport '97","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The central premise for this so-outrageously-awful-that-it's-highly-entertaining airborne suspense thriller must have been devised in the third or fourth circle of high concept movie hell. To wit a belated overblown Airport sequel about a wild-eyed sanguinary sickpup psycho terrorizing folks on board a Christmas Eve red-eye airplane flight some 35,000 feet up in the air. The fact that the murderously deranged and dangerous, yet still diabolically charming and cunning fruitcake in question is played by consummate celluloid creepo specialist Ray Liotta in full-tilt let it all hang out something freaky hambone histrionic mode firmly ensures that the viewer is in for one hell of a terrifically wacky'n'tacky schlock hoot; Ray overacts with such hysterically maniacal and unrestrained cackling relish that it's an honest miracle his nose doesn't start profusely bleeding some fifteen-odd minutes into the picture.Robert Butler's shameless anything-for-a-cheap-jolt direction likewise eschews tact and subtlety with expectedly atrocious results, thereby maintaining a consistently crummy level of pure jaw-dropping trashiness from start to finish. In jarring contrast to Liotta's astonishingly out-of-control and over-the-top eye-rolling twitchy thesping is the comparably startling woodenness of Lauren Holly's stupendously stiff and stoical performance as a beleaguered stewardess; Holly's grim-faced reserve in the context of this ridiculously wretched enterprise provides a particularly rich source of unintentional hilarity. The crassly exploited yuletide angle adds a substantial deliciously cheesy touch to the already delightfully dire proceedings, especially when the bloodied bodies of several slain passengers are propped up in their seats so they can watch an in-flight screening of It's a Wonderful Life! Toss in a supporting cast which includes such down and out, desperately slumming for an easy paycheck faded luminaries as Catherine Hicks, Ben Cross, Hector Elizondo, Brendon Gleeson (sporting a hilariously horrendous won't-fool-you-for-a-second overdone Southern accent), Rachel Ticotin and Jeffrey DeMunn, jazz it up with Shirley Walker's barnstorming score, have the punchy pace scoot along at a whiplash-inducing breakneck clip, crank the tension to the electrifyingly gaga ninth degree, and the net result of all this ill-advised go-for-broke berserk effort is a gloriously ghastly bad film treat that's eminently worthy of crap camp classic status. "},{"Title":"4 out of 10 is about right.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with the other users comments that this film is pointless.  I found this movie lacks any feeling, or emotion.  No one cares how this movie ends. I do not know if it was the directors fault  or the script.  My wife likes it, and it could be lost to the male audience.  This film is neither scary or tense.  I did not like the preview, and it represents this movie well. Another forgettable movie that will someday fade away. 4/10 "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as you think!","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, this movie isn't fantastic and if I'd paid $12 bucks or whatever to watch it at the cinema I too would probably be feeling a little ripped-off. But I paid $2 bucks for me, the wife and a mate to watch it and, quite frankly, it was better than Mulan which we'd also hired. I also have to say I think it's superior to Con Air, Executive Decision, Air Force One, or any other recent aeroplane highjacking movie I've seen recently. Ray Liotta does make a great psycho and, although his character was rather confused, he was still pretty creepy. Yes, the film was full of inconsistencies - the empty plane at Christmas, why they didn't use a smaller aircraft or bump the passengers to another airline, the bullet-hole patched with a suitcase, the failure of the oxygen masks to drop when cabin pressure was lost, the ability to hear the pilot's radio through a closed cockpit door, etc etc etc... the list is almost endless. But this was still a fairly entertaining movie. If anything 'though, it made air travel look safe. If Lauren Holly can land a 747 on autopilot with a lunatic trying to kill her, anyone could do it! My vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"Can a more stupid script be written?","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Ray Liotta is one of my favorite actors, but this movie is just plain stupid!! A flight attendant is left flying the plane and she leaves the cockpit to search the 747 for a friend while its in the midst of a major storm. This insults the intelligence of anyone with a brain! It is just plain STUPID! Just watch it. You'll see stupidity at its best.Or better yet, take the dog for a walk and have more fun and intelligence watching him sniff and pee. This is the dumbest movie I have ever seen. What a waste of a great actor. this is a stupid movie very dumb laugh at it but don't waste your evening or money watching itstupid stupid stupid "}{"Title":"Move over Roadhouse--another contender in the riotously bad category","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In the tradition of hilariously bad movies like Roadhouse and The Postman, Turbulence truly delivers the goods. Convicted serial killer, Ray Liotta, is on his way to LA to take up residence on death row. What follows makes one wonder if they're watching a twisted remake of Airplane. After the lampooning that air disaster movies took with that landmark spoof, you would think filmmakers would be wary about returning to the skies with such a half-baked, over the top implausi-fest. I get the feeling that after a while they realized the comic potential of the movie and started playing it for laughs. How else to explain the truck stuck on the landing gear sequence, the she's not a stewardess, she's a flight attendant quote, and the plugging of a gun fire induced hole in the fuselage with a briefcase. Of course, my favorite is when Liotta finds himself in the avionics bay, and discovers what appears to be a tomahawk like ax. Ground control notes his presence and gasps that He may take out the autopilot. Cue the next shot, a sign on a panel Caution Autopilot controls which is dutifully smashed by our ax wielding friend. The landing sequence is hilarious as well. If you're looking for a serious, thoughtful action movie, skip this one. If you're looking for a few good laughs, check it out. "},{"Title":"Implausible","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Implausible because(1) No stewardess could ever be that naive/stupid/gullible/jittery. (2) Storms are not that kind of threat to a plane. (3) Funny how movie depictions of plane interiors always show inordinate amounts of space between rows, between seats, down aisles, in bathrooms, in cockpits... (4) Cops could not be that stupid. (5) Other things too numerous to bother with.Too bad movies are still being made with females that suffer from their supposed 'female ineptitude' - didn't we ditch females in movies who can't run 50 feet without tripping or continually pausing to turn around and look at their pursuer or worse, just freeze in panic? Or can't pull the trigger on the maniac who is about to kill them? "},{"Title":"Hold the vodka, the celery, and the Tabasco........","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Flight attendant Teri Holloran thought it would be an easy flight. On board the 747, a few weary passengers are taking the trip home on Christmas. Then four marshals and two convicts board the plane, transferring to Los Angeles. One of the criminals, Stubbs, breaks free. He is taken down, but not before the other man, Ryan Weaver, is set free. Quickly, Teri finds herself alone in the cockpit, the plane's auto-pilot unable to handle the rough weather outside. And as supervisors on the ground fear for the worse, Weaver decides that he wants to go out in a blaze of glory, right into Los Angeles.......This is one of those films that you have to take a huge pinch of salt with to get through. If you haven't seen the film as if yet, chances are you know its a bad movie. But there are bad movies that are really a chore to get through, and there are bad movies like this.This fall into the category of the latter. It's a bad movie for sure, but the second act onwards is just so bonkers, and Liotta so over the top, so hammy, so pantomime villain, you cannot help but enjoy the ridiculousness of it all.It starts off pretty solid, Liotta is pretty sinister as the killer, his portrayal in the first act is that of Ted Bundy, charming, friendly, likable. But he almost turns into a parody once the carnage starts, and if he didn't want to be typecast as the on screen psycho in film, he sure does a good job of making sure he didn't command a big budget movie after this. He certainly goes all Tex Avery, and spouts one liners like his life depended on it.Lauren Holly is OK, but it's no surprise that you haven't heard from her in a while, unless you like straight to Blu Ray trash.The film is a load of rubbish, but it's a lot if fun, even if you wouldn't dare admit it. "},{"Title":"Turbulence on the Screen","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Turbulence (1997) Dir Robert Butler / Cast Lauren Holly, Ray Liotta, Hector Elizondo, Catherine Hicks, Rachel Ticotin Total waste of film that belongs in a trash bin. Lauren Holly plays the stupidest airline stewardess to ever board a plane. She has just ended a bad relationship and not up for the Christmas cheer. Everything is routine until a couple of criminals decked in shackles are brought aboard. She claims that these guys do not look like criminals. That is how stupid she truly is. What does this moron stewardess view as criminal? Predictable elements follow as one of the criminals is granted use of the washroom leading to a shootout until Holly and one of those so-called innocent criminals are left. Director Robert Butler successfully creates a mess by allowing the action to skew out of control. He previously directed the comedy Up the Creek and this is about as hilarious and that is not a compliment. Holly is at her absolute worst as this airhead stewardess. Ray Liotta does his best as the crazed killer but the role creates nothing new thus leaving him as your standard villain. Hector Elizondo plays the standard cop who tries to talk the plane down and other such crap. Even poor Catherine Hicks gets sucked into this garbage. Pointless garbage with flimsy action scenes that unintentionally play off humour such as the plane flying upside down or its wheels snagging a car. This film should be smashed with a rock. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Has almost as many (unintentional) laughs as the Zucker's Airplane","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" After half a century in television, Rysher Entertainment went big screen in the late 90s and Turbulence ended their theatrical division after its huge box office loss. Cinematic justice was dished out on Rysher who's idea of a big budget action film that will play to the international market was a film that takes place mostly in one set, a screenplay written on used toilet paper that was probably discovered by the Rysher executives dumpster diving outside a Burger King, hire a 70 year old TV veteran to direct, cast the few roles in the film to non- bankable actors - Turbulence was produced by misguided ideas and what can one expect from a company that forged a relationship with the utterly incompetent Lauren Holly - who also starred in their other 1997 dud A Smile Like Yours. Holly gives a witless performance here and while her character is written to make one stupid and senseless decision after another, that lost and vacant look on her face is all she brings to the role. The role doesn't require much from her for the first third of the film and she has the presence of an out of focus background extra and when she has to hold the weight of the picture on her shoulders, everything collapses into bad movie hilarity. Ray Liotta doesn't appear to be directed at all and our hack director doesn't modulate his performance, which ranges from over the top, to scenery chewing, to prop chewing, all with an extra glaze of ham. Watching him terrorize Holly, with his eyes that are popping out of the sockets and his tongue sticking out of his mouth, makes for some good 'what were they thinking' entertainment. "},{"Title":"After watching this movie... (may contain spoilers)","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I saw the Rotten Tomatoes gave it a 18% audience like, i thought it best to see for myself just how bad this could be... and I assure you its stunk...From the moment (SPOILERS) .....the implausibility of how one of the prisoners uses the soap dispenser to kill one of the guards, then the other whereby reducing a 4 man traveling police team to 2 (plus prisoners)....*(roll my eyes)*to stuffing all the passengers in the back... and killing every one... huh?to the landing, which was really cheesy!this move was as bad (in my opinion) as The Horse Whisperer! The time spent watching the movie to the end... time i cannot get back.... -) LOL "},{"Title":"Die Hard In A Bra","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Time to Pile On Board. This is an Easy One. Nothing Here is Meant to be Realistic, just Good Old Fashioned Fun in an R Rated, Bloodied Up Kind of Way. The Thing Starts its Turbines in Overdrive and Never Lets Up.Talk about Getting Your Money's Worth. There are Psychos and the Criminally Insane, and for Your Added Pleasure Serial Killers, Corrupt Cops, A Strong Petite Woman Hero, Piles of Corpses, Non Stop Trauma and More.This is Obviously One of those No Brainers that has Many Ha Ha Moments, Intentionally and Not, and Manages to Land a Movie with Nothing but Entertainment on its Mind. It's Not Politically Correct, or Witty, or Touching, or Romantic, or Anything but an Action Filled Film that goes for the Thrills Without Any Concern for Itself, in Fact Most of the Time it is Self Deprecating in its Dumbness.This is One for the So Bad it is Good Crowd and those not Seeking Lectures or Morality, No One can be Offended by its Uppity Stance on Anything. Everything Here is There to be Exploited in the Most Obvious Way. Ray Liotta and Lauren Holly Make for Good Sparring Partners and Not One of them has a Witty Line. All the Highbrow Critics just can't seem to Relate. But with a Six-Pack or some Pop-Corn in the Hand this is as Good as a County Fair. "},{"Title":"You're not going to kill me. You can't kill me, 'cause you don't believe in capital punishment.","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I only tuned into this to see Brendan Gleeson. He didn't last long, so there was nothing left to hold my interest.It's a formulaic action picture with enough plot holes to drive a 747 through.First it's an empty plane (just 12 passengers) on Christmas Eve. Nobody want to go home to Momma? The airlines sure lost money on this flight.Christmas decorations on a plane? I've never seen that.Can't this plane fly above a storm?Can a 747 fly upside down?I remember in Con Air, that the plane went down when it sheered off a sign. This plane can sheer buildings, signs and parked cars and keep going. Boy, it's sturdy.Ray Liotta can play some crazy dudes! "},{"Title":"Turbulence would be the trouble they had finding the funding for this POS?","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This sucker was just on HBO (4am) and I read these just before watching it, which made me wanna watch it even more. Nuked some popcorn.... 1) As a pilot myself, I can tell ya a REAL aviator doesn't need to sit at the controls to instruct a rookie how to land a plane using a Navcom system. So.... they obviously didn't even take the time to chat with a pilot to begin with, nor get a technical consultant. Then she wanders off with him after, WHY cause he 'saved' her, has an English accent or just because he's got an umbrella? Little trampy stewardess.2) Do they really hang all kinds of CRAP in an airplane for Xmas? With lights, and roping all lit up, causing a fire hazard? I doubt it, but I've never flown home for a holiday so don't know. That's hard up Xmas marketing if I've ever seen it.3) If you intend to die and take a tight arsed/perky breasted little it's flight attendant blond airhead with you... wouldn't you just PLOW her chops off rather than asking all kinds of dumb Q's? The whole conversation about whether she likes sex or not is senseless He kills a bunch of people and wants to DIE, but asks her if she LIKES SEX instead of just raping her? Ray has no credibility with me for even accepting the part.4) On the lighter side, I did get a kick outta the killing of an I think it's a Ford Explorer. 5) The confused Asians in the karaoke bar funny! They've destroyed our economy, F them! 6) Obviously, some racist broads were involved in the screen writing here Stewardess is politically incorrect, but the jab at Asian Karaoke singers isn't? Buncha hypocrites! 7) The inverted flight was amusing. But... no way in HELL a plane would either get into that orientation OR right itself out of it! Well, if you can catch it on HBO or D/L it It's a funny POS! Just as goofy as Snakes on a Plane, which actually was pretty funny! "},{"Title":"Psycho in the sky with no restraints","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" (There are Spoilers) You at first feel a bit of sympathy for convicted serial killer Ryan Weaver, Ray Liotta, who's claim of never killing anyone and being set up by a publicity hungry L.A Cop Let. Aldo Hines, Hector Elizondo. With Weaver being by far the nicest, and most caring, person on the plane taking him back to L.A, from New York City, to face execution for the murder of five women.Weaver is kind considerate and even funny as he jokes with his US Marshall guards and the stewardesses as well as the few passenger's on the Christmas-Eve flight. He even goes out of his way to get the Marshalls who are holding his fellow fugitive from justice bank robber Stobbs, Brendan Gleeson,to let him go to the bathroom, with the guards present of course. When Stobbs complains about having to answer the call of nature. What no one knows until it's too late is that Weaver is manipulating his, and Stobbs, guards knowing that Stobb is determined to escape. Weaver uses Stobb by having him momentarily freed,to do his very personal thing, to help him makes his own getaway some 35,000 feet in the air over Akron Ohio.Catching his US Marshall guard off guard in the airplane restroom Stobbs murders him an loosened water faucet tube and after a wild shootout, where a bullet rips a hole through the plane fuselage. Weaver then shows his true self as he methodically murders everyone on board, with the exception of a few passengers locked in a storeroom. But keeps cute stewardess Teri Halloran, Lauren Holly,alive to chase her throughout the giant 747 for the remainder of the movie.You wonder just what Weaver is planing to do since he doesn't know how to fly a plane, much less a very sophisticated 747 Jumbo passenger liner. It becomes evident later that he just wants to have a good time in the few hours of freedom that he has left and then crash the plane into L.A proper killing hundreds of people. Making him more famous then he already is as the biggest mass murder in US history and at the same time sticking it to his captor Let. Hines for framing him for a killing, the only one, that he didn't commit.Completely changing his once nice and loving demeanor when Weaver turns into an uncontrollable and murderous psycho sticking out and Satanicly wiggling and flicking his tongue;like a cross between a Gila Monster lizard and the crazed and outrageous professional wrestler Geroge The Animal Steel. Weaver is in full battle mode attacks the frail-looking Teri who uses her brains and courage to match his wild psychotic charges. In the end Teri has him go nuts, if he wasn't already, from frustration by not being able to finish off spunky Teri. Weaver finally loses his concentration and ends up getting a bullet right between his eyes from the very plucky Teri; after being exposed to this insane lunatic changed her mind about her life long opposition against the death penalty.The movie went from the far-fetched to the unbelievable with Teri taking the very complicated controls of the 747 and with the help of ground control, namely British Airline Captain Samuel Bowen (Ben Cross). Teri then flies the giant plane like a pro criss-crossing LAX in a blinding category 6, out of 6, rainstorm. Teri lands the Jumbo Jet almost on a dime after smashing into, or skimming across, the airports air control tower. Teri is also tracked by a USAF fighter plane who's ordered, by ground control, to shoot up the runaway only to have the reluctant pilot blow out the stuck Ford van, making it easier for Teri to land the 747.It's hard to take the movie seriously but at the same time it's hard to turn it off since you just can't help wanting to see just how more absurd, if that's at all possible, it get's. "}{"Title":"Awesome special effects and good Liotta performance...(POSSIBLE SPOILER)","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the many weaknesses of 'Turbulence' (including a plot that stretches credibility to the limits), from the standpoint of action and suspense this one gives you a nail-biting experience, mainly because of Ray Liotta's intense performance as a serial killer and the always reliable special effects depicting a non-stop storm.While not in the same league with other airplane disaster movies, it does work up a good deal of suspense over how the interaction between Liotta and stewardess Lauren Holly will eventually be resolved. There are too many loopholes in the plot to make the film credible by the time Holly lands the plane herself--but nevertheless, along the way there are some moments of terror and suspense that live up to the film's advertising slogan It's a killer ride!The saving grace of the film is Ray Liotta's intense performance. One thing is certain this is a film that will NEVER be shown on any airline flight! "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a cheesy mismatch of old clichés, bad dialog, predictable plotting, oh-so-dodgy acting, and an obvious ending. It shamelessly pilfers a variety of genres and is a patchwork quilt of different movie plots all compressed into one.However, it's quite frankly a fantastic ninety minutes of viewing. A guilty pleasure. I was hooked from the start. The dramatic music, the unsubtle acting, the cardboard characters. An assortment of ingredients which bind together to create a delicious recipe for entertainment. I was in that plane with them &#150; I could feel every shudder in the storm, every roll, every dip and climb. I ignored the fact that, as amazing a plane as the 747 200 might be, it probably cannot fly upside down. But who cares &#150; it was a great scene! Can a briefcase really restore pressure when there's a hole in the fuselage? Who cares! Looks good! Would a plane really be allowed to have all those Christmas decorations on board. No! But &#150; it looks great, especially when it all starts falling down&#133; creates a nice ambiance.The two leads are great. Lauren Holly really puts in a convincing performance, and Ray Liotta chews the scenery (or fuselage) with aplomb and relish. Watch him in the scene where he's trying to coax Terri out of the cockpit by telling her that her friend is hurt. The facial expressions he pulls are a riot.Actually, speaking of the actors, Catherine Hicks really stands out&#133; pity she's not in it for longer than half the movie. As for the rest of the cast, well&#133; what do you expect for a movie like this?The special effects are great &#150; I never once doubted that they were up in the air. The set is convincing, and the exteriors convincing. The incidental music is forceful, but not out of place. The set pieces all run according to schedule there are no major surprises. However, in saying all of that, it still had me on the edge of my seat, shouting at the screen. If you like disaster movies, action movies, cop movies, or just plain old cheesy B movies, you should love this one. It's a sit-down, switch-your-brain-off, put-your-feet-up-and-enjoy-the-flight sorta movie. You'll either think this is one of the worst moves you've ever seen, or one of the best. I loved it&#133; it's pure entertainment. They way movies *should* be.Yes it doesn't make a lot of sense. No, it's never going to be a classic. Yes, there are lot of plot holes and errors.So what!!?? If you want a masterpiece, go watch Gone With the Wind or Schindler's List. Or the Discovery Channel. Movies are for entertaining, and this one does it's job admirably! There's an off button on the TV for a reason &#150; if you don't want to watch this movie, just check out that button&#133; you'll be amazed what happens!It also contains one of the best/worst lines I've ever heard... She's not a stewardess&#133; she's a *flight attendant*. They don't write em like that any more.Go rent it! "},{"Title":"Where did it go wrong for Liotta?","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I like Ray Liotta and think he's an excellent actor. However, here he is just collecting one more paycheck as he plays another psychotic killer. What could have been an interesting plot twist - did the cop frame him or not? - fails from the start (this is not a spoiler as Liotta doesn't even try to look innocent). This cliché driven action movie is short on suspense and thrills but does have an over abundance of hammy acting. I don't expect a lot from action movies such as believable plot etc but I do want to be entertained and this fails even on that level. See Con Air if you want to watch convicts run amok on an airplane. I give this 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film in the theater and it didn't remember it being so bad so when I saw the DVD at a bargain price I decided to pick it up. Bad decision! It really was an unbelievable movie from start to finish, and not in a good way. The acting by the two lead characters (Holly and Liotta) was very uneven and the script was totally lame.The premise was okay but upon a second viewing you quickly realize there are many problems with the whole production. Even if we were to believe the developments, which become more absurd as it drags on, it's just to predictable to swallow.I can't imagine why there would have been sequels to this mess. SAVE YOUR MONEY.   "},{"Title":"Let them crash!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I am not sure who is dumber, Robert Butler for directing such a pile of dog droppings or me for having purchased the DVD.  I guess I should have wondered why the price was so good.It is difficult to decide which is the most annoying part of this film.  On one hand, you have things happening on an airplane that are so unbelievable that you can only laugh.  Closing the hole in the plane with a briefcase.  Decorating the plane with stuff that you probably could not have gotten on a plane, even in 1997.  Having only five regular passengers on a 747 to LA on Christmas Eve (one of the highest flight times), or having only four marshals to escort two of the most dangerous criminals going.  The list goes on.Then there is a poor plot line with poor development of characters.  And then there stupidity of Flight Attendant Teri leaving the cockpit in the face of a major storm to check on her friend.All in all, the whole thing was so unbelievable that it should have been doused with petrol and set ablaze.  Even science fiction, when done correctly, has a shred of believability.  "},{"Title":"What a load of RUBBISH","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one the absolute worst films ever. It gets into the catagory of 'so bad its almost funny'. Ray Liotta makes Macauley Culkin look like a raging psychopath with his pathetic depiction of a killer. Even with this glaring problem with the film, this is not the main cause for my disgust. The film attempts to include plot twists pertaining to Liotta's character. The way they do this is absolutely farcical. One minute you are supposed to empathise with him and feel sympathetic then... WHAM... suddenly he's the most evil man ever to walk the earth... yeah, good plot there! If you want to see a good movie along these lines, then watch Con Air. If you are looking for comedy on an aeroplane, then why not try Airplane!. If you are looking for drama and tension, even Airport 77 is a better film. If, however, what you are looking for is a guide on how no to act in a movie, or how not to write a screenplay, then this is the film for you. Avoid it like the plague! This film does not even deserve 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A lame actioner that's saved from Ray Liotta's performance","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  TURBULENCE had good advertising to it and I was so excited to see it on the day it came out. It got pounded on by the critics, but I ignored them, and went on opening night to see it, in a nearly empty theatre. I'd agree with the critics when saying that Turbulence sucked, it did. It's a dumb, cliched movie, but Ray Liotta (one of my favorite actors) makes it worth watching and turns in an excellent, evil performance. I guess this movie could pass as no-brainer entertainment, but Liotta's performance is the best thing this film has to offer. "},{"Title":"It's a killer ride!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Turbulence is one of the most implausible movies I've ever seen. But at the same time it's also one of the most entertaining. It's about a 747 jet en route from New York to Los Angeles on Christmas Eve that just happens to be transporting two criminals. When the criminals break loose, all hell breaks loose. Soon before you know it, shootouts commerce. All the marshals watching the two criminals are killed as well as the two pilots. The one criminal who broke loose is eventually shot by the other criminal (Ray Liotta), and proceeds to lock the other flight crew and passengers in a room on the plane. For the rest of the flight, it's mano-a-mano between the criminal and a plucky but not-so-bright stewardess (Lauren Holly) who tries to land the plane with help from the control tower in L.A. and a pilot who attempts to talk her down. But very bad weather lurks in the skies ahead, and the flight becomes one killer ride. There are several scenes in Turbulence that are very hard to believe, but I was literally on the edge of my seat while watching it. Liotta (from Goodfellas) has a blast as the serial killer, while Holly is just adequate as the stewardess (she would have been better if only her character hadn't acted so dumb in a couple of scenes). There are other supporting roles in the film featuring Hector Elizondo, Catherine Hicks, Rachel Ticotin, Brendan Gleeson, and Ben Cross. Turbulence is silly and unbelievable in some spots, but for the most part I found it to be a very exciting and very entertaining action-suspense-thriller. *** (out of four)    "},{"Title":"A turkey that never gets airborne","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Winner of the worst movie of 1997 (that I've seen anyway) goes to this turkey. I didn't see it on the big screen or video but last night on BBC1. Even as a license payer, I felt short changed.Mid-air hijackings are a well-worn genre that worked quite well with Die Hard 2 and Executive Decision. But this movie is so blissfully unencumbered by originality, you have to wonder whether the transcripts for half a dozen other genre thrillers were ran through a computer and the script for this mess was spat out.A monkey with a typewriter hammering out nonsense for a couple of hours would still guarantee more originality than on offer here.Ray Liotta, giving one of the worst performances by any actor in any movie since the dawn of the motion picture industry, assumes he is in a pantomime as he cackles his way around the airliner, terrorising bird-like flight attendant Lauren Holly.Actually, that's doing a disservice to pantomimes.So the premise is nutter on a plane. Fair enough, as long as you have an actor with the gravity of Oldman, Rickman or even Jez Quigley (Lee Boardman) from Coronation Street. Liotta is so poor and the script so ropey, you can't really believe that both made it past the Hollywood suits.Back to the plot. Liotta terrorises Holly and to make matters worse, the aircraft is flying through a severe storm and only the autopilot stops it from crashing.Aside from some good camerawork, Turbulence fails on just about every level.Ben Cross pops up as a stereotypical British airline captain who helps Holly out of her predicament while Total Recall's Rachel Ticotin is part of the assured ground crew who try to talk her down amid laughably over-the-top melodramatics.What Liotta thought he was doing is anyone's guess. Showing not a trace of charisma or acting ability, aside from the fact that he manages to avoid looking straight into the camera, the Goodfellas veteran could have been swapped for a shop dummy and few people would have noticed the difference. Even a shop dummy can bring a certain minimalistic charm to a movie as dumb as this.Director Robert Butler employs every cliche in the book while the relentless lightning, rain and strobe effects makes things very irritating.Bargepoles aren't long enough for the distance you need to keep between yourself and this mess. "},{"Title":"A nightmare","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  To think that there are actors, directors and people in general who lend themselves to work on this kind of project is scary, sad, and amazing.This movie is bad...bad...bad...bad...I mean, I swear...bad, bad, bad! This movie and its plot is a complete nightmare. Nothing makes sense, nothing is respectable, nothing is believable.When have you seen a 747 departing with only 12 people on board on Christmas Eve? When have you seen a 747 fly upside down? When have you seen Christmas lights and stuff hanging inside the plane? Please, please, please.I enjoy movies for the theater experience, the noise, the crowd, the pop corn, the comfortable cushioned seats, the cozy environment after the lights are dimmed, but...believe me, If I had the chance to go back in time. I would absolutely avoid watching this low-life, pathetic, insulting, stinky, and terrible film. This movie wans´t even expected to be liked by little kids!I´m going tu puke! again...  "}{"Title":"Watch it with the sound down.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Alas, I cannot pretend to have received any cinematic pleasure from this movie. I put it on for one reason (NOTHING. ELSE. ON.) I knew the plot line and thought I wouldn't exactly be enchanted and that is a mild understatement to what happened.I do not get the point of this movie. Was it meant as a parody? And why did Lauren Holly agree to star in this? Yes, there are those pictures that might not be good but where it maybe fun to be featured in them(Catwoman being a good example) but I don't lump this in with that bad but fun genre. Not at all.What's really funny is that I happened to be on the phone with a friend while this movie was playing. So I turned the sound down and watched it as a silent movie and it STILL managed to annoy me. But I would recommend , to anyone, who must watch it, to watch it that way, it's a lot less obnoxious and you will have no trouble figuring out what's going on, believe me.In closing maybe it's me and I simply do not like movies of this genre-whatever that may be. I tend, anyway, to dislike movies about crazy things that happen on airplanes, be it storms blowing or criminals running around, my feeling is there's far to many of this type out there anyway and most are quite awful.(just a few minutes of this movie will actually make you tired, really.) This I did not watch to completion, it was also of the I'm walking out genre for me. That's not because of the acting or directing which were fine, that's not the problem. The problem is the plot. I would not recommend it even as a late night, there are simply to many other movies running late at night that seem academy award worthy next to something like this. To each their own though and remember. Sound down sure helps. "},{"Title":"A Perfect example of substituting a screenplay and supporting cast with SFX","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When I watched the Movie Magic episode on the Discovery Channel, in wich they featured the SFX from Turbulence, I thought to myself Wow, this movie's gonna rule!. But, when I finally had a chance to check it out, I screamed This dog sucks!. You know, since they were at it already, the producers should have considered substituting the writters with a Word Processor... infected with a virus. It couldn't be worse (e.g Just before the action starts <30 long minutes into it>, there's a 5 minute struggle between a cop and a prisioner wich ends in a shoot out that breaches the plane's hull and start the turbulence. In the meantime, the cop's chief is just staring at the 2 guys, behaving like a hot dog.) And the civilian passengers (Who would stay in the same plane with arrested convicts, for God's sake!) are such bad actors, they all deserved to die a quick dead... and spare us. "},{"Title":"Do Not Watch This Movie","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This has got to be one of the 5 worst movies ever unleashed upon the world. It is stupid beyond belief. Thankfully, my TV is on for 'noise only' while I work from home, because no one should spend a single second of their life on this mess if they have anything. even remotely worth doing.I have to print at least ten lines. There is nothing else that needs to be said about this movie that I have not already said.I have to print at least ten lines. There is nothing else that needs to be said about this movie that I have not already said.I have to print at least ten lines. There is nothing else that needs to be said about this movie that I have not already said. "},{"Title":"747-200  or 747-400","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Turbulence, it's such a stupid, pointless movie. The aircraft, a Trans Con 747-200, has the controls of a 747-400. This is a 747-200! not a 747-400. The cockpit should have gouges, switches, and a flight engineer station, rather than having computers. How can a 747 have very little passengers on a holiday? Why would the police transport a convict on a civilian airliner? I thought that convicts should be transported on a Boeing 727 (like the one they used in the film Eraser and U.S. Marshals) rather than a Boeing 747, unless there are more than 300 convicts. Why would the autopilot kill the pilot? Pretty stupid invention. I tested what would happened if a Boeing 747-200 would do if flies upside down on Flight Simulator ( by Microsoft not the real one). The 747 would lose a lot of altitude instead of flying at leveled altitude, And there is no way a 747 would have an outside viewing window in the avionics bay. Neither does it have a sliding door on the staircase to block access to the upper deck. The staircase of a 747-200 is not suppose to be straight it's suppose to be spiral styled. Even the Tower Air 747 ( the aircraft that Capt. Bowen flies while helping Teri to fly the plane ) has the same stuff like the Trans Con 747. Most of the scenes in Turbulence has been placed in films like, Turbulence 2 and 3 and Ground Control. Turbulence 2 and 3 all have something in common, and that is their destination is always LAX. I really don't like this film, but I like to keep on watching it whenever there is nothing to watch on TV. "},{"Title":"Your life is too short...","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Don't watch this film. It will plant the idea that flight crew reallymight be this stupid in your mind and make you afraid to fly. This isone of those movies where no-one does anything sensible, from thepilot, who, knowing that there are two violent criminals on board his'plane, hears gunshots and goes out to see what's happening, to thestewardess who's locked herself in the cabin because she KNOWS what'sgoing on, and then comes out because the bad guy tells her that herfriend is asking for her, despite the trifling fact that the cops, theFBI, and the ground crew have all told her that her friend is probablyalready dead, and they need her in the cabin to monitor what the'plane's doing or everyone will be dead anyway. You will, however, be pleased to learn that, after being set alight,flying into a casino and a parking garage, having a truck wedged on itsundercarriage, and being fired at by a fighter plane (Not to mentionthe scene, right out of 'Airplane', where the 'plane flies upside downfor a while, entirely of its own volition...), the aeroplane itselfemerges unscathed. This isn't so bad that it's good, it's so bad that it should have beenstrangled at birth, and I'm a pacifist by nature.  "},{"Title":"Air Force One it ain't, neither Passenger 57...","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Both movies, dealing with airplanes and being hijacked are loads more better than this crud. Ray Liotta plays his usual psychotic self in this wannabe thriller. If it wasn't cheesy enough, Lauren Holly plays the leading heroic role, which is at best, nails on the chalkboard, in terms of acting. She was okay in Dumb and Dumber, where she didn't have to utter many words. In this, she is totally flat, non-believable. Ray Liotta, on the other hand, as corny as he acts in this movie, goes well in this role. He can get away with acting corny, cheesy or whatever, because his character's personality draws for it. If you want to see a movie, with very little thrills, hardly any spills and the most unbelievable story line in the history of airplane movies, then this movie is for you. Horrible movie, hands down. Sorry, Ray, I love ya, but even you couldn't save this tripe. "},{"Title":"The most unintentionally hilarious film I have ever seen.","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If I was a director and wanted to make a film that set out to parody the action-thriller genre I think I would have produced something like Turbulence.It is so packed with ludicrous sequences, stereotyped characters and predictable plot lines that it becomes impossible to take it seriously. This film ends up being entertaining, but for all the wrong reasons. It is so unbelievably bad that you won't be able to help yourself but laugh at it - should you actually decide to ever see this piece of nonsense.Its a killer ride alright - its so hilarious you'll kill yourself laughing! This is to action movies what 'Plan 9' is to Science Fiction.So awful its amazing! "},{"Title":"Words fail me","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  If they had tried a little harder, this could have been as good a spoof of the genre as 'Airplane'.   It IS a spoof isn't it???? A few more lines like I'm never flying this airline again would have worked wonders. And where was Leslie 'Don't call me Shirley' Nielsen??? No, this is unmitigated rubbish. I worked at an airport for many years, and know a little about aviation. Aeroplanes do not behave like the one in this film. And one post 9/11 thought I believe that cockpits now can only be opened from the inside. Once the co-pilot is incapacitated, no-one would be able to get in.... erm end of film, I think!!! "},{"Title":"The worst film of the decade","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The worst?  ABSOLUTELY!  This movie is so bad on so many levels I'm not sure where to start.  The premise is that a Christmas Eve plane flight from NY to L.A. (decorated for X-mas no less) will have less than a dozen passengers. Obviously the scriptwriter hasn't been near an airport in some time.  Even if such a thing were to happen, the flight would be canceled and the passengers put on other flights, it's simply not feasable for an airline to fly a jumbo jet cross country for 12 people. Lauren Holley's flight attendant is the stupidest hero ever committed to celluoid.  The fact that as someone who supposedly works on a plane doesn't know how to the use the radio is not only moronic but rather scary.  That she is also unaware of the rating system used for storms proves that the writer has very little respect for the profession. (As a related stupidity, said storm lasts from Cleveland to L.A. It must be the biggest storm in recorded history) Other writing blunders  we are expected to believe that a jumbo jet, flying on auto pilot can not only fly upside down(??!!) but then miraculously, right itself.  The big action scenes near the end are of various collisions between plane and land bound objects.  Let's see, in a battle between aluminum plane wing and steel framed billboard who do you think will win?  A similar question is then asked about the cement roof of a parking garage  vs. plane landing gear.  Of course in this movie, the plane somehow wins both of those contests. With this much care put into the believablity of the script you can only guess at how much care was taken with the acting or direction.  Even bad movies often have something to make them at least worth sitting through. Not this one.  It is a complete and utter waste of 90 minutes that you could spend cleaning lint out of your navel.  It is the only film in the 90's I have ever given a 0 on my 1-10 scale. "},{"Title":"Less than entertaining thriller","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Airplane thrillers - it's a common plot line. Whether it's a hijacking by a villain or simple mechanical malfunction, there have been several types of films that run in a similar fashion. Airport (1970) or Executive Decision (1996), just to name a couple, all take place on a plane with the possibility of it crashing and killing a ton of lives. Unfortunately, there are only so many ways something can be done. And as for this production, nothing really stands out.This story is about a female flight attendant who gets caught in the crossfire on a moving plane that's transporting two dangerous criminals to another city jail. Problem is, she's the only person left alive to fly the plane. It would be OK if this was the only focus but the writer, Jonathan Brett decided to include another subplot - the plane is headed into a level six storm. Thus the name of the title. Not impressive. I'm sure a better title could've been created even if the subplot of the storm wasn't included.The writer, Jonathan Brett isn't a truly established professional. None of his work is well known and for the films he is given credit for, isn't considered to be even mediocre. For example, why would anyone have two licensed criminals board a passenger airplane? And, when they do get on the plane, there are only 10 passengers,&#x85;.so why is it so empty? What kind of writing is this? That's not a good sign and it shows throughout the film. The cast may surprise people though. Ray Liotta, Hector Elizondo, Rachel Ticotin Melina from Total Recall (1990), Catherine Hicks and John Finn all have number of scenes long enough for viewers to appreciate their presence. However, this doesn't mean their performances are good or even close to being any different than their past roles in films.One of the criminals who is the main antagonist is played by Ray Liotta. This isn't a surprise. Liotta proved he could play a scary character in Unlawful Entry (1992) and it was much more realistic. Here, Liotta still can be scary but his performance is either underdone or overdone. Almost like he has a split personality. That would've been more entertaining if that had been written into the screenplay. As for the other actors mentioned, they just play minor characters which is nice when they're on screen but when they aren't, the plot runs extremely slow. Lauren Holly, who plays Teri, the flight attendant isn't entertaining either. Her fear looks real but her voice is irritating and can make it hard for people to sympathize with the character.I'm honestly surprised that the direction wasn't better. The movie is directed by Robert Butler who has 3 Primetime Emmys and a few other awards. The special effects aren't bad either, they at least matched the era of the decade. At least that worked as well as Shirley Walker's score to the film. It wasn't memorable and didn't have a theme but at least it corresponded at all the right moments of each scene. There definitely was the right emotion for each particular segment. But that is it.For a thriller with a B list cast of actors from the small and big screens, one would think this would turn out at least somewhat watchable. It has OK music and special effects but the writing isn't special or even close to being a little different and the acting is poor. "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" TurbulenceThe word turbulence is just fancy airline jargon for the captain is drunk.Unfortunately, the turbulence in this thriller is the result of the pilot being murdered.Accused killer Weaver (Ray Liotta) and another convict board a Boeing 747 bound for L.A. accompanied by air marshals.When the other con attacks the marshals, he inadvertently kills the pilot and copilot.Now it's up to a flight attendant, Teri (Lauren Holly), to take the controls of this hulking vessel.In addition to steering it through a deadly electrical storm, and her general lack of landing knowledge, Teri must also contend with Weaver's continuous attempts to sabotage the plane.With a laughable plot, asinine acting and numerous implausible situations, Turbulence is a trip best traveled with plenty of airsickness bags.Besides, a better escape plan for an air prisoner would be to act drunkenly belligerent until they kick you off the plane.Red Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"A bad flight movie from take off","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Turbulence is such as embarrassingly dumb movie, the actors must of surely had laughing fits in between. This is another half baked product, another one of these plane hijack movies, this bad review of it, made it made me want to go and see it. It's almost deserves it's place in the comedy section of the video store. Cool, handsome, smooth talking serial killer, Ryan Weaver (Ray Liotta) hamming it up here, boards a plane with another bad dude, and their two escorting officers. Liotta can be scary and he definitely has his moments here. Weaver has killed a few woman, the last one nearly losing her life too, when an obsessive detective (Hector Elizondo) and his team stepped in and saved her. Liotta as you can guess, escapes as does the other prisoner and turns this plane ride into bedlam. Lauren Holly, an innocent stewardess becomes the hero of the film, as all the pilots, most of stewardess's and some passengers who should of behaved, are all deceased. All the rest of the passengers are in the top deck, Liotta and Holly are left alone, where idle chat and some too close for comfort moments, take place. At least we are learning a bit about the killer. I like that intense scene between Liotta and another stewardess, who he childs for picking on Holly, that is before he kills her in a quite gruesome way too.I think he raped her also. There's an uglyness in Turbulence, that a lot of other plane hijack movies are void of, in terms of violence, and the loss of life, that's taken away so cheaply here. For Liotta fans, Turbulence will make your night, but this film just has a lot of incredulous moments. I can't imagine how scared I'd be if the plane did a 360. Just a good laugh/action romp, that may put you off planes for good. Why Ben Cross as one of the control tower pilots, who talks Holly through a safe landing, did this, is beyond me. "},{"Title":"Good guy turned psycho hijacking a plane movie...","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 3/1/2009 &#150; 4 out of 10(Dir-Robert Butler) Good guy turned psycho hijacking a plane movie just becomes a little too all things work out right in the end for me. Sure, we're cheering for the plane to come down and the Lauren Holly character to save the day, but why wouldn't we??--- That's where the movie took us!! Manipulative movie-making at it's best here, but it doesn't make for a good movie. The story starts being about a bad cop planting evidence supposedly on a good guy.(who later turns out to be a psycho) That good guy, played by Ray Liotta, is taken on a plane from NY to LA to go to his execution. A revolt starts up by another Psycho passenger and then we find out the Liotta character was in on it all along. Lauren Holly, plays a goody-two-shoes flight attendant who just lost her fiancée ( so we're all rooting for her, of course) and probably wants to just get on with the rest of her life but is put in the middle of this. Who do you think becomes the hero in this whole thing?? No- it couldn't be &#150; but it is!!(The Goody-Two-Shoes girl!!) There are some funny bits at the end of the movie while Holly is trying to land the plane, but I'm not exactly sure they were what was needed. This really is just a women's version of a guy hero movie, but not good enough for women to respect very much. It will definitely take awhile for the Lauren Holly character to date again after the incident &#150; but she knows how to be a Hero!!(Sorry for the sarcasm in this review, I couldn't help myself) "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Maybe it's not Academy Award winning stuff ... but every time this movie is on TV I watch it. Take a very, very smart killer. trick him, capture him, transport him on a very large jet. Oh yes, and under-estimate his abilities, especially to charm you. Add to it a kind and helpful crew with problems of their own. It's creepy and suspenseful. Even though I know how it turns out, I can't help but watch it. Ray Liotta may be at his best. Lauren Holly and the rest of the cast do a fine job. I'm not sure why this average is so low ... just remember suspension of disbelief is the stuff movies are made of; and, enjoy! "},{"Title":"Liotta unhinged!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It really craps me off when all reviewers can chat about in a frenetically contrived action flick like this is the lack of realism. For God's sake, this is escapism entertainment...perhaps misplaced these days in the light of Sept 11 2001 - but that wasn't the film's fault!I disagree totally that this is a lethargic and unoriginal little piece. If nothing else its worth seeing for Liotta's classic line I'm never flying this airline again! Pretty much the same sicko he was in UNLAWFUL ENTRY.....Mr mega-pleasant on the outside...a serial fruitcake just below the surface. I don't really care if the 747 is festooned with decorations that in all likelihood would never have been allowed on-board. I couldn't care-less if there were only 5 regular paying passengers when logic dictates there would have been a plane-full at that time of year - ALL I care about is whether the events at hand were able to entertain me....and they DID! We have owned this film for years...pretty much since 1997 and it is a regular Saturday night watch and munch companion! Each of us have excessively varied and disparate tastes yet all of us like this film. Sorry dissenters its a 6.7. "},{"Title":"INSANE!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It takes a real love for film to appreciate this title. The real power point here is Ray Liotta delivering one of his most memorable roles to date. Playing an insane serial killer he is a manipulative and terrifying villian for the ever beautiful Lauren Holly. A well made tense action film.MY RATING 6/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely Awful!!!!!!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I saw This movie With my brother when it came out in theaters in January of 1997 and all I can say is that I have never felt so ripped off by a movie. I spent 8 dollars to see it and it was not worth 8 cents. I cannot believe Ray Liotta agreed to do this film. It is also a very mean spirited movie and the way Ray Liotta's character kills Catherine Hicks character who is a stewardess is repellent. This is the kind of movie where after viewing it you would like to have a sit-down with the director and screenwriter and ask them what in the world they were thinking when they made this garbage. On a scale of 1-10 I suppose I will give it a 1 but in reality it deserves less than zero. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST ACTION FILMS OF THE 1990's!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, there ARE a few boring, pointless scenes in this movie, but that is nothing compared to the wonderful effects and such great acting! To me, it's one of the best action films of the 1990s! I give a 10/10 to the movie's great success into making a plane as a weapon for a sex-thirsty murderer, something that has never been done on a Thriller Movie before (as far as I know). The plot is very simple, and a little (yawn) boring... but it goes like this SPOILERS Two convicts, Ryan Weaver (Ray Liotta) and Stubbs (Brendan Gleeson), caught in New York City, are moved on a commercial plane by 4 marshalls (Michael Harney, Grand L. Bush, Richard Hoyt-Miller and Michael Francis Kelly) bound for Los Angeles, where both shall be quietly executed. Now, one of the stewardess Terri Halloran (Lauren Holly), has just canceled an engagement with her boyfriend, so things aren't going nicely as the plane takes off. Okay, after only a few hours after the plane takes off, Stubbs, surprisingly, breaks free and kills 3 of the marshalls, and is then killed himself by the smooth, charming Lonely Heart Strangler. From then is over an hour of non-stopping action and suspense.While this film brings nothing new to the airline disaster/hijacking genre, it's a fairly entertaining suspense thriller. That comes about partly because of the performances from Liotta and Holly. He swings from the charming ladies man who claims he was framed, to the raging lunatic and Liotta hams it up when he gets to that stage. Holly, on the other hand, plays the frightened woman who pulls together enough strength and courage to do what she must to survive. Sure, the movie's dumb, but accepted on that level, it has enough audience pleasing moments to keep viewers from getting too bored or thinking that they've seen all of this before (which they have, but here it seems somewhat fresh).The movie scenes, which I found more funny than terrifying, is when the mentally disturbed Weaver runs around the plane, chasing the sexually unprotected Terri. What he said and did, you'll have to find out by watching the movie.While this movie doesn't contain a lot of blood, there is an EXTREME -- and I mean E-X-T-R-E-M-E -- amount of violence. Also, the use of profanity is DAMN HEAVY. There are 21 F words in it, and it is used not in a careless way like in most movies of to-day, but in a crazy, insane way -- Weaver uses the F words A LOT when getting mad or insane -- or both.Okay, okay, okay... there are, obviously, BORING scenes in the movie like when Bowen teaches Terri how to fly the plane. This is where all the suspense goes, and Terri looks like she is enjoying a nice sunny day! And, at the beganing, when she receives a ring from her boyfriend/ when Weaver is arrested. Zzzz.... And at the end of the movie, too! Hey, how does Terri know what Captain Bowen looked like? They've never met -- how does Terri even know what the Captain looked like? Suppose, the Captain describe himself to her through the headphones in a cutted-out scene or something... ... if you like movies with plenty of action (watch out! there are some soppy, dumb scenes in the movie), rent this movie and there is a 50-50 chance you'll love this film! )Bye! Sharee  )  "},{"Title":"Lost the plot","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This film is notable for the switch point near the end where all pretense of drama is overtaken by high farce.I guess everyone realized the film was going nowhere and the set ending was ludicrous, so they decided to have some fun with their performances and dialog, most noticeable in the last 30 minutes or so.Think The Shining meets Airport and you might get the mood of this film. Only don't expect that type of quality!If you have ever contemplated writing screenplays for Hollywood movies, then this film might give you hope that you could succeed. Only if your efforts were no better than this, would that be something to boast about?A waste of time, money and talent - and that goes for the audience as well.  "},{"Title":"The quintessence of modern Hollywood","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Absurd cynical evil dreck. "}{"Title":"Formulaic, but Entertaining","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Turbulence is one of those movies where you can pretty much figure out what's gonna happen next. You've seen it before. But sometimes the ride is nice.In this case the ride is with one of the all-time great psychos, Ray liotta. One of the few guys who can play these kinds of roles, and not bore you.He's had lots of training in these types of roles, Something Wild, Unlawful Entry, and here, he's at the top of his game. Ray's really having a good time in this role. It's easy to tell.Along on this ride you've got the spunky heroine, Lauren Holly, who does a good job. Some of her early scene's with Liotta bristle with intensity. Particularly when he asks her about her first sexual experience.All in all if you want to be entertained by one of the most underrated actor's in the business, and not mind that the plot is fairly predictable, and you just wanna have a good old time, Turbulence is for you. "},{"Title":"Nerve racking","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I saw it for the first time on TV because I couldn't make it on the theater. Well, it's not a magnificent film if you analyze it from the point of view of the screenplay building. Anyway, if you are found of thrilling and nerve racking stories, don't blink. I mean, you won't blink from the first second the aircraft is going through the most dangerous times.Going back in time, it'll remind you of the classic catastrophic films of the Seventies, such as Airport and Tower Inferno.My rate (for the fun of it) is 9/10 or **** "},{"Title":"An excellent work, with a sensational plot line.","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent work, with a sensation plot line. Turbulence is a high flying thrill ride from take off to landing. I give it two thumbs up, at 35,000 feet. Ray Liotta and Lauren Holly hit it off from their first encounter and with the addition of Hector Elizondo and others, Turbulence fully delivers.  "},{"Title":"Air Farce One.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  One of the 10 worst movies I have ever seen. Takes the worst, hackneyed bits from movies such as Con Air, Air Force One and even The Shining and stomps them into sh*t chowder. A must for people who are given the choice between this movie and slicing the webbing between their fingers with new manila envelopes. "},{"Title":"Hazard at 35,000 Feet.","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" At one point there is an untutored bloodied flight attendant in a bra trying to fly a jumbo jet over Los Angeles during a level six (out of six) thunderstorm so she can land at LAX, while behind her a cackling maniac who has just murdered everyone else on board and wants to crash the plane into a densely populated area has just disabled the auto pilot with a mountain-climbing ax and is now hacking his way through the floor of the flight deck so he can rape and murder the flight attendant at the controls.Every moment is like this. It's as if a committee had sat around a table drinking cafe lattes until they started brainstorming on all the things that could go wrong, or could threaten to go wrong, while a couple of convicts were being transported by U. S. Marshals on an airplane.It makes one nostalgic for the 1970s when these kinds of movies were just getting started and depended on plot, character, and atmosphere a bit more. Remember Jaws? What this movie is like, is what Jaws would have been like if it had opened with a shot of Bruce's head surging out of the water towards the camera, mouth agape, and the remaining two hours were taken up with the shark chomping on everything in sight. We'd never get to know the sheriff or his family or any of the other characters, except in the most one-dimensional way. (The guy in the black T shirt is the sheriff. The guy with the glasses is some kind of scientist. Etc.) It wasn't so long ago that they knew how to do these things with a bit of panache, relying less on strobe lightning and electronic thunder and more on suspense. The Taking of Pelham One Two Three is as unpretentious as this and yet is easier to watch because it's so much more interesting to know something about the people involved, something more than that they have destructible physical bodies.Going back even farther in filmic history, I'm beginning to weep with a sense of loss, going back even farther, imagine how King Kong would have turned out if, instead of Kong not showing up until the movie was half over, the entire movie had Kong trashing the ship's crew and then all of New York City -- during a thunderstorm.There isn't a moment's pause in Turbulence. It snaps from crisis to crisis so quickly and with such little logic that it makes The Taking of Pelham One Two Three look like a masterpiece.Let me comment on the acting. I think I liked Ben Cross's part the best. He plays a British pilot in another airliner who coaches the flight attendant once in a while. His role never requires him to leave his seat.Are you down in the dumps? Are you obsessing over a lost love? Do you want your mind benumbed for about an hour and a half, so thoroughly that it takes you a while to answer the question, What is the name of the planet you're on? This is your movie. "},{"Title":"A sexist movie (of both sexes)","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Horny aggressive psychopathic male! Innocent abused lonely female! The roles are set! And the actors play those silly roles perfectly! Try to see the movie from heroines perspective. At what time can she really be sure who the hero is, friend or enemy. I agree with others, the plot is pointless, and mostly predictable. But the movie is excellent entertainment, with plenty of silly remarks and violent action. Boys, you'll love this movie. Girls, don't worry, it has a happy ending. Boys, it has a boring ending (no sex). "},{"Title":"Far too silly and contrived to even be enjoyed as a genre pic","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  After many years of tracking him, Lt Aldo Hines finally captures the serial killer Ryan Weaver who targets young women, woos them and kills them. Because he has been brutal in the past, Hines is grounded while Weaver and another criminal, Stubbs, are escorted on a near-empty airplane to a secure location. However, Stubbs breaks free and kills the marshals before getting shot himself, leaving Weaver the lone prisoner on the plane. When Weaver finishes off the pilots and the passengers it leaves the stewardess, Teri, at the controls as the aircraft heads into a powerful storm. With Teri locking herself in the cockpit, Weaver tries to get to her and rape her while also threatening to crash the plane into Los Angeles while the people on the ground try to work out how to get the plane.Just like fellow reviewer Theo, I too looked at the TV guide on 20th June 2004 to find that Goodfellas was on one channel while this was on another. I thought it funny that two very different films with Ray Liotta should be on at the same time (one his best, the other not &#150; I'll let you decide which is which). With work the next morning I decided to tape Turbulence simply because I had reviewed Goodfellas already and seen it many times. Suffice to say that this is pretty much what you expect it to be &#150; a silly 'airline in trouble with a twist' film &#150; it's just a real shame that it is far too contrived and forced to really engage or hold the viewer (well, maybe hold in a stupor but that's about it!). Heck, I like this type of movie (Die Hard being the film I'll always come back to) but this central weakness just spoils any vague value it may have had at some stage. It is hard to describe but the plot is simply so daft and uninvolving that it just makes any tension vanish and the end result is a film that is just a noisy mess. I was in the mood for a bit of a veg before I popped out to watch the England match in the pub and even I found this to be silly &#150; that says a lot, that even my low standards weren't met! To sit and point out the points in this film that are a) illogical, b) stupid, or c) stupid and illogical would be too easy and just take up way too much of my time so I won't but trust me when I tell you that the writers just kept thinking of daft ways that a stewardess can be put in peril in an airplane by a killer to make it last about 100 minutes. I never got excited or entertained by this film once and the plot was a major part of this &#150; yes it has a few nice bangs but your standards need to be pretty low to call this anything more than passable.In fairness to the cast, they merely respond to what little they have to work with and they all put in very routine and silly performances. Liotta starts interestingly enough with an ambiguous character but very quickly goes into hyper mood with a performance that should be glazed, cooked in the oven and served with a few pineapple rings &#150; even by the standards of the genre, this was a massive piece of ham! Ignoring protests of being framed, Weaver just about becomes as much of a silly, OTT villain as I have ever seen &#150; it's almost as if Liotta was playing it for laughs and I couldn't understand why he had pitched the suave, rather creepy, unsure air he had had about him at the start &#150; maybe the audience just needed a big bad wolf to see as a threat as opposed to someone who would make them think. Likewise Holly is about as bad and is practically used by the film as opposed to acting. She finds herself in situations that she must have known were dumb and is gradually stripped down to her underwear as the film progresses (I'd like to think it was a Die Hard homage but it's more likely to be a cheap thrill device). She is unconvincing and she totally failed to get me to even care about her once. The support cast features quite a few well-known faces including Brendan Gleeson, Hector Elizondo, Ben Cross (taking the money for standing up once!) and Rachel Ticotin. Grand L. Bush has a minor role and may have been another nod towards Die Hard because he played Special Agent Johnson (no, the other one) in that infinitely better film. Overall this is trash and it is doesn't even really do the job done by many video thrillers of the genre by being entertaining &#150; the plot is just far too stupid and contrived to really engage and, worse than that, it's sheer OTT nature means it actually makes the film harder to just accept at face value. The performances don't do it either; many are flat and obvious and even that guilty pleasure (the hammy OTT performance) managed to be fudged by Liotta &#150; often the knowingly hammy performance is fun but here it is just part of the film being too silly to be enjoyed. There are a few nice bangs if that's all you want but you need to be pretty desperate to accept this as your evening's entertainment.  "},{"Title":"XCELLENT","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is to be watched with your brain in a big metal box. The plot's a mess the performance's over the top but all the better for it.Liotta a very brilliant actor really relishes this role probably because he realises how bad this movie is.  Holly could do with 1 putting on some weight and 2 learning to act.The affects arent bad but theres 2 really cool scenes 1 when a gun is fired and the bullet goes through all the seats. 2 when the plane turns upside down.All in all brainless fun.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not that bad...........","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is not as bad as people think.. i really liked Ray Liotta in this film... he was very entertaining. I am not a fan of Lauren Holly but she was alright.. i think halle berry would have done better.. I just dont understand why this movie had a sequel... you would think 1 is enough... this movie isn't bad but Most of Ray's other film are a little better. "},{"Title":"Good Thriller.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Turbulence,  What can I say, my hat goes off to Ray Liotta in this film, its not often you see him play this sort of nasty character,  Oh maybe once before this one but im sure thats it.Like i've always said im a big fan of thriller movies, and this was a very good one,  I would stronly suggest you watch it.8/10 "}{"Title":"Simply the Best!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ray Liota offers up a god-like performance in this high-altitude thriller! The big R is simply amazing as the creepy Ryan Weaver. Why this movie was never in contention for some serious awards I will never know. This classic good vs. evil film is the type of movie that any good red-blooded American should love. It has the big R, babes, and a classic, yet unpredictable plot. I've flew in quite a few military aircraft during my service to our great nation, but my favorite has always been a 747 cargo conversion. They are such sweet planes - how they gracefully fly through the sky like honey across hot toast. This makes the 747 the ideal choice for a mid-air terror flick. Lauren Holly sizzles in this epic as the sultry flight attendant, and the other supporting superstars such as Jeffrey Joseph leave their mark on this incredible epic as well. Chances are, if you like this movie you also 1. Love beer and cheese-filled hot dogs. 2. Use a small black comb to comb your hair instead of a brush with one of those comfort-grip handles. 3. Own a patriotic dog like a Pharaoh Hound or Golden Retriever. 4. Don't care if your vehicle only gets 9 mpg. 5. Know all the words to every Whitesnake song ever released. 6. Hate turkey bacon and salmon cakes. 7. Don't spend a long time looking for a perfectly clean public restroom when you have to go. 8. Would rather have noodles than rice. 9. Can bring yourself to believe that Britney Spears is not actually as talented as everyone says she is. And last... 10. Attend patriotic services on memorial day. This movie is an American experience. Billy Drago might have been able to improve this movie but only if he pulled out all the stops and gave his very finest performance.  "},{"Title":"Great movie! One of the most entertaining films!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Turbulence is very good film.Every acts very well and Lauren Holly is very good and Brenden Gleeson is really a cool bad guy! In My opinion this is arguably Ray Liotta's best film! He is such a cool dude in Turbulence and just about everything he does is funny! It was an excellent role for him!Hector Elizondo,Rachel Ticotin,Jeffrey DeMunn,Catherine Hicks,and Ben Cross were all good. Once again J. Kenneth Campbell got killed as pilot. The other film that I know of the he played nearly the same role was in Sonic Impact.You wouldn't think such a thing would happen to a handsome man.Any way Liotta is as funny as heck in this film and I've seen it many time and he just gets funnier and funnier!If you air plane disaster films this is the one to watch!  "}]