[{"Title":"Strangely appealing","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"60 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ever since I saw a documentary on the making of horror movie special effects, I've wanted to see 'Vampires'. I wasn't disappointed. In this era of cheap computer effects it's really refreshing to see a movie where the special effects are done the old fashioned way. For some bizarre reason I really like Vampires. The plot is somewhat clichéd, the acting is nothing special and yet... I find myself watching this movie over and over again. Somehow the idea of a secret military force funded by the church, dedicated to fighting vampires is thrilling even though I'm not a religious man. I suppose it harkens back to the day of witch hunters. James Woods is great as the grim, dedicated man sworn to destroy all vampires and as the true shocker, the generic Baldwin appearing in the movie does a really good job as well! If you like gory movies, check it out! "},{"Title":"Much better than its reputation!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"58 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was puzzled by the low rating Vampires got, it's my favorite movie of 1998/99. Why do I give the date in that manner? I was (un)fortunate enough to see this movie in the uncut version (as shown in France), in the US version and just a few weeks ago in the German one.But first things first -- I am female and I have read so many reviews and comments telling me, that I, as a woman, should feel disgust at the alleged misogynous undertone of Vampires. I am sorry, but in none of the three versions I saw did I feel, hear or see anything which might support this allegation! Crow hated practically everyone except for Montoya and the first priest, Montoya -- while quipping left and right -- behaved quite kindly towards Lee's hooker except where she directly caused him to react violently and none of the other oneliners warrant, IMO, even a raised eyebrow regarding that special topic.Let me add that I also am not religious, with my own perceptive view of enough past wrongs done by the Catholic church, so that any of the soi-disant hate directed at that church is in my opinion well-founded given the plot. Callan's explanation of how he views god, as well as several other references by Crow and Montoya underline the basic belief of the vampire hunters while maintaining their no-nonsense attitude.With that back to why I liked the movie so much it is in its own way as stark and streamlined as the best samples of its genre; the cinematography is just perfect with the right mixture of visual and non-visual storytelling; the dialogue is engagingly humorous throughout, feels real and allows each character his or her own voice; there are several deeply moving scenes, either visually or characterwise moving, which will stay with the audience; there are enough novelties incorporated to make this rendition of the vampire theme fresh and quite frankly, I liked Carpenter's score a lot too.What wins me completely over is the very obvious fun all the actors had with their roles. James Woods was perfect as sardonic, illusion-free Crow and his brushing campiness with the tip of a finger, yet withdrawing just in time, is priceless. Daniel Baldwin makes the most of his character's arc, nicely underplaying his role, while he still manages to convey Montoya's journey by minimal changes of expression or voice. The final scene couldn't have been done any better. Sheryl Lee gives what I consider one of the strongest supports I've seen in quite a few years, whether by male or female actors, especially when you count in the scarcity of means she's handed over. Ian Griffith had several fine moments and the entire supporting cast was refreshing in their non-Hollywoody realistic, natural look and acting. The overall impression was of people enjoying what they're expertly doing.An advice to the German audience,  I noted while watching the dubbed release that the translation killed practically every single punch line and nearly all of the humor. And it *could* have been translated properly. The voice actors dubbing for Woods and Baldwin did so without recreating even a tenth of what both actors put into their voices in the original version. I do think that some of the disappointment expressed there is due the extremely low quality of the translation and dubbing. See the movie in its original language. I also can't see any reason for the loss of those scenes which were cut out of the US release when compared to the French one. The movie loses quite some strength this way.  "},{"Title":"This movie lacks a certain bite, but still is not bad.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie opens with a trained, fully-equipped team of vampire slayers, led by Jack Crow (James Woods), methodically purging a nest of its fanged occupants. This is one of the best scenes of the movie and sets the viewers up to think, Hey, these guys know what they're doing. They're some rough-and-ready characters.But, lo, where is the master vampire? Not to worry, he'll have his chance at revenge...later that very night, as the trained vampire hunters go to the nearest town, lay down their weapons, and begin drinking and whoring. And they knew full-well that a master vampire, whose subjects they'd just fried, was still lurking about! How stupid can you be???!!!The movie marches on, showing carnage and betrayal as the plot is advanced. (And, frankly, it's not a bad plot). But there are many holes, many questions that are not answered, like, Why was such an mysterious and important item (a cross that would permit a vampire to walk in the sunlight) guarded by such a inept group of robe-clad nincompoops, who, according to their own harried screams, knew The day has arrived!? If they knew that a particularly horrific day was inevitably going to arrive, why, then, did they lack even a modicum of defensive capability. Why were they caught frantically scampering around like a herd of panty-clad Dr. Smiths (from TV's Lost in Space...Oh the pain, the pain of it all...). Oh well, we'll never know, and they're too dead to tell us. Be that as it may, this movie does have some good dialogue, interesting characters, a unique idea or two, and an actual plot--which makes John Carpenter's Vampires stand head and shoulders above most of the horror movies that are out today. I enjoyed it despite its defects. "},{"Title":"An underrated Carpenter movie with bite!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires is great popcorn entertainment. While fans will always compare Carpenter's later movies with his early genre classics, Vampires is excellent entertainment, even if it isn't an important or milestone horror event.James Woods is not the most likable of heroes here but he's very watchable. Daniel Baldwin delivers a believable performance as his dependable sidekick. Twin Peaks' Sheryl Lee plays the leggy small-town hooker who is unfortunately bit by a Master Vampire, Valek. There are also appearances from Maximilian Schell and Miami Vice's Gregory Sierra.In Carpenter's Vampires, the undead don't exit this world peacefully. Instead, they explode like giant Catherine wheels. This is exciting to watch - you can't have enough sparking vampires, can you? With lots of action and a few dark laughs, you could do a lot worse than see this movie.With an excellent score, great visuals and a fast pace, Vampires scores a strong 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If John Carpenter retired with Vampires, it'd be enough to call him one of the great masters of horror","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why is this movie so appealing? I don't know how to answer this other than what I love about it James Woods! Vampires is a movie brought to us by horror mastermind John Carpenter who almost gave up film making because he became disgusted by how Hollywood got so greedy. I'm so glad he decided to make Vampires because if not for his touch, I think this movie could have been really bad or bland. I'm very sad to say that Vampires seems to get overlooked or shadowed when people bring up great vampire movies a lot. I think because Blade was also released the same year, so it just got lost in 1998. However, I still love this movie, it's a western horror fright film that I'm sure will have you on the edge of your seat. A lot of people complain about James Woods being too camp in his role&#x85;since when did that become such a bad thing? He's so awesome in this movie and really makes it exciting.Mercenaries led by Jack Crow rids an abandoned house of vampires in the middle of New Mexico. The sun sets and, as the Slayers leave, the Master bursts out of the ground outside the house. The slayers stay at a motel in the middle of a desert, getting drunk, smoking and partying with women as they celebrate their victory. One of the prostitutes is a young woman named Katrina. When the master vampire, Valek, turns up at the motel, he bites Katrina and massacres the slayers and prostitutes. During this attack Valek sees Jack and calls him by name which astonishes Crow. Crow and his partner, Montoya, run outside and grab Katrina, take a pickup truck and drive off. Narrowly escaping from Valek, they keep on driving for a few more hours until dawn. While Crow goes back to the motel to deal with the remains of the team and prostitutes, Montoya takes Katrina to the nearest hotel. Meanwhile, Montoya has gotten another hotel room and he tells Katrina that she has been bitten by Valek and that she too will be one soon if they cannot find and destroy him. She now has a telepathic link to the Master. They are using her to find out his real plans and why and who set them up.I think between John's touch to the film it was the cast who really made this something special. James Woods brings a lot of fun to the film, being almost an extreme Rambo. Not since the Frog brothers in Rambo have I seen such passion to kill vampires. I love when he walks away from the explosion at the hotel that's a few feet behind him, I always have to say Yeah, I know there's an explosion behind me. What; you think I don't see explosions? I do; every day! They bore me now!. Daniel Baldwin plays off James very well and did great being the sidekick who does stand his ground when pushed too hard. Sheryl Lee, very chilling performance at times, she doesn't do much in the film but when she does have powerful scenes, she pulls in very well with great screams. Tim Guinee, the replacement priest with no experience whatsoever, I adore him playing off James Wood's tough exterior. Him trying to stand up to James but he knows he can't win with him, however when put to the test, he really comes through for the guys and turns into Arnold Schwarzenslayer. And the final star of the film and a very haunting performance with Thomas Ian Griffith as the vampire Vallek. Great performance by him and he is a very savage vampire who reminds you that not all vampires are romantic with cheesy accents. I love the whole style of the film, it feels raw and like you're riding with the cowboys. A lot of beautiful colors of the sunset and the shadows to give you a chilling feel. This film may just require a certain taste, but I think most people do enjoy this film and I'm sure somewhere down the line, it will get the appreciation it deserves. Much thanks to John Carpenter giving the film industry one more try and bringing us a great vampire movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"An often overlooked Carpenter gem","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Judging by the ratings this film has (34% fresh on Rotten Tomatoes, 5.8/10 on IMDb), I guess it's safe to say that this could be a guilty pleasure of mine. I love most of John Carpenter's work and I really enjoyed his take on vampires. Jack Crow is certainly reason alone to sit through this and although the character originated in John Steakley's novel, I feel Crow is just as strong of a character in Carpenter's world as Snake Plissken from Escape From New York. Even though he's basically a mean spirited SOB, you can't help but sympathize with the character as the film moves on. Considering all that's happened to him in his lifetime, he seems to be a decent guy deep down underneath that extremely thick and rough exterior. His dialogue was also a lot of fun. Gems such as him asking Father Adam Guiteau if he had wood after the fight they just had or when he's explaining the true mythos behind vampires and to forget whatever you've seen in the movies was just classic.Other than Jack Crow, I actually really enjoyed the storyline which seemed to be a breaking point for a lot of people. A vampire seeking a black cross to finish a reverse exorcism, so he can walk in daylight without turning to dust. Only Carpenter could pull something like that off. Their methods of killing vampires were also a bit more original and unorthodox compared to other vampire films of the past. Jack Crow would shoot an arrow from a crossbow, which would be attached to a wire on the bottom of a jeep that would be reeled in by Daniel Baldwin's Anthony Montoya that would drag the vampire into the sunlight where their body would burst into flames. Maybe it's considered cheesy to some, but it was refreshing to see something different for a change. As big of a horror fan that I am, I don't really think of myself as a fan of vampires. I'm not sure if it's because I'm picky or because it seems like everything is being recycled when it comes to story lines in horror films these days, but I like to think when a vampire film does make an impact on me that it says more than the average horror film containing vampires.John Carpenter, the master of horror, delivers a refreshing and interesting take on vampires with the aptly named Vampires. It also dawns another strong lead character in a Carpenter film in the form of Jack Crow and contains some of the most witty and enjoyable dialogue of any horror film from the late '90s. The storyline is also magnificently peculiar, which is a definite plus in my book. This would definitely make my list of favorite vampire films, if I ever decided to make one. If you're a fan of John Carpenter and haven't seen this gem, I highly recommend doing so. Or if you have, maybe it's time to dust it off and give it another watch. "},{"Title":"Naysayers, take note...","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Who but John Carpenter would have the savvy to make a vampire western, and do it so well? His WILD BUNCH is a blue-collar crowd doing a dirty job, led by the cocky James Woods (whose wisecracking but nonetheless no-nonsense approach to hunting vampires reminded me more than a little of the early SPIDER-MAN- the one written by Stan Lee and rendered by Steve Ditko). And, just for the record, the movie IS better than the book. MUCH better. Carpenter manages to evoke a sense of time and place that seems to capture the FEEL of the southwest. The music definitely helps in this regard, but it's the director's filmmaking TECHNIQUE that makes this the almost spiritual odyssey that it is. When was the last time a movie made you feel you were THERE...?      "},{"Title":"Fade in, Fade Out","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of John Carpenter. But in his latest films, I've noticed somewhat of a clumsy way he directs his films. It's almost as if the films were rushed and some scenes or even shots, just weren't filmed. He fades between all of his scenes... Sometimes, leaving us wanting more, but he just fades to the end of it. Sometimes, the scenes he uses could have been completly cut out and not used with the fade-technique whatsoever.Anyway, I just had to get that off my mind. Off to the plotJack Crow is a Master Slayer, meaning that he kills vampire for the catholic church, and has been doing that for his entire life. After he cleans out a nest of Vampires in New Mexico, his team gets ambushed my a powerful vampire named Valek. Valek kills the entire team of slayers, except for Jack and his friend Montoya. They also manage to bring a hooker along with them, who got bitten by the vampire. Using the hookers telepathic link with her master, the two try to hunt down Valek and find out what he's up to.This film is gory. Really gory. Most likely John Carpenters goriest film to date, counting The Thing. Some might think that gore is an unnecessary way of filming, but in this film Gore is not used to impress or Show off. It's used as a background thing. I didn't feel that it was a way of using the gore to create terror. And if you happen to like gore, you'll find one redeeming factor in this film.The acting is good. James Woods is really funny as Jack Crow at times, altough Daniel Baldwin isn't really great, nor is Tim Guinee. But the acting holds up. There's not much else to say other than that James Woods is funny... at times. The action in this film is quite abundant, yet it's not that great. It can be enjoyable but at the same time the action is very repetive. That doesn't bode very well. Another thing abut this film is that it's too damn long for an action/horror film. Its almost 2 hours long. They should have made it 90 minutes instead, as that would be more fitting of a movie of this type.Well. The film is boring sometimes, yet it has some redeeming factors. All in all I give it a six. Nothing great, but if you're a John Carpenter fan you'll like it. And you might want to see how his style has changed. Dramaticly. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter in top form with film Vampires (no spoilers)","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter is America's greatest living director of westerns.  Although Vampires is his first literal western, JC's been turning out 1st rate original westerns from Assault on Precinct 13 to They Live and Escape  From New York to The Thing.  Even though these movies don't take place in the west, they have all the ingredients of a good western the lone hero/outlaw, the seige or attack, the showdown, and plenty of action. Vampires takes place and was filmed in the southwest (filmed in Sante Fe, NM).  Carpenter's DP Gary Kibbe captures some nice wide John Ford-ish western vistas, and Carpenter's minimalist score capture the desolate, hard nature of the place.  The real asset of this film is its cast, especially James Woods as the insanely tough and foul-mouthed slayer Jack Crow.  He really does some inspired improvised riffs, and when he's not kicking ass Woods has a lot of fun with it all.  Jack Crow is a classic Carpenter hero all man, flinty eyed & completely alone, and Woods plays this unsympathetic character with such a quick wit you can't help but admire the guy.  Thomas Ian Griffith plays a great Valek, the master vampire whom Jack has sworn to slay.  Griffith plays the character completely straight, and it works extremely well.  Griffith is an imposing figure, and you get a real sense of the nobility & savagery of Valek's character.  Compared to Woods, Griffith underplays his role, but still commands a very real presence of power & evil.  Carpenter stretches the $20 million dollar budget well, but you can sometimes see the zipper down the monster's back.  Despite a few fake looking wounds or rubbery stakes, Carpenter delivers a polished & stylish film, on par with movies costing 10 times as much (better in some cases).  I believe Carpenter works best with a little larger budget, but he should stay away from the typical Hollywood giant budget, he works best with a smaller production.  Vampires is a treat for any Carpenter fan, and hopefully marks the beginning of a new standard in his films.  "},{"Title":"Western People","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"26 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I know so many people went into this movie thinking John Carpenter + Vampires = horror filk. As many have commented it's not terrifying in the least because it's not supposed to be. This movie is a Western, plain and simple. Look at it this way and it's a helluva lot more fun and understandable.  "}{"Title":"Woods at his absolute best. Carpenter's still got it.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" PREMISEThe quest for the black cross is on. When the Vatican learns that a nest of vampires is after this holy relic, they send Jack Crow (Woods) and his team of expert vampire hunters out to find it first. If the vampires get their hands on it, they can then do a rite which will enable them to walk in sunlight and go virtually undetected.END PREMISEWhile this movie received horrible ratings among fans of the vampire genre, it is a clever twist on the old story with enough variations to make it great. I have not always liked Carpenter's work, but this one is up there with his older classics, in my opinion. I think the reason it was not well received is that movie audiences of today, especially American movie audiences, have become more jaded and desensitized to the effects of horror.After all, what makes horror, true horror, to you? Is it more blood? More graphic scenes showing disemboweled corpses in detail? The true psychological mind game? Ghosts? Monsters? What? That question is answered differently by every person you ask. Therefore no horror movie, especially a specific genre of horror movie, will satisfy every fan of that genre. Vampire fans, in particular, are discriminating creatures who demand a certain level of story quality, effects quality, and believability. Otherwise, they will turn on the makers like a pack of rabid wolves.There are rules which must be followed, or the movie loses its flavor for these discriminating and sometimes sophisticated palettes. Carpenter broke the rules in this endeavor, and the lack of its success embodies the fans' contempt for his lack of respect for the main principles of vampirism.Guns were far too widely used here. They were much better utilized in Len Wiseman's Underworld, in which unique bullets were used. I won't go into the details so as not to spoil that movie for anyone who has yet to see that pure work of art. Click my name to see my review of it.I liked the plot, and I found this movie very enjoyable. I, however, am not the discriminating vampire fan. I highly enjoyed Lost Boys, although, I would not recommend it to another fan of that specific genre due to its mainstream-ality. Honestly, there are very few vampire movies out there which live up the the rigid expectations of the true vampire fan. This movie is one of those movies I would recommend, merely because, while it violates some of the basic rules behind vampirism and is not what I would classify as an intelligent vampire film, it still has a few redeeming qualities.These vampires have an agenda. They are on a mission. They do not simply kill to feed. They are after the black cross in order to liberate their species from the prison of darkness, and will kill anyone in their way. There are some suspenseful scenes, and this movie does carry a degree of intensity, but it was otherwise a bit disappointing for the true vampire fan.While the Master Vampire in this endeavor is purported to be the original vampire, his demonstrations of vampire craft are not very impressive. According to legend (those rules I mentioned earlier), older vampires are accorded specific powers which young vampires are not. While he does demonstrate the legendary feats of strength, that is where it stops. That in itself, was quite disappointing. The potential was here, and as I said, there are some great elements, but this movie fails miserably to live up to its expectations and potential.My honest recommendations for good vampire movies would be Underworld, Dusk Til Dawn, Salem's Lot (the made for TV movie, and not the butchered video release...beware!), and Near Dark, one of the best, in my opinion. I (being a romantic) loved Interview with a Vampire, regardless of the hidden subtext and omitted story lines, but that is my personal choice. Fans of Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles for the most part hated that movie, for those reasons, and others, I'm sure, and her Queen of the Damned was completely bastardized on film, so I'll stand by the movies I've already named here, with Underworld at the top of the list. I found that movie to be ~extremely~ good. I judged Underworld harder than most, because of the high expectations I had for that movie. I was not disappointed. If you are a fan of horror and/or vampire/werewolf lore, check it out. It's going to be a classic, one day.This movie rates a 9.3/10 with few slow spots and lots of heavy, fast-paced action.the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not so great by the legendary director","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like Carpenter's earlier work like The Thing, Halloween and The Fog among others but Vampires fails to be a great horror film. It has many great gore effects but nothing more. Carpenter is legendary horror director but this time he seems to be pretty tired.The film deals with a vampire hunter played by James Woods who is catching vampires with his army. He knows there is a master vampire somewhere and by destroying him, he would save the world from vampire virus. What follows is gore, splatter, often bad humor and blood. And did I mention gore?It is nice to see that he had guts to do the film this bloody and didn't want it to be some PG13 crap without any personal touch. The effects are pretty excessive (the split scene at the beginning is interesting!) and effects group has made fine job. Vampires would've been far more interesting piece of horror cinema, if Carpenter had included his skills in the tension and atmosphere department too. If you want brainless splatter, then you may like this one..Well, it could've been far worse but I was expecting little more from John. He is still one of my favourite directors and his classics will never die. I hope he will be able to do something personal again.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"James Woods!","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" James Woods! Need I say anything else? Okay, this isn't the greatest movie... but it oozes cool. The vampires in it aren't prissy romantic types or Gothic morons either. They're vicious bastards who would make the vampires in Blade look like wusses.The actions good, the storyline solid... but it's nothing new. It's just good fun.It's in my opinion that in Carpenter's old age he's become too tired and cynical to make films that audiences or critics would find to be works of masterpiece, for example, his Apocalyptic Three (Thing, Prince of Darkness, Mouth of Madness). No, he's instead content with making sarcastic films that lampoon mainstream movies.Ghosts of Mars is much like Vampires in this way... Carpenter's tired, take his films at face value and laugh at how they mock the average person's taste for the mainstream. "},{"Title":"Eternal Life... Imortality... can change your heart.","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The modern American west has been overrun by bloodsucking ghouls, and the Catholic Church hires a crew of fearless exterminators to hunt down the undead and drag them into the sun.I can certainly sympathize with Jack Crow's (James Woods) partner Anthony (Daniel Baldwin). I do not know if I could resist turning into a vampire with Sheryl Lee doing the biting. She would make me want to avoid daylight for eternity. This was an action-packed adventure with Thomas Ian Griffith as the chief vampire, and Oscar winner Maximilian Schell (Judgment at Nuremberg), as the Cardinal that did not want to die. Oh, that Sheryl Lee! It was only brief nudity, but it was all she had to offer. "},{"Title":"Carpenter has done better","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Carpenter is not in his usual good form here despite excellent performances by James Woods and the rest of the cast. Woods is Jack Crow, a mercenary vampire hunter who leads a team of fellow hunters out to find and exterminate vampires. Crow, who comes across as an atheist, is in the payroll of the Catholic church and is driven by his own demons that are more based on revenge rather than anything else.The film shows the battle between the hunters and a very powerful vampire (Valek) who attempts to create a new order of invincible vampires that can rule the earth. Despite the excess of gore and blood the film does not have the tense moments of other better Carpenter films (Escape from New York, Assault on Precinct 13). Nonetheless, Valek is a formidable foe that creates a number of scary moments. Perhaps a film only for the loyal Carpenter fans (myself included). "},{"Title":"It delivers what it advertises","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires isn't a terrific movie but it is able to rise above and be more than just a B movie film about Vampires. The main thing separating this picture from that forgotten direct-to-video film is that it gets a better cast and director than it really deserves. John Carpenter may not be at the top of his 'Halloween' game but he is still able to do what he has all ways done best, create a heightened sense of fear and atmosphere. Vampires does have some blood and gore but it doesn't cover the walls,it's ability to use these fun and quirky characters is the draw. James Woods is that main character, Jack Crow. Crow leads a Vatican approved group of Vampire slayers who have met their match in the form of Valek, the very first bloodsucker. Jack's crew is brutally killed and he and his partner Montoya are the only two left standing. He rebuilds his crew with Katrina who is linked to Valek throuh a bite in her neck.Woods isn't the actor I would expect to headline this project but he takes the material very seriously. I imagine the opportunity to work with Carpenter is what persuaded him and the two play off of each other's strengths. Carpenter was never someone who was strong in developing heroes for his pictures and James Woods is able to make this Crow stand out. Vampires is a High Noon western horror hybrid and Woods plays Crow as the cowboy with a dash of outlaw in him. The plot of Valek looking to find this crucifix isn't all that fun or new but the journey is.I guess the problem I have with this film is that it doesn't really have villains. These vampires aren't interesting or eloquent and they let other people do the talking for them. Valek gets some dialouge but it is little more than the filler You'll never get me. I guess I kind of wanted a Bela Lugosi who could wouldn't lose his battle to Crow in a fistfight. The follower Vampires are mindless drones meant to merely snarl. This isn't fun because it really just makes this an action film. Carpenter loves the Westerns but some of the fun of the Westerns was who the villain was. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but fun","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter's Vampires is a flawed film, that's for sure.  It is not really terrifying, despite being billed as a horror film.  It is rather brutal, and the film's humor and the actions of the characters have been accused in some quarters of having a misogynistic bent.  So why is this film so much fun?  Two words James Woods.  An extremely underrated actor, Woods is nearly perfect in the role of cocky Jack Crow, a renowned vampire hunter. He chews scenery with relish, handles his character's off-color humor with panache, and never lets up his colorful performance for one minute.  Is John Carpenter's Vampires art?  No.  Is it great filmmaking?  No.  Is it a good time at the movies with a central performance that will put a smile on your face?  You bet.  And, occasionally, that is enough.  Who says the B-picture is dead? "},{"Title":"My favorite vampire flick and Carpenters most under rated film........","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay staring this review off I want to say I do love this film but I'm I'm no way going to let my love for the film get in the way of my review if there's flaws with this film I will surely point them out.........okay so we follow Jack Crow the head vampire slayer played but James Woods which did a really good job you can defiantly feel John carpenters hands all over this film as it feels almost like a western and vampire mix the characters are very sharp and had a lot care put into the script which isn't unordinary coming from a novel based film.......the vampires are scary,bloody and what vampires are suppose to be the plot overall works but at times I find myself wanting more vampire scenes! Other than that the direction the film took I think couldn't have gotten much better John carpenter as well as all the other people involved with the making of this film did an excellent job and this film deserves more cult followers than it has I being one of the only ones if your a fan of vampires and classic scary vampires then defiantly give this film a watch "},{"Title":"Another Carpenter classic","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This one here is a lot better than Los Mertos. For one it doesn't concentrate on getting out during the sunlight to steal a girl. For two the Lead vampire is a male and not a female.Jack Crow(James Woods)hunts vampires for a living. He demands a heavy price for it too. His main concern is killing the main vampire Jan Valek(Thomas Ian Griffith). Soon he and his men are visited by Valek and soon blood flows. Montoya(Daniel Baldwin), Jack and Father Adam Guiteau(Tim Guinee)now must save the world as Valek searches for a secret black cross that will allow him and other vampires to walk in daylight.One of the best vampire movies. I'd recommend watching Dracula(Christopher Lee), Dracula 2000 and Van Helsing after you watch this. Stay away from Los Mertos. "},{"Title":"Carpenter's Horror Vamping ...","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I remember back in 1998 when this first was a poster at the local theater. I was interested but didn't think much of this movie at that time. I saw this on video, some years later. John Carpenter's VAMPIRES story is interesting, but it seems like there was just something missed in the overall picture. Although the places that they traveled to eradicate the 'nests' was very desert-Gothicism, in other words it was the place you would figure they would be. The camera work, the colors and the entry of the characters was juicy, I truly was enveloped into the film's visual outlay. But as it went through there was just something, that I felt it lacked. James Woods (Jack Crow) for me however always brings something different and insightful to the character-role that he is 'in'. Whether it's the crud-white trash in The Onion Field or his newest quest in the legal world Shark. James Woods was the actor that won the 'Saturn'award that year for best actor in a science fiction /horror film. Nuff said. I always seem to enjoy the Baldwin brothers when they are characters in a story. Daniel brought his on in this one too. He was a big-good guy, not a perfect good-guy, but a big part of Jack's team.Sheryl Lee, the female Vampire in the movie, however, I don't know if she did drugs then or if she was just annoying. Maybe it's me who has the problem, but I just think that part was somewhat miss-cast. She has done other parts that were all her, but for me not this one. For me and some, there were a few of the lines, that should have been rewritten. They were hard to swallow, some lack real 'Bite'.With that said, I still felt this was only really deserving of a 7',considering the talent involved and then the lack of in some of the scripting. In a wrap-up though, still a fun and entertaining story to see. John Carpenter is very much a 'master' in the horror genre.(***) "}{"Title":"Godawful. 1/10.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have to hand it to Mr. Carpenter; it is really brave of him to release this mess with his full name attached to the title (it aired as John Carpenter's Vampires). This is, simply put, a s**tload of the most revolting crap in recent history. While there actually are some very bloody Japanese pictures that I enjoyed quite a lot, this film goes way over the top in gratuitous gore. The barely-there story line is an excuse for wanton slaughter, the see-through special effects are ridiculous. The most offensive part, though, is the blatant abuse of both Sheryl Lee's talent and also her character in the movie. Indeed, words fail me.  "},{"Title":"Profoundly awful","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is quite easily the most vacuous film watching experience I have ever had. There is no plot. The action sequences are pure cartoon. The humor is annoyingly inane. The characters are their lines are straight out of cliche hell.Now I know John Carpenter's style is a little quirky, almost cheesy at times, but this is the guy who literally created the art of tension building in scary movies. This movie just seems like a half baked day dream that he had and decided to put onto film.Easily John Carpenter's worst movie. Avoid like the plague.Out of 10?....Minus infinity. "},{"Title":"This film is rank, it smells unto heaven.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  James Woods character hates vampires, he hunts them down and kills them. The head vampire, a former priest, kills Woods' vampire killing crew during the midst of their whore-fest. Woods takes a vampire hostage, and eventually kills all of the vampires in a fashion that is more painful to the bored viewer than to his victims.What did society do to John Carpenter that he would make a movie such as vampires. It seems as if the film were made only to draw an R-rating and provide two hours traffic on the screen. If you want to see James Woods walk for two hours, rent this movie. Carpenter attempts to use monotony for suspense and it just doesn't work. Of the film's 107 minutes, at least 90 of those minutes are used to show this study of Woods' slow gait, with a twangy guitar accompaniment. Sometimes other people walk with Woods' but he is usually alone. The guitar, oh, the guitar, Carpenter uses it like a blunt object, over and over to Woods, walking. Seriously the film could have been edited to about 15 minutes without losing so much as an iota of storyline. I hate this film deeply, and with a passion. "},{"Title":"Silly and stupid and not worth the effort","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a big fan of John Steakley and his novels, I must say I was rather disgusted with what Carpenter did with the movie.  A horrible adaptation, this movie fails on just about all levels.The acting  I thought it was pretty dreadful.  Sheryl Lee's role was to be naked and quiver a lot.  Most of the characterizations in the movie just plain destroyed, in my opinion, the greatly written and multi-dimensional characters of the book.  The silly dialogue and motivations didn't help, either.  (one of the tough, no-nonsense, big bad fighters of evil good guys falls in love with a vampire hooker!  WHAT????)The plot  Barely existing in some parts of the movie.  There were plot points that made little or no sense (Why were so many things kept secret from Jack Crow for apparently NO REASON at all?).  Again, it deviated far too much from the plot of the book for my tastes.The action  Seemed like John Carpenter didn't think about it all that much. In some parts he gets really lazy and just cuts to this slow motion montage of vampires (inexplicably) running away.  Mostly, I thought it was poorly filmed and haphazardly edited.In conclusion, I found very little to like about this movie. "},{"Title":"oh dear","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is so desperately awful, it beggars belief.  It is easily one of the worst films I have ever seen, and I am a massive John Carpenter fan who like vampire films!One of its many problems is it looks so cheap and is so unexciting.  This is a very bad mistake when the world contains Blade and Buffy the Vampire Slayer.Others include Unpleasant attitude to women Having one of the Baldwin brothers in it James Woods so small and feeble, he really doesn't have the physical presence to carry this.  6 foot tall?  Are you sure?  "},{"Title":"The Wild Bunch meets Vlad the Impaler","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter pitches this as The Wild Bunch meet Vlad the Impaler and I can think of no better description. James Woods plays the fearless vampire killer in such a way that you can't possibly understand why every other director in the world is not giving him action hero parts as he is clearly the coolest male actor on the planet. Lots of blood, carnage and gratuitous female nudity ensue as he and his team track down and kill the vampires and then have to contend with a super-vampire in another bloody showdown. That's about it really. Its novelty lies in the fact that it shows how bloody the act of vampire staking and beheading really must be. If you accept the premise then you must accept the logical gruesomeness of vampire killing.Over the years John Carpenter's output has been very patchy indeed, ranging from brilliant to very poor. Vampires is an enjoyable film for everyone who loves blood, carnage and gratuitous female nudity (and who doesn't?) but does little to progress Carpenter's undoubted talents. I liked it but it can only be rated average when set against his total output. "},{"Title":"GORE FEST!!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires is a very entertaining film. Lots of special effects helped to create lots of gory scence. i guess there isn't much of a plot but it still entertains you. I like James Woods performance as he head vampire catcher. Don't expect to be thinking throughout the whole movie just expect gore, gore and more gore. The head vampire Valek is cool in this movie, i especially liked how he he used his hands to cut people in half and just stick his hand straight through his chest. Just watch it a gore fest. "},{"Title":"Lucky it didn't cost much","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Got the Costco discount video. So - no loss.Spoilers! (like anyone would care, for this movie)Interesting film in some ways. Prob. had money, but looks as low budget as it gets - short of Blair Witch, and sort of Blair Witch with minimalist music. Vampires fly, blood flies, gashing, slashing, roaring (snoring), and potassium flares and assorted what not. But it just looks so . . . underfinanced, or something.Woods and the 'other' Baldwin are bounty hunting looking vampire slayers, the only survivors of a vampire ambush, set up by their Catholic boss, it turns out. Took one vampire, mean 'unstoppable' ex-priest Valek from the 14th century - card carrying vamp #1 - to carry out said bloody ambush. Uses his hands and arms like a chainsaw - oh, that's another movie.Basically, the Catholic Church is supposed to have inadvertently created vamp Valek while botching a 'forbidden form' of exorcism. If that's believable - hey, what isn't? The boss is a cardinal (or bishop, I forget) who wants eternal life, not by what his own church teaches, but by becoming a vamp. Actually, a turncoat bishop is the most believable part of the tale, because that does have a long historical precedent.The vamps can't be scared by crucifixes. No consecrated hosts, ala Stoker. No coffins at night (they sort of burrow into shallow graves and smooth the dirt on top somehow). Stoker really had the better myth.In the BTVS tv series, the vamp has to want to drink the blood (though it's an immediate transformation). That's still okay. Cause it falls into the obv. metaphor of vampirism - evil, and evil habit. Cooperation with evil. Once bit by the evil, it becomes worse with practice, until it seems as if there's no return (full vamp). There is a cure prior to that point of no return. But once become the demon, it fears the cross, the consecrated host, and so on. Garlic, wolfbane, and so on were prob. talismanic charms to ward off evil spirits, and borrowed by Stoker. It seems pretty straightforward. Descent into evil.And that Wood's team is pretty much not Catholic isn't such a stretch, suggesting only the mercenary nature of so many historical crusaders, or those who joined various crusades. That they're a bunch of drunken, whoring carousers - well . . maybe a stretch.As for the 'other' Baldwin, after vamp chick rips open his jugular (sure looks like that) - shouldn't he be dead? Looked like she was going to eat him, starting with the neck. Oh, well. Luckily they went off together happily into the sunset - Wood's character insisting that he would - hunt them down, and kill them, and . . good luck pard, I'll miss ya (at which time I think they hug).It was one of those kind of movies. "},{"Title":"A waste of film, talent, time and money.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  God, Buffy the Vampire Slayer had more plot and was heaps more fun. James Woods is too good for this schlock, so is everyone else in the movie. I'm glad I didn't pay for a seat in the theater to watch this, that would have been a huge waste of my time and money.  "},{"Title":"A travesty...","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As an adaptation of the best book on Vampire-hunting ever written... Vampires is an abject failure.As a movie on its own merit... it's just not very good.  The opening is promising enough, with a good helping of gore and automatic weapons fire, but the movie worsens as it goes on and ends only a degree better than From Dusk Till Dawn 2 (surely the worst vampire film made in the last ten years...).  For those who haven't suffered through that film - once again the sun comes out and mops up all the badguys. "}{"Title":"Mis-direction for Carpenter","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a really good movie, but somewhere it went astray...pretty far off the mark actually.  James Woods seems game, his Jack Crow character contains the right elements for a rugged he-man, professional vampire hunter.  But everyone else associated with the movie seems asleep at the wheel, and the movie just sort of drifts along after the first couple of scenes.Actually after the first scene I was jazzed, hoping that the Vampire slaying troupe would go on a Twister-esque vampire killing road trip.  But then in the second scene they're all wiped-out (except for the two most boring party members who we're stuck with for the remainder of the film).Could have been a good movie, but isn't.  I recommend you pass on this one, even Carpenter fans. "},{"Title":"** out of ****. Trash","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires has no development, character-wise of course.  The hooker; I thought she'd turn out to be an interesting character with feelings, but she didn't.  I was hoping the film wouldn't make that mistake.  Also, the dragging the vamps into the sun thing got played-out big time.  The film has bad direction.  Valek wasn't at all scary because he doesn't have that many lines or screen time. He would've been much scarier if we got to know him more.  The film has so many loose-ends that it seemed empty and pointless.  No characters of interest makes this film a loser in my book. "},{"Title":"The Dead Have Risen...And Left the Theater!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter's Vampires was a disappointing film, from start to finish. While the premise was excellent (vampire hunters employed by the Vatican), I found it to have a trite, convoluted story, and over-the-top, yet unworthy performances from Woods and Baldwin.  Its blatant Catholic bashing was really overdone, and completely unnecessary.  The bloodbath quality of the film was very good, as were the special effects and Carpenter's chilling score, but the film fell flat after that.  Not recommended. "},{"Title":"Shows how Carpenter has lost his touch.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen this back to back with The Thing, I had realized how Carpenter had lost his touch.  His last good movie in my opinion had been Big trouble in Little China and Vampires is following the trend.  Carpenter is playing Vampires like a Western, more than a horror film and Jack Crow is more like Clint Eastwoods' Man with no name or Russell's Snake Plissken than a horror movie Vampire hunter.  Even the music, composed by Carpenter himself, is western like, not unsimilar from an earlier movie (assault on precint 13).However, for this movie, I think it fails.  Carpenter is much better when his movies are moody, atmospheric and scary.  While Woods deliciously plays up his bastardly character, the other characters fail in their roles.  Are we to believe that Montoya falls for Fenn's character?  On what basis? Because he could slap her around?  Because he could tie her up naked? Because she bit him and took a chunk of his neck out? Or is it because she doesn't talk much and just makes grunting noises?The movie is very gory, but nothing extraordinary.  The idea of the movie is very interesting and it's take on the subject of Vampirism fairly original. It's just too bad that Carpenter was  involved on this project and that he lost his touch 14 years ago. "},{"Title":"Good idea that failed miserably.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I eagerly anticipated this movie, being a long time vampire fanatic. However, when I finally saw John Carpenter's new flick, I was gravely disappointed.  The storyline, though not entirely original, was appealing. The acting left something to be desired.  Woods' character Jack Crow seemed to lack a vitally important trait that a professional vampire hunter would require. Of course, I am speaking of intelligence.  Baldwin's character was an equal disappointment, offering nothing to the movie but a string of curses.   "},{"Title":"really nothing special","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  well this is a film that basically shows you what you are gonna see from minute one. it never deviates from this path either in story (banal and unoriginal), characterisation (non-existant except for those people who you wish it were non-existant) and plot twists (none).it is just a standard action flick with a bored looking james woods looking like he is waiting to be told what to do. boring violence, feeble characterisation of women and dull and unoriginal. this film offers nothing that hasn't been done before, except when it manages to be awful. which it is.this is a film which is just lacking. in everything. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I went to the theatre for this junk...","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say?  I went to the theatre expecting a bad vampire movie and I got it.  First of all, I'm not partial to vampire hunters...the only great one has passed on (Roddy McDowall...aka Peter Vincent from Fright Night) and all the rest are glorified religious nutcases who think that their way is the only way.  So, I knew I was going to hate most of the characters.Okay, there are two I really liked.  The main Master vampire, Valek (of course) except that his character falls short of being able to truly like him.  We didn't get the chance to get to know who or what he was and what made him the way (personality-wise) he was.  All you know is that he was condemned by the Church (who wasn't back then?) and then turned into a vampire.  Ooh...big deal.  The second person I liked was Sheryl Lee.  Her character is the only mature character in the whole thing and the only one with any sense...As for Mr. Woods' character Jack Crow...I have never seen a character I've hated so much since watching that other travesty of a vampire movie From Dusk Till Dawn and having to put up with Quentin Tarrentino until he is thankfully killed.  Jack Crow is a leather-wearing cool-guy wannabe who acts tough, talks tough and gets off to beating up a defenseless priest.  Then if that's not enough, he proves how much a jerk he is by spending a good portion of the film asking the question over and over that proves he's way too obsessed by that lower part of his anatomy better left alone.  His character is immature and irritating, and had I been any part of his team, I would have staked him out over an ant bed covered in honey and left the vampires to their business!I guess I could sort of like the younger priest...at least by the end. He's one of the few that truly believes what he preaches.  He stands up for himself finally and does it without resorting to the bullying tactics shown by Jack Crow and only at the end does he try to be like the afore mentioned Crow in showing a beginning in that anatomy obsession.  Daniel Baldwin disgusted me until he was bitten and beginning to fall in love with Sheryl Lee's character.  Only then did he begin to show some compassion instead of mindless bravado and a macho attitude that wouldn't quit.  Thankfully, it did quit.I think the best part of the movie was the scenic shots of New Mexico. Having lived in Santa Fe for a year and missing it immensely, that was about the only hope the movie had in winning me over.  I liked the shot of the St. Francis Cathedral, brief as it was, and I liked the mural across from the pay-phone Jack Crow was using.  The other thing I recognized was the quick shot of Camel Rock.  But that was it, and I have to say that I should have just walked out of the theatre after those scenes were over.  Now I think I'll just look at the old pictures from my stay in Santa Fe...rather than even bothering to rent that pathetic excuse for a movie. "},{"Title":"simply the most awful disappointing vampire movie ever","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to start out by saying, if vampires hate light so much, what are all these vampire movies doing placing vampires in the southwestern U.S. Aside from that, this movie is an utter letdown.  I was expecting much more from John Carpenter. The master vampire kills all his victims by putting his fist through their chests.  There are NO, I repeat no special effects in this film that could not have been done in the 1960's or 70's.  I did not get scared once during the entire movie.  The only original element to the story was how difficult it was to kill the vampires.  That was it. This one will put you in the grave through boredom.  If you want vampires with teeth, check out Blade, or From Dusk till Dawn. "},{"Title":"Worth missing","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Carpenter used to make good horror movies...Tries to be From Dusk Till Dawn but misses the mark in grand fashion.  Only good gimmick is the truck wench. "},{"Title":"an entertaining movie with some disturbing flaws","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires was a fairly good variation on the typical hollywood vampire genre. Add to that a charismatic actor like Woods and things ended up fairly entertaining, enough to recommend this film.  However, there were many scenes where I felt that the on screen anti-Catholic bashing went too far (to the point that it just seemed exploitational).  This was a turn off for me and I'm not Catholic or very sensitive to these matters.  Perhaps the movie's creators felt the plot was too weak to develop a story that is spun from the interactions of James Wood's gritty, no bs character and the vampires he kills.  So, they resorted to the constant vulgarity and violence directed at the catholic church and priests that are portrayed in the movie. If I had been catholic I would have found this movie partly insulting and suspicioulsy careless with its sensitivity towards this issue.  "}{"Title":"John Carpenter phoned this one in.","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Not the slighest bit of creativity in the writing, acting, or directing.  I've seen better made-for-tv movies. I have no idea how or why this movie got made. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of this genre in years.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm usually a lover of horror movies, and John Carpenter used to have my respect. Not any more.This movie is possibly the worst horror movie made in years, and it isn't even scary. It is moderately gory, however, but this doth not a good horror movie make. Instead, it leans on the premise that all protagonists in horror movies should be unlikable and stereotypical. They are. To a degree seldom seen.One starts hating *all* the characters within ten minutes of the start, is slightly relieved when a great deal of them meet their demise very early in the movie, and is then irritated as the remaining ones refuse to die their well-deserved deaths until the end, if ever.Add some degradation of women made to look cool and macho, and plenty of decapitations, and you have this turkey. Not even the bad guy had any style, and that's hard to accomplish in a vampire movie. "},{"Title":"less than zero","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I gave it a 1 (awful), but it was more like less than zero -- zero was not an option.  James Woods is usually in good films, he must have been hard pressed to make a quick buck... "},{"Title":"Lame excuse for a vampire movie","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'd have to say that Vampires is about the worst written and acted vampire movie I've ever seen, and I have seen more of them than most people should in a lifetime.  The Acting (especially by James Woods) was really pretty boring.  His constant barrage of one liners and lack of meaningful conversation just annoyed me.Nobody really spoke too much in this movie.  There were no clever jokes or interesting stories about the vampires. Basically it was just a hunt the bad guy vampires, go get the leader, he kills some of my guys, I kill some of his guys, I use all the brilliant techniques of a professional vampire hunter (add sarcasm here) ...well you can see the rest, but I wouldn't waste my money.So of course Woods is granted a vampire proof shield - he didn't get a scratch through the whole movie.  (oh yeah - a cut on the leg to get some blood, sorry)  Cool who does get vamped, but that also turns out hokey.The best part of this movie is definitely the head vampire.  He is big and fast and strong and can slice through the good guys with his fingernails (literally)  He of course has a huge group of followers who also look really mean, but don't make any kills - it's always either Woods or the vamp's leader.  And kill they did!  Blood everywhere, heads slashed, and lots of screaming and burning on the part of the vampires.  Definitely some cool looking weapons and great death scenes, but for vampire killers, these guys don't seem to have the right equipment.  They always carry guns, for example.  They use them, and see that it doesn't work, but never stop shooting.  Even by the end of the movie with a huge fight scene between Woods and the leader, he pulls out a little handgun and starts shooting.  HA HA HA.  That's what the vampire did and that's what I've been doing as I kick myself for being talked into seeing this dumb movie.Daniel Baldwin was actually the best actor on the screen.  He plays a big dumb right hand to Woods, but does it well.  He definitely needs a lot of work to make get close to where his brothers are (Baldwins I mean), but he shows some promise.Truly though, I think that the least impressive part of the movie was the sound.  The music was the same from beginning to end.  Every time Woods went into badass mode, an old guitar playing the same chord would start up.It's really ridiculous that anyone would bother making a movie like this. I give it a 2!  Really, don't waste your time! "},{"Title":"Was this a comedy?","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires (Vampire$) is an absolutely atrocious flick.  Perhaps the only redeeming quality of this movie is the unintentional humor.  Was it supposed to be funny when the heads were being hacked off?  Of course not.  And yet, the entire film was so poorly done that the audience bursts into laughter. The same goes for the ridiculous aforementioned scene with the cross.  In fact, the movie as a whole is bearable only because it is so absolutely horrible.  How can one not laugh at a crossbow only Nerf could have made?  "},{"Title":"Good acting, got some cool and funny scenes, but focus a bit to much on the gore.","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You may consider this one of John Carpenters not so good movies, but even if it's on the bottom list it's far from bad. The story is a little week but is still good enough to keep you interested. The characters are good and also very funny at times. James Woods as Crowe the leader of a vampire slaying group is just excellent and also very funny. Tim Guinee as Father Adam Guiteau, was my favourite in this movie, I think I'd spoil the storyline if I told to much about him so I'll just leave it there. Daniel Baldwin and Sheryl Lee must also not be overlooked.The story basically starts when Crowe's team is killed by a 600 year old vampire, and the only way to find him is by using a girl (Sheryl Lee) that has a mental link to him because he tried to turn her to a vampire. Soon Crow (Woods), Anthony Montoya (Daniel Baldwin) and the newest member Father Adam Guiteau (Tim Guinee) discover that the vampire is the original vampire, the father of them all sort of speak, and he is searching fro an old Catholic artifact than can allow vampire to live in the sunlight. My only problem with this film was all the gore, a little is okay, but i felt they pushed it to the limit here. no offense, but heads don't fall of that easily. Still even if this is not Carpenters best work it still proved that he weren't quite out of the game yet. This movie still gives good credit to the master of horror. My verdict for this film is 7/10. "},{"Title":"Warning may contain spoilers, This movie is terrible","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first time I saw this I was horrified because one of the greatest directors of all time John Carpenter made it. I just couldn't believe it look at his track record Halloween,Escape from L.A.,Escape from new york, The thing and then you go into this thinking vampires + John Carpenter awesome well guess what you where wrong. This movie will edge into your brain like a bad image of a murder scene you always see it the lame effects, the bad acting, the factual errors, everything.You will always remember the horrible plot the stupid wrinch scenes, the vampires using crosses. I mean come on this is almost as sucky as Van Helsang. I could talk more about this but I don't want to waste my time in conclusion if your thinking of watching this one or its sequels get your head checked out first. I feel so bad for John Carpenter having to have his name on this terrible abomination the end. "},{"Title":"turgid slop","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  bad, predictable, hammy, miserable.the acting is atrocious, the script even worse, the attempt to give the characters have any depth, risible at bestthis is a very very very bad film indeed. Tall, camp, eastern European vampire Jesus is on a mission, James Woods has to work his way through an increasing number of scenarios you've seen done better before and, oh who cares? Dreadful movie. "},{"Title":"What have they done?","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampire$ is singlehandedly one of the best vampire novels ever written. John Steakley, an amazing talent, has only 2 books to his credit Armor and Vampire$. The premise is mostly intact, but any movie  fan who reads this book can easily see the storyboards evolve page to page. All John Carpenter had to do was just shoot the damned novel as is. It was pretty much perfect as is. They have taken a great book and trashed it completely for hollywood. Well, guess what? Hollywood didn't care for it this way, neither did the American people, who, for the most part, ignored or hated it as the tripe it is. Pay attention, Directors! when you get a script in the form of a novel, shoot it as is. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This vampire tale starts off pretty good and shows potential but unfortunately it's potential is never fully realized. Film soon deteriorates into a string of offensive one-liners and cheap shocks. The unique setting at the beginning is the only real plus. There's not one likable character in the film. "}{"Title":"Good beginning, flat ending","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Like other vampire flicks such as Blade, The Lost Boys and Salem's Lot this film has all of the beginnings of a vampire classic.  From the start it has everything good story line, good special effects and a  decent cast. However about 1/3 through the film it loses its flavor and develops a silly continuation.  The most likely culprit is the script which eventually ends up portraying a somewhat comic book approach.  Gone the ability to be scary this film finally fizzles out . A sequel would only add insult to injury!  "},{"Title":"Ha ha ha!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ha ha ha ha ha ha!  Bloody awful.  I couldn't help but laugh at this terrible TERRIBLE waste of time.  At the end I was wondering what exactly had happened and also at the fact I've lost one-and-a-half hours of my life that I'll never get back.  Truly one to avoid..... .......OR you could watch it sheerly because it's so awful it makes you cry with laughter. "},{"Title":"don't hire it!!!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Save your hard earned money. I am amazed at the variety of comments about John Carpenter's Vampires. This is one I definitely disliked. A real B class effort, even my teenage kids thought it was rubbish. It was so bad I didn't bother watching to see how it ended. Go and watch something like, Interview with a Vampire, to at least see how to make a classy movie.  "},{"Title":"Another trash movie!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How could some people dare saying this is a good movie? This is by far, one of the worst vampire movies I've ever seen! The vampire leader is a bad copy of Brandon Lee in The Crow'', and to make things worse, all the characters don't have any grace at all. The vampires seem more like zombies, and this is not acceptable in a vampire movie, they have to be charming and seductive.What is happening with vampire movies nowadays? Where are the real cool vampires like in The Lost Boys or in Fright Night?Please, don't waste your time with this movie! There are many others to see! "},{"Title":"Beyond lame","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  To think I was looking forward to seeing this flick. God, what an abomination. Saw it opening night and the audience laughed out loud at many scenes. Now understand, these were not scenes that were supposed to be funny!! The movie was not scary, not even once. The main vamp was laughable, the commandoes were pathetic, the acting was terrible.....it goes on and on.I don't think I've seen such a poorly made movie in 10 years. After the movie my friend and I spent 30 minutes laughing about it over beers. Stay away!  "},{"Title":"Dialogue and acting so bad you'll wish you were dead!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really expected more from John Carpenter.  He seems to have lost his touch, or perhaps his restraint from taking on bad scripts.  James Woods' vampire slayer has more foul-mouthed sarcastic comments than Bart Simpson on a bad day, and Daniel Baldwin's wincing over-the-top sidekick role is one his family won't brag about.  A few special effects (including the death of the vampires when dragged into the sun) are a treat, but I really wished it had been me going up in smoke!  Had I not been with friends I would have left the theater, but the movie is so bad that it becomes a game just to see what the next over-the-top line will be. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter's Vampires. (1998) This is a good movie. John Carpenter is back. We start off with Jack Crow. A vampire hunter employed by the catholic church. He and a group of hunters carefully track down and slay the beasts. After the latest slaying at a rundown house, the Master that they have been tracking is not found.They head back to a motel and party the night away. Then, a master unlike anything they have seen before kills almost everybody in sight. Who is that? A monster that is unstoppable, like a machine with superhuman strength.The acting by James Woods is excellent. His performance here is top notch. With conviction, he is a distraught and very angry man who is determined to find the master that can be the one vampire that is possibly the first.The master vampire Valek, is the most sinister vampire I have ever seen in movies. The look is excellent. With the pale white face, veins on his face, and the power, he is the ultimate monster. Valek is cunning and smart too. As he would bury himself beneath the very dirt anywhere to avoid the light. He also has telepathy to possibly control his bitten victims and see their thoughts. He also can fly faster than ever. Like the original vampire Dracula.The plot is great. I enjoyed the story and the rough and tough attitude of the good guys and the sheer villainy of Valek. Daniel Baldwin is good as Montoya, Sheryl Lee is fine as Katrina, and Thomas Ian Griffin is great as Valek. Great casting.The Last Word Cool. Not great, Vampires is a good movie. With good acting and a solid plot, you cant go wrong. Also, Valek is got to be the coolest looking vampire in the movies. "},{"Title":"Leeches off of better films","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You can see where this film was supposed to go.  It's got the ingredients; hard bitten vampire killers, brutal vampire action, Catholic priests in frocks acting pretty much as Catholic priests in frocks always do in Hollywood films, pretentions of verite.Unfortunately, it doesn't have the courage of its convictions, and turns in a stumbling zombie of a performance.  There's a brief attempt to portray the genuine horror of vampirism, but this is soon aborted in favour of an overbearing score and buckets of blood.  The victims are just the usual faceless fodder, completely unsympathetic.  Who cares if they're killed?  There's no particular reason given why vampires are any worse than the evil that humans do to each other every day.  All of the main protagonists are fairly unlikable as well.All this adds up to a film that's just impossible to care about.  It's too miserable to be a popcorn flick, but too trivial to be a serious character piece like Near Dark or Ultraviolet.  It treads a middle ground, and really, who cares?  Not Hollywood, clearly.  The combination of Carpenter, Woods, Baldwin and vampires got it made, and it made its money back, so it was exactly as good as it needed to be.  For shame, Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A different kind of vampire film.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter's Vampires is a straight and serious horror film, although it's not Carpenter's best, I had a blast watching the action unfold. The movie is basically a western and it has inspired moments but the story is never really fully realized. James Woods plays the leader of a group of vampire slayers and Daniel Baldwin is his partner. They work for the Vatican and I really thought this part was interesting but it was never explored for more than one key scene. Thomas Ian Griffith plays Valek, the vampire master. He has very little dialogue, but manages to convey a menacing screen presence. Sheryl Lee is very sexy in the film eve though most of her scenes involve her having convulsions. The screenplay could have used some more work to tighten up the Vatican/Vampire connection. John Carpenter scored this movie and his music was quite effective. It's good to see Carpenter having fun and confidence. I enjoyed Halloween night with one of horror's masters. "},{"Title":"Matcho - Cheezy - Boring","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  15 year old geeks into Megadeath might like it.  Sample lines Grrr... Let's go kill some vampires! - I don't cry - I'm a man! - Shut the f*ck up b*tch! (SLAP!).I've never subscribed to the thinking that movies make people violent, however, when I left the cinema I wanted to kill the makers.  If I'd actually paid to see it, I would have begun a random killing spree.Don't go - It'll ruin your night. "}{"Title":"It'll help those in need of a nap.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  * star out of **** I've never thought of John Carpenter as a great director, or even a good director for that fact.  His most praised film, Halloween, I felt was his most overrated.  He does crank out some decent cinema once in a while, but they usually tend to work in spite of him, very much unlike a director like, say, Brian De Palma, in which good films happen because of him.  With that said, Vampires only goes to show that whatever talent Carpenter may have had is virtually gone for good.Jack Crow (James Woods) is a vampire hunter working for the Vatican.  His team of slayers, who also includes Tony Montoya (Daniel Baldwin), have just taken down a nest of the bloodsuckers in Mexico, but were unable to locate the master.  As they're celebrating in a motel that night, the head vampire, Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith), appears and slaughters everybody present with the exception of Crow, Montoya, and a prostitute (Shery Lee) who was bitten.  Crow believes the prostitute can be used to track down the vampire because of the psychic connection that is developing between the two.  At the same time, with the help of a young priest (Tim Guinee), Crow discovers that Valek is looking for the Berziers Cross, which if done correctly in an incantation, can grant all vampires the ability to walk in broad daylight.A plot like that would you to believe that Vampires would be full of tension, suspense, and action.  There's nary a hint of a moment where those elements come in.  Instead, Carpenter opts for blood and gore, and if he was aiming for a make-up effects display, he's succeeded.  The only thing that may be considered unpredictable in this film is the way Valek kills his next victim, whether it may be with decapitation, throat slashing, or just plain old sticking his hand through their bodies.  The acting and script reek of the second rate variety.  Now, to be fair, James Woods delivers a fun performance, which is easily better than anything else this movie has to offer.  But his attempts are counteracted by his fellow thespians.  Daniel Baldwin proves he's the least talented of his brothers, and I believe that says it all.  Sheryl Lee resorts to ridiculous bouts of overacting, and Thomas Ian Griffith does nothing but look menacing and kill a bunch of people.The script is as equally atrocious.  Whether it's the predictable story, the awful dialogue (He's unstoppable unless we stop him), or the unpleasant mysogyny, there's not a salvageable element in this entire screenplay.  I'm not sure whether to blame the writer, Don Jakoby, or the original author, John Stakely.  Maybe they're both at fault.  A concoction of both writers' imaginations led to this script, which is probably twice as bad than what each one could have come up with individually. "},{"Title":"Pointless! Except for a chuckle.","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter is my favorite director easily - Halloween, The Fog, The Thing, Christine, Escape from New York, etc are on another level. They're so enjoyable, so engrossing, so awesome!Fast forward to the 90s and it's just not there anymore. Vampires was just pointless. It said nothing and added nothing new to the 10,000 other vampire movies. The vampires weren't scary at all and the vampire hunters weren't very interesting. And what is more, the script is tone-deaf - lines that are supposed to be tough guy lines from Woods and Baldwin are so over the top they're corny and I would either cringe or laugh at them.Well hey, what can ya do. This movie sucked but they can't all be good I guess. Watch Christine or another JC gem from the 80s instead )Peace! "},{"Title":"It's no Halloween, but then again, there's no Ice Cube.","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A band of professional, Vatican-sanctioned vampire hunters, led by hardened slayer Jack Crow (James Woods), battle a powerful master vampire called Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith), who is attempting to repeat the ritual that turned him into a vampire and which will enable him to walk in daylight.Director John Carpenter is, of course, capable of much better than Vampires, but the film is also a long way from his worst (Ghosts of Mars, please stand up!). The plot plods at times, especially when the director focuses a little too much on style over content, but any film that features James Woods as a mean sonuvabitch vampire slayer, the gorgeous Sheryl Lee as a sexy hooker turned bloodsucker, some impressive set-pieces (the vampires burning up in sunlight being amongst some of the best bloodsucker deaths committed to film), and lots of outstanding gore effects by the brilliant KNB effects group is never going to be a total waste of any horror fan's time.6 out of 10, bumped up to 7 for Mark Boone Junior's awesomely bloody demise (split up the middle by Valek's talons), the savage decapitation of a priest, and Sheryl Lee's nude scene (we don't really get to see her 'twin peaks' but we are treated to her delightful derrière). "},{"Title":"Waste of an excellent story","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The book, Vampire$ by John Steakley is absolutely brilliant. The movie adaptation is absolute crap. It is such a total waste of the time and energy it took for me to watch it that I wish I could sue Hollyweird for the 2 hrs of my life it robbed from me. What was wrong with following the story, it was written so beautifully, so fluidly it could have easily been translated to film, but alas it does not follow the genius writing in the novel at all. The main character of Jack Crow is physically and emotionally so distant from the character developed in the mind of John Steakley that he is unrecognizable to those who have read the original story. If you want to know what the actual Vampire$ story is about and who the real characters are I suggest you read the book, and be prepared, you'll want to read it again and again and again. "},{"Title":"Has Its Moments, But...","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked several things about this film - the cast worked well together and the cheesy dialog was refreshing. But the film became too ridiculous, even for a fantasy vampire flick.The main vampire went from scary and ruthless to a guy with bad make up fairly quickly.I liked the campy feel but don't take anything seriously or you'll be disappointed. I liked the film, just not overjoyed by it. I normally don't care for James Woods, but he did a pretty good job as a vampire hunter. Probably the best feature of the film was the special effects. It is old school, no CGI - and I liked that a lot. It's a decent film to watch if you have the time, it is entertaining and fun. I was hoping for a bit more from what I had read from other reviews. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's underrated horror Vampire action flick!","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter's Vampires (1998) is very underrated vampire horror slasher action movie that I love it to death! This movie is so underrated and it doesn't deserve all the hate! I love vampire films and this is one of them, that I just love to death! Vampires (1998) is one of my favorite horror flicks. And I think with Prince of Darkness, The Fog and Escape from L.A is very underrated films, some people think it is just an Action Film some people think it is just an Sci-Fi film about Vampires. Well it is not! It is a horror film about immortal Vampires fight against Evil VS. Good. An Ultimate battle. Also the film is worth of watch because it is fun on all the actors had with their roles.James Woods was perfect as sardonic, illusion-free Crow and his brushing campiness with the tip of a finger, yet withdrawing just in time, is priceless. Daniel Baldwin makes the most of his character's arc, nicely underplaying his role, while he still manages to convey Montoya's journey by minimal changes of expression or voice. The final scene couldn't have been done any better. Sheryl Lee gives what I consider one of the strongest supports I've seen in quite a few years, whether by male or female actors, especially when you count in the scarcity of means she's handed over. Ian Griffith had several fine moments and the entire supporting cast was refreshing in their non-Hollywoody realistic, natural look and acting. The overall impression was of people enjoying what they're expertly doing. I know that From Dusk Till Down and Blade are the most overrated Vampire films, but John Carpenter's Vampires are very underrated.I disagree with all of the haters of this film, if you are a true Vampire fan like me, you will enjoy this film. The saddest thing is that this film got two awful sequels who really both sucked with all the new cast in them. So don't say this is the most awful john Carpenter movie which is not!!!!!!! I have enjoyed this film more than I did They Live, Village of the Damned, In The Mouth of Madness and Christine those movies to me are all overrated this one isn't. After Vampires is the last good John Carpenter film. Ghosts of Mars and The Ward are just terrible movies and they are not good at all.This is a classic scary movie! Another great John Carpenter film! I love this movie and it will always be favorite best one and not only because is John Carpenter film, but because it is a Vampire flick and I just love Vampire movies to death! Fright Night (1985), The Lost Boys (1987), Fright Night (2011)-remake and Vampires (1998) are just my favorite Vampire horror movies! The main plot about this film In the blood-chilling tradition of Halloween and Village of the Damned comes John Carpenter's unique vision of the ultimate killing machines, VAMPIRES. Forget everything you've ever heard about vampires, warns Jack Crow (James Woods), the leader of Team Crow, a relentless group of mercenary vampire slayers. When Master Vampire Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith) decimates Jack's entire team, Crow and the sole team survivor, Montoya (Daniel Baldwin), set out in pursuit. Breaking all the rules, Crow and Montoya take one of Valek's victims hostage. The beautiful but unlucky prostitute (Sheryl Lee) is their sole psychic link to Valek, and through her senses they will track down the leader of the undead. As Valek nears the climax of his 600-year search for the Berziers Cross, Jack and the new Team Crow do everything humanly possible to prevent him from possessing the only thing that can grant him and all vampires the omnipotent power to walk in the daylight.I am giving this film a 10/10 because it doesn't deserve all the hate from fans and critics!!! Vampires, also known as John Carpenter's Vampires, is a 1998 American western-horror film directed and scored by John Carpenter. Adapted from the novel Vampire$ by John Steakley, the film stars James Woods as Jack Crow, leader of a Catholic Church-sanctioned team of vampire hunters.10/10 Score A Studio Film Office, JVC Entertainment Networks, Largo Entertainment, Columbia Pictures Starring James Woods, Daniel Baldwin, Sheryl Lee, Thomas Ian Griffith, Maximilian Schell Director John Carpenter Producer Sandy King Screenplay Don Jakoby Based on Vampire$ by John Steakley Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 48 Mins. Budget $20.000.000 Box Office $51.3.000.000 "},{"Title":"This is the space provided for you to write a brief summary of your review","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Unoriginal macho energy plus cliché vampire crap equals a terrible movie. I guess its not the worst movie ever, so that is a sort of achievement. I think I saw at the beginning of the movie, Vampires is based on a book. I really wonder what that book is gotta be like. The actors cast are talented, but the dialog is silly. John Carpenter can be a great director of movies, also John Carpenter can be a mediocre director of movies, this would be the latter. Mainly the problem is the plot, it's a childlike good guys versus bad guys action bore. It's an R rated movie for twelve year old boys. It has no depth, it has no imagery that is memorable, even the action scenes are unremarkable. Snore. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review Vampires","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There's only really two Carpenter films that I didn't enjoy &#x96; The Ward and Village of The Damned. Everything else has at least something to offer, and Vampires has quite a bit. James Wood (who is pretty miscast) plays Jack Wood, a bad-mouthed leader of a crew of mercenaries tasked with taking down Vampires around the Mexican desert. Think Snake Plissken, only uglier, older and a whole lot less likable. Everything about the film is rough and ugly, from the language and acting to the cinematography and set pieces. No political correctness bullshit or sparkling blood-suckers here. That's one thing that Vampires has going for it. You would have thought that Carpenter would've made a vampire film back in his hay-day the 80's. Not so. Still I came away from the film pleasantly surprised at first. However, it is a movie that, the more you think of it, the more of a dud it seems to be. There isn't much that you remember from it, aside from one decent shootout. Carpenter's signature moody keyboard loops were replaced by guitar solos. Oh, and it's the first time I noticed this irritating fade-in fade-out style of editing that Carpenter adopted in his later films, where a normal, satisfactory scene would be ruined by making it seem like a dream sequence. This was even present in the action scenes!Best Scene I remember there being a most satisfactory butt-shot, but my vote will go to the opening shootout. "},{"Title":"Not the best Steakley book to turn into a movie","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Good movie, great author. Sad he started writing so late and with such potential.Vampire$ is a really good book made into a decent Carpenter movie.It's just ... not ... Armor.And vampire effects are cheaper to produce than CGI space battles to tell a story.If someone ever manages to turn Armor into a movie ... well, we will probably already have 8 of The Sten Chronicles to view while anticipating an Armor movie.Until then, reading will always > watching. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated effort","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Following a master's release, a squad of expert vampire hunters sets out to prevent his flock from attaining the single artifact needed to allow vampires to walk in daylight before they succumb to his devious plans.This is easily one of the more enjoyable and overlooked entries in the genre. One of the main elements responsible for this is the rather original and innovative approach it takes in regards to vampires. Not only is this one openly deviant about the proper tools and what doesn't work alone makes for quite a good telling here by including the storyline about the search for the special artifact. Not only is the concept of that particular object rather creative and original but it also allows for the film to turn into a road movie that includes all the trappings devoted to hunting and tracking a vampire clan. This includes the one main method of accomplishing that in the psychic connection between the un-turned victim and the master, again a rather novel touch that produces a lot of fun. That doesn't include the main reasons why this one works so well in the actual hunting down of the vampires, which there's plenty of within this. This one manages to really make the hunters quite impressive by utilizing special tactics and maneuvers that clearly showcase some experience in their field which is what really impresses since it routinely works rather than the stereotypical method of having experts continuously fail at their profession simply to drive the movie along. That alone makes this one enjoyable along with the frantic action on display and highly-enjoyable gore scenes which features some rather bloody times throughout this in how both sides have plenty of bloodshed ravaged toward them. These are enough to help this overcome its one true flaw. The final showdown really could've been done more effectively, and really should've had one to begin with. The climactic fight lasts all of about a minute, with a couple stabbings, some minor throwing around and then the big hit. It's really nothing much of a fight and should've been one for such a journey like this to take route. Still there's not a whole lot here that really gets this down.Rated R Extreme Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and Nudity. "}{"Title":"Vampires","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Or known as 'John Carpenter's Vampires' if you wish. This film starts off really well with Woods and his vampire slaying team cooking up some vamps in their own unique way. They find em, harpoon em and drag them out into the sunlight via a winch on a truck. What I really liked about the film was this cool vamp slaying team, there were a few well known faces in there, character actors that really made a unique cool looking unit. Its such a shame that they all get wiped out early on.This leaves Woods and Baldwin galloping up diarrhea drive without a saddle. It also seems to diminish the film before its even started, but wait! all is not lost. Woods character is a solid hard ass, he looks unashamedly cool with his black leather coat, blue jeans and shades, he's got a mouth on him, a wicked name and knows his way around most weaponry, in short he's an older Snake Plissken with a short back n sides.The plot is simple enough, its Woods vs vampires, good enough for ya?. When I say vampires I mean just one badass head vampire (who looks suspiciously like the head nutter from 'Ghosts of Mars') and a lot of faceless stake fodder. Its all about Woods really, yeah he has the typical wet sidekick pushed on him, a newbie priest to look after, and there's Baldwin but to be honest they don't figure. You wanna see Woods swearing and kicking vampire ass.When I first heard of this I didn't think too much of it, after 'Escape From LA' most were in shock and this really didn't sound very inspiring. But this does turn out to be a pretty decent western vampire flick along the lines of 'From Dusk Till Dawn'. There is plenty of blood and gore with some nice body part effects, obviously violence is high, nice visuals and your obligatory cowboy-like musical score.Not your obvious Carpenter flick as it does seem more glossy than most, still looks a bit 'made for TV' here and there but generally its a tad more Hollywood. Doesn't add much new to the vampire lore either, only the way they harpoon vamps and certain weapons have a face lift of sorts. All your usual types of deaths, leaping around, decapitations, vampire POV, bone snapping sound effects etc...are present and correct.Better than you would expect but mainly down to Woods, without him who knows. Its cheesy and not quite up to the standards of other more original quirky Carpenter films but it certainly holds its own amongst other vampire films. It does always amuse me though how all the characters know regular bullets don't have any effect on vampires, yet they continually empty clips into them as if it will do any good.'Can I ask ya something Padre? When I was kickin your ass back there...you get a little wood?'6/10 "},{"Title":"I killed my own father, padre. I got no trouble killing you.","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not half as bad as some reviews in 1998 made it out to be, Vampires is worth taking a peek at these days. Without the heavy weight of expectation for a return to form for John Carpenter, it proves to be a schlocky and bloody good time.James Woods stars as a Vatican backed vampire slayer, something he does with considerable relish. But now he is up against an uber vampire in Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith), a leader with powers unbound. Daniel Baldwin and Sheryl Lee are along for the gore laden ride.Woods is cool, with a quip on the tongue and a deadly weapon to hand, his by-play with Tim Guinee's priest provides much of the film's humour. The photography, choreography, editing and tension building are all high in quality, and while the story is weak and there's a whiff of misogyny in the mix, for a horror popcorner there's a good time to be had here. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"brutal without being intense","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jack Crow (James Woods) leads a group of vampire hunters organized by of the Catholic church. Anthony Montoya (Daniel Baldwin) is his second in command. They clear a nest but the master isn't there. Jan Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith) escape the hunt and massacres the group as they party into the night. Katrina (Sheryl Lee) is a local party girl who gets bitten. Crow and Montoya survive the attack taking Katrina along to track Valek. Cardinal Alba (Maximilian Schell) tells Crow about Valek's massacre of their European team. He is the first recorded vampire and the most powerful after a botched exorcism by the church. Father Adam Guiteau (Tim Guinee) is assigned to rebuild the team and attack Valek quickly. Crow suspects that Valek is actually searching for the legendary dark crucifix which supposedly gives vampires the ability to walk in daylight.Director John Carpenter doesn't waste any time and dives right into the world of vampire killers. I respect that. There's no real need for an introduction to lay out the background. The action is brutal. It's a lot of blood and tearing. They are not kung fu fighting. While I love the brutality, there isn't much tension. It's brutal without actually being intense. That's the major deficit. The story isn't twisty enough. James Woods does a fine macho character. This is good vampire hunt movie but it doesn't anything more than that. "},{"Title":"With the Carpenter attitude present, Vampires spills blood if not true scares.","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" James Woods plays Jack Crow who heads a team of vampire slayers who have been hired by the Catholic Church to kill Vampires. Through a failed exorcism 600 years ago, the Church is responsible for the birth of the first vampire named Valek (Griffith). The movie starts strongly with Crow's team raiding a nest of vampires holed up in an old house in New Mexico. The raid is successful, but Crow is bothered because the master vampire wasn't found. As Crow's group celebrates in a sleazy motel with hookers, the master vampire Valek shows up. In an extremely gory sequence, he slaughter's the group. Only Crow and his right hand man Montoya (Baldwin) escape. One of the hookers named Katrina (Lee) was bitten by Valek, so Montoya and Crow take her along to help them track Valek using the psychic link she shares with him. Crow knows he was sold out but sets out to destroy the Master and his vampires anyway. Horror legend John Carpenter makes his first vampire movie here and the opening raid sequence is pure Carpenter. The airy shots of the southwest and musky vampires nest catch the atmosphere just right and set the tone. You have to like the political incorrectness of this picture. Like most of Carpenters movies, someone sells out and it is usually an authority figure. This time it is the arch bishop played by Maximillian Schell, and the church itself. The movie plays like an action/western film but the excellent make up and gore effects by KNB reminds you it is horror your watching. James Woods brings all of the attitude he has to Jack Crow and really has fun with it. Purposely staying away from the Gothic vampire look, Carpenter makes Valek and his vampire's nasty things. Unfortunately Thomas Ian Griffith's performance as Valek is quite flat. So is the Horror in this movie. All though Gory, Vampires doesn't build much suspense and or get the audience to jump at all. When was the last time a John Carpenter film failed to do that? There is a great Unearthing sequence and the vampires do some impressive things, but it comes across as Fun, not scary. Carpenter delivers an action packed slam bang film that is never dull and always entertaining. The only true disappointment comes from the fact that this is a pretty scare less John Carpenter Horror film, which is certainly a surprise. Some witty dialog and good social commentary and a good cast make Vampires a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Despite Flaws","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vatican-funded vampire hunter Jack Crow (James Woods) and his sidekick Montoya (Daniel Baldwin) search for centuries-old vampire Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith) that killed their friends. They find a prostitute (Sheryl Lee) bitten by Valek and, using her telepathic link to the vampire, they try to track him down.James Woods is really the whole show, hamming it up like the expected Carpenter cheesy macho anti-hero. Sheryl Lee is surprisingly good, as well. The worst casting is that of Thomas Ian Griffith as the villain. He's very much a post-Lestat romantic goth douchebag Dracula wannabe. Nothing frightening or exciting about him. More F bombs than a movie without Chris Tucker should probably have. This is John Carpenter's last above-average movie. It's still not a patch on his classics but it's entertaining enough. "},{"Title":"Movie was a lot of fun","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is another re-watch, I had not seen this movie for years until last night. This movie dose not take long at all, it goes straight into the vamps actions in first 5 to 10 mins and I liked how the vamps were killed in this movie.I did not expect this movie to be as gory as it was, the party scenes in the movie, blood and guts were flying all over the place and the vampires were decent and kind of creepy at times.The acting was great from cast, as was the effects and make up effects were really well done. Movie was a lot of fun. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Middling Movie","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Probably the reason for the Director's name in front of the Title is to lure Fans once the Movie has been bitten by word of mouth. Carpenter's Career is all over the place. From the Overrated The Thing (1982) to the Underrated Prince of Darkness (1987). This one has been praised by His Fans, no surprise there, and not so much by Neutral Observers. It is a middling Movie with just enough Glorious Gore and Smutty Humor to satisfy those who seek out such things. The Vampires have no interaction among themselves and are virtually Zombies and the Master growls a lot.James Woods is the Star here, along with the cheesy effects and be-headings, but He is let down by the weak Dialog (the Woody thing is used more than once for guaranteed 13 Year Old giggles and seems to be a homage to Beavis and Butthead?). Overall, worth a view if very little expectations are at play, but if anything Clever, New, or Intelligent is required skip this and watch Near Dark (1987). "},{"Title":"Fun but far from perfect","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter takes a dive into vampire terrain, and the film gets off to a cracking start, with James Woods as Jack Crow, one of the coolest protagonists in Carpenter's work, leading his vampire-slaying team into a nest of bloodsuckers in New Mexico. After dealing with them, it's time to let their hair down for some hellraising and hookers, despite Crow's intended target, master vampire Valek not being at the nest as he'd thought.Things take a turn for the extreme worse for our protagonists when Valek himself strolls in, has a little fun with Sheryl Lee's hooker character, before single-handedly slaughtering most of the vampire hunters in a spectacularly gory orgy of ultra-violence.When the three survivors, Crow, Montoya - played by Daniel Baldwin, and Sheryl Lee, escape, the film seems to lose it's vibe. Energy immediately dissipates, and the film meanders somewhat for much of the rest of the film, though Woods, and his smacking about of a new priest assigned to them, provide enough amusement. Sheryl has gained psychic insight into Valek's mind, and we see glimpses of his gory slayings as he hunts down a sacred relic he needs for his kind to exist in daylight. During this uneven mid-section, we are treated to scenes of Sheryl tied up naked, slapped about, and called a bitch by Montoya. Crow isn't exactly sympathetic towards her either, and while some may find it amusing, it does lend the film a more unpleasant tone than necessary.Energy revs back up a few gears for the final showdown, though the climax never matches the balls-to-the-wall approach the film began with.It is not one of John Carpenter's best by a long shot, but despite it's flaws, it still makes for outrageous gory fun. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Carpenter Horror Western!","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" James Woods, Daniel Baldwin, Sheryl Lee, Thomas Ian Griffith, Tim Guinee and Maximilian Schell star in John Carpenter's 1998 horror western based on the book. Woods (Casino) plays Jack Crow, a vampire hunter who works for the catholic church. Baldwin (Nothing But Trouble) plays his partner & friend, Tony Montoya. They search for a master vampire, Jan Valek (Griffith) who surprises them and kills their team members. Lee (Twin Peaks) plays a hooker, Katrina who gets bit by Valek and starts to have a telepathic link with him. She also bites Montoya and soon, Jack learns that Valek is a 600 year-old ex-priest turned vampire that wants a special cross allowing him to walk in daylight. Guinee (Blade) plays Adam Guiteau, a priest sent to help Jack who becomes a slayer and Schell (The Freshman) plays Cardinal Alba. This isn't a bad film, Woods is great in it, there's good make-up effects and Carpenter's score is great as usual. I recommend this for Carpenter fans. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A gang of Vampire hunters awaken the Master of all Vampires and now he seeks vengeance.The violence, blood and gore is limitless in this movie as you watch James Woods lead his men into the world of the vampire..One thing I loved about this movie was that the Vampire was not the brooding lover, he was a ruthless blood sucker looking to feed his eternal hunger.The film starts off brilliantly, and then it slows down as we watch the poor female prostitute fight against the vampires charms, its all a little dull...But you slowly move past that as the focus becomes more on the Master...The best scene is perhaps when the master and the rest of his elite Vampires crawl out from the ground...Eerie and spine tingling, however the ending was a total disappointment, no big fight...Something to pass the time "}{"Title":"Vampire-killing thriller","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a BIG fan of Vampire movies but this film came a bit of a disappointment. This film made vampires look like heartless, blood sucking UGLY beasts!. I did not like this at all! I am a HUUUUGE fan of Interveiw with a vampire, queen of the damned and underworld. Films like perfect creature and the above brings out the beautiful side of vampires and make them sound almost human but this film, (John Carpenters Vampires) just killed it. It was so biased. Everyone was on the humans side and one sight of a vampire meant death. They were morphed into UGLY deformed creatures who just was after blood. Although i didn't like it as much as i thought it was going to be, i rated this film an 7 out of 10 for the action and OK storyline. "},{"Title":"It takes a team!","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm fed up with these it's up to one man-movies. Many modern takes on the vampire, fails in my eyes, because the traditional weaknesses of a vampire is exploited too much, and they are treated like dime-a-dozen goons (read Blade). Not so here. The vampires are really nasty, and at obviously takes a team to get the job done. I didn't care for the sidekick Montoya, but all the others are nicely western-like, from the bounty hunter to the whore, to the posse of vampires, to the city-boy-preacher.On the minus side, the effects are too revealing. When the vampires come into the sunlight, both arms catch fire, then they cut to the dummy. Every time. And when someone gets bitten in the throat, you can see the tube that squirts blood. I'd expected something like that to be fixed in a Carpenter movie, no matter the budget. "},{"Title":"Carpenter's Vampire Campfire","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter camps-up this western/horror cross-over with his typical sense of political humor and a set of absurd plot premises. James Woods and Daniel Baldwin lead a posse of vampire slayers roving through the southwestern United States. The slayers are in the employment of the catholic church - an amusing Carpenter-signature twist which is nicely exploited in the second half of the film. In this film, vampirism is described as something like a virus. Sheryl Lee has just become infected by a very powerful Master Vampire, and Woods exploits her psychic link with the master to try to hunt him down.Like most of Carpenter's work, the film uses special effects subtly, minimally and very effectively. The vampires growl very nicely, rise from the earth and, when exposed to sunlight literally burst into flame. And the slayers use weapons which, though they look somewhat outlandish, are not really all that extraordinary.The directing and script are good, and the characters are nicely developed and very well acted. James Woods and Sheryl Lee are great, and very nicely supported by Dan Baldwin and Tim Guinee. The soundtrack (also originating with Carpenter) is mostly pretty bad - consisting of western blues-rock clichés and semi-dramatic synthesizer work. The lack of depth, simplicity of the plot and weak soundscheme make this a one-shot movie, however.Recommended for late night b-movie watchers, Carpenter fans and Vampirists. "},{"Title":"Capturing Vampire's is Different","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Found this vampire film quite interesting and enjoyable. James Woods,(Jack Crow), is a leader of vampire destroyers who uses some different tactics other than just the wooden stake through the heart. Jack Crow is assisted by Daniel Baldwin,(Anthony Montoya), who falls in love with a hooker who is bitten by a vampire; the hooker is Sheryl Lee,(Katrina), Paradise, Texas,'05, who is a flaming hot gal and gives the story some romance and sex appeal. A tow truck is used to haul the vampires to their final destinations and there is plenty of action, especially when they come up out of the ground to attack the necks of their victims. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Alright, Not bad","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this film. Not a perfect film by any means, but not bad. All the scenes with James Woods are excellent. This flick fulfills the brain candy factor by all means. I wish it kept the violence level of the first 20 minutes, but the rest is still worth watching. James Woods indiscriminately kicking the crap out of the priest(Padre) at least 3 times is priceless. Good fun to be taken lightly. Check it out. Nothing but mindless fun. Don't expect The Thing because that'll never happen again in our lifetime. Vampires is unadulterated fun, Period.    "},{"Title":"REAL FUN","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i watch this about every 2 months or so just because it is so fun and entertaining.james woods one-liners when he is describing vampires to the priestit's not like they are a bunch of fags walking around with these cheesy euro-trash accents. woods does a good job , sheryl lee is the hot looking prostitute, and baldwin as the sidekick.the effects are done the old-fashioned way FOR REAL which is nice . sometimes i get tired of seeing all of the digitized effects on movies today so carpenter gets a thumbs up on this even though they might be a little over the top.so all in all great one-liners,great special effects,great action,great cinematography,great music score.by the way don't waste your time with vampires 2 it is an absolute piece of trash.` "},{"Title":"About as scary as BAMBI with the lights out but hey, you GET James Woods!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Carpenter wasn't aiming for cult status with VAMPIRES, he made it because well, he COULD! A more than adequate little time-filler, although those seriously limited reviewers who would liken this to NEAR DARK and FROM DUSK TO DAWN would HAVE to be kidding!The opening sequence (which I tend to agree is pointless, though fun) sets the mood for the pic with Cool Hand James and his vampire killing roadies flushing out a shack-full of fanged nasties to meet their maker at the end of winch hooked up to a 4-wheel drive that drags them exploding into the sunlight. As one character comments after the opening massacre - Not a bad day's work!  Problem is...the guy they were REALLY after - Valek (6'6 Karate master Thomas Ian Griffith) wasn't on-site. Shortly after however he returns as Woods and his cronies are celebrating their Vampire-dissing session and single-handedly takes out the entire party, all but Woods and Baldwin.If you pay but minimal heed to the ludicrous sub-plot involving the Church and Valek's plan to walk tall during the daylight hours, this is a total fun movie. Terrific musical score from Carpenter as always that really suits the style and feel of the flick. Woods is mega-cool, Baldwin totally humane and likeable and some of the armaments original! Sheryl Lee as Katrina, dragged along for the ride as a semi-chewed victim of Valek is a nice sexy touch although she looks but a rung above some local piece of trailer-trash for most of the time.The ending does indeed vary from the novel but in the case of the movie its my opinion it works quite well, as indeed does the whole film...IF you give it a chance!  Compared to SCARY MOVIE 2 its a 9.8! "},{"Title":"so so","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I wish the whole movie was like the first 20 minutes as I got into it right away but some parts I found myself reading the newspaper. Not that it's a dull film but it doesn't try overly hard. Woods is ok I guess as the cool guy leader and the few others that pop up aren't bad. The main master vampire is a let down and looked like one of those goth's you see walking around the mall (yeah we all are scared of you and think you have real magical powers) but the wild cat growl they make is so cheesy. It's hard to make a vampire flick thats not like many others. 7/10  "},{"Title":"We kill vampires.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With Vampires, people think that John Carpenter lost his touch.  They feel that it's not up to par with his earlier work.  They're wrong.  He's lost nothing.  When you've made films such as The Thing, Halloween, and In The Mouth of Madness, I'm sure it becomes extremely difficult to top yourself.  Vampires may be a tad corny, but it's fun.  I happen to thoroughly enjoy this fast-flowing vampire romp that continues the trend of more gore with a desert wasteland setting; a trend established by Near Dark in the eighties and revived by From Dusk Till Dawn in the nineties.  Speaking of the gore, I cannot praise KNB effects enough.  They have done a ton of the movies I've been watching lately and they prove one thing in every one of them  they are on top of their game.  That party scene is unforgettable.  There's so much gore you'll have to watch it several times just to catch everything.  James Woods is also something to watch the movie several times for.  He's hysterical with some great one-liners.  All of the actors did fine jobs.  I was especially pleased with Daniel Baldwin, he's probably the most realistic, but will always remain the second best Baldwin.  And Mark Boone Junior always cracks me up.  What absolutely made the movie for me was the ending.  Absolutely superb.  You can create your own sequel in your head.  This is one kick-ass vampire tale from one of the undisputed horror masters.Note for genre buffs  Frank Darabont (Writer of The Blob '88 and The Shawshank Redemption) is the cowboy they steal the Buick from. "},{"Title":"Interesting take!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Some spoilers!I read the book this was based on after seeing the movie, and to be honest, the difference in endings threw me for a loop.  The book is dark, and deep.  The movie is more along the top.  It's not a bad movie, though.  The Protean activities of the vampires was interesting, and Texas as a home base was kewl.  My favorite scene was the one with the pack bursting out of the soil in the sunset.  There was a great deal of blood, and I tried to keep my son from seeing it, but then again, so did Blade!  It seems that any horror movie these days employs a great deal of Corn-syrup and food coloring to get their ideas against, but there was something in that hotel scene that just blew my mind!  It was totally gruesome, and something rather unique among the genre.  I'm a vampire afficiendo, and have seen several vampire movies. If I had to place similarities among older movies, I'd place Vampire$ along side Near Dark and From Dusk to Dawn (with Cheech).  I particularly liked the priest's accompaning the party!If you can get the movie cheap at the store, or rent it for the .99 price, then you're getting a good popcorn eating cuddling together on the couch deal.  Just make sure that your gal wants to hide her eyes (and then peek when you're not looking)!(or guy, if that's the other way around!)It's much better than several, has some very memorable lines, and is great entertainment.  6 out of 10 stars. "}{"Title":"Not too thrilling... actually, pretty much on the s****y side.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie last night with a few friends here at school.  I'm afraid that it wasn't very good.  I generally like Vampire books, but it is hard to make movies about them.  The special effects in the movie were terrible.  I mean, they were just really dumb.  I know that this movie was made a few years ago, but still.  And, the vulgar treatment of women throughout the film was displeasing.  Let's just say this movie is not a must see, unless you like crappy effects, anti-feminist actions and old men acting like they're the coolest guys in the world. "},{"Title":"A Western? (mild spoilers)","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An interesting collection of views on this film. The possibility that this could be thought of as a Western didn't occur to me until I'd seen it mentioned here, but I'd add one thing...if this is a Western, it's a comedic Western. Or perhaps, a Comedic Western Actioner.Let's face it, this is a guy who uses _harpoons_ attached to jeeps to skewer vampires and drag them out into the sunlight, where they burst into flames. I was laughing myself silly. Carpenter skewers the horror genre as effectively as Woods does vampires, so hard-core horror fans should probably avoid this one. If you like totally over-the-top movies (think Verhoeven), give it a try.(In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if a wager wasn't the genesis of this movie.)Pop some popcorn, disengage your brain and enjoy. "},{"Title":"not consequent enough","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One thing first I HATE the depiction of vampires that is modern now.I saw the film, and I cheered every time, a bloodsucker got it. My only problem with the film is (apart from too few dead vampires), that the head-vampire was depicted exactly as Jack Crow says they're not.This is finally the film, that tries to dispose of the desirable superbeing Vampire, that is hunted down by jealous and ignorant scientists. It really tries, but the character Valek destroys it all.To quote my favorite author Vampires not alive, but not dead enough "},{"Title":"Underated Horror Dipped In The Ideologies Of The Western Genre!","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The thing about John Carpenter movies is that they're always going todivide the audience. You either love them or hate them. I know people who personally detest BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA with a passion that they don't even hold for their own girlfriends. With VAMPIRES, an underated horror dipped in the ideologies of the 'Western' genre, critics and audiences have remained completely divided; the majority hating it and the minority ranking it up with cult classics like ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK. James Woods plays Jack Crow, a vampire hunter contracted by the Vatican to hunt vampires - hence the job title! Then he comes across the head vampire (Thomas Ian Griffth - still as wooden as he was in KARATE KID 3) and blood, gore and gut-wrenching special effects ensue. There you go, that's your synopsis. It's that simple. If the brilliantly conveyed sight of a man getting sliced in half by a bare hand is something that appeals to you then this is the movie for you. Carpenter is a master in just the facts - he takes the story from point A to point B with just the information, action and interactions you need to enjoy the movie at the level he intended. No subtexts, sub-plots or extra stuff that slows down the pace. Not as good as BIG TROUBLE, ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13, HALLOWEEN etc. but no where near as bad as IN THE MOUTH OF MADNESS or that bloody Chevy Chase movie.  "},{"Title":"an allegorical movie???","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film to me was a slam on a certain religious denomination (that in the interest of not offending them (I will not name here). The film uses the colors of revelation (purple and scarlet) and pagan symbols) to convey a dark tone. VAMPIRES was not released in the USA first, due to distributor problems. The film could be conveyed as allegorical or am I over extending? Portions of this film have two layers while others are horror/adventure. The film has it's moments and is clever, yet I felt it was missing something. The plot centers around a vampire SWAT style hunter team backed by the VATICAN and other groups to hunt and kill vampires. JAMES WOODS leads the group only to learn the shocking truth and the films plot twist it is possible someone in the vatican is helping the vampires, to bring them into the day light. This is the classic betrayal/enemy within plot, and was a neat twist as vampire film go. The dialogue in this was clever and the tone somber, which varies from the TEEN ORIENTED MARKET products like BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER skewed for 15-30 yrs. Those who are skwemish should steer clear of this due to gore and multiple F words....dovers go rent LASSIE. Vampire movie fans looking for a indie style film with good production values and writing...please, flock to this one. "},{"Title":"Fangs for nothing Mr Carpenter.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dear oh dear oh dear. What was John Carpenter thinking about when he took on the project of making Vampires? This has to be the worst thing he has ever done will be ever likely to do. Vampires is simply DULL. The storyline , if you can call it that, has been seen before. The acting it poor , i didnt care who got killed because none of the characters had a personality that you cared for and you would think that being a Carpenter movie the special affects would be good but they arent anything to shout about. It's easy to just chuck lots of fake blood around and call it special affects. This film reminds me of 70's B movie. 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good Director has an off day.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter is a great director. However, apart from James Wood getting some good lines, this film is really average. Not scary at all. It's a shame as it looks good, but the ending you could predict halfway during the film.  "},{"Title":"Bleeds dry","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There is something about this film that really made me want to like it. Maybe it's James Woods, who is surprisingly compelling in a role that he's probably too old for, or the sleaziness of the whole thing. The problem is, the sleaziness feels forced, the story isn't original enough, and apart from Woods and one of the Catholics, I can't remember any interesting performances. The stunts could have been more imaginative too, but there are some good ones; my favorite is in the beginning when the vampires are hooked and reeled out into the sunshine. "},{"Title":"Five words kept running through my head... This is a bad music video...","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being an advent vampire flick fan, i immediately raced to see this new John Carpenter release...Ignoring the fact that it contained none of that dark and gothic atmosphere that usually draws me to vampire movies...here is what i felt...Five words kept running through my head... This is a bad music video...Dissolves and slow mo's totally disregarded the space time continuum (do i watch back to the future too often?).   Not only that, but they were irritating, and made the narrative appear weak. Almost as if the filmmakers concluded that this method covered up holes in the script.Yet it had definite structure, and I will give credit to the cinematography which was simply wonderful. The editing lacked any true sense of cinematic narrative, and a lot of the film is a rip off of Tarantinos Reservoir Dogs shot of people walking and looking cool So is it worth going to see? Not a bad movie choice... on a Tuesday night at half price ;) "},{"Title":"don't waste your time with this movie","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  `Vampires' * John Carpenter's vampires, that is.  This is the same exact movie as `Blade.'  The vampires are on the verge of completing the puzzle that will give them the ability to become day stalkers.  Humans are just food for the undead.  Jack Crow (James Woods) is the key to the puzzle.  Much B&G later the good guys win the battle but not the war.  There has to be room for a sequel.  I hope there is no sequel to John Carpenter's `Vampires' or `Blade.'  I also hope you don't waste your time with this movie. "}{"Title":"A good (American) poke at the myth","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This effort by veteran horror director John Carpenter is rather superior to his three previous offerings (IN THE MOUTH OF MADNESS, VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED and the awful sequel to ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK). This time, Carpenter's target is clearly the Catholic Church. The vampire hunter is no believer (a tough guy in all respects, he swears A LOT all along in case you missed the point), and the only evil character here is a cardinal. In the same manner, the vampires are the victims of their own condition, unable to control their bloody instincts once infected with the  virus . Which is all pretty interesting.  VAMPIRES is pure Carpenter with straightforward direction, sharp editing, and many clever ideas (too much rock music, though). As ever, the ending is very ironical. As ever, this is also a western. If you like it eerie, however, it's back to the good old Hammer films.  "},{"Title":"it was good","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big J. Carpenter fan. I liked this but this isnt his best. 2 me, THE THING & IN MOUTH OF MADNESS r his best. James Woods was born to play a charcter like this even though the dialogue is not that good at times. U got 2 watch it again, just 2 count how many times the name PADRE is used. It is gory which is what I like but I was expecting more scares. I liked the 1st 25 minutes, it was bloody & yet suspenseful. **spolier** When J. Woods, D. Baldwin & a hooker that get s bitten(S. Lee), they get into Baldwin's jeep & head off onto a deserted road. Then Valek comes after them. At that particular scene where they r being chased, 2 me that is the best part of the movie cause the music beat kept up with the movie-GREAT SUSPENSE scene. The charactes play that scene well. U got 2 pay attention 2 those scenes where the music becomes suspenseful & the characters do a good job. But after that the movie died down. It was good but I expected more. If u r a fan of J. Carpenter, its worth seeing & or having. "},{"Title":"Forgettable","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In trend with most of Carpenter's recent, non-independent films, the picture is very polished. Too polished in fact. I'm not saying the film was too good, I'm just saying that it doesn't look like it used to, with the darker atmospheres (of the old ones), the cinematography and picture quality. The music has also changed significantly, from dark synth to guitars and the like.This film made me laugh at some points, although I'm not sure whether or not they were intended that way. The story was fine, but the film just wasn't scary. Blood and gore and sudden occurrences don't make this a horror film. Not this film anyway. You want to see a decent Carpenter horror? Go get his remake of 'The Thing'. "},{"Title":"This ain't no chick-flick","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am almost afraid to admit to it in front of some of our more snobbish colleagues, but I love horror movies.  Last night I rented John Carpenter's Vampires.  Now this is definitely not a ChickFlic like Step Mom.  At no time during the whole show did I feel like slashing my wrists because life is so tragic yet so beautiful.  It is definitely a Movie for Men Who Like Movies.  If you think the four food groups consist of something other than fried, red, beer & beef you are probably going to be suitably shocked by the non-stop gratuitous violence.This is one of the best horror shows I have ever seen.  It doesn't take itself seriously and has absolutely no socially redeeming values unless you count its portrayal of the Roman Catholic Church as the cause of most of the ills that have befallen the world.  Its fun, the good guys win and it is great escapism.  > "},{"Title":"Uneven and occasionally entertaining.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Strange to say, if it had been longer it might have been better.  Even though I found myself contemplating my ceiling for long stretches of this film, I think it could have benefitted from some more information about the characters.  It seems strange that we only saw Crow's hunters for about ten minutes before they...well...weren't there anymore.  Couldn't we have been given some background on them?  Since one of the most interesting scenes in the film was the 'cleaning of the nest' right at the beginning, and since -- as many have stated -- this is supposed to be an action film...why not clean a few more nests?  Let us meet the hunters one-by-one?  How can we care about a hotel room full of hookers & hunters if we don't even know their names?  How can we understand Crow's rage and anguish and motivation, when all we hear about his past are two or three lines of dialogue?   Three quarters of this movie is people looking menacingly at eachother, and people en route to doing something.  As well, I REALLY hated the way intense action scenes were presented in a sort of slow-motion montage that made me wonder if my VCR needed cleaning.  And the priest was miscast.  He made a good priest; as a hunter he was embarassing.That said, there were still some great scenes.  Sheryl Lee was almost transcendental in her ability to rise above her mundane role, but I think this has more to do with Sheryl Lee than it does with John Carpenter.  And James Woods was fun in his usual intense, somewhat disturbed way.  The vampires rising from the sand were striking and when the action actually HAPPENED, it was fun.  But am I the only one who thinks that John Carpenter has become unfocused and sloppy? "},{"Title":"Average Film for Professional Vampire Fans","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would rate this film 4/10. The story is common and there is nothing scary or new about it. This is a bit of a disappointment from the director of Escape from LA and Big Trouble in Little China. However, if you haven't seen a vampire movie before, or are still new to the vampire field, then do check this out. "},{"Title":"Could've been better...","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Great premise Vampires in the Southwest are hunted down and vanquished by a Dirty-Dozen-meets-bikers group sponsored by the Vatican. Then what's wrong with this film? Not James Woods, who turns in an excellent and convincing performance as the leader of the vampire killers, Jack Crowe. Not Daniel Baldwin (the tough-as-nails, never cleanshaven Baldwin brother), who is also effective as Montoya, Crowe's partner. The problem with this film is Thomas Ian Griffith, who has shown good acting ability in his many films (most B-grade schlock, but he makes them watchable) but who is absolutely wasted in this film as Valek, the head vampire who longs to live during the day. Valek could have been so powerful and so evil, yet all he does is kill, and he hardly speaks even though we know he can. Had the makers of this film focused more on Valek and showed some of his history (flashbacks, paintings of the old Valek), the film would have been great.  "},{"Title":"Where's Buffy when you need her?!!","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Next to From Dusk till Dawn, Vampires is probably one of the best in those style of horror movies in which 80% of it contains Rambo-style action! It practically has its own genre!! Anyhow, in this flick, James Woods is the ultimate macho-man  as he with  partner Daniel Baldwin, and innocent hottie Sheryl Lee must battle the ever gothic Valek, played by Thomas Ian Griffith. It's a tremendous fight to the death, with blood gushing like fountains!! Vampires is a cool movie, with cool action sequences, but whatever you do, DO NOT, watch this film while eating!! Let's just say the word puke will have a whole new meaning for you!!  "},{"Title":"Fun but flawed","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Carpenter seems to go through the motions on this modern tale of hunters on the trail of a master vampire. Despite a tongue in cheek performance from the talented James Woods playing the bitter Jack Crow, and some fine sweeping shots of the New Mexico countryside for his ensemble of renegade mercenaries to strut their stuff and brandish their shiny weapons around in, the film doesn't seem to go anywhere but stroll through some feisty vampire hunting scenes, which don't offer anything more than what we all saw in 'From Dusk Till Dawn' until a final showdown with the aforementioned master vampire. The Vatican is briefly introduced, possibly to flesh out the thin storyline and we get a little background info on Jack's past, and pointers to why he's always so pissed off, which he is (quite enjoyably) through the entire movie! And of course we get a lot of guys (and gals) with pointed teeth and heavy brows being harpooned and dragged to their fiery deaths. It's all handled quite unpassionately by Carpenter, even the master's revenge rampage scene early on in the movie is edited together more befitting to a romantic montage, with images fading in and over one another, making it seem like Carpenter just wants to get the thing over with, when it should have been real toe curler. This also seems painfully evident in a disappointing finale which has more plot holes than some of the staked vampires.Like a lot of Carpenter's more recent work, Vampire$ is fun enough but ultimately flawed, it's quirky, at times funny and fairly lively but at the end of the day it's just another one of those films destined for video rental mediocrity that could've been so much more. And if it weren't for James Woods' slightly uncomfortable but ironic anti-hero it would have been even much less than that.    "},{"Title":"James Woods and big guns","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another one of John Carpenter's great ideas, that goes wonky half way through.The premise is simple, we kill Vampires.  There's some great actions scenes, with James Woods being his usual cool self.  The bad guys are scary and there's loads of 'em.Unfortunately, for a film that is a kick-off film, there just isn't enough kicking-off.  More guns and guts please next time. "}{"Title":"One for John Carpenter fans","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The reviews of this horror comedy are varied from outright hatred through to gleeful adoration. The fact is that this movie has pure Carpenter style - some love it, some don't.I myself have it on DVD and enjoyed it (in a 6 out of 10 way) but my wife thought it was a load of rubbish. Basically, if you enjoy schlocky horror with some comedy violence, dodgy dialogue and fun ideas then you will enjoy this movie. Carpenters style is always veering towards cheesy or corny which this movie does in spades.For myself, I enjoyed it very much in its own right. With a few beers and no expectations it can work. Truly one for the fans. "},{"Title":"Goofy and tired Carpenter","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  * ½ (1½ out of 5)John Carpenter`s VampiresDirected by  John Carpenter, 1999Typical cartoonish and goofy Carpenter flick unfortunately reveals unrewarding budget ($20 mill) and grand story (catholic world war against vampires) early on and never recovers. We are left with a mere shoot-out (in Mexico, cheap to film there too) between Woods with his partner Baldwin and the vampire master Valek played by Thomas Griffith. Also, Woods is the smallest and most un-inspiring vampire killer I have seen to date and no amount of tough one-liners can save him. Thumbs up for musical score only that finds John Carpenter back in key role.  "},{"Title":"Sleek and Silly","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Though the 'Master Vampire' is very cool and creepy, the rest of this mess of a horror film is ridiculous and inane. Alright, because it is a horror film, I suppose we can excuse the bad dialogue, and maybe most of the acting. However, what CANNOT be excused is the lack of horror, or even suspense. This film certainly did not drag, but instead darted through a loose plot which ended up nowhere except a lame showdown. A waste of an interesting idea and a great vampire. "},{"Title":"Better The Second Time Around","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had such high hopes for this film that the first time I saw it, I hated it. I'm a huge John Carpenter fan, and rank several of his films as my all time favorites, but I initially found this to be as much of a cheesy mess as Escape From LA (without the awful effects).I just saw it again, though, and despite some scenes & lines that should have been erased off the first draft, the film is overall fairly entertaining. Still not up to Carpenter's standards, but probably his best film of the 90's. (Which, unfortunately, isn't saying a whole lot).The effects are passable, the acting adequate, and if you aren't expecting much, this isn't a bad entry in the vampire genre(better than Fight Night, but not as good as From Dusk till Dawn)I give it a 6 out of 10. Probably a 5 if JC hadn't made it. "},{"Title":"A wee bit weak of the fang.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have noticed that every vampire film has its own sets of rules on vampires. Whether it be if they can transform into separate forms, most films a vampire can only transform into a bat while in Bram Stoker's Dracula Dracula could transform into multiple apparitions, or if crosses can ward vampires each film has its own set of maxims. Now in John Carpenter's Vampires crosses do not work, garlic does not work, stakes thorough the heart work, I think they forgot about holy water, and it is a good thing to lop off the heads and burn the carcasses of the victims. The vampires themselves are superstrong, cannot be out at daytime, and cannot transform themselves into anything.The origin of vampirism is peculiar to each movie. Most are originated with Dracula or Cain. Here we have Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith) an ex-clergyman who was transformed into the living dead after a botched exorcism. He has prayed on mankind for over 600 years. He now is looking for the Black Cross that will allow him to walk the day with impunity. Now Valek is played with some gusto, but the other vampires are all backdrop characters that never distinguish themselves. I really wish that vampires would be more interesting than just one-dimensional killing machines. This is one of the reasons that so many people liked Ann Rice's novels. Her vampires have more depth. However, they are whiny.Jack Crow played by James Woods is my favorite character. He acts with humor and cynicism. His parents have been killed by vampires and he is employed by the Church to wipe out the bloodsuckers. Valek wiped out, his current team except for Montoya (Daniel Baldwin), after they were set-up. Jack wants revenge.Carpenter's directing is quite good. The action scenes are thrilling and viscerally entertaining.  Vampires is a film that plays well in the theater, but is a bit bogged down on the small screen (unless your small screen is 50). If you like horror, then you will probably like this film. If you want a little more 'fang' to your film, than watch Fright Night or Bram Stoker's Dracula.  "},{"Title":"Oh, it's not that bad","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have read mainly scathing reviews on this movie and I wonder if the reviewers are just really young. Remember folks, John Carpenter directed this- as in the John Carpenter who directed Christine and Big Trouble in Little China- two other movies that didn't exactly rake in the bucks. Carpenter isn't known for making Oscar-nominated flicks, they're just fun, goofy movies.  James Woods, however, was appropriately cast as Jack Crow. His gruff looks and distinctive voice were a perfect combination for his cynical but heroic character. Is this a fabulous movie? no. Has Woods done better movies? Absolutely. If you're a Woods fan, rent The Specialist or Contact. If you're a vampire fan, rent Interview with the Vampire. But honestly, it's not that bad, just remember who directed it and your expectations will be set as such.    "},{"Title":"Die, you bloodsucker!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This strangely amusing hocus-pocus about the ironic origins of vampires has a few interesting twists. However, it is very misogynistic and is filled with violence and gore that is so over-the-top as to become ineffective. It's worth watching to see Woods as one of the most unlikely Christ figures in movies. "},{"Title":"A slick, cool horror/comedy with some classic scenes","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  It seems it's one of those that you either love or you hate.  I found it an enjoyable hour and a half.  James Woods is..well, James Woods; one of the most versitle, believable actors of our generation.  No matter how ludicrous or phoney the movie, he always pulls his parts off with style, personality and believability.  So it is with Jack Crow, the obsessed vampire hunter.A warning - this is not a movie for the faint of heart.  Like any John Carpenter movie, this one is filled with violence and blood.  In the style of Pulp Fiction, however, the violence is often comical, and almost cheesily done.  This is NOT a movie if you are looking for character development or redeeming values.If you are in the mood for a movie where the lead actor (Woods) is at his best, where the action is quick and the style whimsical, yet not self-parodying, and where vampires do not read poetry and wear velvet suits, but suck blood indiscriminatly and with cheesy style, get this movie.  Get it now.  I laughed and laughed, and had a wonderful time with this movie.  Great party movie. "},{"Title":"Insipid","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Awful, terrible, blunderous, horrible, dreadful, useless, appalling, and just plain bad. A waste of time. The thesaurus doesn't have enough synonyms. IMDB user that commented it seemed written by a 9 year old was RIGHT! If I had paid theatre prices to see it, would have filed a theft report with the authorities. Nothing of value here. Can you tell I didn't like it? "},{"Title":"All Fang, No Bite","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie, that in the famous words coulda been a contenda, but instead appears doomed to the status of 'also ran' in the annals of vampire flicks. Carpenter appears to have had a serious case of ambivalence with this film. Did he want a semi-spoof of the vampire genre, the potential is there in the sardonic humour. Did he want a surrealistic horror film, moments appear, especially with some of the cinematography. Did he want an action flic, there are lots of explosions, gunfire, and macho leaping about. However, what appears closest to Carpenter's vision would be the teenage slasher flic. Gore, blood, and fake body parts fly with abandon. But none of it works. The characters are almost parodies of classic movie types, the tough and stoic leader, the loyal sidekick who betrays him, even a hooker albeit a vampire hooker with a heart of gold. But Carpenter does nothing with them. Holes are shot in the old vampire myths (no crosses and garlic here) but nothing fills there place. The movies plods from action sequence to action sequence with little or no character or plot development. Then there are the gaffs. Vampires arise from the ground covered in the red earth of New Mexico. Next scene, they stride across the same location looking well bathed and more like neo-goth models than the undead. The supreme vampire looks more like a refugee from Belarus than the titan of unholiness. Sure they diss the Catholic Church, but an institution that survived the Reformation is unlikely to be bothered by John Carpenter's lame jibes. Add disjointed continuity, dreadful dialogue, and the world's most boring vampires (why be undead if things are this dull?), and you get a movie which is not worth the effort.Overall, give it a break. If you want to see a class act in Vampire movies, try to catch the old '70's version of Dracula with Louis Jordan. It pops up on the tube from time to time. Little gore, no guns, but more real chills and superlative acting than you'll see in any of Carpenter's recent efforts. "}{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is just one big heap of crap .I stopped it halfway through because it was so bad and then started watching it again to see if it would get better but it didn't . The only good thing about this movie is in parts it is so bad it's funny! "},{"Title":"Involuntarily Hilarious","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very odd movie to review at first one might say it's big crap. And it is. It seems as though it was written by a 9-year-old kid (a boy, to be exact). Everything is so predictably silly! My friends and I used to make up these sorts of stories, but got tired at age 10.However, for this reason, it might be one of the funniest movies you'll see in a while. Certain situations are so involuntarily hilarious!Highlights (1) A vampire that can walk in the daylight is unstoppable ... unless we can stop him!. (2) The girl tied to the bed with no reason in the world for being naked. (3) Notice that the weapons (we're talking heavy rifles and the like) are never handed over, but always thrown--guess wouldn't look cool otherwise!The movie gets a 3 because, after all, it makes you laugh. I only have one question. Has anybody seen the John Carpenter of Assault on Precinct 13? "},{"Title":"NOT John Carpenter´s best","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, okay, the setting is alright. A entirely NEW Vampire movie, breaking with all those ones like Bram Stoker´s Dracula or Interview with a Vampire. It is a new way of fighting vampires. So far, so good.But, although I love scary movies and I do not object violence in them, vampires went two steps too far. Violence is presented for its own sake, not to promote the movie in any way.Secondly, Jack Crow is an idiot an no hero.And finally, this movie has by no means the atmosphere like other Carpenter movies, Christine, Halloween or (maybe most of all) IN THE MOUTH OF MADNESS. Those movies needed little violence, but the atmosphere created was horrifying and tremendous.Okay, the movie is somehow entertaining, but it is not great. A 6 out of 10. Watch IN THE MOUTH OF MADNESS instead. this makes you shiver. "},{"Title":"Read the book?  Don't see the movie....","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I watched the movie because it was based on the book Vampire$ by John Steakley.  What a disappointment.  It was very loosely based, omitted entire characters, plot lines, and even had some lines that were completely twisted.  The book was a very dark action book, whereas the movie was just your run-of-the-mill horror movie.  Everyone should read the book, it is superior in every way. "},{"Title":"More plot holes than puncture wounds.","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  But it was *fun*.I just want to know one thing  In the first scene, the vampire hunters are at a supposedly abandoned building that they know is really filled with vampires.  Why don't they just BLOW THE DAMNED THING UP?  Or burn it down? Why the lengthy -- and incredibly dangerous -- foray *into* the nest, where the vampires can actually fight back?  No wonder these guys get wiped out. "},{"Title":"bad movie, but it doesn't take itself too seriously.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I was in high school, one of my english teachers told me that watching a movie meant that the viewer took on a willing suspension of disbelief. You'll need lots of disbelief to attack this movie. While it is excellently filmed (and James Woods is a badass), the plot has more holes in it than my socks. By the time the final battle scene was drawing near, I already knew who would live and die and how. Although I must admit the final ending was a tad bit of a shock. This movie is much better than Bram Stoker's Dracula, because at least this movie doesn't seem to take itself too seriously. PS Priests make the best villains@! "},{"Title":"Better than you might expect.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was much better than I expected.  I was ready for just another cheesy vampire movie.  James Woods is very good as the tough guy hero with an attitude.  The best part is when he is explaining to the new padre about how vampires really are.  Woods cracks me up no matter how serious he is.  The movie is never really scary, but it is very gory and not for the weak stomach.  This is a good one when your girlfriend is at work and you just want something to watch.  I am glad I waited to rent and didn't pay 7 bucks at the theater, though.  Bottom line, it is moderately entertaining for the price you pay to rent it. "},{"Title":"The most enjoyable dark comedy / horror movie of late","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Once you get over the fact that Vampires is not so much of a horror movie than a dark comedy the movie becomes quite enjoyable.  It is a breath of fresh air to see the vampire concept taken away from the Anne Rice-esque troubled and suffering fool and returned to the savage, ravenous beast that we were used to.  James Woods performance is extremely good and he delivers his lines with gusto. "},{"Title":"A unique look at Vampires","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the mass of vampire films being projected into Hollywood it is nice to see that John Carpenter takes a different approach, for it is the first and only vampire film that takes on the religious point of view.  While it follows the same location as From Dusk Till Dawn (Rodriguez 1995), the whole film has a unique style. It has the same basic revenge style storyline, for example, James Wood's character Jack Crowe had his mother bitten by a vampire therefore he goes on what can be seen as a revenge streak killing vampires, similar to Blade (1998), but the storyline to Vampires is the same as Blade to, a vampire looking for a way to exist in Sunlight. VAMPIRES has a fresh new way to look at the vampire myth and is utterley enjoyable, and  reccomended viewing, and sees Carpenter at his VERY best. "},{"Title":"An Ok Vampire Flick","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter must have let a vampire get to his finished reel first, because the life is sucked out of it!  John really relied on the gore factor here more that content.  Yes, there were shining moments in the film where we hear the history of the vampires and their nests. James Woods is miscast as Jack, the bandleader of the vampire killers.  Woods comes across too campy! Daniel Baldwin gives a good performance as Montoya, and in my opinion should have had Woods' role. Jack and Montoya criss-cross the desert intuitively searching for vampire nests backed with the funding of Cardinal Alba (Maximillian Schell). Gore and body count rise, our heroes take a fall, regroup, and find out the shocking secret that Cardinal Alba has been keeping.  This is a good film if you are into vampire flicks. It definitely isn't the worst! "}{"Title":"Violent movie - for fans a must","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  THE WILD BUNCH meets FROM DUSK TILL DAWN in this extremely gory piece of horror from the director who gave us the classics HALLOWEEN and THE FOG. James Woods is great as the cynical hero in the black leather jacket, Daniel Baldwin gained weight since his last appearances, Maximilian Schell is great as the bishop who has his own motives. I liked his accent and could have listened to his voice for hours. For those with weak stomachs this splatter-feast might not be the best choice for a quiet movie date, but all you gore fans should go and see it before the censors have the chance to cut out all the bloody parts (and there are a lot!). Camerawork (widescreen) and music (by Carpenter) are good.  "},{"Title":"A must-have for any home video collection","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  By far one of the most enjoyable films of 1998. James Woods manages to be both admirable and uproariously hilarious in the role of lead vampire slayer. Additionally memorable is the character of master vampire Valek, who proves to be an able match for Woods. Also contributing substantially to the movie is Carpenter's soundtrack, which manages to come across as both suitably menacing and appropriately hick (this is the southern US, after all). The best part about this film--at no time does it seem forced or fake, which is more than one can say about most films in the genre. Rewind your VCR to rewatch the campy motel scene, which combines America's two great loves--unabashed sex and pointless carnage. "},{"Title":"Read the Book!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I've read all the bad reviews, and even heard a few good reviews from friends, but I finally got to see this movie for myself...And overall, it's not that great a movie (6/10).  If any of you want to see what this movie should have been, read John Steakley's Vampire$, the book that this movie was supposedly based on.  I was really disappointed to see how much they slaughtered the novel to make this movie.  But, I have to give credit where credit is due.  James Woods made a GREAT Jack Crow, and Carpenter did a masterful job of directing.  It's the script that's lacking here.  "},{"Title":"Interesting idea..... but where's the scare?","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I'm just being picky, but doesn't a vampire movie have to be scary? Sure, Bram Stoker's Dracula wasn't an out and out boo-fest, but it well and truly made up for that with creepy atmosphere. Vampires, on the other hand, only comes across as being camp. James Woods is exactly as you would expect and no film with him in it can be all bad. His throwaway one-liners save this film from the scrapheap. There is no problem with the acting overall, or the directing. The script, i think, is where the movie lets itself down. There really isn't much plot to speak of. Not a complete waste of time by any means, just a little bit less than the sum of all parts.  "},{"Title":"Comparisons to Other Movies","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First off, DO NOT compare this movie to Blade.  Blade is an action movie. Vampires is a classic horror movie blended in to the style of John Carpenter (the rock music, the corny one liners, etc)which is all very cool. This movie reminded me of a cross between the Evil Dead and From Dusk Till Dawn.  This is because the vampires in this film were way over the top in their acting (very funny). The gore factor in this film is quite high and comical (a stake through a head).  Don't get me wrong, this film is good and should become a cult classic. The budget of this film was $20 million (which is how much Jim Carrey gets paid per movie), and although it does not use CGI, the special effects still work well.  "},{"Title":"WAS HALLOWEEN A FLUKE?","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter continues to want to compose the music for all his films, His keyboard work here brings back riffs of the score for Prince of Darkness and it just plain undermines the visuals.Some are well executed but most are contrived attempts at ART,the first half-hour is almost a remake of the 1972 Tele-film Gargoyles except with lots of Vampires..then the guy shows up at the SUNGOD motel and what is the deal with this cross-fading....Flashing red then it's like time has passed.GIVE IT UP!!!!Fear works from the unknown and John Carpenter has shown too much and James Woods and Daniel Baldwin are just awful.It seems like John Carpenter peaked early in his career,maybe now he can record a reunion album with the Coup-De-Villes.(the FOG).  "},{"Title":"Vampires is no Near Dark","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I knew better.  I knew better than to expect this to be interesting or tasteful or frightening.  I expected more from James Woods and I expected more from Sheryl Lee.  I wanted a counter-point to Near Dark but instead got a cut-rate machismobile with terrible dialogue, schlocky acting and gratuitous nudity and gore.  It was written for idiots.  It's close to being so bad it's entertaining... but only time will reveal that.  "},{"Title":"Another Carpenter Masterwork","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having been a John Carpenter fan for years now, I must say that I had high expectations for this film. I knew that it was going to be a John Carpenter film. To me, this means that the camera stays pretty standard, while all the action is contained in the frame, allowing for the audience to get a clear picture of what is going on. It also means that death is bad, not a joke. Plus, when it comes to an adults job, there are no kids present. Vampires had all of this, and more. Carpenter kept in his great quirky dialogue. Plus, he managed to do something I thought was impossible make a bigger bad-ass than Snake Plissken. Jack Crow is such a bad-ass, and James Woods is the perfect actor to play him. Thomas Ian Griffith was great as Valick. I was amazed at how intimidating he was in this. Although this film has a couple of faults (like Crow saying to a vampire friend, Vaya con dias, or the priest saying, A master vampire that can walk in the sun is unstoppable, unless we stop him.) Like I said, quirky dialogue. But Carpenter never lets up with the pace, and always has something great to look at. This film is up there with The Lost Boys and From Dusk Till Dawn as the best in vampire entertainment. "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpiece","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big JC fan. IMHO all of his movies are perfect, and this is no exception. Don't pay attention to what critics say and watch this awesome, brilliant, marvellously acted, written, directed and photographed horror-western. The plot's great and its execution stupendous. Jack Crow, the vampire slayers leader, wonderfully played by James Woods, deserves a place right up there with Snake as one of JC's best characters. 10/10!!!!! Vampires Rules!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   "},{"Title":"Great Director, Average Result","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a Carpenter fan since The Fog, And I just watched Vampires, it was good, but not good as I expected. The Plot took a different angle for the vampirism, and tells a story about no ordinary vampire but the father of all vampires itself. The story changes almost all the myths that we know about vampires, in this situation it's an interesting film, but not scary and actionful as I thought. Anyway, it's a John Carpenter film, every fan should see it for the sake of A Great Direcor. "}{"Title":"If you like this sort of thing, you should also see ...","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you like this sort of thing, you should also see the six part TV series by the British Channel 4, Ultraviolet. Easily the best take on humans vs vampires in the modern era and much better than all the movies on the same theme. I don't know where you could get a copy but at least keep an eye out for repeats in the UK/AUS and I guess cable channels in the US. Another in a long line of, it's not how much money you spend but the quality of the writing and performances of an excellent cast. "},{"Title":"Undead lore gets the Carpenter treatment.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe it's a millennium thing connected with fascination and fear of death, but vampires seem to be a popular topic these days.  At least a dozen films in the last few years, as well as many TV programs have dealt with or touched on the subject.  Let's face it - undead is IN. Long live the undead! Here the folklore gets a fun filled kick in the ass, after From Dusk Till Dawn's poke in the eye. Jack Crow (Woods) and his band of 'slayers' are a less than holy gang of Vatican sponsored vampire hunters, turning over every rock in America and killing anything undead that might be underneath.  Vampires live in nests, and the slayers flush them out systematically, like a cross between pest control and a SWAT team. After a wonderful opening sequence, the plot thickens when head vampire Valek turns up, putting a large dent in the number living slayers on Jack's team.  The plot thickens a bit from there, but I won't spoil any more for you. For those who aren't familiar with John Carpenter's style, this might be a bit disappointing and silly.  Woods is the only one with a juicy role, and never stops having fun. Baldwin appears to be taking the script seriously, and Ms Lee isn't given much to do other than her usual wide eyed, trembling with fear schtick.  But those last two don't matter, because this is a Carpenter film.  The last thing this guy wants is for us to take him seriously.  He is an expert at having fun, and having it on a small budget. No huge special effects, a few dodgy sets and deserted locations, some actors ready to take the micky, and he's ready to rock.  He is a great drive-in movie maker, and Vampires is no exception. "},{"Title":"An example of a Good horror Movie","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you take away John Carpenter and James Woods, Vampires would not be the terrific film that is. First of all, I want to complement film critic Gene Siskel for A) Liking the movie and B) Stating something that is absolutely true about this movie. He said on his show that one of the reasons this movie works so well is that there are no teenagers in it. I couldn't agree more, and I'm a teenager myself. It shows why movies like I Know What You Did Last Summer are so utterly bad. Carpenter was smart enough to cast mature actors who could be menacing, funny, and didn't have to bring up desperate moments of teen sex humor. Carpenter has been and continues to be the best horror movie director today, and this is a good example of why he's so good. "},{"Title":"This movie bored me to undeath.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe I was in a crappy mood when I saw this movie, but I have to tell you...it bored me to death!  I was really hoping for something exciting from Carpenter.  I'm a big Vampire Movie freak and there have not been many good ones that have come out lately.  Well...this one can go on the shelf with the rest of the cheesy horror movies that have come out over the past two decades, including Halloween.  James Woods didn't impress me as the 'badass' type.  He's getting too old and scrawny to intimidate me.  The vampires were OK, except for the Sabretooth Tiger fangs (which were terribly fake...maybe on purpose?).  If this movie was billed as a spoof, I missed it.  If I would have known it was a spoof I would have enjoyed it very, very much.  There were a few good one-liners, but other than that...Thanks for ANOTHER let down, John. "},{"Title":"Some fun, but not Carpenter's comeback movie","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Carpenter has some fun with the vampire genre by crossing it with the spaghetti western (right down to the villain in black and the twangy soundtrack).  The opening sequence in which a nest of vampires is routed by a rag-tag team of vampire busters is well directed and entertaining. Unfortunately, nothing else in the story makes much sense.  The key plot point, involving a religious relic, is explained sketchily in some throwaway dialogue.  There is gore that goes way over the edge, but might be enjoyed in a Grand Guignol kind of way by hardcore horror fans.  However, the sadism, especially directed at women, can not be enjoyed.  James Woods more or less delivers a self-parody of his wired screen persona and seems rather bored.  Daniel Baldwin is wooden as his sidekick.  Thomas Ian Griffith does not have the evil charisma necessary for the master vampire Valek. The absurd ending shamelessly sets up a sequel that not too many will clamor for.  "},{"Title":"Bitten, not shy","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok. let's set this up. You've got a group of Vatican sponsored vampire slayers led by Jack Crow (James Woods), a man with enough attitude for you, for me, for all of us. He and his crew clean out a nest but miss the Master Vampire, Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith). The crew goes back to the Sun God Motel and settles in for a serious night of partying with whores and booze (also paid for by the Vatican and supplied by local law enforcement). An unhappy Valek comes calling. He pauses long enough to bite one of the whores, Katrina (Sheryl Lee), who finds the experience VERY pleasurable. He then proceeds to massacre the crew, only Jack Crow and Montoya (Daniel Baldwin, in a sleep-acting tour de force) escape. They take Katrina with them, planning to use her telepathic link to Valek to track him down. This is the best part of the film. Katrina would have been better off with Valek. Sheryl Lee spends the remainder of the film being slapped, punched, bound, gagged, writhing and twitching--one of the most degrading performances by an actress in a film this year. The misogynistic streak in the film disturbed me. A young priest, Father Adam, joins the crew, giving Crow another target for abuse. James Woods has all the charm of an irritable scorpion. Thomas Ian Griffith isn't given enough to do. He certainly does make a menacing and imposing Master Vampire. Sexy in a feral sort of way. I would like to have seen back story on Valek. All in all, an interesting, but flawed film. "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The idea of one of the masters of horror giving the vampire mythos a try on screen is a tantalizing proposition.  When it's John Carpenter, the man who has give the world such brilliant films as Halloween, Escape From New York, and the underrated In The Mouth Of Madness, chances are that the film should be a sure success.  Unfortunately, there is no such thing as a sure success. In brief, John Carpenter's Vampires is a bad, bad film.  Not bad as in cringe-inducing, but bad as in the fact that Mr. Carpenter should know better.  Case in point halfway through the blood and sex-soaked film, lead vampire hunter Jack Crow (James Woods) explains to a catholic priest the truths about vampires.  He goes on a tangent about how they're not like the movies make them out to be and then proceeds to describe them using several Hollywood vampire clichés.  Are we supposed to be biting (no pun intended) on this? With the clichés set in motion, we are force-fed Jack Crow and his team of vampire hunters, which includes the lesser Baldwin brother, Daniel, as Montoya.  Crow's team hunts down a hive of very, very stupid vampires and kills them.  The master vampire escapes, however, and extracts his revenge on the team and a group of prostitutes at a seedy motel.  Leaving only Crow, Montoya and a sole prostitute (Sheryl Lee, of Twin Peaks fame) alive, the vampire, named Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith, trying really, really hard), continues his quest for an ancient cross that will allow him to walk in the day.  Crow and others attempt to track Valek down for the rest of the movie, setting up a bloody conflict in a deserted town prison. Where John Carpeter's Vampires truly fails is in the details.  For example, Sheryl Lee's character is bitten by Valek at the hotel, rather than slain, for no apparent reason other than to give the Crow team a telepathic link to the master vampire.  But why would a vampire bent on murder grotesquely kill everyone in sight except for a prostitute?  Another instance involves a minor detail Crow and Montoya loose their car in a crash, only to steal another one in a few minutes.  Now is there any real reason why ten minutes of screen time was wasted by an act that had absolutely nothing to do with anything?  Things only get worse from there, with major inconsistencies involving Crow's seemingly magical crossbow (how does someone reload a crossbow that is attached by rope to a jeep so darn fast and without even going back to the jeep to attach the new arrow?) and certain vampires that stand in sunlight with no problems one minute, but burn to a crisp the next. Coupled with a throwaway ending and some bad acting, particularly by Baldwin, John Carpenter's Vampires just isn't worth a trip to the theater. While not completely without merit (Woods and Griffith try, at least), the film is a huge disappointment.  Will I get quoted in the movie trailer if I say that this movie sucks?  Maybe. "},{"Title":"I was soooo disappointed","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I went to a midnight showing of Vampires Halloween night. What a waste!! I should have seen Practical Magic instead. We had a chance to have a plot, but we didn't. We had a chance to find out what the difference between goons, vampires and Master Vampires was, but we didn't. We could have had character development, but we didn't. What we did get was James Woods acting like a complete a**hole and beating people up a lot. We got vampires being shot with bullets that didn't kill them and some gore. We got two extremely under-developed villains and a couple of under-developed heroes. It was almost like they shot a 5 hour movie and then started cutting pieces out of it until there was nothing intelligible left. I usually like John Carpenter movies -- but this was a real stinkeroo -- I gave it a three. **Edit** Since I wrote this I have been told that it was a wonderful movie, faithful to the novel which explained everything the movie didn't. I maintain then it was a good book, but the movie still sucked. "},{"Title":"Why didn't they just bulldoze the house???","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have one HUGE problem with this movie. If you've got the $$$ (Which they obviously did), and you've got the men, why bother to enter a dark house and fight the vampires hand to hand. Why not bulldoze the house and fry them all?????  "},{"Title":"Wasn't Impressed","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've heard so many wonderful things about this movie so when I finally seen it, I was not impressed at all.  Movies that I really liked left me leaving the theatre in awe and thinking, I forgot about this within 2 minutes of seeing the credits. "}{"Title":"Liked it but it was lacking.","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I did like the movie but since it was 2 hrs 10 min the action scenes aren't in much of the movie.  The plot does lag in some parts when they are going into historical detail of vampires.   I wasn't totally disappointed but they could have covered the plot line of the vampires sooner and quicker and then just stuck to the actual vampire hunting and killing.  I wouldn't go back and see it again unless it was at one of those $2 places.  "},{"Title":"We're the real suckers","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing to write home about.  John Carpenter is clearly becoming long in the tooth, not unlike Valek.  There are a few spooky images, but most of the dialogue is cheap and hypocritical.  To wit, take James Woods' comment that vampires are inaccurately depicted in movies.  Yet this film virtually contradicts him (except for its lack of Eurotrash accents).Fairly entertaining, but Carpenter wants us to swallow too many absurdities and improbabilities which only serve to move the action along.  And though Woods carries off his wisecracks well, Daniel Baldwin is left with such tired lines as, How do you like your stake?By film's end, what have we learned?  What is the point?  If nothing else, at least Carpenter's latest is better than ESCAPE FROM L.A.and VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED. "},{"Title":"Good or bad, depending on how you look at it...","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You can look at this movie two ways; You can look at it as a John Carpenter movie or you can compare it to its peers in the genre. In the first regard it's mediocre at best. Compared to classic Carpenter (The Thing or Halloween) it's pretty poorly conceived and executed. The only strong aspect that Carpenter adds is the musical score, which we all knew that he could do anyway. If you look at it from the second vantage you see that this is at the top of the heap as vampire slaying action flicks go. It's got good amounts of gore, special effects, and the all important one-liners delivered flawlessly by James Woods. My advice to those who go to see this movie don't go looking for any Carpenter-esque masterpiece, you won't find it here. But, if you're looking for a fun way to kill some time, go and see Vampires.    "},{"Title":"A Shame of vampires!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  That was the worst mix of Interview with a Vampire and Dracula, ohh and Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Was it about horror?... I think it was more about comedy 'couse of the silly plot... and that way of getting nasty whit church!! get a better story! "},{"Title":"Just like I thought!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The guy I work with said he wanted to see this movie and after I saw the preview I decided I had to see it.  I think if you go into this movie thinking it's going to be dumb and cheesy, then it will, but I went in with an open mind.  I really enjoyed the movie. The formula for the movie worked to its advantage (gore, decapitated heads, nude chicks, action, explosions, and swearing).  Aside from the annoying one-liners, I enjoyed the script and dialogue as well.  A few scenes actually made me wince, and when I looked around everyone else in the theatre winced too, so the director did a good job displaying the violence! Just one thing I would have changed.  I would have cast the male lead as someone a bit bigger and more muscular.  More realistic. I give this movie a 7 out of 10... "},{"Title":"A so-so vampire flick","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked Vampires, but that's because I'm comparing it to all the other vampire movies I've seen, most of which were truly abysmal.  Vampires had a claustrophopic plot, it was overly gory, it had a Baldwin brother(I have to pause here to say that I really like Stephen Baldwin), and it wasn't particularly suspenseful or scary.  Still, since I can count the number of truly good vampire movies on one hand, I realize that beggars can't be choosers. In its defense, Vampires was a very interesting, and (I think) original take on the genre.  Still it remains in that strange limbo in between the vampire movies I could watch over and over (Bram Stoker's Dracula, The Lost Boys, Vampire Hunter D, From Dusk Til Dawn, Interview with the Vampire) and the movies I could barely watch all the way through the first time (Vampirella, Dracula 1972 A.D., Innocent Blood, Embrace of the Vampire, etc.). "},{"Title":"Entertaining.  Carpenter's best since Halloween.","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was surprisingly entertaining, giving the slew of horror films coming our way.  James Woods delivered as usual.  The surprise for me was the performance of Sheryl Lee.  I've always thought she was a great, sexy actress since Twin Peaks Fire Walk With Me.  She has a great way with terrified expressions.  This was better than Blade, because this had more convincing special effects and I didn't fall asleep.  This is John Carpenter's best since Halloween. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, for a bad John Carpenter movie","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's too bad the one guy we used to be able to depend on for at least one scary movie around Halloween time, even if it wasn't very good (ie Prince of Darkness) appears to have lost his touch.  This thing is one short step from a Full Moon picture. Wake up, John!  You made The Thing, remember? Wha' happen'? "},{"Title":"A superior vampire film","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An entertaining vampire film with strong characters and a better-than-average plot.  In his leather jacket, John Lennon shades and jeans, James L. Woods is an iconic vampire hunter in the employ of the Catholic Church.  Sheryl Lee is the most fetching victim of vampirism since Winona Ryder in Francis Coppola's Dracula.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"With great expectations I saw this film.","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With great expectations I saw this film , and my disappointment could not have been greater.  No pun intended it SUCKED! "}{"Title":"Effects-strong action thriller surrounding vampires and the Church.","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  For those looking for a deep, serious vampire movie, watch Interview with a Vampire instead.  This is an action / horror movie with lots of gore and big metallic stake-guns.This movie was great for the incredible special effects, from the flaming Vampire corpses to the realistic decapitations.  Those weak of stomach be warned.Compared by some to the X-Files movie, this is not as deep a plot, but has some intrigue and isn't just a testosterone-drenched movie about dragging evil vampires out into the light to watch them spontaneously combust.  There is a certain depth of character that is surprising for such a movie, although the initial scenes remind one more of a group of rednecks with body armor and big guns.Aside from the gratuitous violence against semi-nude women near the beginning of the movie, most of the scenes were on the tasteful side of gore. "},{"Title":"'Holely Vampires, Batman!'","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter treats us to an unlikely encounter of vampire hunters and nosferatu.  This tale includes James Woods (Jack Crow) as lead slayer in a final confrontation with the damned undead.  With Daniel Baldwin (Montoya) as his lead henchman and Sheryl Lee (Katrina) as a diving rod to Valek (top vampire), this story continues the mythology of the vampire while creating many inconsistencies within the plot.  For instance, why are all these 'slayers' armed to the teeth with automatic weapons instead of sharp wooden pencils?  Suffering these oversights, this movie does well by incorporating pop culture in Woods' dialogue and a sly view of the Catholic Church (one might just wonder where their donations have been going all these years). After all, it is only a vampire movie.  ** 1/2 "},{"Title":"This movie is supposed to be fun, and it is despite the many flaws.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this opening night (Oct. 30) and was prepared to be disappointed. I consider myself a fan of John Carpenter, and as such, I am aware that he has rarely made a perfect film (maybe Starman), but he does sometimes come close (The Thing, Escape From NY), and then sometimes he misses completely (Escape from LA, The Fog). But one thing he does usually deliver is entertainment. No matter how bad his films have been, no matter how disappointing, I've never wanted my money back because I've always gotten something out of them.So, I liked Vampires. So much so I'd like to see it again, and I'll buy it when it hits video. But this movie, on the Carpenter scale, comes in at about 6 for me (10 being highest, 1 being lowest).What makes a great movie? Look through this site and you'll see people who loved movies you yourself hated. But on the whole, a balance of character developement, plot, and action make a solid movie. As vampire movies go, I think Lost Boys and Interview are high on the list because of their ability to balance all these elements which make a good movie, I think Dusk Till Dawn is on the bottom of this list as it failed at character and plot and was almost pure action (and poorly done action at that).Vampires hits just above middle for me because although it lacks competent character development, it's plot is average and mildly interesting, and it's action is average to good.I think James Woods was probably one of the best things about this move. Thomas Ian Grifith was great but suffered from a severe lack of dialogue and development (don't blame the actor for these shortcomings). Daniel Baldwin was okay. Laura Palmer was good (but also lacking proper dialogue). And the rest were rather forgettable (once again, I blame the writing, not the actors. -- How you could waste Maximillian Schell's talents on a phone in role like this is beyond me.)If you like vampire movies, you should probably like Vampires. If you like Carpenter movies, you should also like this film. But if you're looking for a critical masterpiece, you shouldn't be seeing a Carpenter Vampire movie to begin with.This movie is supposed to be fun, and it is despite the many flaws. Therefore it succeeds in its mission.(P.S. you can't de-romantasize vampires by dressing tall, good looking people in black velvet. No amount of dust or dirt will take away from their appeal. If Carpenter was really trying to do this, as Jack Crow's dialogue indicated, he failed, and I for one am glad he did.) "},{"Title":"A failed synergy of the Western and Horror genres.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires is a failed synergy of the Western and Horror genre.  The cinematography throughout the movie is poorly done and fails to convey a sense of suspense or realism, the first necessary for a horror film, the second necessary for a western.  While James Woods' talents are well used in Vampires, the performance of the rest of the cast is disappointing.  The most regrettable aspect of Vampires is the sheer amount of violence directed at women.  Vampires introduces innovative elements into the undead genre, creating villains who are neither the urbane philosophers of Anne Rice nor the traditional Dracula clones.  Unfortunately, the focus on Valek, the powerful undead antagonist, prevents characterization of other vampires, reducing them to a sort of Night of the Living Dead zombie rather than intelligent villians.  The plot and background of Vampires held great potential, but its execution leaves much to be desired. "},{"Title":"They should give you your money back.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, I know what you're thinking... they should give you your money back, but more than likely that won't happen.  So, for those of you who haven't seen John Carpenter's Vampires, take this warning to heart before you dip into your wallet for seven bucks.This movie's main problem stems from a conflict between the writing and the direction.  Now, I know a lot of people have said that this is a great script, and I think I might agree if I had a copy of the script to read. But, John Carpenter (famous for his horror movies, and desperate for a cinema success) ignored this important fact by concentrating on the blood rather than the story.The movie starts out by plunging you into the story, assuming you know the characters and their history.  The only background on the characters, their motivation, and what their mission really is, comes through in little two minute speeches that seem to be pasted reluctantly between the scenes of gore.If you're the kind of person who enjoys gore, then this movie isn't for you, because the special effects are so primitive, it's a kick in the balls to anyone who is a veteran movie gore watcher.  There is absolutely nothing special about the violence in this movie, it isn't gross, it isn't shocking, it isn't even unsettling.  In fact, most of the time, it's just damn hokey. And I swear, it gets a little old seeing vampires burn in the sunlight, (approx. 90% of the vampire deaths in this movie are caused by sunlight) its the same damn schtick.So, if there are no other movies you want to see, and you're just itching to spend your cash, then please, feed the children, start up a scholarship fund, or bail the Russians out of debt.  Paying to see this movie sends Hollywood the wrong message. "},{"Title":"Stop John Carpenter Before He Films Again!!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What could be wrong with the money people in Hollywood that they would allow John Carpenter to release this disaster in its present form?  Vampires is jumpy, filled with plot non sequiturs, hideously edited, not scary, and, worst, not even funny it is a complete mess.  The worst thing that can be said about it is that, disbelief fully suspended, it makes Blade seem plausible. All this thing seems to be is a jejeune slap at the Catholic Church that doesn't really sting.Nobody's career is going to be helped by this thing.  One could merely sit in the theater, shake ones head, and hope that somehow, someday, someone will send Thomas Ian Griffith a decent script in order that he will be able to earn an honest dollar after performing in this pathetic mish-mash.  As for Daniel Baldwin, he should have known better.  James Woods will undoubtedly recover and be able to bring his special energies to future projects, but his appearance here will still be hard for horror movie buffs to forgive.What has happened to John Carpenter? He has been going steadily downhill for the past three or four films from the looks of this movie, he didn't even proof-read the script before he started directing it.Vampires seems to be a very sad coda to a remarkable career that has come, too early, to a dismal end.  "},{"Title":"Way too Rushed","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start by saying that this movie was pretty good, not great by any means, but it had the potential. James Woods, as usual, is just plain cool, but that doesn't make up for the fact that this movie seemed to have about 30 minutes in the wrong place. The problem is, they spent too much time on trying to make you like Daniel Baldwin and Sheryl Lee and not enough on, well, Vampires.The opening few scenes are great, right up until they escape from the Motel, and then it grinds to a terrible pace. For a long time, this movie seems forced, like they were trying to fill time, which is always a bad thing. And just when it starts to pick up again, you get to the end. This movie would have been MUCH better if they had cut out some of the Middle, and made the ending longer, not just a short, predictable bit of screen time. I mean, there was no suspense at the end, it seemed like they shot, and shot, and shot and said 'Oh wait, we need an ending.' Maybe that would explain why it felt like the ending of a TV movie.My take **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Disappointment after reading the book","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's a shame that authors don't have control over the screenplays based on their novels. I enjoyed the novelty of this novel's premise and was really looking forward to the film, especially when I heard the casting of James Woods as Jack Crow.The opening sequence of the film was great but went rapidly downhill and never really recovered. Sighhhh....  "},{"Title":"It amused me","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen this film on Halloween night...it just made me laugh.  I did enjoy the psychological aspects presented, insofar as the history of the cross, master vampires, and the involvement of the church were concerned. The only question is...will Carpenter film the sequel anytime soon?! "},{"Title":"A little Cheezy, but good entertainment...","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad film, a little predictable, but entertaining all the way.  Baldwin can't act like his brothers, but Woods was there to help it through.  The second Padre was a good add, helped it through the closing scenes. "}{"Title":"A Sorry Mess","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a terrible disappointment.  Carpenter's take on Vampires is silly without being funny, offensive without being scary and just plain badly conceived and badly executed.  Further, I for one am getting weary of seeing movies where clergy are depicted as a)simpleminded, b)feckless, or c)wicked.  In Vampires, they are all of the above.As for the acting, it is wholly forgettable. Thomas Ian Griffith hisses adequately and Daniel Baldwin is a suspiciously convincing dolt. James Woods' acting usually has its moments; sadly, none of them are in John Carpenter's Vampires.This movie is so bad and the expectations preceding it have been so high that the whole thing makes me furious.  What a waste of time, talent, and money. "},{"Title":"Good vampires, bad everything else","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, this movie wasn't that great. I loved the parts with the vampires. Valik was quite an intriguing vampire, and I enjoyed watching him. However, Sheryl Lee, James Woods and Daniel Baldwin KILLED ME!! #1, Lee's constant shaking yadda yadda, frustration...Daniel Baldwin, was just too funny with the cauterizing of his many wounds. James Woods, Ahh! Can his jeans be any more tight? And for once, I'd like to see a movie where the vampires prevail (even the master vampire). I loved the storyline though, with the search of the black cross and what not, I thought that was good. But, the western of it all killed me along with the music. Was it me, or was it the same over and over? I wouldn't recommend this movie, but if you like vampires, you might want to give it at try--I've heard mixed reviews. So, you may like it. "},{"Title":"This movie drained me of $4 and stunk!","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Went to a matinee and found this film had practically no plot. If you like BLADE, this one is in the same category.  Come on John Carpenter, I bought THE THING on DVD so I know you can come up with a good story occasionally...this was a total let-down.  Why not give more back-story on the development of the exorcised Priest (the master vampire)?  A little plot development would suffice...in the words of some characters in this film...this movie did not give me ebony, mahogany or a chubby...Don't bother...wait for video! "},{"Title":"unremarkable for a vampire movie","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I guess it's better than any other vampire movie currently out <g>.  Of course, it's crap compared to Bram Stoker's Dracula, and not as funny as From Dusk Till Dawn, and doesn't hold a candle to Near Dark, even though the setting and mood was in some ways comparable.  The vampires are extremely one-dimensional, the plot is predictable, and the only character I really liked was the one played by the Baldwin brother (I forget whether it was Billy or Daniel).  I do have to give credit to the guy who played Valek, though, as he made a pretty good vampire head baddie.If you are into vampires, see the movie.  Otherwise, it's probably not worth the price of admission--you will be disappointed, as it's not a great action movie, not scary, not especially dramatic (and the musical score is awful), and not even mildly funny. "},{"Title":"James Wood's coolness can't save film.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When you hear John Carpenter's Vampires was based on an actual good book, you may be surprised. The only good thing about this film James Wood. It's starts off with a great gory vampire killing scenes. This is followed by a party scene, which is followed by another killing scene, only the humans are dying. A calm scene follows this with people talking. With that I've identified all three different moods in this movie.1. Gory killing 2. Plot explanation 3. Partying, sex, and alcoholThe killing scenes eventually get very monotonous and boring. The characters also become very boring, except James Wood.  James Wood's character, Jack Crow was likable, despite the fact he enjoys entirely too much talking about other people's erections. His character was hardly consistent; he changes several times during the film, most notably, at the end of the film where he's everybody's friend, completely tolerant, a complete opposite from the middle of the film, when we've learned most about him.This movie also stars Thomas Ian Griffith, who seems to be cast solely on his resemblance to Christopher Walken. I guess Christopher Walken must have turned down the part. He most likely would have had lots more frightening lines rather than Thomas Ian Griffith, who basically does lots of groaning and hard breathing. More unbearably, through most of the movie he has this ridiculously stupid look on his face. All the scenes with Crow's sidekick, Tony Montoya seemed like filler. Most information from those scenes could have been revealed more easily and efficiently, and you are disappointed at the end when he doesn't die. There were several more characters, but they were hardly interesting.In the first scene, the master vampires are pinned as completely superior, but in the end, they are killed as easily as goons, James Wood, and the inexperienced wussy priest guy seem slack-jawed and carefree to kill them. The masters also seem as stupid as goons. Maybe this is based on the fact that they never explain how they become masters`Let's go kill some vampires.'`Yeah, whatever.'And that's where the un-needed erection jokes are used again.  "},{"Title":"A wasted $4.50","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After first seeing the trailer I was very excited about seeing the movie!  I was even more excited when a friend told me he had the novel it was based on.  I devoured the book in a day and a half and couldn't wait for the movie.  Well, after seeing the movie, about the only thing it and the book had in common was a character with the same name.  Don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to compare the book and the movie.  I did expect a story line at least somewhat similar to the book.  Since I couldn't get that, I would expect a good movie at the minimum.  Where did they get this silly oh no, the vampire can get a cross that lets it walk in daylight crap from!? At least the hot dog and popcorn were good.  Skip Vampires and watch The Lost Boys if you want a good vampire movie.  True, you have to put up with Corey Haim and Feldman, but it's better than watching James Woods try and be macho. "},{"Title":"Nice effects and mild Horror","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not the best horror movie but not bad at all for Halloween.  First time in years that I have spent money on horror... I enjoyed it... "},{"Title":"The Worse Movie Made by Man","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've enjoyed Carpenter films.  No one's going to get little gold statues for them, but they can be fun.  I saw it at a preview; I told the distributor rep that the best thing they could do was pull it now.There is not one redeeming scene, line, note of music, or sequence.Save your money. "},{"Title":"One thumb up, one down","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so bad it's good. Lots of blood, gore, and great special effects, but dialogue straight from the cliche encyclopedia. The audience was laughing at the serious parts. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of the worst pics of the year.  I saw it at a free screening and people were walking out half way through.  Unnecessary scenes are thrown in just to get an audience reaction and the script and dialog were almost as shallow as in Species 2 (OUCH!) "}{"Title":"I'd ask for a refund, but I got in for free","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If your idea of a good movie is seeing a bunch of people getting harpooned by two men who push around a priest and a hooker, by all means, see this movie.  The only good acting is by Sheryl Lee, the vampy whore.  I have to admit, I did want to see what happened, but the wait was painful. The special effects sucked (my 63-year-old mother found them amusing) and what was that whole Hooker-Slayer thing?  Daniel Baldwin spends the whole movie slapping and cussing this whore, and all of the sudden he loves her?  Please!  Oh, and BTW, Carpenter wrote the music to this flick.  I'd tell him to keep his day job, but apparently that's not very good, either. "},{"Title":"Promising, but Disappointing","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first half of this movie was very exciting, though gory. Unfortunately, John Carpenter doesn't go for accuracy, and we have another fracture in vampire mythology. If you want a better movie along these lines, try Vampire Hunter D. "},{"Title":"Disappointing screenplay","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter's Vampires begins as a Vatican-sponsored search-and-destroy team descends upon a rural, deserted (or is it?) New Mexican farmhouse - a suspected vampire hideout. This first set worked well for me, as pike-and-crossbow-armed members cautiously moved in, opening doors in dusty attics and among large, wooden crate/wardrobe/coffin-like objects. Questions came to mind, such as 1) It's an old wooden house. Wouldn't it be safer to just torch the place and thereby drive the vampires out into the sun, burn them, or reduce their cover? and 2) Those vampires snarled, were agile, and used surprise, but seemed little trouble to armed humans. Why didn't the undead use firearms or set booby-traps? No matter the Slayers use an inventive extermination tactic, and the head vampire of this nest (Valek, played by a menacingly well-cast Griffith) makes up for the poor match-up as he evades the hunters, tracks them down to their rented motel, and returns the visit.Team leader Jack Crow (Woods) and the few other survivors retreat to meet the supervising cardinal, where they conclude that Valek seems to be searching for an object or person. A new priest, Father Adam (Guinee), is assigned to the group, and Jack sets out to try to stop Valek, ignoring orders to re-build his team.I enjoyed the humans-eradicating-vampire-nest (and vice-versa) scenes of the first act, but the movie declined from there. Griffith does a great job as Valek, Guinee was fine as Father Adam, and I was pleasantly surprised by Lee's performance as afflicted prostitute Catrina, but the only good dialogues to be spoken are explanations of Valek and other vampires.For the most part, the film did not scare me (notable exception a tentative tiptoe into a dark building by combat-unready Father Adam) - this is mainly an action film. There are loads of violence and foul language, and while that's appropriate for the life-and-undeath vampire-vs.-human struggles, I found it disturbing in a human-abusing-human context. It made it almost impossible to feel sympathy towards Jack or driver Montoya (Baldwin, who reminded me of an overweight Elvis). The only character I could root for was Father Adam, a devout priest thrusted into having to put up with these ruffians. Although it must be said, other students in the audience seemed to like these rough intra-species words and actions more than I did. (Our favorite line was a snide remark about our state.)There is plenty of gore, but it's at a fitting level - a bit nauseating but not overwhelming. Vampire demises are good, human deaths are quick and dirty, and there is one deliciously gross and effective bisection. The Southwestern settings were adequate-to-very-good.Rating for John Q. Public * 1/2Rating for self ** (because I like the vampire genre) "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Who funds these movies?  This movie has absolutely nothing going for it. Its only accomplishment was in draining the life out of the crowd.  The so-called action scenes in this movie are dull in comparison to TV episodes of Macgyver, let alone even attempt to be in the same category as Interview with a Vampire or From Dusk till Dawn.  There was no humor in this film. There was no plot.  The special effects were anything but special. Especially at the end (don't worry, this movie can't be ruined by telling bits about the end) when the cross falls down.  What was Johnny Carpenter thinking?  The scene in which Baldwin drags away the cross with the arrow attached to the Jeep could have been better done with claymation.  As far as I can see it the only possible reason to make this movie would be to release it straight to Mystery Science Theater 3000. "},{"Title":"Bloodsuckers from boredomland","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There is no doubt on which ones are the best modern-day vampire movies so far......yeah I mean Fright Night, The Lost Boys and Dusk Till Dawn. They break with a lot of vamp myths and are well filmed. This Vampires movie is so boring that you'll find yourself saying What am I doing here? There is no action, no real plot -it isn't necessary sometimes-, no interesting or memorable characters, and no great make-up or special effects -though I have to say that the cinematography is great-. John Carpenter is taking us for fools, I really wanted to see this picture and as I work on a radio show in movies I saw it along with I Can Hardly Wait, and let me tell you that one was better, at least it made me laugh. This movie is really full of cliches and dumb scenes that keep the audience laughing at how dumb it is. I know you gotta see it for yourselves, but take my advice on mind when you walk into the movies. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I will re-submit after I see the movie, but I have serious reservations about it.  They seem, from the credits, to have changed some essential elements, for what I can only hope are good reasons.  This rarely works.  Read the book, if you can.  Carpenter and Woods have decent track records, and I hope it works out, but the novel was a minor masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Vampires will suck you just some of your time","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've always been fond of gothic tales. I like Bram Stoker, I love Anne Rice. I like innovative views about creatures of the night, like Richard Matheson's I am legend. Here in Italy, Vampires by John Carpenter has been in the cinemas since one month ago. The first day it was programmed I'd gone with a friend (a vampire lover like me) to see it. After five minutes of projection, we were shocked. There's no good and evil in this movie, there are just a bunch of disgusting vampire hunters you begin to hate the first minutes of the movie and a bunch of pathetic vampires that can't do nothing but try to be fearful but end to be just plain ridicolus. OK, they're not romantic (of course, they're not Neil Jordan's Louis and Lestat...) but Carpenter fails to make us see them as forces of evil or nature. James Woods is just a bad copy of Jena Plissken, and Jack Crow is not a person you care for, like all the other characters. The love story between Daniel Baldwin and Miss Laura Palmer is not developed and you begin to ask yourself Why are all these characters acting like this?, Where the vampire has found all those others Maestros? not finding any answers. Boring, boring, boring. Vampires will suck you just some time you could spend better renting some old Boris Karloff and Christoper Lee movies.  "},{"Title":"A kick-butt vampire movie to surpass all others","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see a sneak preview of this movie while I was attending this year's Comic Con in San Diego. So maybe there will be changes between the August film and the final release, but for this version I must say that I liked it. It is about a bunch of vampire hunters going after what turns out to be the master vampire of all vampires. It is most definitely not the romanticized vampires that have been in vogue lately but are the gruesome, blood covered, tattered vampires that have more in common with the vampires of Near Dark. Like so many other John Carpenter films, this one combines a rebellious attitude with action and enough of a plot to carry a story. Though according to my best friend who saw it with me, the vampire hunters' motivation should have been displayed sooner. And I do agree with him, just not as much. The whole film is wrapped with a soundtrack by Carpenter himself which sounds really good; it's on my list to get once it comes out. I would definitely recommend seeing the film! "},{"Title":"It's Thing good.","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had the opportunity to get into a press screening of this film and it kicked my ass! I left the theater giddy. I was giddy! I haven't been that fulfilled by a movie since The Shawshank Redemption. Granted, I'm a huge John Carpenter fan and I would go to see his fecal matter in the middle of the sahara desert. But I'm also one of his biggest critics (Although as my buddy says Not liking in 'In The Mouth of Madness' does not make you a critic. It just makes you alive), so I went into this as skeptical as the next guy. And I came out knowing that John is back! And in pristine form. And you can quote me on that.   "},{"Title":"Let's hit 'em!","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw it on WORLD PREMIERE at the Munich Fantasy Filmfestival. And it was GRRRRREAT! John Carpenter is a director you can really rely on. He has the right sense of humor that makes this film so special. It has a cool story (hunting vampires), cool fx (killing vampires) and a cool soundtrack (musical vampires). A short summary From Dusk Till Dawn Splatter Version. Hunting vampires is a classical horror movie theme and is done very well by Carpenter. The cast is also great (Maximilian Schell as bishop...) and this is what makes a movie good. I am looking forward to seeing the German version, hopefully it won't be cut too much... If you wanna see a really cool, perfect splatter movie, go in there-you will be satisfied!!! "}{"Title":"Vampires Exceeds my Expectations","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had the opportunity to view this film, in its enterity at a sneak preview screening in Atlanta, Georgia at this year's Dragon*Con. I was going in, expecting to see another half-hearted attempt at a vampire movie and was pleasantly surprised. It was original it its history and treatment of vampires, and had some very interesting changes to some myths and legends. Definately not just another butchered remake of Bram Stoker's tale. Nor was it a vampire movie where my friends and I found ourselves playing 'Name that Clan', as is often done among White Wolf gamers. Some pleasantly original ideas went into making this film.  It was also very humorous, having more one liners than you can shake a stake at. James Woods was highly entertaining. The audience was quite responsive, cheering and booing, oohing and aahing during the film, and applauding as the closing credits rolled. It's been a long time since I've been to see a movie where the audience got that into watching the film. It was an all around pleasurable experience, and I definately recommend that you see this movie once it's released. I know I'll be seeing it again.  "},{"Title":"James Woods Wears the Fangs Here.","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires (1998) Dir John Carpenter / Cast James Woods, Daniel Baldwin, Sheryl Lee, Thomas Ian Griffith, Maximilian Schell Wretched little bloodsucker regarding a cross that can render vampires impervious to sunlight. James Woods and Daniel Baldwin lead a team of vampire hunters where they harpoon the creatures and drag them into the sunlight to fry. Early on the team is dismembered, decapitated, swan in two by claws, leaving Woods and Baldwin with bitten captive Sheryl Lee. She manages to bite Baldwin, which leads to predictable circumstances. Screenplay unleashes morbid images of vampires punching their fists through victims while the heart pumps its last in their palms. This is a sad descend in quality for director John Carpenter who once made a horror masterpiece called Halloween. Woods pulls through as perhaps the film's best element. He is required to kill vampires and look cool doing it. This is beneath his obvious talent. Baldwin never seems to be with the program. Sheryl Lee spends most of the film bound to a bed. Perhaps it was the only way the filmmakers could get her to stay for the entire shoot. I hope that she can look back and not be embarrassed for this obvious exploitation and depravity. Thomas Ian Griffith plays the head honcho vampire. Production is reduced to a puke gore mess at its pathetic pointless worst. Score 1 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"James Woods kicks vampire butt, but the results are only so-so","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not that good, not that bad. James Woods leads a team of vampire hunters in the southwestern USA. His team is one night compromised and decimated by a master vampire (Thomas Ian Griffith), which leaves him alone with teammate Daniel Baldwin to stop the vampires from retrieving a relic which will allow them to survive direct sunlight. I like some of the tweaks that have been made to vampire lore here, particularly the concept that, at night, vampires are pretty much invincible. James Woods, of course, rocks, but I always think that, if you're not going to cast Alec, just stay away from the Baldwins. All the other ones look and sound so much like Alec, it just feels like you're being cheap. Griffith is good, too, as the main baddie, and I also liked Tim Guinee as the priest who works with Woods and Maximilian Schell as a Cardinal. I think the major problem is that the pacing for the flick is a little slow, when it should be totally breakneck. I also may have been predisposed to be disappointed because Netflix sent me a cruddy pan & scan disc, which always ticks me off. "},{"Title":"Has a pretty good bite","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Although it lacks the humor and the wit of 'From Dusk till Dawn', John Carpenter's horror genius and James Wood's slick persona make for a relatively entertaining, fun disgusting horror picture for anyone who can stomach the gore.One thing to be said about John Carpenter's Vampires is that these monsters certainly have bite. They are not soft bodied, fleshy goblin creatures like those in Robert Rodiguez's vampire flick who can be killed with a mere holy water balloon, These vampires are the ultimate super strong undead, and are not even affected by the largest of crosses. They are nasty, but not as nasty as the protagonist Jack Crow who works for the church killing vampires with his brother for a living. He is not a nice guy and there is not much of a character to him, but we sort of end up liking him anyway. Vampires is nothing special but it does what it is supposed to do by offering a couple hours of slick gory fun. Even for horror fans, I wouldn't say that this could be a lovable film, but it is certainly worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Carpenter slacks a bit, but I still managed to have my high spirits.","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter is known to people as a master horror filmmaker even though after the masterpiece The Thing, he's been slipping quite a bit never making any box office hits. In fact it felt as if people were fed up of the director while managing to make descent films that non fans regret not seeing.Vampires is Carpenter's last film of the 1990's where he gives it all he got with James Woods as Jack Crow, a vampire hunter hired by the cathedral church to exterminate all the un-dead blood suckers. His teammates include Daniel Baldwin, Tommy Rosales (a great stunt double), Mark Boone Junior and others where they go from old hideouts and take out every vampire. All is well where the team celebrates until a head vampire comes through the door and kills all of Jack's crew, including the strippers and shooting a priest in the head with a double barrel shotgun. Daniel Baldwin's character and a stripper along with Jack are the only survivors where they want to figure out who the vampire is, where did he come from and how did he know where Jack would be.What keeps Vampires such an entertaining film is the action sequences and the special effects where it reminds me of the grotesque moments on The Thing to keep audiences riveted. I couldn't believe that the late Gene Siskel loved the film so much that he considered James Woods to be an Oscar contender despite the fact that no such thing happened. "},{"Title":"Good, vicious entertainment","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This slight movie, which won't win any awards, which (presumably) didn't further the careers of anyone involved in its making, is - to my mind - the perfect movie, on many levels. First the myth of the vampire is tweaked and twisted just enough to make Vampires pretty original in its treatment of these thoroughly well-known creatures. Second the music (by John Carpenter) is spot-on perfect, and owns your brain for days - and, unlike so many movies, isn't obtrusive in the slightest; it's a perfect fit. Third in the strange realm of the cartoonish, where earnestness and silliness must exquisitely commingle for a movie (or book, or whatever) to be believable, well, in that strange realm Vampires succeeds beautifully. And that is sure no easy feat. P.S. Thought I'd be safe and check spoiler pertaining to my critique of director/ screenwriter treatment of a female character in this film. Some viewers of Vampires will find Sheryl Lee's character's treatment to be offensive in the extreme re misogyny/sexism/ violence against women, and as a progressive, enlightened male, it's a charge that's hard to refute. I personally think the character in question could've gone through the versions of hell she goes through and not, say, be tied naked to a bed in the process (there is nothing in her nakedness that's crucial to the scene at hand, or the movie in general; it's 100% gratuitous, meant solely for the titillation of the males in the audience, and as a male I am indeed offended by that). I also don't think it was necessary to treat Sheryl Lee's character post- vampire with total callousness, even though I understand where the filmmakers are coming from with this; they're saying she's a vampire, these vampire hunters despise vampires and, therefore, her treatment's going to be abysmal, which fits character-wise and story-wise. That's a fine argument except for one niggling detail, which is, when you pornographize to the extent which Sheryl Lee is pornographized, you're not overriding the sexually desirable with the vampirically wretched, not by any stretch. You're only dealing in sex and desirability - and given that her keeper in the scene in question (Daniel Baldwin) doesn't desire her at all, the filmmakers can't even say it's contextual. It's just plain misogyny, period. "},{"Title":"james woods is the king.....","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was released in the same year as Blade. This is of a slightly different theme though &#150; whilst still a vampire film, it has more of a western feel to it, from the sparse desert landscapes and gunslinging vampire hunters, to the whole overtone of vengeance and retribution. Some say this is one of Carpenter's worst films, but when you've made a name for yourself, and established a solid reputation, you're free to churn out a bit of bilge every now and then, eh? Personally, I think this movie's quite entertaining&#133; This plot line is quite a good one. Vampire slayers, employed by the Catholic Church (another catholicism-basher, then?) are on the verge of wiping them out for good. Tracking the latest batch of pesky bloodsuckers, they believe they've found the 'nest'. Apparently, according to their 'Slayer Rules' if you find the nest, you find the master. Unfortunately, they don't find him at the nest, but he finds them at their motel. Valek, the Master, wipes out most of the slayers, leaving him free and unmolested to perform an ancient ritual that will enable him to walk in the daylight, and reign supreme. The whole 'take-over-the-world' ploy rears its ugly head once again.First and foremost the biggest reason to watch this film is James Woods. He does a brilliant job of his hard-ass, sardonic and murderous vampire slayer, Jack Crow. He has some of the best lines in the movie Vampires are not romantic. Its not like they're a bunch of f*ckin' fags hoppin' around in rented formal wear and seducing everybody in sight with cheesy Euro-trash accents, all right? and he looks cool with a crossbow. (Of course, his parents were killed by vampires, which explains why he spends the entire movie being perpetually angry.) Daniel Baldwin is Jack's second in command, Anthony Montoya. He is clearly meant to be the strong, silent type who backs his partner up with unfailing loyalty. Unfortunately, Montoya seems hellbent on challenging Jack's every idea, and there's quite an amusing scrap between the two towards the end of the movie. (Guys, eh?) Sheryl Lee's Katrina is a hooker who becomes inescapably involved with things after being bitten by the Master Vampire, and Jack and Montoya use her to help them find him. She basically does what she was famed for in Twin Peaks &#150; she spends the entire film looking mostly dead, and predictably, there's the token scene where she's in the buff for no good reason. Tim Guinee does a good turn as a vampire-hunter-wannabe-priest who chiefly gets in Jack's face a lot. Jack responds by kicking the hell out of him at every given opportunity. Interestingly enough, Guinee appears in Blade as Karen Jensen's ex-boyfriend. He turns into a vampire, and she kicks the hell out of him. Thomas Ian Griffin is very good as Valek. He's very menacing and rather grotesque in a way, and he makes some interestingly gory kills. (If this film taught me one thing, it's to watch out for guys with sharp fingernails.) Maximillian Schell does a good job as the Cardinal that Jack's slayer-gang report to. He's obviously corrupt and conniving&#133;. just look at his beard.The rest of the film looks really good. (Having a jedi of directing like John Carpenter at the helm, you would expect this.) It's full of dusty yellow, heat-hazed desert panoramas, long open roads, blood, sweat, guns and seedy motels. Just the kind of life a roaming vampire-slayer would have. Jack and his crew of miscreant vampire-slayers look like hi-tech pest control. Valek and his band of minions &#150; who look like a heavy metal band who take their costuming very seriously &#150; cause necessary murder and havoc. Check out the Monastery scene towards the end of the film. There's something about people in dusty black coats throwing monks against walls that only John Carpenter could make look amusing.For all it's bad reviews, this film makes good on a few things, like cracking one-liners, (don't make me come over there and beat the sh*t out of you, Padre) an amazing amount of gore, and John Carpenter's home-made (slightly dodgy) soundtrack. This movie is more than adequate for a Saturday night in with a couple of friends, a few beers and a pizza. Just don't expect more than that, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A very gory offering","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are some new ideas put forward in this rendering of a very popular horror theme. One suggestion is that around the world there are nests of vampires lurking in unexpected places. The aim of the vampires is to possess a cross which has magical powers and will allow them to exist in daylight hours instead of always being creatures of the night and dark places. Vampires are almost indestructible for their numbers can easily be increased simply by biting someone and that person develops into a vampire within a very short time. Recruitment of vampires is therefore not at all difficult.Of course the Vatican must stop this proliferation of evil and engages Jack Crow (James Wood) to hunt out the nests and exterminate them. What a guy is Jack! With a massive assortment of equipment including crossbows and long spears (apparently guns are not much use) Jack Crow leads his support group into dangerous places. When eliminating vampires it is essential to go for the heart. A sharp thrust right through. When the victim staggers he is dragged by a hawser out into the sunlight. A sudden burst of flame and only the skull is left.I always thought that vampires were weak, pale and anemic craving for blood to sustain them. Here they are violent and quite strong being able to lift a man and throw him across a room.If you miss the first conflagration, don't worry there are lots more to follow. Jack's methods seem to work very well. But the Master Vampire is truly hard to catch and poor Jack loses most of his support team. There is a minor love theme essential to the plot. A hooker has been bitten and consequently she can be used to hunt down Valek because once bitten there is a a telepathic communication between the Master and his victim. This idea tends to stretch the imagination a little too far but who am I to make such judgments. I know nothing about the vampire world.John carpenter's spooky music adds to the creepy atmosphere. Certainly not for the squeamish, but then again it's not to be taken too seriously "},{"Title":"Carpenter does it again....a real treat!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Once again the master of horror impresses us and proves he has never lost his 'touch' with his westernized vampire movie;'Vampires'.Every Carpenter fan knows his love for westerns and like his many other films like 'Assault on Precinct 13'(inspired by 'Rio Bravo') and 'Escape from New York', 'Vampires'is no exception.Carpenter makes a very wise choice and chooses New Mexico as the location and gets the unique atmosphere he wants for a vampire movie.The movie begins with a great sequence where the vampire hunters attack an old farmhouse nearly in the middle of the desert and they hunt all the vampires except the master.Soon it turns out to be the master is the first vampire in history;an ex priest named Jan Valek and searching for a hidden cross which can enable all the vampires walk in the daylight.After Valek kills the team except the leader of the team Jack Crow and his sidekick Tony Montoya,the two begin to search for answers and look for Valek by using the psychic link of one of his victims;a hooker named Katrina.The movie doesn't act fast but Carpenter manages to keep the attention by effective twists and dynamic direction.As a twist, Carpenter creates a real big shock wave on the audience by telling the vampire slayers are hired by the church.The music which Carpenter composed is also a real treat and reminds us we're watching a western.The acting is outstanding for a vampire movie.The cast is wisely chosen by the director and all of them give memorable performances.(Especially James Woods and Thomas Ian Griffith).Carpenter gives us a very stylish,sexy and scary movie just like we expect from a master filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Far from the worst John Carpenter has ever delivered.  His fans won't be disappointed.","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I really kind of got a kick out of this one, though not quite Mahogony wood. I approached it with really low expectations, having sat through the miserable experience that was Ghosts of Mars first and having seen the mediocre IMDb ratings. That may have helped my opinion.It has gotten better with age too. The relentless Catholic bashing goes over much better these days in the wake of the scandals.The thing about John Carpenter movies in general is you have to approach them expecting style over substance because that's his cup of tea. If you are ever expecting something deep and sensible he's not the man to give it to you.He rarely fails to deliver something stylish though, and this one was no exception. James Woods was awesome as the bitter bad-ass Vampire hunter and B-movie Daniel Baldwin backed him up nicely as Montoya.The final script really wasn't all that bad as far as Carpenter movies go either. There were no moments where it imploded on itself, ala Ghosts of Mars. It all flowed along quite nicely for something so divorced from reality and more than a little disturbed to begin with.I dare say I even liked it better than Near Dark, a more highly regarded Vampire flick. They both didn't fail on the style factor but this one had less glaring and incomprehensible plot holes. If you're a Carpenter fluff fan, I believe you'll be hard pressed to regret killing time on this one. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a pleasant surprise. Not a high budget films by any means, but it did a good job of covering up its lack of funds. The acting by the main characters was solid for the most part. The main vampire hunter, a guy named Jack, does come off as a bit over-the-top -- like he's trying to be arnie or van dam -- but it ends up being funny and entertaining rather than just bad. The plot line is original and involves a catholic intrigue, with a few truly surprising twists at the end. The music is also by John Carpenter and went well with the scenery (film is set in the southwest) and the mood of the movie. Unconventional movie music but I liked it a lot. 7.5/10 I'd like to see this one again, potentially buy it if it's not too much.  "},{"Title":"James Woods And His Friends Use Vampires To Auto-Eroticize","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **may contain spoilers**Vampires is a straightfoward variation on the slasher type of movie, with the undead as the bad guys. The story is simple. Basically, in this movie, all the vampires want to kill humans, so of course, we have to kill them first. So, james woods (who plays a vampire hunter working for the catholic church) and the least appealing baldwin brother gather up some fellow social outcasts and try to kill the master vampire before he finds a way to start walking around during the day.James woods and all the vampire hunters are really stupid and unlikeable, and when i say that i mean James Wood's character mostly. He and the baldwin guy spend most of the movie slapping around sheryl lee and talking about erections. This is fine i guess, if you like that sort of thing, but it doesn't really make for a quality movie. Also, Carpenter goes out of his way to tell us that the vampires here are not the romantic kind, who try and seduce girls and wear expensive clothes. But then he has the master vampire wearing some kind of fancy suit and a cape! And he has a distinctly european-sounding name. Yeah, I'm really sure Valek is from texas or oklahoma. But whatever.I understand that this movie was trying to be some kind of vampire themed western, but even cheap westerns have better dialogue and more likeable characters than this. the catholic church should also sue the creators of this movie for making priests out to be such spineless idiots. one priest actually has the brilliant line that goes A master vampire, able to walk in the sunlight, unstoppable. Unless we stop him. Uh Huh. And this is not bad compared to some of the stuff James Woods gets to say. He actually asks the master vampire about how well the vampire's penis works, not once, but twice! Even worse, Woods says all his lines with this arrogant conviction that leads you to believe he actually thinks he's telling you quality stuff! In the end, the vampires are more sympathetic than the humans because at least they don't talk as much. This movie is like watching a porno, except instead of sex, it has vampires.3/10.  "},{"Title":"B-movie Masterpiece","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This underrated film doesn't pretend it's anything other than a rollicking good B-movie time.  It is fast-paced and outrageous.  Many people think it is overly gory (and it is the most gory of all Carpenter films, most of which purposefully eschew gore), but, like a good Sam Raimi film, the gore here is part of the fun.  James Woods gives a perfect over-the-top performance as a vampire slayer and resentful scumbag, although he does tend to overshadow every other actor in the film.  The story is only a small portion of the fun here, but it had a number of surprises for me.  For example, the movie first appears to be anti-Catholic but ends up being more pious than one would suppose (and it's not too tough to notice that the hero's initials are J.C.).  Far better than From Dusk Till Dawn, which is only good for the first 15 minutes.  I give Vampires a hearty 8/10. "},{"Title":"As Bad As Toothache","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A friend of mine approached me at work recently and told me he had watched the Carpenter movie 'Escape from LA.' He followed that up by saying, 'I think John Carpenter has lost it.'For those of us brought up on Carpenter masterpieces such as 'The Thing' and 'Escape from New York' then I think my friend has a point. The recent batch of movies by Carpenter have been a letdown. A recent example is 'Vampires' starring James Woods and to be honest if the film didn't have Woods then it would be totally lost.I won't go over the plot as my friends here do so adequately but the problem with this film is that does nothing very well. The editing in the film is atrocious, it tries to be cool with the use of fast cut editing particularly in the opening sequence but it only looks amateurish, a bit like a karaoke singer after one too many.Apart form Woods the acting doesn't inspire either and the actors employed would be best left to tv filmwork. I don't include Maximmilian Schell in this because he is one of the great actors and wasted in this tripe. He only appears briefly though.This film has been made in the same vein as another Carpenter movie, 'Big Trouble in Little China' but 'Vampires' isn't as good and not half as funny.My conclusion with this film is don't bother to even rent it instead wait for a freebie on tv. That reminds me, I must visit the dentist. "},{"Title":"Hugely under-rated Film........","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Original and a very different take which improves greatly on the disappointing John Steakley novel. The combination of a punchy script and strong performances from the leads James Woods in particular in an unlikely action role, wrapped in a tightly paced, and brilliantly atmospheric Film from John Carpenter.  "},{"Title":"Seven different types of tragedy","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires is a terrible film that just happened to hire some good actors. James Wood has some worthwhile moments, the Baldwin is acceptable and the film's premise is interesting. That's about it. The gore is a bit excessive, mainly because its there in place of a decent script. The dialogue really drags in sections, mainly because you've seen it all before (almost) in other b-grade movies. Sure, it adds a little to the Vampire film genre, but not much.However, I did learn that if you tie a girl (Sheryl Lee, in this case) to a bed and / or slap her around for a while, she will love you.Overall, its an awful, terrible abortion of a film that John Carpenter should be sorry he ever made.  "},{"Title":"A highly underrated Vampire Flick.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not a trendy vampire film, and not particularly romantic for the vampires. In fact it plays more like a western. However it does give a fresh take on vampire films. It centres on the world of the vampire hunters, rather then innocent victims or the vampires themselves. Carpenter has avoided the tongue in cheek angle however, so this is far from a buffy the vampire slayer type of film.James Woods plays the role of the head slayer well, a man on a mission with a deep hatred for vampires. Daniel Baldwin plays his number 2 and adds an extra dimension to the plot with his interaction with Sheryl Lee, the sexual tension between them and the subsequent morale dilemma it causes for woods character. Does he slay his best friend turned vampire?There is not a lot of time spent with the world of the vampire. Thomas Ian Griffith's does extremely well in his portrayal of Valek the head vampire but he is most definitely a bad guy in the film and not a character that faces much examination. His minions all wear black and could be out of any number of modern vampire films they are far from the romantic sort. The only human side to the vampires you see is from the freshly turned Bladwin and Lee. As I said though it's not a romantic film, more film noire with the pacing of a good western.Overall I found this very refreshing and would recommended to any fan of vampire films. "},{"Title":"Another reason why John Carpenter rocks.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I knew I was going to love this one just from the trailer.No,  a lot  of the critics didn't like it. (Too bad) Yes,  there were a lot of complaints that it wasn't scary enough.  (Boo hoo)  Get this  IT WASN'T SUPPOSED TO BE! This one's all about James Woods hamming it up as the crazy baddass who makes his living, hunting down and killing vampires.  That's it. Plain and simple.  That's right.  This is an old fashioned action/western flick with vampires playin' the baddies.  Now, with that said,  I'm gonna break this poppy down.  (so stop reading if you're worried about the spoilers, cause I'm about to lay some down)We start off in the desert with Jimmy Woods and Daniel Baldwin scoping out an old abondoned house.  We then see them open the back door of their armored car to let out the troop.  The slayers suit up and into the house we go.  Vampires are shot, beaten, smacked around by Woods, and drug out into the sun where they BURST into flames like match-heads.Once the nest is cleared out,  the team are living it up at a sleazy motel, partyin' and drinkin' with nearly every whore in the state, when they get an unexpected visitor who crashes their party.  This party-pooper, by the way, is a giant Trent Reznor-looking, 600 year-old vampire (head master vampire, mind you) named Valek.   Valek, shows up and makes a real mess of the place, snapping necks, ripping heads, tearing people in half like paper, and having a good time, all the while, wiping out the whole damn crew.  In fact, the only survivors are Woods, Baldwin, and a just-bitten, prostitute.  The dissappointed three flee the place and start haulin' ass in a big ol' chevy (This is a nice chase scene, by the way)  losing Valek.  Pretty soon it's sunrise and they're semi-safe for a while.Things slow down for a bit until Woods has to go back to the hotel to clean up a bit.  That part I loved.  Lots of bloody gore and lots more severing. Also, the music to this scene ROCKS. Well,  the bitten prostitute is being kept around for one reason only.  She will serve as a tracking device to Valek because the two are telepathically linked. In the meantime,  Woods picks himself up a new priest (played by Tim Guinee) except he really doesn't care for the guy much.  It's great fun watching him slap the poor guy around and taunt him with homo-sexual remarks and that's all the spoiling I feel like doing.  Don't worry,  I didn't give away too much.  We're only twenty-minutes into the whole thing.This is one of my favorite vampire flicks EVER.  It delivers in all departments and doesn't give us this overly romanticized,  sexy, dracula, schtick that I have become all too used to.  These guys are bloodsuckers from Hell and there is NOTHING sexy about them (although, I think the ladies will dig Valek.  He does a great job with the sparse screen time that he gets.Another thing I really apprecitated was that all of the effects were real. There was none of the CGI crap that we usually get in horror flicks these days.  That was refreshing.Having read the book, I had high expectations.  While the movie left out a LOT, it was still very well done.  The book focused much more on the whole mercenary thing and I really hated that Felix's character wasn't a part of the film.  Oh well,  this is still a good time.  Once you know that it's not supposed to be scary, you may enjoy it a lot more.  There's a sequal in the works and I'm looking forward to it.   "},{"Title":"Terrible mutilation of excellent book","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie terribly disappointed me. It's not as bad as some of the comments above imply, but John Steakley's original book Vampire$ (on which the movie is loosely based) is, of course, a million times better. Steakley creates excellent if slightly shallow characters and creates a good atmosphere of desperation and futility. Carpenter takes Steakley's antiheroes, pees all over them, dumbs the plot down and injects hollow and ridiculous story elements; it just kills me that he called it John Carpenter's Vampires. "},{"Title":"Poor show Mr Carpenter","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've just watched Vampires and even though I had read the mixed reviews, thought I'd give it a go. I love John Carpenter's early movies Assault on Precinct 13, Halloween and The Thing, but this was just dull. Carpenter hasn't come close to a great film since The Thing (1982). Admittedly Vampires isn't as bad as films like Village of the Damned but it shows none of the suspense, good story and general creepiness of his early work. Vampires is just another From Dusk Till Dawn movie, epitomising everything that is wrong with horror movies in the 90s. Full of MTV visuals and an 80s rock soundtrack, it even mimmicks certain  editing styles from From Dusk Till Dawn. There is not one genuine scare to be had watching Vampires. Even James Woods (who is always interesting) seems embaressed by some of the dreadful dialogue he has to speak. I would give this film 3/10 simply because I know Carpenter can make better movies than this, it just seems that he never will. "}{"Title":"what was Carpenter thinking","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter is my fav director along side Wes Craven and Sam Raimi. and all three of them have made a bad movie or 2 it happens, but Vampires was really bad. it wasn't Carpenter why this movie was bad, he did a good job but the script was bad. there is nothing he could have done. Vampires was just very boring there was not enough action in it, and i couldn't wait till the movie was over. if you wanna see classic Carpenter check out Halloween or The Fog, i give Vampires 2/10 "},{"Title":"WHY, WHY, WHY...","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Every one is entitled to one mistake. John Carpenter is one of my favorite director's. But I have no idea what he was thinking when he made this film. Here is a director who can scare the hell out of people with great storytelling - and no gore. Halloween and The Fog are great examples. This film looked more like something that belongs in the straight to video gore-fest aisle. Still I'm looking forward to his new film Ghosts of Mars.  "},{"Title":"Could've been good.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has the potential to be a legend. The story was quite good especially the background of the main vampire Valek. But sadly it gets WAY too caught up in the gore and violence. It's just bloodshed after bloodshed after bloodshed. Sheryl Lee's Katrina was practically the most interesting character but you never find out anything about her. Thomas Ian Griffith does a good job playing master vampire Valek but even good acting can't carry a bad movie.I say see it but don't hope to be blown away. 4/10 stars. "},{"Title":"This movie is pooh","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Watch this movie and marvel at how bad the script is! Have fun by counting the amount of times the main characters supply us with useful information about vampires, the kind of stuff they just wouldn't talk about being experienced slayers! Revel in the gratuitous violence!My friends and I watched the second half of this film in fast forward, and that's saying something because the night before we sat through the truly cak 'Body Parts' starring Jeff Fahey. My advice is don't waste your time or your money. "},{"Title":"Starts out strong, but loses it towards the end","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"    John Carpenter has made a few masterpieces that I've cherished(Halloween, Escape From New York)in his filmmaking career.  His latest comeback attempt Vampires starts out strong, but loses it towards the end of the film.  However, what makes this movie worth watching is the solid performances and special effects.  James Woods (True Crime) is great as Jack Crow, whose character says plenty of unforgettable one-liners.  Daniel Baldwin (TV's Homicide) is nice as his partner Montoya.  Thomas Ian Griffith steals the show as the Master Vampire Valek, and he, too, has a few good lines.  Sheryl Lee is fair as the hooker who along with Crow and Montoya survive the bloody ambush by Valek.  Tim Guinee and Maximillian Schell give out fine performances as members of the Vacatian who are involved in the story.  I still wonder why this movie could have be advertised as an action movie instead of horror?  The screenplay could be the main reason.      "},{"Title":"Dismal and boring rubbish","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly I would have got more enjoyment watching my cat in his litter tray than watching this film. If it was not for the fact that it was a cheap showing at the cinema I would have been more upset at paying to watch this.I have no problems with films being campy rubbish I think Killer Klowns From Outer Space is wonderful, but this was pitiful. The main problem with this film is the fact that it is not scary. It is gory and there are wonderful moments of gratuitous T&A, but the dead cat (that passed for a hairstyle)on Mrs Voorhees head in the original Friday the 13th was scarier than anything in this film.The only effective thing in this film is Sheryl Lee, as she is the only one who even looks as though she isn't in a village play. As such she looks out of place in the film where all of the other actors would have been thrown off the set of Sunset Beach for lousy acting.Next time if the slayer isn't called Buffy I wont bother this is one of the most pathetic things I have ever seen in my life. John Carpenter hasn't made a decent horror film since The Fog and it doesn't look like he will make one in the near future. "},{"Title":"This movie was awful...","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was awful.  While I went into it with high hopes, having enjoyed the novel, John Carpenter's previous movies, and buoyed by Blade, I was disappointed in the extreme.  The action scenes are tepid, the vampires are neither frightening nor interesting, and the acting is at best uninspired, especially said considering the presence of James Woods, Daniel Baldwin, and other creditable names. I have seen Vampire movies go straight to video with more plot and/or action, and in the same year that brought us Blade, Vampires and it's flaws seem especially visible. If you want to watch a real movie about vampire hunters, see Blade, or Captain Kronos.  If you want to see what someone can do with a vampiric bad guy in even a tongue-in- cheek film, watch Fright Night.  But give this one a miss... "},{"Title":"Horrible, boring movie!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't my pick to see, so I sure ripped into the person who wanted to see it.  This movie was boring, predictable..just really, really BAD.  Do NOT waste your time or money! "},{"Title":"Boring and unimaginative.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This buddy-vampire hunter film had looked like it had quite a bit of potential.  An interesting opening sequence shows James Woods and his team of Slayers invading a vampire sanctum in broad daylight.  Their technology is nifty and the ever-present set of Important Rules add flavor to the tired kill Dracula formula.From there, though, we're subjected to the usual formulaic writing decline. The Master Vampire kills a lot of folk, bites Sheryl Lee, and quests after a mystical Black Cross that will enable him to walk in sunlight and thus become invulnerable.  Of course, our two remaining not-very-likable heroes must stop him by duct-taping an inexplicably naked Lee to a bed and turning a mild-mannered priest into a shotgun-toting former soccer player bad boy.There's really no one to root for in this film.  The main characters are either two-dimensional (Woods), bad-tempered (Woods), or both (Woods and buddy Daniel Baldwin).  Master Vampire Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith) we could care less about, and Sheryl Lee is little more than hissing eye-candy.That being said, it's awfully hard to care about the plot's outcome.  The run-of-the-mill tedium is numbing.  Gore is fairly heavy and sometimes well executed, but the movie is not at all frightening.  Mild suspense is the most we get.There are one or two semi-interesting twists thrown in, but I expected more from this film.  Alas, though it did show some potential, John Carpenter reached the apex of this script about seven minutes in.  It's a pity, but I'd have to recommend tossing this one out in the sun. "},{"Title":"Lame, unthrilling, completely uninspired","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Carpenter can make decent horror flicks (Halloween and The Thing are his best), but this is easily his worst film.  Woods's performance is lackluster and lazy - he's not cynical as much as he is tired.  His character has physical energy, but no personality at all.  The somewhat interesting storyline, an historical conflict between vampires and the Catholic church, is completely ruined by the lack of suspense and thrills, the mediocre dialogue, and the totally predictable ending.Daniel (?) Baldwin gives the only touches of subtlety in the film, Sheryl Lee can't do much with her part, and the priest helping Woods is OK, but overall, it is not worth seeing.  A film like this needs either characters or real thrills, and this one has neither. "}{"Title":"Can sum it up in one word, BORING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I heard of this movie coming out by the master of horror John Carpenter, I rushed to see it the first day. I thought, another vampire movie wow! but the beginning was pretty cool and then it just fell apart to the point where twiddling my thumbs was giving me more excitement then this film. What really got me was the end of this movie, why would he let his friend go, if he's to become one of the undead wouldn't you take him out now instead of later when he's dangerous? I give this film a 5/10 "},{"Title":"incredibly disappointing","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't believe that John Carpenter actually made this bomb.  Vampires just isn't enjoyable.  James Woods and Daniel Baldwin's fine acting couldn't even save this lame story about vampire hunting.  The gore is decent, but after you've seen someone's head get chopped off over and over again it begins to lose its fun aspect.  The scene in which a vampire hunter is cut in half by the hand of a vampire was definitely memorable.  This movie can be compared to the last half of From Dusk Till Dawn, except 'Dusk' was a good movie.  I would have to say Vampires is a disgrace to all vampire movies.     "},{"Title":"What a waste of time and money","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where to start with how horrible this movie was...  Okay, James Woods.  The first rule to being a bad-dude is that you have to have a chin.  He clearly got the second rule of spewing high school level profanity down pat, though this could not make up for the complete lack of enthusiasm he showed for this movie.John Carpenter and his music.  What has happened to his movies?  If I did not know he was the director, there is no way I could have guessed.  The music was even banal.  Has the almighty dollar just become the elusive goal.And does becoming one of the undead make you completely an idiot.   You would think if you had been around for 600 years you might have become adept at defending yourself.  Instead they just continue to camp out in rickety old wooden houses.I am going to have to stop, as I am getting nauseous thinking about what a waste of time this movie was.   "},{"Title":"Plot sucks but Jimmy is always good to go.","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was watching this movie with expectation that this would be a fun vampire action movie. Well I could not get past the cheesy plot. The plot was weak. The filming was at times wonderful and James Woods is always one of my favorites, but somehow that couldn't even redeem this movie for me. There is one plot point that stands out to me the most. It is funny that James Woods is supposed to be this slayer (of sorts) of vampires, yet he keeps Daniel Baldwin, who couldn't match Woods' energy if you had three of him, around. It didn't make sense to me that you make Jack Crow (James Woods) so intelligent and then put him with a loser who ends up screwing everything up by falling in love with a hooker who he strips and ties face down to a bed. Give me a break let's get a more intelligent way to get her out of her clothes than that. Don't get me wrong I love Carpenter''s best films They Live, Escape from New York and L.A., Big Trouble in little China; this is definitely not one of them. The style and filming is gorgeous though. He uses light very well and the scenery at times is breathtaking, but that still doesn't save this mediocre vampire western.  "},{"Title":"Utterly Pathetic","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about speaking my honest feelings about this movie because I had a great time watching it, mostly due to the large amount of alcohol that I had consumed and the fact that I went to see it with a theatre full of similarly drunken college students that turned the movie into a living Mystery Science Theater episode. But I have to warn you, if you don't have a good sense of humor about terrible movies, don't see Vampires. This movie has so many flaws, I'd type myself into carpal tunnel syndrome trying to list all of them. To sum it up- it's a movie so bad ass that it makes the sublime transition to totally ridiculous. From the tacky pseudo blues riff that plays over and over whenever any of the manly characters says a line or stands there posing manfully to the way that the female characters (all whores) are there to get slapped around and slaughtered to the ridiculously protracted dominance-contest fight scenes that go on every five minutes, this is John Carpenter at his best, and he is possibly the most sorry excuse for a filmmaker ever to live. That doesn't mean he can't be really really funny. This movie reminded me very much of They Live - if you look at it with the right attitude, it's quite humorous, but just don't go sober or expecting a good film.  "},{"Title":"Not a very good film at all!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I only went to see Vampires because it was 130am and the only other movie that was on was I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, which I had already seen. I didn't particularly like this film, and I must say, compared to other films directed by John Carpenter, it is terrible. I wouldn't recommend that you go and see this. If you really want to know what it is like, wait until it is on TV, you won't be upset that you waited.  "},{"Title":"A Biased Review","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, I must preface my comments by saying I am a fan of John Carpenter's work, especially Big Trouble in Little China, Starman, Halloween and Escape from NY.  That said, I must also say that Vampire$ by John Steakley is perhaps my favorite fiction novel.  It influenced a lot of modern vampire and vampire-hunter lore, as well as this writer's storytelling style.I never go to a movie based on a book expecting to see the book.  Jurassic Park was a lot of fun, regardless of Crichton's own self-surgery, and I loved Starship Troopers for the Nazi propaganda satire it was.  But, come ON!  There are soooo many good elements in Vampire$ it seems a shame to neglect them!No Felix??  He's the catalyst of the story!  No Jack Crow becoming a Vampire at the end?  Hoping for a sequel, Mr. Carpenter?  Fat chance.  Carl Joplin and Annabelle were also sorely missed.I will say that the characters of Father Adam and Valek were faithfully plucked from the book (although Valek was severely neglected in terms of development).  Okay, transplanting Davette into the hooker Katrina made a certain amount of movie sense, but all Cheryl Lee did was writhe around and roll her eyes like some psychotic crack whore, which she is eminently qualified to do (and not that I'm complaining -- her performance was... um, riveting).Combining the characters of Cherry Cat and Montoya into Daniel Baldwin's best Reservoir Dogs impersonation was bearable, and James Woods honestly comes as close to being Jack Crow as I could expect, with the two following problems 1) Jack Crow would never need to steal a car (that was just stupid), and 2) the neat thing about Jack Crow is that he's tough as nails on the outside, but is slowly withering away on the inside, watching all his friends die and crying in the Pope's lap.  No development for the movie Crow, aside from the revelation that he killed his vampiric father and he likes to hurt people (did like the wood references, though).The basic theme of the book is that there's this bunch of ex-football players and commandos and such who drive around in a semi, ridding decent God-fearing communities of their vampire problem and getting paid HUGE sums of money to do it, and knowing that eventually, they're all going to die. The basic theme of the movie is that there's this handful of tough guys slaying vampires in the southwest.It's a western.It's a bad western.As a vampire flick, it's kinda fun.  Near Dark was much better.As any kind of tribute or slight nod to John Steakley's well-crafted characters, it is a travesty.And it's number 8 out of the top 10 box office offerings for last week.  All hail the almighty dollar!Haven't heard of any film adaptations of Armor yet, but I hope he doesn't let Carpenter near it.  "},{"Title":"Be Very Afraid.  Oh, sorry, that was another movie.","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We left halfway through, so I shouldn't even be commenting here, but I felt it was necessary to say something, because this movie was pure hell, cinematic bile, and the only redeeming feature was that it included Daniel Baldwin, who appeared to be visibly swelling from one scene to the next. James Woods should be ashamed.  A blight on humanity.  Can you tell I have hostile feelings about this movie, even now..? "},{"Title":"Poor cast, thin plot, waste of money, etc...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter's worst movie!  For starters, the movie stars James Woods and another Baldwin brother.  That was almost enough to ruin it in itself since you couldn't even get into the characters.  There was also virtually no plot to give the movie any merit.  A complete waste of money!  Wait until it's on the cheap rack at the video store if you feel you really must see it. "},{"Title":"mail your money to me instead","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was terrible.  no character development.  direction that would look wooden on television.  terrible script.  overacting at its most laughable.  my friends and i weren't laughing with the production.  we laughed at it.  and john crows' (james woods) preoccupation with whether or not any of the supportiing players were sporting wood and, if so, of what variety had me wondering what kind of stake he would have preferred to have been driving.  (not that there's anything wrong with that kind of vampire slaying between consenting adults).  save your money.  rent carpenter's the thing. "}{"Title":"What a dog...pity these actors, who did their best...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Awful screenplay, wretched dialog, and the complete absence of any sort of unifying directorial vision sink this flick.  What a barker! "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  That's the worst piece of trash I've seen in a long time. It's bad on so many levels I don't know where to begin. Cliche, juvenile Hollywood action-trash. Squinting action-heros(tm), women beating, gay-joke making unlikable actors in a screenplay and story that lends itself more to a made-for-TV movie than a theatre visit that wastes $8 of your money and 2 hours of your time.  Avoid it at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Fails on all fronts","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is possible I missed the point, but I feel Carpenter missed the mark, as a horror movie and as a vampire movie. Although there is plenty of gore, the movie is not scary.  Violence for the sake of pure joy in violence becomes inane. "},{"Title":"Good old fashioned monster vampires","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let's get the facts straight right now VAMPIRES, made in 1998, is not the best vampire movie ever made. It's neither director John Carpenter's best work and doesn't come even close to his best movies (HALLOWEEN, THE THING etc.). However, in this day and age, when all the vampires seem to be brooding, good looking teenagers who try to avoid killing people, it feels good to watch a movie in which vampires are what they're meant to be monsters.The film starts with a group of vampire hunters, lead by man named Jack Crow, attacking a nest of vampires in New Mexico. All the blood suckers are killed and the gang go to celebrate in local motel. At night a vampire named Valek attacks them and none of their weapons seem to work on him. Valek slaughters nearly the entire group, only Jack, his friend Montana and a hooker bitten by Valek survive. Jack decides to hunt down Valek who turns out to be the oldest and most powerful vampire.This film is not meant to be anything more than an entertaining popcorn movie to relax with and then go on with your life, and it works like that. Carpenter keeps the story going, doesn't even try to create any unnecessary plot twists or minor characters, but keeps the story very clear and simple. Music is good, actors capable and the action sequences don't go over the board.James Woods is the definite show stealer here. His Jack Crow is definitely one of the more entertaining vampire hunters I have seen in movies. He's not an old Van Helsing clone, or a superhuman hybrid like Blade, nor does he have an arsenal of ridiculous weapons like Hugh Jackman's modernized Van Helsing. Only things Crow has are a handgun, crossbow and smart-ass comments. Woods obviously has had fun playing the been there, done that guy to whom killing vampires is just an everyday work.In other roles Tim Guinee is a good counterpart for Woods, as the nervous and inexperienced priest who joins the group. Especially the scenes where Woods has to teach him the facts of life are enjoyable. Thomas Ian Griffith looks really awesome as the vampire Valek. Although he doesn't have much to do, just watching him ripping people to pieces is a pleasure, since not many vampires these days has that bite anymore. In fact, all the vampires in this movie look awesome, with pale skin, long teeth and nails, glowing eyes and dressed all in black. This is what vampire are about! So VAMPIRES is not truly memorable film, but if you want to watch a little better film from director John Carpenter's 1990's works, where James Woods is at his best and vampires are not brooding teenagers, then this is a film for you. Put it on, sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the best looking films from John Carpenter.","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jack Crow (James Woods) is the leader of a relentless group of mercenary vampire slayers. But then Jack meets his match, a master vampire named Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith). Which Valek decimates Jack's entire team, expect for Crow's faithful partner (Daniel Baldwin) and an unlucky prostitute (Sheryl Lee) are set in pursuit. Since the prostitute has a psychic link to Valek. Now Jack, his partner, the prostitute and a naive but a young helpful priest (Tim Guinee) have to fight Valek before has the omnipotent power to walk in the daylight.Directed by John Carpenter (Escape from New York, Ghosts of Mars, Memoirs of a Invisible Man) made a flawed but strong entertaining horror/action/thriller. Woods is brilliantly cast as the foul mouthed vampire slayer and he gives an terrific performance. This film is quite different from previous vampire films.DVD has an fine anamorphic widescreen (2.351) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an impressive-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an running commentary track by the director, original theatrical trailer and a collector's booklet. One of the highlights of this film is Gary B. Kibbe (In the Mouth of Madness) excellent widescreen cinematography work. Screenplay by Don Jakoby (Evolution, Invaders from Mars-1986, Lifeforce), who also co-produced the film. Which the original script by Jakoby was actually re-written by the director and Dan Mazur. Which they are uncredited. But Mazur is credited in the European prints only. Based on a Novel by John Steakley. Fine music score by the director. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter takes Steakely's novel about vampire hunters and turns it into a post-modern, stylish film for the Buffy generation, full of smart quips and twists on the ancient myth. Featuring some good performances, dark humour, gore and action, Vampires is an above average vampire film which lacks the spark of other Carpenter classics.The Catholic Church has known about Vampires for centuries. In fact, they are partly to blame for their creation, leading to much of the cynical humour of the film. They find out about The Black Cross, a device capable of making Vampires invulnerable to sunlight, and that master vampire Valek is after it. They send in their most skilled fighters-James Woods, Daniel Baldwin and co. to find the nest, and destroy all the demons. Woods plays Jack Crow, a hunter who has been brought up by the church to fight vampires after a tragic youth. His gang finds the nest, and kill all the evil ones inside. However, they don't realise they did not get Valek. While celebrating with hookers, Valek appears and wipes out almost everyone, except, Crow, Baldwin and one bitten prostitute played by Sheryl Lee. They escape and try to decide what to die. A new Padre is sent to the annoyance of Crow, and they try to find the cross before Valek. Katrina the hooker, because she is turning, has a psychic connection with Valek and can lead them to him. However, she may turn soon and they must try to save her. Baldwin is also getting a little too close to her for Crow's liking.Being a Carpenter film this has a Western feel to it, the settings, the dialogue, the characters all reminiscent of classic Cowboy figures. The finale is also a stand of much like Rio Bravo. Woods steals every scene he is in, while Lee and Baldwin provide good support. Griffith is ideal as Valek, looks and talks the part with ease. There is a good amount of gore, and an admirable lack of CG. Whle the story is simple, it works well and everything looks cool. There is something missing though, whether it be a strong theme tune by Carpenter (his one here is forgettable) or a real cliffhanger ending, or sense of apocalypse. I'm not sure what is missing, but it is not up to the standards of his past classics. Still good though.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It wasn't nominated for the Oscar...so what?","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this film without even having the slightest idea what I was going to see. But I was positively surprised by this movie! John Carpenter proves that he is still capable to make very good films even if they're not busting through the roof of the box office.Unlike John Carpenter's classics like Halloween, The Fog or The Thing I think this movie was not intended to be scary. And it definitely wasn't meant to win an Oscar for best screenplay or acting! This film is not just a horror film but also a cool road-movie. The scenery is very enjoyable throughout the whole 108 minutes. I loved the aerial shots of the desert-like plains at sunset. The locations give the film kind of a free and romantic feeling.But the romanticism stops where the fights between vampire and man begin. The film was surprisingly gory considering it was 1998 and the MPAA wasn't on vacation (hey, nobody said that I didn't like the gory scenes). The film is not based on computer generated effects but on nice stunts and cool gore effects. But that doesn't mean there's nothing else to like about Vampires.The acting is not outstanding but decent enough for this kind of film. James Woods was perfect for the role of ruthless vampire slayer Jack Crow. Thomas Ian Griffith was very convincing and looks good even if disguised as a vampire. Daniel Baldwin does okay and Sheryl Lee is a hot...uhm...actress.A very enjoyable film overall, not scary but perfect to spend your Saturday evening with.My rating 8/10 (if you want more information DVD contains an interesting audio commentary by John Carpenter himself!) "},{"Title":"I hope someone would slay me before I had to watch this again","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is on right now in the other room. The fact that I'm in here writing a review for it should tell how much I like it. I had the misfortune to rent this movie rather than catch it on cable, so not only did it suckle, it cost me more money while suckling. This movie has the absolute worst dialogue I've ever listened to. How could James Woods keep a straight face while saying it? I suppose with the same fortitude he used to accept the role to begin with. James, obviously your career is on the downside, but please. Some of us have fond memories of your performances. If this is the best you can do, go out gracefully, or get a sitcom. Daniel Baldwin... I wish my brothers were famous and influential and could get me work too. I think Sheryl Lee's legs and cleavage have deluded the rest of these reviewers into thinking she acted well. Memo to screenwriters there is no convincing way to portray a woman under a vampire's telepathic control. See Ryder, Winona Bram Stoker's Dracula. Let's drop that little gimmick, yes? Surprisingly, the only thing I liked about this movie was Thomas Ian Griffith. He *DEFINITELY* had the master vampire look going. Too bad he had to open his mouth, speak, and ruin the effect. How idiotic a method to kill vampires. Harpooning them and dragging them into the sunlight. If the turncoat priest warned the master about the attack in the beginning, why wouldn't the master have moved the nest? wouldn't that be easier than having to go out and get more vampires, and risking the possible death of the master, however unlikely?wait..that would be logical. here's hoping John Carpenter is abducted by Vulcans and forced to be their concubine before he makes another movie. "},{"Title":"complete waste of time and money","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The cast and the script were sooo bad... Almost fell asleep in the theater. The movie had nothing interesting or new really, not much more happened than vampires being dragged out into the sun light one by one. A few nice FX there when some humans were cut in half, but everything else was just real boring stuff... "},{"Title":"Standing ovation for John Carpenter and the actors of this film","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a huge fan of vampire movies, I thought John Carpenter did an incredible job.  Vampire$ is one of the best vampire films I have ever seen.  In my opinion, the plot was great.  The actors did an outstanding job.  James Woods played Jack Crow - leader of the vampire hunters.  He had this tough guy attitude, and he did a great job of it.  Thomas Ian Griffith played Valek - the vicious head vampire.  He was right for the part.  I thought he played Valek very well.  Other than that, the film was entertaining.  There were some scenes that were funny.  I love the story.  Although, it could've been a little better.  I'll give this movie 9.0 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Neat Twist on an old story. If you love Vampire movies, you should love this one.","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WOW! Tie the Vampires to Religion and you will get a reaction.This movie shows a new twist on the creation of the first Vampire. And boy is he mean!Not too much sucking in this film, not like most of its type.Makes you feel good that we have BLADE on our side.Pretty bloody and gory, but hey, that's what Vampires are all about.Great entertainment if you like all the killing --- they were bad guys after all.Bring the holy water, you will need it. "},{"Title":"Vampires These vampires just plain suck","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the worst movie I have seen since Speed II.  Come on it looks like they mixed The Lost World, Desparado, and a cheep B movie. The Lost World because of the cheesy vehicles.  Desparado for the western feel and too cool additude.  And a B movie for the plot, senseless gross out scenes, and naked women.  When will they learn that John Carpenter movies are worthless. "},{"Title":"Mr. Carpenter has long since lost his touch, Vampires only compounds the misery!","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Years ago, John Carpenter was a big deal, Assault on Precinct 13, The Fog and of course, Halloween.Modern times haven't been kind to Mr. Carpenter, and the arrogant posturing where he insists that his name is part of a movies title is starting to wear a little thin too.Its not as if he isn't a good director, he clearly is, but with stodgy fare such as Vampires, he hasn't done himself any favours.At the time of Halloween, his music was relevant and to the point, but today, his music is clunky and oddly out of place. I think its time for Mr. Carpenter to let REAL composers add some atmosphere to his movies, because he hasn't developed his skills with the passage of time.But enough about that, what about the movie? I've only just seen it, but I wasn't sure at first if I had seen it before. I'd certainly heard of it, but once I watched it, I realised it was my first time. Not a good sign really, that the movie is so formulaic in its workings that I thought I'd seen it. Perhaps I had, and it was as memorable then?! The problem for Vampires is..... From Dusk till Dawn! That is a Vampire movie, funny, with suspense, everything Vampires wasn't! James Woods plays the swearing and violent Lead Slayer, but he doesn't do it with any cool or panache. Shades and a leather jacket doesn't always = cool.The support cast, one of the Baldwin brothers, Maximilien Schell (slumming it!) and Ian Thomas Griffiths are all simply OK.I've not read the book, and I hope to hell the movie isn't remotely a perfect adaptation, because that would seriously question the intelligence of anyone who'd want to film it! Vampires isn't terrible, and its also not great. What it is though, is immensely derivative of lots of other Vampire movies you've seen before, but it doesn't stand out, and is guilty of being so average, it felt almost a waste of time watching it.James Woods is wasted in this movie, he's better than the script he was given, and for sure Clooney did it a whole lot better and cooler in FDTD.Its a sad state of affairs when Buffy the Vampire Slayer on TV does a better job at entertaining than Carpenter did with Vampires.I think John Carpenter has seriously lost his touch.Next film? John Carpenters Tedium "},{"Title":"Vampires is overall middling.  It's not scary, though that's probably not the intent.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ** out of **** This is my second review of John Carpenter's Vampires, and it's a considerable jump from my original * star rating.  I'll get into those reasons in a moment, but there are a couple of statements in my original review that I truly regretted stating.  For one thing, I feel a bit out of line implying John Carpenter as an untalented director.  He's gifted, all right, though he still has a tendency to ruin perfectly good premises.When I first saw Vampires (around the time it was first released), I had been expecting a terrifying scarefest, and considering the fact it was arrived in theaters during Halloween weekend, my expectations were further built up.  At the time, it was a complete disappointment to me due to the complete lack of scares and certain other elements I'll further go into in a moment.  I wrote the review last year, but it was based on the memory of it that I had back when it first came out and all I remember was feeling angry and disappointed.For the most part, it seems my disappointment came because I had been expecting scary and spooky, but didn't get any of that at all.  Since then, I've also looked at other aspects, and decided to give Vampires a second chance.  It was much better than my first viewing, though I want to stress that it's still far from being among Carpenter's best (i.e. The Thing, In the Mouth of Madness) and it's certainly not a great film by a long shot.  Still, it qualifies as watchable screen entertainment and is still decent filmmaking.My second viewing gave realization that Carpenter wasn't striving for a horror film (though he stated otherwise in his DVD commentary, but I'll ignore that remark).  It's more of a Western, given the human-vampire showdowns and guns drawn in desperado-style fashion.  The setting, often in desert towns and motels, only enforces that feeling.There's originality in the script, and that must be credited.  It's fascinating to know that the Catholic Church created the first vampire and is using vampire hunters to rid the world of them.  This core idea is the best vampire premise I've heard to date, and it's unfortunate it's not developed or explored further than what we're given.  There's really not enough look into how these teams were formed or how the members were chosen.The film chooses to kill off most of the team in the first 20 minutes, which I suppose I'll have to accept for the benefit of the plot (which basically involves a vampire's quest to find a cross that will grant him the ability to walk in sunlight, and the human slayers who try to stop him),  but it still left me wondering the possibilities if the movie kept them around longer.  Some of their interactions were wildy humorous, and I was interested in finding out exactly how they all came to meet one another.  When they are killed, it's actually a little odd to see the lack of emotional expression on both team leader Jack Crow (James Woods) and his partner Montoya's (Daniel Baldwin) face.  I thought I sensed some camaraderie between the teammates, but I guess they didn't really get along as well as it seemed.The movie opens with a bang and ends the same way, featuring gorefests and constant vampire attacks that keep the action moving.  These serve as the film's best moments.  The first 20 minutes features not one, but two massacres (one for the humans, the other for the vampires, or rather just one vampire).  The last 35 minutes features an abundance of vampire attacks on the remaining slayers, as well as the final confrontation between our anti-hero, Jack Crow (James Woods), and the head vampire Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith).  Carpenter's direction during these scenes is more than competent, creating tension and some excitement.  These scenes were considerably better than I had remembered on my first viewing.To go further into the motel massacre, there are a few things I wondered about.  Two of the slayers, Deyo and Anthony, as well as a cop, were clearly only slapped by Valek and you can see that Anthony is clearly still conscious when he goes to the floor, which makes me wonder why he never got up and left with Crow and Montoya.  Sure, some would say they were slashed but I clearly didn't see any cuts on their faces.  There were also several prostitutes in the other room with Crow (the room Valek wasn't in) and I wondered they all ended up getting killed.  Perhaps Valek just came back and finished the job.Despite the action-filled beginning and ending, it's the middle segment that sorely lacks.  For 50 uncomfortable minutes, we are treated to mysogynism as our two lead slayers constantly hit and abuse this prostitute that was bitten by Valek.  Fun, this most certainly is not.  The pacing is terrible during this long stretch, and I found myself squirming in my seat.While we're in the subject of abuse, there's also plenty of priest-bashing, which leads me to wonder how odd it is that the one priest Crow continuously pounds on, Father Adam Guiteau (Tim Guinee), actually finds all this physical pain as a teaching device, turning him into a tough guy and somewhat rowdy slayer (albeit still a reasonable and faithful man of God, which is far more than can be said for any of the other slayers) by the end of the film.  It's nice to see Carpenter doing something he would do, though the resulting development of Guitea still seems a bit unlikely.Speaking of Tim Guinee, I'm a bit surprised hardly any critics or viewers mention him (yes, I myself neglected to mention him in my first viewing).  He arguably delivers the movie's second best performance (behind James Woods, of course) and has perhaps more screen time than the other three billed before him (Daniel Baldwin, Thomas Ian Griffith, and Shery Lee).  He's also the most likable and sympathetic character, since he feels completely out of place in this terrible situation.  Sure, the same could be said for Lee, but she overacts to an unconvincing manner and turns into a vampire by the end.I still feel the same about most of the acting.  While Guinee was far more memorable than I recalled and Woods is as fun as ever to watch, everybody else still remains rather underwhelming.  Daniel Baldwin is, of course, still the least talented among his siblings.  Thomas Ian Griffith snarls a lot, but isn't scary for a moment.  Maximillian Schell is on hand to smile in a sickly fake fashion and get a paycheck.  Thankfully, the last 35 minutes are better, though not quite enough to give the movie that ** 1/2 star rating that I had been pondering (yup, my second viewing was REALLY more kind).  Carpenter should have added a few more vampire attacks in the conclusion, just to work harder to make up for the very lackluster pacing and unpleasantness of the middle segment.There are some other flaws.  Some character motivation feels a bit out of place, particularly the revelation of a traitor.  There's also Carpenter's score, which is actually quite memorable and entertaining to listen to, but it maintains the same slow speed and tempo, it hampers some potentially fast-moving action sequences.  The last fight between Crow and Valek is a bit of a letdown; it's somewhat thrilling, but not nearly as exciting or as suspenseful as it could have been.  Plus, that giant cross used in the final fight looked a little bit like a rubber contraption for one brief moment.Carpenter's endings (mainly his horror-oriented films) are usually ironic, bleak, darkly humorous, or a mix of all those.  Vampires is the only one not to end this way, and it actually doesn't surprise me.  It just doesn't feel like a movie telegraphed for a dark ending, and the lack of a final kicker is actually another letdown.  I mean, who could forget the final scenes to The Thing, Prince of Darkness, or In the Mouth of Madness?  They all went out with a real bang, keeping the viewer entranced even as the end credits rolled.  Vampires just sort of ends, actually, and left me with a feeling that I hadn't possibly seen everything.  And, as a whole, the movie still feels incredibly predictable (except of course, the way Valek kills off his victims). As I've already said before, Vampires is quite a gorefest, and it'll please those looking for blood and guts.  As a matter of fact, this could very well be Carpenter's goriest film to date (or a tie with The Thing).  There's decaptitations, neck bites, lots of blood spurting, and even a man who's cut in half, and not in the way you'd expect.  Yeah, credit should be given to Robert Kurtzman for putting in a lot of convincing gory f/x without relying on CGI, but the film will probably be too stomach-churning for some.  Vampires was 1998's second vampire movie (to the best of my memory, that was the second pair of duo films that year) and it's easily the better one.  Blade is still terrible, no matter what anybody else thinks.  If you're going to see one of these two, please avoid that brain dead action thriller and at least stick with this one for something more reasonably smart.It's not often that I feel this kind to a movie that I'd already seen, so for me, I find this a rather rare occasion.  I might trying watching it again in a few months to see if I gain anymore new appreciation for certain parts.  Now, this doesn't mean I'll just go right out and change my mind on any film.  There are many, many bad and good movies out there that are simply the same whether by memory or another viewing.  I happened to come back to Vampires again because of it's connection with a renowned director, the film's premise, and my understanding of the fact that this isn't a balls-out horror film, as Carpenter would put it.  Though, as a warning, those expecting the kind of film I had been looking forward to when I first saw this might find themselves feeling similarly the way I did after I first saw this flick. "},{"Title":"Get Your Woodsy","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Even the stupidest film sometimes rewards. And this film is stupid - like dozens of its contemporaries, it casts evil against an amoral crusader, with the Church as secondary evil. Here we have a Baldwin, acting Baldwin-y (which means acting from his chest), and stock vampires. I suppose the excuse to make this is the innovation of killing them in a slightly different way than is rote.But the reward here is James Woods. I think he is one of our best technical film actors. By technical, I mean he works not on the character, but on the dramatic effect of the scene. He's a scene-man. One of the most powerful scenes (seared into my memory) was about thirty seconds in the otherwise forgettable `True Crime.' Clint Eastwood and he have an exchange about one of their wives which ranks in my top film moments.Oops, a minor spoiler follows, though you should be able to see it from across the continent.So here is Woods in a really unartful enterprise, playing a role that seems to allow no room for acting. And his comrades wouldn't know how to cocreate a technical reading anyway. But he's still damned good! It is like fine rock guitar playing the holes are where the emotion is. Woods does what the director wants during the `important' moments, like saying goodby to his infected partner, like confronting the cardinal. All according to the specified level of mundaneness. But in the holes, where he is just walking, or grabbing an implement, you can see a good actor. Even this small leavening excites.And such is noted in the only clever dialog. There's a juvenile running joke about getting an erection when killing vampires. (This I suppose balances the mutual orgasm of the master vampire and hooker victim when he is busied with her genitals.) But that joke is in the form `did you get some wood?'Well, I got some Woods. "},{"Title":"Worth watching-read the book as well.","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter makes great use of southwest settings in this film. I know a lot of horror film fans don't hold this movie in very high regard, but I believe it's underrated.It's got a different feel than some other Carpenter movies, and that might be what turns some people off. But you get some real over the top performances in this movie. James Woods was a great choice for the intense Jack Crow, leader of a crew of mercenary vampire hunters employed by the Catholic Church. The acting is heavy handed to say the least, and some of the violence seems gratuitous. (The scene where Crow deeply slices the priest's hand just doesn't seem necessary).This movie is based on the novel Vampire$ written by John Steakley, who died a few years ago. Carpenter mainly just borrowed the concept and a few characters. Jack Crow is there. Valek is similar to a character in the book with a different name. However, he's not the main vampire in the novel. A big switch- the bishop turns out to be the traitor in the movie, while the church is completely on the good guy side in the book. If you liked the film, you should definitely spend some time with the novel. It's worth it. You get more insight on Jack Crow and a completely different ending. There are also several good characters in the book who never made it onto film. "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenters better recent pictures.","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter is one of those directors who used to direct all kinds of great movies mostly horror but in the last decade he has been making some pretty lousy ones. This is probably his last good one staring James Woods who does an exceptional job starring as his cocky self.This movie is about A vengeful vampire slayer who must retrieve an ancient Catholic relic that, should it be acquired by vampires, will allow them to endure sunlight.This is one of the better vampires movies. It is a bit old now but the special effects still manage to hold up because of the use of real make up effects instead of just ridiculous looking CGI blood and gore effects. If you are a fan of vampires movies give this movie a watch. "},{"Title":"The last Carpenter movie worth of watching... and with some good vampires too.","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is indeed one of the last John Carpenter films that still works. After the terrible Escape from LA (1996), Carpenter really saved his butt and his fans by making this film. Pretty close to the western films, through the story about tough vampire hunters team in small towns on the edge of the desert, near New Mexico. With James Woods as the leader of the team. The movie is based upon a novel Vampires by John Steakley, a pretty solid novel, I might add. Carpenter did a pretty good thing here, by showing his vision of vampires, a dark, Gothic monsters of the night, by my opinion the way it should be. There's a lot of blood, gore, action and somewhat cynicism... well expected from Carpenter, but the result is pretty average here. Comparatively... entertaining film, with characters very different than those from the book, they are pretty weak in the film... but the dialog remained the same, a lot of toughness, swearing and other angry-macho stuff, there's also a weak tension as the movie goes by. But, not a bad job, again...Now, acting crew here was a good choice. James Woods, who holds this film on his chest, as Jack Crow, a merciless, tough vampire hunter, in one of his best performances, honestly I think that James Woods steal the show. He was brilliant. Daniel Baldwin, not a great actor, but he did a nice job here. Sheryl Lee, a fine choice for a tortured prostitute, on the way to become a vampire, she was good. Maximilian Schell's appearance in this film was a surprise, great actor, Tim Guinee was also OK, and to mention a well-known actors from Woods's team Mark Boone Junior, great! and Cary Hiroyuki-Tagawa, great! But, alas... small parts... And the best thing for the end. - Thomas Ian Griffith - Don't know how they got him for the part... but, that was more than the perfect choice. A worthy original vampire villain from a Carpenter film. Griffith played Jan Valek a 600 old vampire master. Formidable, dark and alluring, and of course a real monster, the way it should be! Griffith is perhaps the best known for the part of Valek. Absolutely one of the last vampires that looks great on film... regardless of these new vampire films and other vampire movies from the beginning of 2000s, including TV series... Valek is one freakin' excellent vampire! Dark camera, John Carpenter music style... ahhhh what else do you crave? This movie is perhaps for John Carpenter fans... a real treat, and of those old school vampire fans. Watch it! "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. "},{"Title":"A good blast with plenty of action and thrills but it isn't particularly clever.","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think if Jack Crow, played by James Woods, had lived a normal life in a normal world free of Vampire hunting Vatican supported gangs of hunters, then he might have been a very bored and restless man. Then again he could quite easily have taken up a medical degree and become a surgeon as the ability to stand the sight of blood, guts and human remains just seems to come to him naturally. But this is the sort of role Woods relishes, it is a role that does not need to be developed beyond a certain point and yet we witness a point the character's life during which he is at the peak of his game. Crow doesn't take orders, he doesn't take much stick and if an enemy needs to be disposed of then it will be with no questions asked.So we have a John Carpenter film in which the best character or certainly the most interesting is in fact the hero himself. From what I've seen Myers was more interesting in Halloween; the thing itself was more of an intriguing element in that film than anything else and the fog in the film of the same name carried that same presence and air of mystery that the thing did in that respective film. So who or what are the bad guys here? Just plain old vampires, of course. Oh, there is a head vampire or 'master' as he's known but he doesn't come close to any of Carpenter's previous antagonists &#150; he's sort of what Myers might have been like if he had gone around trying to bite everyone to death.Like Carpenter's films, the title bears a direct link to the enemy of the film or setting. 'Precinct 13' and 'New York' are both places with 'Halloween' acting as a timeframe for a film. Here whilst trying to work out the thinking behind simply calling a film 'Vampires', is when it occurs - Vampires are the enemy just as The Thing and The Fog were so why not? Vampires takes place in a world in which the average Joe might consider a nightmare scenario. The film is Dawn of the Dead set across North America and from what we hear Europe as well only there are pockets of resistance to help kill the uncanny enemy. Carpenter's heroes in his horror films inhabit spaces in which they really do not want to be but they have no choice (see Assault on Precinct 13, Halloween and Escape From New York). Here, Crow enjoys his work and likes his life. One man's dystopia is another man's utopia &#150; all the killing and maiming in Crow's life keeps him going whereas in a 'normal' environment he'd be left twiddling his thumbs.But it is not just the killing, it is the booze and the women after hours. Crow is living out a sort of American Dream by doing his job during the day and then spending it on hosting women supported by local crooked cops and drinking beer, only difference is he hasn't just put in a days work at a steel mill or something. But Vampires is a little more than just an interesting set up and predicament even if it is for the bad. We catch up with the gang just as things decide to get ugly and the vampires threaten to up their race for world domination &#150; look at it as a Cold War during which the other side are just about to obtain plans for Weapons of Mass Destruction. Jan Valek (Griffith) plays the role of the indestructible monster with the job to predominantly find an ancient cross that can be used to kill off mankind's hope once and for all and thus begins the mission to stop him. There were a few things I had problems with and the first one as to why Valek does what he does to one of the loose girls at a party the vampires gate crash. After Valek puts his little spell on her and bites her, she can see everything Valek sees making her a valuable tool for Crow and co. to use against the enemy. Is there a reason Valek was so kind as to give them that aid? Then there is the manner in which a false and rather silly romance begins to flourish between this girl and Anthony Montoya (Baldwin), Crow's best friend and ally-come-sparring partner. The romance actually takes over toward the end and is solely relied upon for the films ultimate tragedy which is the only reason it exists. Then there is the way the film develops the skills of one time priest and now loyal sidekick Adam Guiteau (Guinee) from rookie into proper hunter, sort of relegating a man of the church to level of comic relief which is done in poor and more importantly for the audience, 'unfunny' taste. But it is the way the film eerily borrows from Blade toward the end when it turns out the hero is needed for the final steps of the process to end mankind and raise the Vampires. The climax itself is a little off with the process having to be performed just-before-sunrise-and in a small area that none of the other vampires bother to check throughout the night just in case Guiteau might be hiding there. While Vampires isn't necessarily bad, it is sketchy with some pretty illogical occurrences going on. That said, it is a lot of fun and there is an energy behind it. Carpenter clearly hadn't fallen out of love making films at this pointing his career and that should be enough to make someone want to give it a go. "}{"Title":"For 600 years I have fed on your kind at will.","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Memorial Day is not all war movies. Sometimes, you have to fight the vampires.I can certainly sympathize with Jack Crow's (James Woods) partner Anthony (Daniel Baldwin). I do not know if I could resist turning into a vampire with Sheryl Lee doing the biting. She would make me want to avoid daylight for eternity.This was an action-packed adventure with Thomas Ian Griffith as the chief vampire, and Oscar winner Maximilian Schell (Judgment at Nuremberg), as the Cardinal that did not want to die.Oh, that Sheryl Lee! "},{"Title":"Somewhat Overlooked Vampire Film.","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires is an entertaining, off-the-wall vampire flick. The story centers around a group of 'vampire hunters', led by Jack Crow (James Woods), who are a secret service summoned by the Vatican to exterminate the bloodthirsty demons. His group roams around the desert, hunting the 'nests' of vampires and exterminating them. But their routine vampire hunting becomes everything but routine when they stumble upon the Master vampire, Valek. While chasing Valek through the desert on his bloody rampage, they meet a prostitute named Katrina (Sheryl Lee), who has a psychic link to the master vampire. It's up to the remaining people on the team to stop Valek, who is searching for an ancient cross that will give all vampires the ability to walk in sunlight - which could result in dire consequences for mankind.Exactly twenty years after John Carpenter directed and released the horror legend Halloween, he brought us this extremely entertaining, popcorn vampire flick. I liked the storyline for this movie, and the entire spin with the Catholic church and the powerful crucifix (giving the vampires the ability to walk in daylight) set this apart from most vampire-themed horror movies in the sense that it isn't too conventional. These vampires aren't easy to kill. Scratch the garlic, that doesn't do anything. They aren't flamboyant or seductive - they're bloodthirsty demons, and the only way to kill them is a stake to the heart. Sure, there are quite a few plot holes here and the script isn't perfect, but these aren't large matters considering the type of film this is. There is almost a campy sense in this movie, because it is hard to take too seriously on many occasions, although I think this might add to it's overall charm. There is also a few light dashes of black humor to be found as well, but nothing too over-the-top. This film still strives to maintain its seriousness.The cast is actually pretty good here as well. James Woods is our leading hero, and he plays a cynical bad-ass. He's a great actor and I've enjoyed his work in the films that I've seen him in, and this one is no exception. Daniel Baldwin is the secondary hero, and is also good. Sheryl Lee plays the psychic prostitute, and while her character might sound a little ridiculous, she plays it well and her character is of big importance in the story. Vampires also boasts some really amazing special effects. Digital effects are minimal, most are really realistic looking and really disgusting (this movie isn't light on the gore). I have to give some credit to the special effects supervisor, because it was a job well done. There's some really well-executed actions sequences as well, and the battles with the vampires are truly engaging.Overall, Vampires is a good vampire horror movie that is worth a look for fans of the genre and/or the theme. It's not a perfect movie by any means (and it's definitely not something I would have expected from Carpenter), but the story is decent (also with some great action sequences) and entertaining nonetheless. Recommended if you like seeing some vampires do their thing. 6/10. "},{"Title":"people can take a bite out of various aspects","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter was once known as the master of horror (or at least part of the new wave of directors in the '70s), but more recently seems to have been regarded with some scorn, with most critics saying that his movies got totally trashy. To tell you the truth, Vampires looks like it's trying to be trashy. Specifically, it looks almost like Carpenter got a bunch of people together to party, they filmed it, and added a bunch of gore in post-production (I admit that I just made all that up as I thought about it).But anyway, this movie is a pretty amusing romp, as James Woods leads a group of hunters trying to stop a centuries-old vampire (Thomas Ian Griffith) from finding a relic and becoming fully immortal. None of the overwrought pomp from Bram Stoker's Dracula, just pure unadulterated fun; absolutely no pretense whatsoever. Definitely the sort of movie that you watch with best buds. Also starring Daniel Baldwin, Sheryl Lee, Maximilian Schell and Tim Guinee.Back when Sheryl Lee played Astrid Kirchherr in Backbeat, who would have ever guessed that she would later star in a John Carpenter movie? "},{"Title":"excellent vampire movie","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i heard of this film years ago but only got round to seeing it recently and have watched it 5 times since!! i don't know why the rating is so low as it really keeps you hooked and is a bit diff from the usual vamp films, it doesn't have the creepiness of Dracula movies but is action packed and the acting is great,for those that say it's not believable what do you expect, its about vampires and if you were to pick that fault you would hardly ever watch another film! it has a good story line and james woods was brill as the slayer jack crow,has a lot of great one liners and i loved the padre! i loved dusk till dawn but would say that this beats it hands down,didn't think much of bram stokers Dracula thought it was built up too much,any suggestions about other vampire film would be great "},{"Title":"Soon The Vampires Will Walk When The Sun Rise","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was another excellent movie from Johhney, he did great with this movie,even at the begin I liked it.It started with many Vampire hunters that were trying to catch Vampires, then reel them into the sun were 9 of them burned up.Then they all celebrated for their victory but the Vampire leader come and crashed the party.First he bit a teenage girl who sees the Vampire leader's victims.And the rest of the hunters and party girls died except two,Crow and his friend.Later they are using the girl to find the leader and kill him,so the three and a preacher hunts him down but other Vampire leaders have awakened to.And they must stop the first leader before another preacher finishes the ritual with the cross because if he succeeds then he can walk at night and day.Will they be able to stop the ritual,and will the girl that has been bitten will stop them,if you want to know then see the movie and you will find out. "},{"Title":"Ferocious vampire flick ... James Woods plays for high stakes","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter's Vampires is a pretty good vampire movie. As a Carpenter film, it doesn't rank with his best, but it's a definite improvement over its three predecessors Escape from L.A. (1996), Village of the Damned (1995) and In the Mouth of Madness (1995).James Woods stars as Jack Crow a vampire hunter who leads a professional team of vampire hunters. Thomas Ian Griffith plays vampire master Valek who is on the hunt for THE BLACK CROSS. If Valek can possess the cross vampires will be able to walk the earth in daylight. Jack Crow, Montoya, and a novice priest try to stop Valek from getting the cross. Katrina (Sheryl Lee) is a hooker who they have to take with and protect. Along the way there is plenty of carnage and impalement.The scenes raiding the vampires nests are good and gruesome and the way the vampires light up like flares when they are pulled into the sun is clever.James Woods does a good job as the ultra-cynical vampire hunter and Griffith's Valek is a fairly formidable foe.Carpenter fans will like this one. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This fun, but mean spirited & grossly violent vampire tale, directed by JOHN CARPENTER, is a fun, action packed thrill ride of severed limbs, broken backs, ripped out hearts & exploding vampires galore! Backed by the Vatican, JACK CROW (JAMES WOODS) & his mercenary vampire hunters, visit town after town & place after place, breaking into vampire nests & destroying the undead inhabitants, but after they break in & destroy a vampire nest that oddly has no leader with them, the group is attacked at a Hotel & Crow's entire team is decimated by the vampires very powerful master VALEK who's seeking revenge. On the run Jack & his vampire slaying buddy, take an hooker who has been bitten by the leader & thus has a psychic connection with him & teams up with a Priest & together they seek their revenge, but besides the vampires that they must take on & their leader, there's somebody else that's assisting the vamps along in their mission. I really liked VAMPIRES, it was the perfect blend of blood, guts, violence, great acting, sharp directing, cleaver writing & some really awesome special effects, Carpenter never disappoints this time around & there's always something interesting happening to hold your attention & VALEK the lead vampire makes for an awesome vampire villain. Highly recommended to horror fans, especially vampire fans & for those who liked FROM DUSK TILL DAWN or any of Carpenters other works. Followed by two direct to video sequels, the first sequel is called VAMPIRES LOS MURETOS **** stars "},{"Title":"Really ridiculous!!! (-","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film really exaggerates. The best are the introducing first few minutes when the vampire hunting squad tries to free an off-sided house of its multiple vampires. I really had to laugh about this because it's so ridiculous. They move into the house armed with barbed spears. These are tied with ropes to a jeep in front of it. Now every single spiked vampire gets pulled out of the house by the jeep where a reverent waits saying a short prayer that makes the vampires burn in connection with the sunlight...OK, maybe its not really worth watching the whole film, but if you can get it for the price of a short film, I'd recommend buying it for watching the first few minutes, laugh about it and then do something else. This fact that the rest of the film was so bad made it hard for me to give a vote... Nevertheless me and my friends had to laugh so much that I just have to give it 9 out of 10 points... sorry... "},{"Title":"Not bad but for J. Woods' posturing","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad for J. Carpentar - good use of lighting and angles. Perhaps the gore could have been cut down a little bit. One annoying factor was James Woods' constant tough guy posturing. Am I the only one who finds his constant macho posturing ridiculous? Reminds me of cartoon bad guys who twirl their mustaches! He was equally ridiculous in 'The Specialist'. And he constantly refers to himself in interviews as 'a big star'. Other cast members with lesser roles did a more convincing job. Good special effects and music. I would have liked a little more action though. I saw it on DVD and probably missed out on the big-screen effect.Otherwise 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Fairly Enjoyable Action-Horror","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is representative of the recent vampire action sub-genre of horror movies (the classic example of these is From Dusk Till Dawn which was obviously an inspiration for the makers of this film).John Carpenter is one of the most influential horror film directors and has made a couple of genuine classic movies (Halloween and his re-make of The Thing) but this film falls far short of his best.  It's not a bad film, really.  For horror fans it's pretty entertaining, and it's fairly funny and action packed, but at the same time it's very silly and quite derivative.The plot revolves around a vampire hunter, in the pay of the Vatican, (played by James Woods) who is on the hunt for a Master vampire, who slaughtered his whole team early in the film, aided by fellow survivors Daniel Baldwin and Sheryl Lee, who was bitten by the vampire in the attack and now has some kind of psychic link to him.The action is well staged and the gory special effects are well done.  the acting, with the exception of James Woods, is not very good, Daniel Baldwin being especially wooden.  The Master vampire looks like the lead singer of some 1980s goth-rock band (and is about as scary).A fun time-waster, but way below the standard of Carpenter's classics.  "}{"Title":"Great Vampire movie!","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is not the best vampire movie I have ever seen, and not the worst. The weapons and methods used to kill the vampires are quite inventive. The crossbow attached to a cable, that pulls the vampires into the sun was great. I have enjoyed James Woods work since Videodrome.  Daniel Baldwin plays a good sidekick, but does not have the acting ability of his brother Alex. Thomas Ian Griffith makes the perfect master vampire, the white contacts is a nice touch. The music by Carpenter is enjoyable as it is in most of his movies. There are some really good effects, such as when the master vampire cuts one of the hunters in half, using only his fingernails.  If nothing else this flick is worth seeing just to get a look at Sheryl Lee's rear! "},{"Title":"It needs something more.","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some good moments, and it had a good actor in the lead (James Woods), but it just needed something more.  This movie has a tendency to bog down more than once in explanation and talking scenes.  Not that there is anything wrong with those, but in this movie these scenes do slow down the pace.  Part of the problem is the fact that the movie started out quite fast.  The opening scene of them going through the house then killing the vampires was really cool.  Then they shift to a celebratory party where the head vampire comes and kills the entire gang of vampire hunters.  Then there is a great chase scene with the lead vampire, and finally Woods has to torch the motel they were at so no more vampires will be born.  Sounds great doesn't it?  Unfortunately, this all happens within the first fifteen or twenty minutes of the movie and afterwards it just doesn't reach the level it achieved again.  Even the ending is very anticlimactic as they really don't show anything.  Still though it isn't entirely boring or anything, but you just wish maybe they kept up the fast pace they set at the beginning of this one. "},{"Title":"Deplorable movie -- sexy-as-all-heck vampire!!!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***   Okay... So, John Carpenter isn't quite the god of horror movies today as he was in his heyday back in the late '70s through the early '80s (Halloween, The Fog, and The Thing still make for some of the all-time best chillers, IMHO). This is one of those vampire movies that could (and should) have been so much better...but fell way short. The idea of a group of vampire-killers armed with crossbows and other assorted, unique weaponry scouring the countryside for the creatures of the night is a unique and intriguing one -- but commissioned and sanctified by the VATICAN??? Come on, JC, you can do far better than this -- and you know it. James Woods is a phenomenal actor and usually appears in equally great movies; so I was quite surprised to see him slumming it in this. He must be close buds with JC and did it as a favor or something, I don't know (and I won't even begin to go into the casting of Daniel King of the 'B' Movies Baldwin). BUT...I must say, I have to give JC all due credit for his awesome choice in casting Thomas Ian Griffith as the master vampire, Valek. Oooooh, my my my!!! I haven't seen a vampire that lusciously handsome and sexy since The Lost Boys back in '87!!! I could have wacked JC over the head with a stake for having Griffith camp it up so much (exaggerated mouth movements, continuously flashing his overly-lengthy fangs, hissing, etc. -- I'd be willing to bet even Griffith himself felt silly doing all that). But other than that, he made for a VERY realistic vampire. He can suck MY neck any time! <g>  I'm a longtime, huge fan of all things vampiric -- especially movies. And I tend to be pretty picky about them; out of the innumerable vampire movies I've watched since I was a kid, only the precious few that I truly like are added to my DVD collection. Vampires isn't in there -- yet. But if I add it, it will be only for Griffith himself, not the movie. So, all in all, a deplorable movie with a cool score and sexy-as-heck master vampire.  "},{"Title":"Such Fabulous Grimaces","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so maybe this movie is not the best vampire flick ever but it certainly makes for a good nights entertainment.  Why, you may ask?  Well the expressions of total pain and despair, Of Course.  Each character gets his or her moment in the sun (he he).  It starts with the fabulous character of Katrina.  She seems to specialize in these all consume grimaces where her entire body joins in the act.  Then everyone else follows suit in his or her own original and fascinating way.  James Woods' grimaces are particularly entertaining in their appearance of total suppression and yet despair.  I LOVE IT!!!!.  Its like they all went to a grimace convention before hand an all learned from some secret master.  These are the four hidden rules to great grimaces...' Awesome.  So, watch this movie and keep an eye out for those great grimaces. "},{"Title":"cute, funny horror movie","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I would liken this movie to Big Trouble in Little China, also by John Carpenter.Its not scary.  But, it is funny and well-structured.  The story is good.I usually like James Woods, but in this movie he seems a bit stressed-out or something.  He doesn't know whether to play this as a comedy or a horror movie.On the whole, the movie recalls a more innocent time when our horror movies did not have to involve massacres or blood baths.  And a film could show some boobs and some ass without causing a huge stir.Enjoy.--Mark "},{"Title":"Rubbish, shows contempt for audience","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was definitely one of the worst vampire (or indeed horror) films I have ever seen. The basic idea, of a band of Vatican special operatives hunting vampires, was reasonably promising. But the execution (no pun intended) was awful.The special effects were variable. Whilst gruesome in the extreme (one protagonist was cut virtually in two by a vertical blow of the master vampires hand), basic special effects like a flying vampire, and dead bodies, were often not realistic. When the vampires were dragged into the sunlight they first started to steam (not smoke, apparently), and then either exploded like oversized firecrackers, or gave off huge quantities of flame like roman candles. I am not sure whether we were meant to be appalled, sickened, or amused by it.Having introduced the team as a ribald and profane group of devout Christian warriors for the Vatican (the compromises are rather startling), the majority of the characters are then killed off in a bloodbath. The surviving hero then turns renegade and virtually single-handedly finds the hiding-place of a crucifix that had been missing for 700 years, and incidentally the master vampire that has been hunting it. Having been captured by the vampire, he is then rescued in a lightning commando raid by a priest. At this point I became convinced that this film was meant to be a black comedy.Despite the apparent religious connotations, and the references to exorcism (which if conducted in reverse apparently destroys the body but preserves an undead soul- an interesting idea that could have been explored more), this is a pagan film! They even specially deny that cruxifixes, crosses, and garlic work against vampires. Heresy! Give me a traditional vampire film any day.Few films show such consistent contempt for the audience. The producers obviously despise those who appreciate good horror. There was little suspense; no plot development; an obvious villain (if it wasn't the priest it had to be the cardinal); a lame vampire; and a veritable raft of bad jokes. Avoid.1 out of 10 (for originality only). "},{"Title":"Best Carpenter ever!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I simply cannot understand why people don't like this movie. Woods' acting is great, Kibbe's camera is smooth, it's gory, it hassome cool lines and carpenter's directing is just nice. Plus it has one of the most rocking and shocking soundtracks I've ever heard. Two thumbs up John!!! "},{"Title":"So much potential - so bad...","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one is a real mystery to me - one my favourite directors (John Carpenter), one of my favourite actors (James Woods) and one of my favourite subject matters (vampires). How could it be so bad? I went into this movie like a kid going into a candy store, and came out like a kid who's just had his toy collection smashed. The funny thing is I can't even pin down exactly what made it so poor... The plot seemed sound enough for the subject matter (a bunch of guys who kill vampires for a living), James Woods delivered an adequate performance, the visual effects were OK. But, as a whole, the movie stank. The dialogue was bad, the attempts at humour missed the mark, and none of the characters were very real or even interesting. The thing I find amusing is that this came out around the same time as Blade (1998), which is probably the greatest vampire action film ever. Don't watch this movie - go rent Blade, Dusk Till Dawn or Near Dark instead. "},{"Title":"John Steakley's Vampire$= Good, John Carpenter's VampiresBad.","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had a lot of high hopes when I first rented this movie.  I am a big fan of sci-fi books, and had been introduced to the book Vampire$ after reading Mr. Steakley's other sci-fi novel Armor.  I had just recently seen the film Starship Troopers, an adaption of the novel Starship Troopers by Robert Heinlein, and needless to say, I was extremely dissapointed. Vampires dissapointed me a great deal as well. If you have read the book Vampire$, don't expect nearly the same story. The movie starts out fairly similar to the book, but goes completely astray from its roots as it continues.One thing I was completely thrown aback by was the omission of the character Felix, who played a major role in the book, if not bigger than the role of Jack Crow. If you haven't read the book, I would suggest spending the $8 to buy it instead of wasting your money on John Carpenter's Vampires.  After reading the novel, you might come back and watch the movie to see exactly what I'm talking about.  You'll have a few good laughs as well. If they ever decide to make an adaption of John Steakley's Armor, I pray that they leave it out of the hands of John Carpenter.  Two John's don't make a right. HAHA. "},{"Title":"Don't even bother with this...","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is worthless, the main characters were way over the top idiotic along with the vampires, we get the sense of been there done that already in the first 10 minutes of the film. Nothing new in this movie except the way they drag out the vampires into the sunlight and the weapons used in the film, that's it. You are better staying home and watching some of Carpenter's older movies which were excellent (The Fog, Halloween, The Thing, etc...), Horror director's of the 80's and early 90's just don't cut it anymore. "}{"Title":"Good shooting, Good Acting, James Woods does it again","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time, the violence, plot, and acting. The story was changed from the original thought of the book, but not in the bad way. I reccomend this movie to anyone, except for people below the age of thirteen. "},{"Title":"Carpenter shouldn't mix vamps with guns","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie is a good piece because of the HorrorMaster, John Carpenter; but this was an awefull atempt to mix up a plain action movie with some horror. Which obviously, did not work out for me. I hate and repulse every movie in which vampires are killed with crucifixes and christian stuff, nobody understands that vampires are animals with absolutely no connection with the Hades? So I'll give it a 3, just because it wasn't serious enough. If you enjoy Heaven n Hell horror come along the power of darkness and watch The Ninth Gate. "},{"Title":"End of Days meets Dusk till Dawn - horror no, gory yes","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  But - this movie stars Mr Hyper James Woods as a rather over-zealous vamp staker. Therefore well worth a look.  Watched it on terrestrial TV so might try to seek out the DVD if one exists? This non-discerning reviewer rates this movie 8 outta 10.  "},{"Title":"Senseless and massively gory but also entertaining and comical","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Are you in the need to see a really brainless, senseless and gory, ultra-violent, slightly comical and still a highly supercool tongue-in-a-cheek vampire slaughter movie? Then Robert Rodriguez's From dusk till dawn is just what the doctor orders. If the nearest video store doesn't have it at the moment you can try to locate another store or just settle with renting John Carpenter's Vampires.It's not as spectacular but it's certainly good enough if you're just looking for an anti-intelligent and sensationally bloody movie about a bunch of vampire-slaying lunatics. There's so little of plot in this film that it's really hard to believe Vampires is actually based on a novel. James Woods is excellent as Jack Crow, perhaps because we very rarely see him in the type of a role like this.I don't like Daniel Baldwin like I really don't want to praise any of the Baldwin brothers but Sheryl Lee was once again irresistible and Thomas Ian Griffith made a fabulous performance as the master vampire Valek. If you're not used to seeing horror films and movie-violence Vampires will make you lose your lunch but if all the splatter and gore doesn't shock you this is a perfect entertainment for any night. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Vampire Bites the Dust","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't as bad as expected in the begining and I gave it a chance but somewhere around half way, the film becomes another routine teen action flick with nothing to say.  Woods isnt awful as the aging vampire hunter who cuts the fingers of priests to extract information but the vampire is so lame that we don't even think its frightening anymore.  Most of the vampires look like rejects from a 1980's gothic bar and they are about as scary as a dead mosquito.  The early 80's vampire flicks (Fright Night, Vamp, Dracula) are much better and I'd recommend seeing those instead of this waste. "},{"Title":" Vampires we are!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  James Woods is coy as Jack in this trendy horror film. The following cast is slender. The costumes are awkward. One of the fair flicks in the genre, John Carpenter's Vampires delivers less horrors. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Blood, gore, vampires & slayers... Bloody great fun!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In a long list of vampire movies that have been made over the years, this one gets my vote as the most fun. Let's get real, vampire hunting cowboys can't be anything but fun. James Woods & Daniel Baldwin contribute sexy sarcasm to this twist on vampire themes.If you like movies that take gory to the extreme, with a comic twist, then this movie is for you. Definitely a must see for any fan of vampire movies. "},{"Title":"There's only one reason to watch this bloodfest.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  James Woods. To be precise, James Woods in tight jeans and with mussed-up hair. Mmmm. Well, the scene where Valek and some other master vampires rise from the ground against a heartstoppingly gorgeous backdrop of the sun setting in the desert was pretty good but really, this movie doesn't have a whole lot else to offer - unless you're into extremely graphic bloodshed and really bad dialogue. Oh, and did I mention that the only women in this movie are whores and/or vampires? "},{"Title":"The Most Violent,Gory Movie That I Have Ever Seen, But It was A Great Movie!!!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"             John Carpenters Vampires is the goriest, bloodiest, violentest film that I have ever seen, but it was great! Although, the blood and gore was EXTREMELY gruesome, but the movie was fun to watch. John Carpenter is a good director, and he made the film interesting and made it like and edge-of-your-seat horror movie. The horror genre is probably the most-used genre, and vampire movies are not very rare, but Vampires was a really good horror/vampire film. James Woods was brillaint and also Sheryl Lee did a good job. I give Vampires a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"The goriest movie ever made...","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah, just stay away from this glorious piece of crap at all costs. It's movies like this that give vampires a bad name. It depicts them as pale, emotionless bad guys with sharpe teeth. As if it helped that the movie was storyless and revoltingly bloody. I also found it outrageous how 80% of the movie I spent watching Priests and other innocent victims get torn apart in the most grotesque ways. I can usually take blood and gore with an iron stomach. This is a horrible exception.Other than some pretty tense moments at the end, there is nothing to suffer through this filth for. I give it a 3 out of a possible 10. "}{"Title":"An absolute classic","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a film thats entertaining, has plenty of action, has great characters with great acting and is not taken too seriously then 'John Carpenters Vampires' is perfect. Utterly suspenseful and entertaining from the start and will have you splitting your sides with laughter. So what? that it isnt a horror film. One of the best, most original action films of the last decade. And James Woods just gets better and better. "},{"Title":"Let's give credit where credit's due...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Thank God for John Carpenter. At a time when the horror genre is being overrun by teeny bopper horror/comedies (no references needed), parlor trick gimics a la Blair Witch, and countless direct-to-video vomit fests, VAMPIRES was released. Thank God for John Carpenter. Now there is nothing new here, nothing groundbreaking or philisophical, no Oscar candidates or social commentaries, just good clean, wholesome horror.Disguised as a low-budget gore-fest, VAMPIRES proves to be so much more. The perfected skill and technique of Mr Carpenter oozes through every scene in his 19th project. James Woods, a highly underrated actor, delivers a great performance as Jack Crow the leader of a group of vampire slayers. Something tells me Carpenter originally wanted Kurt Russel for the role, just a hunch. Laura Palmer was also great. Superb horror-effects from legendary Robert Kurtzman and Greg Nicoterro could've made the film a better sequel to the cult-classic FROM DUSK TILL DAWN than the two pathetic sequels we've seen.The bottom line is that in a day and age when selling out to mainstream horror audiences is the way to go, John Carpenter shows us that he still has the magic. Sure it's not his best or scariest, but for those who enjoy exciting, adventurous horror in a Tales From the Crypt vein, you should definitely give it a try. Who knows you might like it. Oh yeah and thank God for John Carpenter. "},{"Title":"Ok, but the book was better...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being a big fan of John Steakley (albeit his works are meager in number), I was pleasantly surprised to hear about the film version of his book. But while the first 15-20 minutes of the movie follows the plot of the book closely, it quickly diverges until there is little sembelence between the two.Which is too bad, because the book had plenty of tense scenes going for it. However, there amount of dialog probably wouldn't have translated into an action flick as easily.John Carpenter has done worse (They Live was just a pathetic joke) and certainly better (The Thing, Halloween, Escape From new York). If your a big fan of Mr. Carpenter's work (especially his music), then this is definitely worth a look-see. You won't be disappointed for graphic violence, at least.On a side-note, if you were disappointed with the movie, let me assure you the book is MUCH better! And you may also want to check out one of John Steakley's other books, Armor. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Carpenter and Vampire movie","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter proves once again that he can deliver a good horror film.  He brings a story of a guy (James Woods, cool as always) who has a crew of vampire hunters that is unfortunately hunted down to just Woods and Baldwin who now must hunt after the grand daddy of vampires.  Nosferatu it's not, but it is still worth watching, if you can take the gore.  Later re-worked as The Forsaken.  The first and last hunting scenes are the biggest and most violent ones.  B+ "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever!!!","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot begin to express my loathing of this movie. It was a total waste of time, money and effort. Why a great actor like James Woods would be in it is beyond me (he must have had to pay the rent) I am not one to complain about the sight of blood and gore but this was just senseless, the entire movie had no purpose or direction. At the end of the movie I was wondering what the Hell had just happened. There were no characters that you could like or relate to in any way. I can name maybe one scene that I actually liked - a slow motion of the head vampires walking across the desert but that was it. My advice - dont waste your time or money renting this.  "},{"Title":"A nice break","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Cheerfully amoral Grand Guignol flick from lazy director Carpenter. Could have done with some tighter editing towards the end, especially in the barn sequence.It's another 24 hours, the telepathic link with the master won't hold.....like a surveillance camera so we can find him and shove a stake up his ***. Woods, bless him, makes this sort of dialogue work. Baldwin's performance is rather touching. When you get to know him outside of his day job hacking up bodies he's really a big softie. Like the way he very obviously smashes his hand on the window as he's saving the girl. Tacky stuff. I've never seen so much ketchup in one film. Not that I have any objections since I've returned to the dark side. All in all, it's been a nice break. But this time it's all the way. Da-da-da-do-dun-der-da.... "},{"Title":"Don't look for the wrong things ....","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie will one day be a Classic Not because it's an intricately put-together film with millions spent on S/FX, nor because it is ground-breaking. No .... the reason this is such a superb movie is that it has all the things in it required for a night in front of the VCR Blood, wise-cracks, gore, more blood, a reasonable story, and James Woods being smart-mouthed and grouchy.I'm not going to go into the plot, but I will say that fans of Carpenter will NOT be disappointed!Look for James Woods making the movie his own with one-liners and his stare.Like most Carpenter movies, it has a one-liner that makes the movie worth watching ( reminiscences of They Live) and provided you're not looking for deep-and-meaningful, this is the movie for you.The supporting cast gel together nicely, but this was really James Woods' film. "},{"Title":"Nice visuals, bit cheesey.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Some really nice visuals fill this film, all associated with the vampires. Woods seems to take his role very seriously, but with cheesey looking weapons, and a sleezy human baddie, it looses it's way from being a cool stylish horror. The head Vampire is very cool, and looks the part. The hotel attack is superb and the visuals of the vampires waking is very creepy. "},{"Title":"Retro Splatter Triumph.","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It would be easy to dismiss VAMPIRES as another in a series of clever revisionist/postmodern/ironic horror films. Truth be told, this effort embodies an excited return to the video nasty era - more fleshrip than the average Fulci flick.  Mad Gothic/Western/Splatter/Zombie hybrid - a potent attempt to reverse the damage inflicted on contemporary exploitation via Late 20th-Cent value systems.  Mr Woods' best performance since NIXON ('though VIDEODROME would be the better point-of-reference); a real graphic/painful (in a good sense) presence - surprising bondage motif too. Most of Carpenter's work is worthwhile - VAMPIRES is less cerebral than (for example) THEY LIVE or PRINCE OF DARKNESS, but all-up, a major chubby. "},{"Title":"Western People","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I know so many people went into this movie thinking John Carpenter + Vampires = horror filk. As many have commented it's not terrifying in the least because it's not supposed to be. This movie is a Western, plain and simple. Look at it this way and it's a helluva lot more fun and understandable.  "}{"Title":"Just like the vampire, it sucks.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Another lousy night of movie watching by yours truly. This one actually rolled into two nights. The first night I watched the first half an hour then went to bed, hoping it'd get better with a fresh outlook on the next night. Guess that theory went out the window. James Woods walks through this gore-fest which has next to no artistic merit at all. Apparently everything we know about vampires is wrong, but this flick shows us that the real way to kill a vampire is to stab it a hundred times in the heart with a wooden stake (we didn't know that one?) and/or shoot it with a crossbow attached with a rope and drag that sonofabitch into the daylight using your truck. Some really weak dialogue and piss-poor acting made this painful to watch. Yet another stinker in Kris' lousiest movie week in the year 2000. Don't bother, even if it's a free rental. If you need any more coersion, it has a Baldwin brother in it, and it's not Alec. 5 out of 10. An F.  "},{"Title":"Blood flows like rivers in this horror movie...","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...and I thought From Dusk til Dawn is gory! Vampires makesFDTD look like The Sound of Music! With enough  decapitations, blood geysers, and severed limbs, this moviewould make a surgeon gringe because of the constant graphicaction. But don't expect it to be frightening, though. Though abit chilling, this flick would won't really give you nightmares;that is, unless you're squeamish to the sight of ripped-upcadavers!James Woods is in full macho mode as Jack Crow, vampire hunterexpert and lord of the tough-asses. Along with his sidekickMontoya (Daniel Baldwin), Crow must find a rare holy cross thatcan eliminate an extremely powerful bloodsucker by the name ofValek (Thomas Ian Griffith of Excessive Force) before thisundead freak can suck the whole world blood-dry.Woods is sarcastically great as ever (he's one of my idols) asCrow, and John Carpenter directs his usual horror flick that isliterally drenc "},{"Title":"Time to kill some Vampires","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Of all of John Carpenter's films, I'd say Vampires is second only to Halloween. The movie itself is not really that scary, it is really more gory. But there is a story in there which makes up for the gore in so many ways. I doubt making it scary was even the intention of Carpenter. He made more like an action movie with gore and less like a moody, suspense thriller like Halloween. James Woods is excellent as Jack Crow. Vampires is worth a viewing now and then. Thumbs up on this one. "},{"Title":"Boring and predictable","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One day John Carpenter will make a decent film again, but until that day we'll have to meditate on this steaming coil, possibly his worst film ever (though Village of the Damned is some pretty stiff competition). Vampires makes In the Mouth of Madness look like the work of genius, but compared to Carpenter classics like  Prince of Darkness, They Live, and Dark Star it's truly wretched. There isn't a single scene in this film that provides either thrills or surprises. The dialogue is embarassingly bad  he's unstoppable...unless we stop him!. Avoid.  "},{"Title":"Really violent...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The main disadvantage of this flick is total lack of suspense.John Carpenter completely changes the basic formula of the vampire cinemavampires are resistant to garlic and cross;they don't rest in coffins and some of them seem to be immortal(Valek).Lots of blood and mayhem(blood sucking,throat slitting,decapitations and other kinds of sheer brutality)right from the start.If you like gore give this movie a chance,but if you want to be scared check somewhere else(watch again for example Halloween or The Fog). "},{"Title":"JC does it again","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Can Carpenter do no wrong? Vampires is another classic film from the man himself. OK so maybe it isn't really that scary, but something tells me that it wasn't intended to be - more of an action horror than anything else. Although the lead villain is scary enough, judging from his actions at the start of the film, he's one lethal vampire. Despite not having much screen time, the team of hunters are brilliantly introduced, and given plenty of character considering. Even 'Chubby' Baldwin puts in a sterling performance. The only niggle I have is with the slightly corny ending, but I can let that slide when the rest of the film is absolutely brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Cool as hell!","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  From the great director, John Carpenter comes one of the best vampire movies ever made! Hopefully this movie will become a cult classic, because it's a real entertaining movie, with a fantastic opening scene. James Woods, plays a great character in the style of John Carpenter. Great vampire slaying techniques and cool gore make this a movie to be praised by horror fans, like me!  "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's Best In Years","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This fun adaptation of John Steakley's novel aptly came out around Halloween a couple of years ago and was quite a treat. James Woods is at his gonzo best as the leader of a vampire hunter group. When most of his team is killed, he recruits a young priest (and proceeds to abuse him throughout the movie) and with Daniel Baldwin and hooker Sheryl Lee (who was bit by a master) they go to find an artifact in order to prevent the vampires from walking in the daylight. Blood-soaked action from start to finish. You may recognise the main vampire as the villain from The Karate Kid Part III. "},{"Title":"Top-Notch entertainment.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires is one of the most entertaining films I have seen in a while.  A vampire tale mixed with western film makes for great fun.  James Woods (Ghosts of Mississippi, The General's Daughter) stars as Jack Crow a vampire hunter funded by the Catholic Church.  He and his partner, played by Daniel Baldwin (Mulholland Falls, Trees Lounge) are hunting after a master vampire, excellently portrayed by Thomas Ian Griffith (The Karate Kid III, Excessive Force).  The film has some funny lines and is very entertaining with its bloody battles and great action scenes.  Sheryl Lee (Mother Night, Bliss) is good as a prostitute with a psychic link to Griffith.  James Woods gives a great lead performance and Daniel Baldwin is very good as his partner.  Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"I believe that Carpenter is not one to disappoint...","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see this movie with my boyfriend I was immediately drawn to Valek. Carpenter did such a good job I was almost oblivious to Valek's killing sprees and completely drawn to his words as well as eyes. Wood's character compliments Griffith's but in the long run of things I would have to say that Valek is certainly on my list). Fine holiday fun (Halloween of course) so enjoy! "}{"Title":"another good vampire movie!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i think john carpenter's vampires is a hair better thanfrom dusk till dawn. but from dusk till dawn is still areally good movie. vampires is a entertaining  action/horror movie. the characters are funny,and cool. to me this is john carpenter's 3rd best directed movie. 3rd  behind halloween,and christine. i give john carpenter'svampires *** out of **** "},{"Title":"A film you can sink your teeth into...","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tired of those run-of-the-mill Dracula/vampire horror flicks? Then try watching John Carpenter's Vampires, which to me, is a cool hybrid of The Lost Boys with Mad Max. It's a great change of direction for the old genre of vampire movie, because it includes elements found in an action film as well as the usual horror routines. The performances in this film are awesome, especially by James Woods, who plays the macho vamp-hunter Jack Crowe. Daniel Baldwin is Crowe's tough sidekick, and Sheryl Lee is the hot-yet very doomed girl Jack tries to save. Thomas Ian Griffith, who plays a bad guy for the 3rd time, is Valek, a really scary-looking bloodsucker that makes Dracula look like Don Knotts! If you are looking for a great Halloween film to watch after viewing another cool chill film Army of Darkness (see my past review of AOD and you'll know what I mean!), Vampires is the right choice. Be warned though, if you can't take graphic violence such as disembowelments and close-ups of bloodsucking, this film is NOT for you!! "},{"Title":"I don't understand why this rating is so bad.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this very much especially after seeing Mr. Carpenter's other late movies. He comes back! James Woods acted splendid dark and strong hero. For the people who expected romance in vampire films,like Interview with the Vampire, sorry. This movie is real action, battles against the vampires and even maybe good western movie.   "},{"Title":"I loved the movie, the cast, and the plot.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  James Woods did the best acting and had the best lines.Thomas Ian Griffth had a cool part to play. He also portrayed a bad guy in Karate Kid Part 3.I think Sheryl Lee is one of most beautiful actresses in the world. The movie has a butt shot of her and I like it.During the movie I heard one of the actors say 9 is my lucky # I got a kick of it because 9 is my lucky #. Reason?, during a Baseball game I had 3 Rbi's with one hit and 9 was my#.Rent this movie You will like it. The acting, plot, language, gore level, and sexuality are good.See Y'alls later  If you are not down with the Iron Dragon you are considered the boosh sorry a thing I say  in my wrestling matches. "},{"Title":"A damn fine vampire movie.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The best way to put my feelings about it would be This movie is  everything I would have wanted in 'From Dusk Till Dawn', but didn't get.  It has dialogue that sounds like someone might really say it, it has decent effects, it doesn't screw around too much with the whole vampire archetype, and it doesn't completely change tone halfway through.  Not the greatest horror movie ever made, but certainly in the top half.   "},{"Title":"Tailored for widescreen","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had trepidation watching this movie. It never received a theatrical/or even video release in Britain. I thought either a) this movie is a shambolic mess, or b) Vampires has too much gore.I was right on both counts, but I made the mistake of watching this movie in full-screen format the first time. On second viewing, this time in widescreen DVD, I managed to appreciate it more. This isn't a good movie, but I'm probably judging this against another movie I'd seen a week before (Blade). While Blade was more comical, Vampires was more humorous.As for the gore aspect - it probably wasn't as bad as it could have been. The two major problems with this movie concerned the master villain who came across as a reject from a Marilyn Manson concert and wasn't in the least bit scary, and the middle hour of the movie managed to be way too slow. I noticed about 10 minutes that could have been trimmed immediately - noticeably the stupid long shots of Woods and co walking down the road, and the five or six vampire burning bodies at the beginning.If you take it for what it is - a darkly humourous look at Vampires, and if you are not Catholic (which this movie seemed to have something against), then you may enjoy it.This is Carpenter's best movie for a long time, but still falls way short of his early excellence. There were glimpses (especially in widescreen) of the old directorial magic.5/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good graphic vampire movie","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first twenty minutes are very gory and those of you who don't like horror movies, just fast forward that. If you are a fan of vampire movies however, you will like this movie because it makes its own rules and you are given the chance to go on a ride with the characters and experience what they feel and you can guess what they will do next. The ending was pretty crap but apart from that I found Vampires very interesting and I recommend it to anyone who likes Buffy or who liked Blade. "},{"Title":"What's with the 6.1 rating????","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching JC's Vampires for the 10th time or something like that on DVD, this time with JC's commentary, which I found very interesting, and I still consider it a masterpiece. I don't know why everyone tends to hate it, but I find it better every time. JC's my favorite director and this is a perfect film for every fan of horror and western films. Please, watch this wonder, for Christ's sake!!!!!  "},{"Title":"This movie is cool!!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think that this movie is pretty cool regardless of what critics have said. I felt that the plot, although maybe not the most in-depth ever, was sufficient.  In a movie like this, plot isn't the main focus anyway.  The character development was phenomenal.  Wood's portrayal of Jack Crow was excellent while Baldwin's Montoya was always making me wonder whose side he was on.  Lee's prostitute vamp was very sexy and chilling and Griffith's portrayal of the master Valek had me watching the dark shadows of my room waiting for him to appear.  These four characters contributed much to the overall mood of this movie which was anything but cheerful.  I applaud John Carpenter for his work on this picture.  The soundtrack is excellent too. Although this will not be remembered as Carpenter's greatest movie, I still think it ranks right up there with Halloween and others.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Vampire films ever!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot, it was scary and funny. It had a lot of blood in it and I like that. Over all it was a really good movie and I liked how they killed the vampires in the movie by pulling them from a truck into the sun light and watch them burn! (ha ha ha) there was a lot of good action in it two and a lot of funny lines like when James Woods was killing a vampire he would say die you f**ker DIE I think any one who likes vampire movies should see this movie! "}{"Title":"Pretty good Vampire-movie","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very good, it's kind of different then the sissy vampire movie Interview with the Vampire. This one is a knock off from start to finish. I would recommend this one to anyone that likes vampire-movies I rate this one **** stars out of **** "},{"Title":"A GREAT HORROR/VAMPIRE/DARK COMEDY PICTURE.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps I have not seen too many horror/vampire movies, or maybe the critics have seen too many, but I thought John Carpenter has produced a fine film.First of all, the acting is great.  James Woods is at his usual fine acting self.  I thought I thought Thomas Ian Griffith made an excellent truly nasty vampire. Mark Baldwin seems to be disinterested in his role.  What a comedown for Maximlian Schell though I remember him from Judgement at Nurenberg where he did such a fine job as the prosecutor. Here he plays a big time cardinal who wants to see Jack Crow crucified on a black cross which Maleck dug up in the southwest United States, of all places.The plot is standard stuff, all quite predictable. Jack Crow, a mercenary hired by the Vatican sets out to track this really bad guy, Valeck,the boss vampire. Now this big honcho (it is a kind of western) and his gang of underlings show no mercy towards their victims. One bite from him or his cohorts and you are doomed to be one of the boys (or girls).  He takes a bite out of a hooker in a really imaginative way, and in just two days she changes.As the formula goes, you never know when you are in the midst of one of them.With all this said and done, believe it or not,I still found the film to be well worth watching, especially on DVD. "},{"Title":"OUTSTANDING","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The best movie of the year 1998. I have given rating of ten for this movie. Cool music and great charisma from all the actors. It's been a long time for such a awesome vampire movie.To all those out there, it is a must watch movie!! "},{"Title":"finally another great Carpenter flick","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, Escape from L.A. was really not as bad as everyone said. But this is the first truly GREAT movie that Carpenter has made in a LONG time. James Woods' acting is exactly right for the part, he keeps a straight face throughout the film. Actually everything about the movie is just the way it should be the cast, the cinematography, the dialogue (Woods has some REALLY cool lines!!) and the music (normally not the type you'd have in a vampire flick but here it's perfect). It's pretty creepy while being surprisingly non-Gothic. If you go for that type of movie at all this is sure to become a favorite. Missing it will not be excused!! "},{"Title":"Carpenter bites back!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not since Halloween or The Fog have I enjoyed a John Carpenter film as much as I enjoyed Vampires. It contains all the Carpenteresque qualities we've come to expect from the Director. The tension, suspense, colourful characters and an excellent moody score all blend into a well rounded little chiller. From the incredibly gripping opening to the tension hammered finale, Carpenter knows how to pull you along at breakneck speed and hardly stops for a breather along the way. The movie contains some of the most haunting images of Carpenter's career including a creepily, inspired scene where the Vampires rise from their dusty graves, a vision that's sure to plaster a gleaming smile on any Zombie enthusiasts face, to the Demonic, Master Vampire, Valek thrashing through the air in wild, rabid pursuit of the Vampire slayers. Of course it wouldn't be a John Carpenter movie if it didn't contain his widescreen images and this films photogenic, New Mexico desert locations deliver some of the most beautifully shot scenes in a Carpenter movie. Two thumbs up to the Heavens for this instant Carpenter classic.  "},{"Title":"Another Great John Carpenter Flick","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a HUGE John Carpenter fan. I always loved his work, especially on films such as Escape From New York, Halloween and The Thing. After Escape  From L.A., which I was a bit disappointed with, I was wondering what Carpenter's next project would be. And here it is, John Carpenter's Vampires. Jack Crow and partner Tony Montoya, are the only remaining mercenaries against creatures of the night after a violent battle against head vampire, Valek. During the battle, Valek bites a beautiful prostiture named Katrina. Now, Crow and Montoya have taken the prostitute hostage as a weapon against Valek. I enjoyed Vampires every step through, and decided to give it a 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"An instant Carpenter Classic","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this film was one of John Carpenter's best. James Woods was a perfect choice for the part of Jack Crow. There are a few parts that I didn't like though. There is a character in VAMPIRES named Catlin. He is also in the book VAMPIRE$ by John Steakly. In the book, Catlin and Crow are the only two to survive the party. However, in the movie, Catlin is one of the unfortunate suckers caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. And he gets himself killed. I thought that the script should have had more effort put into it. And the movie is a lot different from the book. I have read some of the comments. Some people have said that dragging vampires out into the sun using a winch is a boring idea. Well, that's what they did in the book. I also wish that they had put Felix in the movie. Overall, this is an okay film I give it 8/10. (I also like Father Adam in the movie. He's pretty good with a shotgun.) "},{"Title":"It's about time people stop calling Carpenter the master of terror","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked Vampires...it wasn't on par with the action of Blade, or the writing of From Dusk till Dawn...and come to think of it, there weren't that many vampires in Vampires. They were there.. but I guess they interfered with the scenes of Jack Crow beating up that poor priest. I enjoyed the film enough to see it, rent it & eventually purchase the dvd. I'm partial to vampire movies as a whole, but fair enough to see the gaping flaws in this one.. like the telepathic link between Valek & the woman he bit..how would that benefit anyone but the slayers??????? It made no sense... add to that, that I can't stand Maxamillon Schell.. and you end up with a flawed but overly enjoyable vampire movie "},{"Title":"Quite good, actually!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is good! It's good to see a film like that, in a time where slasher movies are very popular. 'Cause tell you the truth...I'm getting sick and tired of all these slasher movies about stupid teenagers, getting killed. This movie is like sunshine on a rainy day!!  "},{"Title":"Not a bad horror flick","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie wasn't spectacular, but I did like it.  The Vampires are portrayed very typically.  It was definitely not original, but it was a good rendering of the traditional vampire movie, with excellent special effects. Two gripes the acting of Sheryl Lee was terrible, and the ending, though quite original, was stupid and totally uncharacteristic of the movie.  It was like a Tales From the Crypt ending (note; for a not bad vampire movie see TFTC presents Bordello of Blood), but it just did not fit the rest of the movie.A much better vampire movie in my opinion is Blade.  The special effects are even better, and the premise is much more original.  Overall, I give Vampires a 7 out of ten. "}{"Title":"Carpenter should give fangs to what he did wrong.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You can take the fangs out of the vampire, but you can't take the VAMPIRES out of John Carpenter. This is lame. As the title applies, vampires are what the film is about, using the same kind of plot tried in Bela Lugosi's day. Forget the graphic bloody violence because you've seen it all happen before. Modernizing the vampire story has lost a crucial feeling of horrifying chills, only within its place comes a lot of writers who hadn't had the time to apply an old-school formula to 90s standards. Filmwise, it looks updated, and that's it. All it should have needed is more attention to diverse detail, not a crop full of vampire hunter mercenaries who make something look like a substandard action guy thing. Now we must make an understanding here. Way back in 1978, Carpenter brought horror movies to a new dimension in HALLOWEEN, resulting the birth of the slasher. This one, VAMPIRES, offers nothing revolutionary, and attempts to cash in on newcomers who have seen vampire movies thousands of times over. With the big film studios recently losing out on delivering no visible breakthroughs, a scary future is in sight! A complete waste. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being a horror movie fan, as well as a James Woods fan, I found Vampires, to be a highly entertaining movie. It is one I would watch again, a few weeks from now. I can't say that for too many other films!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining For A Vampire Movie","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although I think John Carpenter has really slipped as far as his work, but this was a decent film. It was entertaining compared to most of the crap they put out (Action Thriller). It was better than Blade, and that's not saying a lot. "},{"Title":"A rootin-tootin' hoot fest. Not without its flaws","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw the movie Vampires recently, and I have to say it's a nice little entry in the Kick-Ass Vampire Flick genre which began with Bordello of Blood and also includes the Wesley Snipes whup-ass masterpiece, Blade. Vampires defines a nice middle ground between the absolute carnage of Blade and the nipple-fest of Bordello of Blood. It's incoherent and laughable in parts, but hey, 90 percent of Hollywood movies are that and more.In Vampires, James Woods, who has made a career lately out of playing brooding, violent sociopaths, plays a brooding, violent sociopath who hunts vampires. It's drudge work to him, really, and he doesn't even get into the fun at the hooker hotel with his crew, who cavort with topless sluts under the benevolent smile of their priest. I'm NOT making this up!Well, in horror movies, anytime anyone has a good time partying and women go topless, people die. Sure enough, who shows up but master vampire Valek, played by Thomas Ian Griffin, who is a dead ringer -- pardon the pun -- for the lead singer of the '80s hair-wave band Youthquake.Valek does neat stuff like spinning people 'round, 'round, like a record baby 'round, 'round. Then he rips 'em in half and reaches through a guy's chest to strangle a woman. But the part that will endear him to the ladies is that he is apparently the best muffin muncher this side of the underworld. Oh, sure, they spread some bull about him biting her on the thigh -- don't believe it! He puts his mouth to good use, and turns her into some sort of pre-vampire mind slave.I know what you're saying, ladies. You'd turn into a pre-vampire mind slave for the right guy who knows how to seriously suck a girl's, ah, blood. Well, we find out about this plot development in a series of screaming arguments between the James Woods character (his name is Crow -- though, to his credit, he never tells the hookers to eat Crow)  and his sidekick, Montoya, played by the decidedly un-hispanic, definitely flabby Daniel Baldwin.Flabby. Did I say Daniel Baldwin is Flabby? He's bloated, for God's sake! His pants don't even fit, wardrobe couldn't keep up with him. Obviously Daniel's well-publicized off-screen battle with cocaine has reached a crucial stage. In the movie, Montoya is a cipher, but a bloated, glaze-eyed cipher who's in about as bad a shape as...well...ME! Can you imagine me getting into slice-and-dice tumble-fests with screaming, snarling rabid-dog vampires? I should say not.Anyway, after Valek crashes the party, Crow and Montoya escape with their lives and the pre-vampire mind slave Katrina, played by nubile nymphet Sheryl Lee.For reasons never really explained, the guys separate. Montoya checks into a sleazy motel with Katrina, and she wakes up the next morning tied up, face down naked on the bed. I believe it was at this point that every guy in the audience whispered aloud Ye-e-e-es.Anyway, as Katrina flails around, realizing how helpless she is, at the mercy of whatever dominating bad boy did this to her, Montoya wanders in and explains how he cleaned her up, mumble-mumble mumble. Yeah, sure. We're all thinkin' that bloated, jaded Daniel Baldwin is definitely a guy who knows how to make good use of a tied-up naked woman, some ice cream and lubricant.Meanwhile, Crow goes to meet his Vatican contacts. Previously, in one of his chummy screaming matches with Montoya, they'd established that the team had been betrayed. Well, one look at Maximillian Schell playing a Cardinal and I'm thinking Hmm...this ain't no walk-on. Maximillian probably sold Crow out to the Youthquake dude! Was I right -- read on!The middle part of the film is spent establishing that Crow is a sadist who likes to beat up priests, and that the filmmakers are sadists who like to decapitate priests, set them on fire, turn them into blood fountains (?!) and so on. Does someone here have an issue with the priesthood? Actually, there are S&M themes running throughout the entire film, even more than your average vampire movie. After being bitten by vampire-possessed Katrina, Daniel Baldwin's character, get this, actually SETS HIS ARM ON FIRE, even though he knows it won't stop the vampire process. Either that, or he was just particularly stoned that day on the film and they wrote it in. The vampire leaders are called Masters, and the followers are called Bottoms. Well, okay I made up that last part.Oh, and there's some incomprehensible plot point about finding some cross that will allow vampires to walk in daylight. Apparently Valek and his Youthquake cronies have been on a road tour of the Southwest looking for it for the last 300 years. The flimsy plot devices they threw into place makes no sense. But then it makes no sense that shooting vampires with high-caliber ammunition not only doesn't hurt them, but doesn't leave a mark on them. Yeah, Vampires has its flaws.But what it all boils down to is a big fight at the end. Who shows up but the Cardinal -- and he's working for the Youthquake bad guys! Well, I was just shocked at that!The Cardinal gives some lame excuse about losing his faith, not being able to believe in God, deciding a vampire's eternal life was the only option open for him. I'm thinking The only reason I'd become a vampire is for the endless kinky sex. But sex doesn't matter to Catholic priests, so what's he joining up for...unless priests ARE into kinky sex. Nah...can't be.Sadly for Valek, he makes the classic James Bond mistake of not killing the hero right away, but saving him for an especially evil, especially slow death. Naturally, Crow comes back and kicks his ass. No big surprise. But luckily, the movie makers did take one final opportunity to tie up Sheryl Lee. Ye-e-e-e-es!What happens to Daniel Baldwin's character is so especially lame and stupid that I won't even go into it. Maybe he was just wandering around on the set in a drug haze as James Woods frantically improvised dialogue, I don't know.All in all, I'd say see this movie before the Republicans take over and make films like this illegal. They don't want America to know the truth about our on-going struggle to wipe out vampires and keep Sheryl Lee tied up. Yahoo! "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being aged 14, I had to go see this movie with my mum. We sat and talked, watched the new Star Wars trailer (I don't see what all the fuss was about) and then it started. At the end of it all, we were both quite satisfied with the movie. We both agreed that this was the best Carpenter movie yet. It can get extremely gory and sadistic at times but it is relevant to the story. James Woods was good as usual. Go see it! Am I the only one who finds Carpenter's music scores to be annoying? "},{"Title":"One of better flicks in last few years","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well,I got what I expected,finally.Being a big Carpenter fan,I wondered one thing...will John stop making horrid movies ?! His first efforts are truly marvelous,but almost everything from Prince of Darkness (well,except In the Mouth of Madness) is pretty weak...'Village of the Damned' was one of the worst,and when I heard he did the Vampires,I thought oh well,another crap coming.First projection of Vampires was,ironic,right here in Belgrade some 6-7 months ago. But of course,I missed it,and I waited long time to get a tape...when finally got it,I was jolly as a puppy - I'm finally going to see it !The movie itself is excellent. The story is intriguing,speaking of Vampires as a foul creation of catholic church,and James Woods is perfect as a cold-blooded vampire slayer. Daniel Baldwin delivers a top-notch performance too.Finally,Carpenter is back on the right track with this one. I expect more good to come from him in next five years... "},{"Title":"Vampires-Carpenter bites back with a great film.","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Until recently I didn't get a chance to see Vampires until just a few days ago. I read a lot of reviews, some good, many bad, but I wanted to see for myself of course. And I wasn't for one second disappointed.First off, it seems that a lot of people were disappointed with this film. Whether it be fans of the book, or just people who just wanted to insult Carpenter. Of course as with nearly all of his films, they get many bad reviews and do not so well at the box office. One of the few major critics I'll let go is Gene Siskel. He liked Vampires.Anyway, now to my opinion. While it wasn't The Thing. And really since 1982 which film of his has surpassed The Thing? I thought Vampires started off great, the method of which Jack Crow's team disposed of vampires was great. Watching the poor vamps clawing at the floor and hissing as they're dragged to their doom into the sunlight. I found it great. And for the die-hard Carpenter fans, the ones who knew how to respect this film....tell me the music did not kick ass. I loved it. It had a creepy quality and still had that western theme.The action let up for quite awhile, but Valek was definitely cool. And James Woods was definitely entertaining as Jack Crow. I liked this more than Blade, even though Blade had a lot more action. Blade was a quick execution in style, more like a long music video than an actual movie. Vampires is John Carpenter's own interpretation on vampires themselves. It's a movie of self-expression and horror, which is of course, what John knows best. I don't think a large percentage of audiences in the United States gives John Carpenter the respect he deserves. Vampires is his best film in recent time and who better to do a film like this? Steven Spielberg? I think not. Quentin Tarantino? Already did it with From Dusk Till Dawn (And quite well might I add)And as much as I love Escape From LA, John's last film before this in 1996, it was truly at heart a remake of New York, right down to certain characters even. Hence Brain from NY, and Carjack Malone from LA.Final thought, if you have an open mind and an educated background on horror movies, see this film. On my eternal scale from 1-10, I give Vampires a 9. Definitely one of the best of the year. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter does it again!","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I recently saw John Carpenter's Vampires and it was another well done movie by a great director.Before I went, I did some research as to how other individuals thought of the movie, but wanted to make my own opinion.  I'm glad I did as Vampires was a great ride for two hours.  It had it all action, suspense, scares, drama and lots of laughs.  I am always impressed by how Carpenter allows the hero or anti- hero to be single minded and never straying from their purpose. It shows a reflection of the man himself who tries to remain independent and tells the story he wants to tell, ever unbending from Hollywood's influences.The cast put out a great performance, (yes even that Baldwin guy wasn't that bad!) and I loved every minute of it.If you like Carpenter flicks and want to have some fun  for a couple of hours, see this movie!  To all of you critics who had some negative comments remember...it's just a movie.  Did you expect to leave the theatre with some kind of spiritual enlightenment?J "},{"Title":"Review of John Carpenter's Vampires","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent movie, I highly recommend it to anyone who is even the least bit interested in vampires.  I've seen a lot of different vampire-related films over the years, and this one is by far the best.  The drama, situations and characters (especially the vampires) are by far the most believable and realistic.  If you liked From Dusk till Dawn or An Interview with a Vampire, you'll love John Carpenter's Vampires. "},{"Title":"Vampires was excellent","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that the movie itself was a very good translation of the book, which was also very good. Thomas Ian Griffith played a great vampire and though I had doubts about James Woods, the entire Crow team was great. As always, John Carpenter's musical score was great, giving the movie a western-esque kind of feel that the book so excellently portrayed. Read the book. See the movie. They are both GREAT. "}{"Title":"Requires B Movie appreciation","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved Vampires. I thought it totally kicked butt. However, to like the movie as much as my friend and I did, you have to have a proper appreciation of classic B Movies. While Vampires might not be a B Movie in the technical definition of the word, it most definitely has a B Movie feel to it. Let me put it this way If you loved Army of Darkness, you'll likely enjoy Vampires. They're very similar, in fact. The main characters are both loudmouthed macho jerks who spout incredibly cool lines. Just as Ash never needs to reload his shotgun, James Wood's character never needs to reload his crossbow, which in this case is even more laughable, yet wholly irrelevant to enjoying the film. There is a rather unpleasant misogynistic side to the movie, which is my main criticism of the movie. It goes without saying that this is a guy film to be seen with one's male buddies, as opposed to, say, most Mel Gibson action flicks which many women enjoy along with men (Braveheart, Conspiracy Theory). Of course, if the woman in question likes being treated as just one of the guys, and appreciates B Movies like Army of Darkness, by all means, see it. The main selling points of the movie are hardcore action, gratuitous nudity, witty macho dialogue (much better than Schwarzenegger's crapulent tripe, but you should have guessed that by the fact that the movie stars the grizzled James Woods), some decent gore, and a few interesting concepts such as the church's involvement, relics, and the always interesting vampire concept, which always varies from movie to movie. I shall now compare Vampires to Blade and  From Dusk Till Dawn, two other relatively recent modern-era vampire flicks, both of which I enjoyed. Blade and Vampires, while similar in concept, have very different settings. Blade is an urban tale, filled with martial-arts-type fighting, a black main character, realistic gore, and the concept of vampires having an organized underworld society, and it should be noted that the main hero was conceived as a comic book character, and thus killing is treated as a serious business. Vampires is a modern western, with mindless shooting, punching, and general butt-kicking, with gore to a similar degree as Blade, yet far less visual realism (i.e. poor gore effects); the main character is an obnoxious jerk and killing is more amusing and entertaining than meaningful. Blade, I thought, was a cool movie, but I liked Vampires even better as it was a lot funnier and filled with tough-guy, wisecracking, butt-kicking western-style characters. However, I thought both are eclipsed by From Dusk Till Dawn. To start, compare Vampire's hooker party with the now-legendary Titty Twister Club.  From Dusk Till Dawn had much better effects. From Dusk Till Dawn slaughtered its characters slowly, instead of wasting them all at the beginning. Of course, From Dusk Till Dawn had a boring, meandering beginning that attempted to be a plot with quasi-serious character treatments. Considering the real point of that movie was the vampires, they should have made the beginning move a lot faster, since once they get to the Titty Twister Club, most of the beginning becomes completely irrelevant. However, if From Dusk Till Dawn started right at the Titty Twister scene, there would be no question that it was better than Vampires, which concentrates it's action scenes at the beginning and end, and makes you sit through a middle that is full of funny and entertaining lines but little action. Salma Hayek gave a much more masterful performance than any of bthe women in Vampires. Woods was much better than Clooney, but there's no comparing Danny Dullness Baldwin with Quentin Tarantino in terms of sidekicks. The actual depiction of the vampires themselves is similar in character (bloody thirsty monsters, unlike the more refined and intelligent ones in Blade) yet different in style (the Master Vampire of Vampires was a pretty spooky human predator, where as the vampires of FDTDawn were more demonic in appearance). I have no conclusion to give you, except that if you love beat-em-up action films, go see Vampires. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good...","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was surprisingly good. Not to give any spoilers, but the vampires are actually hard to kill (for once, they don't seem to hang around sleeping in coffins all the time-)) and James Woods proves once again that he can be a total bad ass. Definitely worse seeing, probably in theater so you can see the cinematography, lots of great sweeping outdoor shots. "},{"Title":"Fun, Furious, and very Gory!","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampire's is what I would call a fun movie. It doesn't take itself seriously and it has fun with its material. I had a good time watching Vampires.  "},{"Title":"Gore Galore!!!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires is an extremely gory movie.  You have decapitations, stabbing, throat slashing, crushing, biting, sucking, shooting, and burning.  I like seeing these in movies as long as the plot isn't too dull or far-fetched. Vampires is neither, but it gets pretty close.  Before coming into the movie, I thought James Woods didn't look like the type of character the movie was trying to portray.  But to my surprise, his acting made his appearance more fitting.  Amazing!!!!  I really enjoyed James Woods' character, he was very violent, rude, and slick, perfect for a vampire slayer.  Only watch this movie if you want to spend a couple of hours watching a gore fest with a decent plot, or if you're a fan of vampire mythology.  However, some traditional vampire mythology isn't applied in this movie.  (ie. garlic doesn't work, and they don't sleep in coffins).  At any rate, it is an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Good or bad, depending on how you look at it...","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You can look at this movie two ways; You can look at it as a John Carpenter movie or you can compare it to its peers in the genre. In the first regard it's mediocre at best. Compared to classic Carpenter (The Thing or Halloween) it's pretty poorly conceived and executed. The only strong aspect that Carpenter adds is the musical score, which we all knew that he could do anyway. If you look at it from the second vantage you see that this is at the top of the heap as vampire slaying action flicks go. It's got good amounts of gore, special effects, and the all important one-liners delivered flawlessly by James Woods. My advice to those who go to see this movie don't go looking for any Carpenter-esque masterpiece, you won't find it here. But, if you're looking for a fun way to kill some time, go and see Vampires.    "},{"Title":"There is such a thing as too much of a good thing","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucked!  I'll admit, I love John Carpenter movies, in  general, but this one was one of the worst ones he has ever done.  I admit, I would like it if I saw it in parts, but as a whole, it was too much.  I don't mind bad directing, as long as it is not too bad, bad acting, or bad scripting, but I hate bad timing.  In horror movies, at least of this quality, timing is everything.I like my horror movies of this calibur to be short and sweet.  For instance, H20 was decent, and it was a short movie, same with Halloween and almost all other slasher or vampire or bad horror movies that depend on gore.  This movie was much longer, and I lost interest about 3/4 of the way through.  I loved the gore, and that is why I liked the beginning scenes, and the end scenes, but the middle was too much.  They should have left the hotel fast, not concentrated on getting to know the characters so much.  The nudity factor was decent, and the gore factor was great.  In fact, if there wasn't any expensive special effects, I would have thought to be a low-budget movie.I cannot recommend this movie to anybody other than those who have great attention spans, and sadists.  Or people who have too much time on their hands, and need to waste time, but I would recommend to them to go see Urban Legend instead.*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Critics, Blade, goth-wannabes, Steakley fans, true Carpenter fans...","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In various newsgroups, I've seen a vast number of uppity critics, Blade fans, goth-wannabes, fans of the novel, and turn-coat Carpenter fans knocking this film undeservedly, and that's a real shame.As usual, the critics slam a film like Vampires for being what it is  a horror-action flick.  Why anyone would attempt to grade this movie on the same curve as Saving Private Ryan is beyond me.I can't imagine why anybody could like a movie as hokey as Blade better. Blade, with its horribly subpar CGI effects (CGI itself an affront to the horror genre) and ridiculous hero (Blade?  Did his mom really name him that?  No, I guess not...hehehe), pales in comparison to Vampires.And if you spell vampire with a y, well, stick to your Anne Rice novels and Manic Panic, because Vampires isn't your cup of...tea.I can understand fans of the novel having a legitimate beef with the film, but movies based on novels almost always disappoint true fans of the novel.  Hell, I kept waiting for the scene where Melanie shoots the skin-head in Jackie Brown, but that never happened.And for all the whiney, true John Carpenter fans disappointed with Vampires, go see the movie again anyway so that JC can still get a decent budget for his next flick.  I can't believe any JC fan would complain about Vampires after the studio-influenced mess that was Escape from LA.  Did JC have any say in that flick at all?I loved Vampires.  I loved its brutality, its out-and-out misogyny, its action, its disrespect for VampYres, its Western sensibilities, and most importantly, its style and vision.  I don't know why any horror fan wouldn't agree.  With any luck, Vampires will help restore the horror to horror flicks, something that's been slowly whittled away as of late by a host of Scream knock-offs.  The sheer gore, terror, and testosterone of Vampires is a cause for horror fans everywhere to celebrate. "},{"Title":"Liked it, but not as Vampire$...","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Ok. Let me explain. I liked the movie as a stand alone vampire movie, but I didn't like it as a movie based on a book. I've read Vampire$ (by John Steakly) many many times and I love it a little more every time. Similarities between the book and the movie Character names, using crossbow and wench to kill vampires, the idea of a team commissioned by the Pope to kill vampires, oh, and there were vampires. For the big differences, read the book. If you didn't like the movie, read the book. If you did like the movie, read the book. Rock and roll. "},{"Title":"All that a bloodthirsty person could be asking for...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was wonderful.  I saw the previews and it really psyched me up for the movie.  When I got to the theatre on HaLLoWeeN night and planted myself down, I didn't know what I was in for.I thought Thomas Ian Griffith was great as Valek.  I thought the rest of the cast did a really good job filling their parts.  James Woods as Jack Crow had the best one liners.  I probably didn't catch them all cause of the rude people I was with, but the ones I did hear were really funny.The film had its share of gore and special effects.  These made the movie so much more special.  When a vampire kills like Valek did in this movie.. watch out, he's out to kill you. And killing is what he does best.  All the blood made the movie more interesting to watch, but it also had a good plot. John Carpenter kept me on the edge of my seat, waiting to see what's next.I give this movie 2 thumbs up and 2 fangs down.. naturally, since that's the way they are pointing. "},{"Title":"Somebody Tell This Man to Lighten Up!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'll grant that James Woods has a few good one-liners (but nothing like the wittily crazed persona he shows in public appearances), there are some good fight scenes, and the underrated Sheryl Lee is good, as usual, but this film is so heavy handed that it almost becomes a satire of itself.  It would be laughable if the misogyny in it weren't so disturbing.  On the whole, it was about as pleasant as watching baby seals clubbed to death. "}{"Title":"It was a fantastic movie!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see this movie I was hoping that I hadn't wasted my friend's money, the friend who paid for my ticket, and I wasn't disappointed. It was high energy, kept me wondering who was gonna do what next, and had enough funny one-liners to keep me smiling through most of the movie. I could tell the rest of the audience liked it too from the laughing and oohing and aahing. It had plenty of action and enough gory effects to make me cringe, even though I wasn't the one being maimed. The way Jack Crow and Valek clashed was exciting and thrilling. Some of the scenes chilled me to the bone. It was a worthwhile movie and I guarantee you won't be disappointed! I was SOOOOO glad I got to see it! "},{"Title":"SUGER COATED EYE CANDY, GORY FUN ACTION-HORROR.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a treat for anybody that liked BLADE. Only one problem, it isn't as good as Blade.  It could have had some cooler action sequences and a little more suspense.  But overall it was good. *** "},{"Title":"This movie rocks all over the place!!!!","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the best vampire flicks to come out in a VERY LONG TIME. it's nice to see all the romantic crap dropped, and getting back to what vampires are (MONTSTERS remember??). It was just a fun, exciting movie. It was an action flick mixed with a blood bank. It was just way cool.  "},{"Title":"Vampire western done right","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter did it up right. He did the movie in a perfect modern version of Howard Hawks style of western. Loved the movie, James Woods perfect choice. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Vampire Films Ever Made. Carpenter At His Best.","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter's Vampires is one of the best Vampire films ever made,a great hybrid of the genres Horror and Western that's filled great direction,an excellent performance from James Woods and great make-up and special effects. This film is a Cult Classic and one of Carpenter's best.Based on John Steakley's novel of the same name,Vampires tells the story of Jack Crow(James Woods)a vampire killer/slayer who leads a group of other vampire killer/slayers who are all good at their jobs. But when a vicious vampire names Valek(Thomas Ian Griffith)kills his whole squad,Jack wants revenge and to kill Valek. Now with the help of his partner Montoya(Daniel Baldwin),Hooker Katrina(Sheryl Lee)and Catholic Priest Father Guiteau(Tim Guinee)Jack must figure out how stop Valek before it's too late.I think that one of the reasons John Carpenter's Vampires is one of the best Vampire films ever made is because of the way John Carpenter approaches the material and the vampires in the film. The vampires in this film aren't surrounded by a Gothic background and the vampires are not romantic,they're ugly,violent vicious creatures who would bite you and kill you in a split second and drain you of your blood. This is the way I love seeing Vampires portrayed on screen as violent killers and not romantics or sentimental like in the Twilight films,but as real vampires. What I also love about the film is the Western style Carpenter injects into the film. Carpenter loves Western films and most of his films are pretty much Westerns in disguise and it's fully evident here. Carpenter takes the influence of great Western directors such as John Ford,Howard Hawks(Carpenter's favorite director),Sergio Leone and Sam Peckinpah brings it into the Southwest Texas locations in Vampires,using brown dirt and dust and old fashion Western style towns that either have people or the towns in the film are deserted. If you look at Carpenter's other films like Escape From New York,Escape From L.A,Big Trouble In Little China,Assault On Precinct 13,They Live and Ghosts Of Mars all of those films are in the Western style whether it's in the modern world like Big Trouble or They Live or in the future like the Escape films and Ghosts Of Mars the Western influence is still there in the films. Jack Crow is a classic Carpenter antihero and one of the best Vampire killers in film history. Like a lot of Carpenter antihero's Jack Crow is tough,aggressive and very much an individual who can take on anything and anyone and also spits out cynical dialog with a dark sense of Humor and grit. As the film goes on you start to understand why Jack became a Vampire killer and why he has such hatred and disdain for vampires and what they're about and it will bring depth to the character. What also brings depth to the Jack Crow character is his relationships and friendships with his partner Montoya and Father Guteau because with Montoya the relationship while harsh and filled with tough guy dialog seems genuine and real and you feel Jack and Montoya truly care for each other where as Jack Crow's relationship with Father Guteau(or Padre as Jack calls him)takes much longer to develop,but as the film goes on Jack begins to respect Guteau. The violence and gore in the film are well-done and suit the film and matching the overall harshness and grit of the film. The Action scenes in the film are also well-executed and are done in the great Western style that the film has. The blood and gore in the film is amazing and realistic and the blood flow does not stop until the end. If there something in the film that will bother most viewers it's the middle section and ending of the film. I happen to like the middle section despite the lack of Action and gore because the middle gives viewers a chance to know and care about the characters and the plot. The ending is great and memorable because and while some will be angry that there is not a lot of Action,a huge body count or bloodbath,it's a thrilling conclusion to Vampires and is a wonderful Western ending.The cast does a great job in their roles. James Woods gives one of his best performances as Jack Crow,a master Vampire slayer,with Woods bringing toughness,grit,one-liners and depth to the role. Great performance. Daniel Baldwin is wonderful as Montoya,Jack's partner. Baldwin has good scenes and good chemistry with Woods. Sheryl Lee does a great job and is sexy as Katrina,a hooker who was bit by Valek and helps Jack and Montoya. Lee also has good scenes with Baldwin. Thomas Ian Griffith is frightening and menacing as Valek,in my opinion one of the best vampire villains in film history. Maximilian Schell does a good job as Cardinal Alba. Tim Guinee also does a good job as Father Guiteau,the priest who helps Jack and Montoya.The direction by John Carpenter is excellent with Carpenter bringing a great Western atmosphere to the film and also makes the film visually stunning to look at. Great direction by Carpenter.The score by John Carpenter is wonderful and has a great,gritty Western sound to it and matches the mood and tone to the film. Another great Carpenter score.The special effects and make-up by K.N.B is impressive,bloody,gory and very realistic. Another great job from K.N.B.In final word,if you love John Carpernter,James Woods,Horror Films,Westerns and Vampire films,I highly suggest you see John Carpenter's Vampires,one of the best Vampire films ever made and one of Carpenter's best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Underrated and classic John Carpenter film","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The 90's was not a particularly good time for horror and bad ass cinema (at least in the US). Enter master of horror John Carpenter and James Woods to collaborate on one of the best horror films in the decade . While most filmmakers in that period embraced CGI, Carpenter kept the practical effects and made one seriously unPC and violent vampire western . The vampires are extremely strong and powerful savages that tear people apart effortlessly . James Woods is a tough as nails vampire slayer and gives a powerful performance few actors can equal as well as some great improvised dialogue. There also is a good amount of gore and action in this heavily Peckinpah influenced flick . Much grittier than Gothic , it moves fast with lots of one liners . John Carpenter 's Vampires is a perfect hybrid of horror and action that should please fans of both genres. While it is hard for me to pick a favorite Carpenter film , Vampires is his best of the 90's and(for me at least )is just as good as his work in the 70's and 80's. "},{"Title":"Crispy Criters.....","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Since his parents had been killed by vampires, Jack Crow lives for revenge.H e is a fanatic vampire-hunter who works with a good.One night, after the successful deletion of a nest, vampire Valek kills his team and the party hookers.As Valek knew Jack's name, Jack knows that the vampires are up to something big.Together with his only living colleague Tony, Katrina, a hooker who will turn into a vampire at any time, and newly assigned unexperienced greenhorn priest Father Adam Guiteau he sets out to find the black cross first.If they fail, vampires will be able to enjoy the sun, and get a tan.....When this was released back in 1999 (in England) Carpenter wasn't as bid as what he had used to be, and Vampires were no where near s big as they are now, so it's understandable that not many have seen this.But if you love a good horror movie, with an amazing central performance, this is a must.Woods is at his maniacal best as the sweary hunter, who has an answer for everything and tight jeans. He rules the film whenever he is on screen.The same cannot be said for Baldwin and Lee, as they really grate whenever they grace the film. Baldwin is literally angry in every scene, and Lee looks wasted.Griffith is good as Valek, and his introduction is Carpenter at his best. When he wreaks havoc at the motel, it's disturbing and gory, and the film doesn't really live up to this scene.But it's a fun movie, with plenty of laughs, and well worth it for Woods alone. "},{"Title":"Time-Pass...","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter's 'Vampires' is a Time-Pass fare, that doesn't even try to become legendary. This Western Horror flick offers some mild chills, gruesome violence & strong language.One of the main reasons why 'Vampires' doesn't disappoint, is it's writing. Though not gripping, it never loses it's aim. The tale of a hardened vampire hunter and the baddie vampire, is enabled and doesn't take a different route. Sure, there are sub-plots, but they never really dis-balance the actual story. Don Jakoby's Adapted Screenplay is satisfactory to the genre it follows, and Carpenter's direction is stylish as ever. The Cinematography deserves a mention.Performance-Wise James Woods is excellent as the main hero. Blessed with a striking personality, the academy-award nominated actor plays his part with great ease. Thomas Ian Griffith is good as the menace. Sheryl Lee is alright, while Daniel Baldwin does his part well. Tim Guinee is first-rate.On the whole, watch this flick only if you want to. "},{"Title":"Where is the storyline?","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I must admit, the only reason I bought this on DVD for a pound was because I knew it had Thomas Ian Griffith, aka Terry Quick Silver from Karate Kid 3 in it. He was absolutely amazing in Karate Kid 3, so I needed to find out if he was quality in anything else. Much to my dismay however, he only appears in about 4 or 5 scenes throughout this film, despite being the main bad guy.This film starts off like it might actually be worth watching, if you can look past the fact that the first main action bit is a bit repetitive. James Woods and his band of slayers burst into a house, or nest, of vampires and starting harpooning them, while the ever fatter Daniel Baldiwn flicks the switch on his car to drag the vampires out into the sunlight. They do this for about 5 or 6 vampires. Yes, OK this will kill them, but for an action film to keep doing the same thing over and over again is really boring. it's like just doing the same move over and over again in Street Fighter. yawn. Anyway, after their rampage on the vampire nest, they decide to celebrate with some prostitutes. I should point out that they're meant to be working for the Catholic Church as well! And there's a cop there too, just chatting. eh? Anyway, Terry Silver turns up, probably a bit miffed cos his mates were just killed, and slaughters everyone. Very nice how he slices the bent cop from Batman Begins in half as he opens the door. He kills everyone, except James Woods, of course, and a prostitute that he had bitten, presumably just so he could create the link between him and the pro, so James can use it to his advantage.Also left alive, is Fat Baldwin, who was not present for the slut-fest that was ensuing, presumably he was off eating pies or something. They bring the bird with them and say they'll track down Terry Silver. Much walking around, and driving follows, and some young priest joins them.It turns out Terry Silver is after some old cross that was used 600 years ago when he was first turned into a vampire. Why didn't he just get it at the time? Why wait a couple of hundred years before searching for it? anyway, they follow him for a while thanks to the visions of the pro who is turning into a vampire. Fat Baldwin starts to fall for her, even though she is growing increasingly un-fit.In the end, they kill Terry Silver, and James Woods lets Fat Baldwin go off, despite him being bitten by the pro after she turned into a vampire, thus breaking his own rules of slaying. ah well.All in all, it has some quite amusing bits, and some lines that are really cheesy, but funny. the storyline (what little there is) is very reminiscent of Blade, where Frost is looking to be able to walk during the day. There are about 4 action scenes throughout, and all of them involve killing the vampires with daylight. The vast majority is James Woods either walking, or driving about with fat Baldwin in tow.A really really poor film, where nothing happens at all, the special effects are rubbish, the action is too far apart, and Terry Silver doesn't appear enough in it. I may give this to my brother as an ironic birthday present, cos I don't want it tainting my DVD collection any longer, and I only bought it yesterday! "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter flicks always face their story in a tongue in cheek way, so to speak. He is somehow preaching to the already converted, playing with well known and accepted stereotypes. Not that I dislike that, but usually I tend to prefer more authentic fare. This film surprised me. I found it true to its aim. The story unfolds at a fast pace, the carachterisation is great, believe it or not James Woods makes a convincing action hero, and the story is as original as it's needed. It plays as a western where the Indians would have been substituted by vampires and the cavalry is in the payroll of the catholic church, an institution that is portrayed as withholding terrible secrets and involved in a war with evil that has been going on for centuries and will never finish. Woods and his men are just pawns in the game, in a difficult position, since they are facing terrible enemies with limited means. "}{"Title":"A little slow, but not bad","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This starts off as a great action/horror film by one of the masters of the genre, John Carpenter. The very first scene is really good, a great mix of horror and action. The same fast pace continues for about twenty minutes; then it slopes downwards, continually. It only picks up again at the very end, and the last thirty minutes are more of the same that you see in the first scene. Unfortunately, that leaves the rest of the movie rather slow and boring, and sometimes seemingly pointless. I like the attempt at an explanation of the vampire origin, thought it was very original and an interesting viewpoint. The action in the movie is the typical Carpenter stuff; violent, fast-paced and intense. Sometimes it's a little bit too violent, but it never reaches the extreme. The acting is very good, especially by James woods. The plot is average at best, and the ending is a bit anticlimactic in a few ways. If you're a big fan of Carpenter(like me) you'll probably enjoy it, but you most likely won't think it's a great movie, or his best work. Just average. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I got this movie I thought that this was yet another vampire movie but I was nicely surprised when I watched it. Although the story is more or less typical for this genre (but then again there is no much room for original stories in vampire-hunter movies) realisation of the movie was rather good. That can especially be contributed to very good photography (I do not mean killing scenes, although vampire burning effect is very good) and excellent music. "},{"Title":"Booooooring!!!","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most awful movie I have ever seen. Booooooring!!! I usually don´t turn a movie of but this one sucked so much I had to. One hour of my life wasted...  "},{"Title":"Johnny strikes out again","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am so disappointed by John Carpenter lately. It used to be that the man's name on a film was an assurance of it's quality. Now, it just means that you'll be watching a horrible hack job. Don't let me mislead you, I'm a big Carpenter fan and I love his older stuff like Big Trouble in Little China, Christine, and The Thing. In the past few years however, his films have been a continual disappointment. This movie starts off with a bang and makes you think that you're in for loads of action. This is not the case. The energy of the film peters out after the first 30 minutes. Thomas Ian Griffith does a horrible vampire. He's not scary or threatening in the least. James Woods does his psycho loner thing and that works well for his character but he is sadly the only good thing about the movie. Sheryl Lee's character seems to have been added as an afterthought. Her character has no development and she has little to do or say and you end up not caring about her at all. Daniel Baldwin and his brother Stephen must fight at Thanksgiving over who is the worse actor. The guy just says his lines and that's it. It's like he's not even there. Maximilian Schell lends a little dignity to the movie but he just isn't given enough to do. The action is decent but it isn't anything that you haven't seen in a million films before. Bottom Line Watch it once if you must. I only suggest it for hardcore Carpenter fans or hardcore vampire movie fans. It's not bad, but it's not great either. "},{"Title":"Another great one by John Carpenter!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great. Daniel Baldwin did an excellent job as Tony Montoya. And yes he was sexy (for all the Daniel Baldwin fans out there). If your into vampires, John Carpenter films or scary movies in general go rent this movie it's great! "},{"Title":"Vampires is the best","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie. I usually hate vampire movies but this one was very good. It was funny and tough and didn't have to resort to sub-From Dusk Til Dawn type mayhem that Blade did as it had a plot also. It's not too gory either. Sure KNB do some great make-up effects but it's not like the gore is the only entertainment of the movie. Blade and FDTD relied on the gore to entertain too often. Carpenter has made a Vampire movie that seems more realistic than that.This movie is strangely light-hearted for a vampire/horror flick. Don't get me wrong though, it's best that way. There is a lot of cool dialogue too and Daniel Baldwin's performance is one of his best. I love desert set movies and this one gives us some great cinematography and gorgeous scenery. The music is also light-hearted in a way but can also be spooky at time. Carpenter always comes up with great tunes and his guitar riff and 'Roadhouse Blues' approach to the genre gives a whole new feel. Plus James Woods shines in the way that only he can do.The DVD has a boring commentary (Carpenter has no one to talk to), a trailer and the cover claims it contains a photo gallery also but unless it's an easter egg it ain't there. The picture is in pretty good 2.351 anamorphic widescreen and the sound is Dolby 5.1. It'd be cool if Columbia released a Superbit of this movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. I had heard all of the negative reviews, but I really did enjoy this movie. It was suspenseful, and funny when it needed to be. James Woods gave a great performence, and the directing was good. All in all a great movie. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Finally, a realistic point of view about a Vampire...","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter shows the world a different story, in a different way of making people scared, great action and overwhelming suspense, but theres one thing that makes a movie great the music, the music, the music.Thank you Mr. John Carpenter...Ephra "},{"Title":"What happened John ?!","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Seriously, what happened to Carpenter ? This guy has done for Horror/Sci-Fi, what Michael Mann has done to bio-pics/crime dramas. The Thing, They Live!, Christine, Escape From New York, Halloween, The Fog, Prince of Darkness, Big Trouble...And he delivers another flop! Now, he has the trilogy of flops; L.A.,Vampires, and Ghosts of Mars. I hate to admit it, but Carpenter will; he apparently disdains the new wave of CGI. Well, Carpenter. I don't see much CGI in Vampires. Bad story, character development, and Woods attempting to roll clever quips out his lithping mouf. Woods only has two modes here; internalizing anger, and external anger. Oh, but he has a mean albeit playful streaks with his clergymen. Valek looks like the make-up artist's first attempt at composing anything. White powder and black garb.C'mon Carp, you gave us Mike Myers and Trouser Snake Plissken ! Maybe some CGI to accentuate Valek would've certainly helped. Hell, he's a vamp. Make him specterlike or ethereal to sell it. So Woods's team are elite enough to kill vamps ? But are totally incompetent when attacked un-expectedly ? Also, how does one decapitate scores in a motel without even a person getting wise ? When Woods isn't lithping infantile profanity, he's unhinged. So aside from all that, this is a...Carpenter movie. Just not THE John Carpenter we all know. "},{"Title":"One of the best vampire films. Simple as that.","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter proves that he has diverse talents in this movie. from making surreal,H.P Lovecraft movies like In The Mouth Of Madness to all-out gross-out films like Ghosts Of Mars.Vampires just shocked me by providing a very potentially scary storyline THAT actually delivers bloody tension until the end.Indeed,there is more to Carpenter than just Halloween.James woods also delivers a knockout performance as the vampire hunter Jack Crow.Its really fun to see him in horror movies.He fits the role of the foul-mouthed vampire hunter like a custom made glove Critics who hate this movie miss out he most entertaining aspect of the film The Graphic violence.The movie pulls no punches and i'm proud of it.Necks are ripped wide open, people are impaled, heads are blown off,people sliced in two,and much more vampire carnage amped up to 30.You even get a fountain of blood in the middle.Scrap all that bad critic review!If you want good acting+good story+great violence, see VAMPIRES!Interview with a vampire got higher than this??? why?? Those iambic pentameter pouting,nicer than Cinderella bloodsuckers are better? Earth to Neil Jordan and Anne Rice Vampires are EVIL!!! Sure they might look sexy, but thats just their excuse to rip your head off.Vampires has the most realistic portrayal of vampires as people who have gone too far to the dark side with no chance of coming back.Well done John. "}{"Title":"Entertaining Vampire horror film.","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires starts in New Mexico where head Vampire hunter Jack Crow (James Woods) leads a team of Vampire slayers in their quest to eradicate the Vampire species from the Earth. While clearing a Vampire nest out Crow is disappointed that they didn't find the Master Vampire, while celebrating their kills the Vampire Master pays them a visit & kills the entire team save for Crow, his second in command Anthony Montoya (Daniel Baldwin) & a prostitute named Katrina (Sheryl Lee) whom he bites. Knowing that any Vampire victim has a telepathic link with it's Master Crow decides to use Katrina to get to him, upon further investigation it turns out that the Vampire Master in this case is Jan Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith), the very first Vampire ever who is now on a mission to find the Brezier Cross which will let him & his kind walk in sunlight...Directed & scored by John Carpenter this film was apparently originally slated to be directed by Russell Mulcahy & star Dolph Lundgren! Thank God that never came to pass, also just before production began the studio cut the budget by two thirds, so instead of an eighty million dollar flick Carpenter had to rework it for a twenty million dollar budget. Anyway, the script by Don Jakoby was based on the novel 'Vampire$' by John Steakley (I have never read the novel but according to Steakley in interviews the finished film contains much of his books dialogue but none of his books plot) & is an entertaining action horror film that isn't up there with Carpenter's best it's one of his better efforts from more recent years. The character's are a mixed bag, the intense Crow played by the always watchable James Woods is a great character & you end up liking the guy but his second in command Montoya is very unlikable while Katrina the prostitute is given next to no development & it doesn't feel right when the two fall in love at the end, nothing that has happened in the film to that point indicates why the two would fall in love & it just doesn't work. Also the main Vampire villain is given very little to do, apart from two lines of dialogue & lots of dark Gothic posturing he might as well not be there. At over 100 minutes Vampires is quite a long film but it doesn't feel like it, it moves along at a good pace, it can be a bit repetitive at times but it does provide good solid gory horror themed entertainment. The twists are a little easy to predict, there's the clichéd 'forget what you've seen in the movies' type speech in regards to Vampires (every modern Vampire flick has to have one) & while it's certainly good it's not a film which will linger that long in the memory.Director Carpenter needed a hit after his previous films Memoirs of an Invisible Man (1992), In the Mouth of Madness (1995), Village of the Damned (1995) & Escape from L.A. (1996) all flopped at the US box office & as such he goes back to basics with Vampires, it has a fairly straight forward story, plenty of action & gore as well as a nice modern clean look about it. There's a fair amount of style here, the opening scene when all the Vampire slayers get ready & strap on all their gear complete with huge weapons & sunglasses is all about cool macho posturing. I wouldn't say it's particularly scary but it does deliver on the gore front, from slashed throats to decapitated heads to burning Vampires to someone being vertically sliced in half & separating down the middle.With a supposed budget of about $20,000,000 Vampires is well made with glossy big budget Hollywood production values, the special effects are all of the real on set rubber & latex variety rather than CGI which is pleasing. Actually filmed in New Mexico. The acting is good & James Woods is just a great actor & is in top form here.Vampires is a good solid big budget Hollywood horror film with plenty of gore, special effects & action. While it's not classic Carpenter since he has made better films it's right up there with his best. Well worth a watch. Followed by two sequels, Vampires Los Muertos (2002) with Jon Bon Jovi & Vampires The Turning (2005) without Jon Bon Jovi. "},{"Title":"A Real Stinker","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A very poor movie from a hit and miss director. Over the top acting, poor story line, and unconvincing evil make for a poor excuse for a vampire film. Profanity makes up for bad dialog. There is a lot of action, and the vampires burn up nicely, but even a nude Sheryl Lee can't make up for a poor movie experience. This film adds nothing to the Vampire genre and in fact does a disservice to it, if that's possible. The head vampire is a Gene Simmons knock off and he has no lines or opportunity to present the audience with an interesting or sympathetic character. He just cuts off heads with his bare hands. The Balwin second banana character is a flop. He goes from abusing Sheryl Lee verbally, sexually and physically to being protective of her (and she of course responds) after she bites him. Real misogynistic stuff. James Woods' character is a comic book bully who bitch slaps priests and cuts them to make them tell him the truth. He also beats up Sheryl Lee's character at will, and passes her off as just a hooker to anyone who asks, even though he needs her to find the head vampire. Of course the Catholic Church and its Bishops and Priests are all OK with Woods and his tough guy ways. They even paid for Woods and his buddies to party with hookers as a reward for vampire hunting. Pure garbage. Just a real stinker of a film. "},{"Title":"Not only bad but also stupid...","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" All the Dialogs in this Movie seem to consist of the words Fuck, Bitch Die and Shit. It lacks any continuous logic and decorates all the women in the movie with either brainless sexhunger or vampirish evilness. The only people who at least slightly turn out to be intelligent are the vampires. They're also much more sympathetic then the trigger-happy Gunguy with the hard-to-believe, very-made-up pseudo past who could be considered one of the leading characters. In the end, when it seems the vampires might win, the movie feels a little more bearable for a few minutes. But here comes another stupid, unrealistic twist and soon we get a few more car crashes and explosions and the good guys win... They're all trying so despretly to be cool you feel like watching a couple of really young teenagers hallucinating about horror movies.One time mister highest Vampire flys faster then a car on full speed, then he somehow is unable to move a few steps sideways in less the 5 minutes. He gets drowned in bullets, not caring or being hurt, then he suddenly gets knocked out by one headshot. (witch even the lesser vampires seemed to be able to easily survive)Well it would be a fun B-Movie if it wasn't for that endless machismo Talk.And the acting - well it's not that bad i gotta say, you really believe they all ARE idiots. "},{"Title":"One of the few","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is actually one of the few John Carpenter-movies i appreciate. Not because it's a masterpiece by far, but because it is entertaining for what it is.Jack Crow (James Woods) is the leader of a pack of Vampire hunters working under the leadership of the catholic church. It seems the church have known that Vampires exist for hundreds of years and have hunted them with the help of Vampire hunters like Jack Crow. Now something stirs among the Vampires, it seems they anticipate something big to happen.I'm no huge fan of Vampire movies i must say. But i prefer this kind of Vampire-movie to most others. This is more of a straight forward action/horror movie with loads of violence and bad one-liners. The Vampire movies i appreciate the least are ones like Queen of the damned which is basically two hours of moaning and sexual innuendo.James Woods delivers a solid performance as usual, and he really seems to enjoy himself here. Thomas Ian Griffith is suitably lame (complete with fake accent) as the Vampire-lord Valek. And that is what feels liberating with this movie, that everyone seems to know and accept that this is not Oscar-winning material. Rather they have some fun and try to make an entertaining movie. And it's entertaining, if you can accept it for what it is. I rate it 6/10. "},{"Title":"The Cinema of John Carpenter Vampire$","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampire$ (1998) was John Carpenter's entry into the vampire genre. I love the concept about a group of professional vampire slayers but I was disappointed in the execution of the film. The gore and action was cool but the characters and the dialog left me wanting more. James Woods didn't fit the bill properly as the leader of the crew, but I was surprised by Daniel Baldwin's performance, I found him quite effective in his role as his partner. Sheryl Lee was hot in her role and I thought she did a good job. But everything else was just okay. I wonder if they're ever going to release an uncut version of the film.The plot is about a vampire killing crew who find an adversary that is dangerous and far more craftier than any other opponent they have ever met. Can they stop this Vampire and it's cohorts? For die hard John Carpenter fans and fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Vampires and Slayer's Oh My!","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" My Family and I really enjoy this movie, we watch it a lot! It has a great soundtrack and it is fun to watch! It has all the right stuff for a horror picture, sex, violence and religion! I like the way John Carpenter makes his movies, they are on the edge, different and exciting!!! The movie is different than all the other Dracula/Vampire movies. After a while why bother watching the same movies retold or just updated every few years! I wish John Carpenter would make a new Vampires Movie where the first movies left off, with James Woods and the Priest going after Daniel Baldwin and Sheryl Lee. I think that would be exciting, who would win. A showdown between to ex-partners! "},{"Title":"A terrible film, made all the more unbearable by the unnecessary, inexplicable presence of a Baldwin.","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Don't get me wrong- John Carpenter is a fine horror director (see 1982's The Thing), but this fumbling hodgepodge of a movie could have been put together by an amateur. Weak plot line, lame Marilyn Manson-esquire villain, and an obnoxiously displayed gore factor are only a few problems, not to mention James Woods' character is such a cliché that all of his bad-ass attitude is utterly phoned in.The final straw? Baldwin. Not Alec, the other one. Daniel. Or was it Steven? Or... oh, what's the difference? Regardless of which brother it is, he can't act, and it disgusts me that he probably got paid thousands of dollars for this half-bit character while a swarm of younger, smarter, and more talented actors are unemployed.The good news at least it gives you some skin. "},{"Title":"reprehensible trash","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is literally one of the worst films I've ever seen. Not only is it poorly made, with dreadful production values, it is morally reprehensible. The engine that drives this movie is a depraved, violent sexuality. It was loathesome to watch, utterly unentertaining, and completely undeserving of the presence of a gifted actor like James Wood.I have nothing against horror, including over-the-top horror like Dead Alive or Evil Dead. I have nothing against John Carpenter, who has made tremendous movies, like The Thing. Even Big Trouble in Little China seems like Citizen Kane in comparison to this soulless, tawdry affair.For a vastly superior vampire movie in the same ballpark, see Near Dark instead.  "},{"Title":"Funny,Bloody,Slick and Cool","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter's Vampires is by far of one the coolest horror/action films ever. A lot of people said it wasn't scary but I don't think Carpenter wanted to make it scary. It was pulp horror western with vampires in it. James Woods as Jack Crow, his character alone is worth the entire film. Daniel Bladwin and Sheryl Lee are also enjoyable in their ways. This is a basic vampire story with Carpenter's style and James Woods performance thrown in making it a classic. Great one-liners, action scenes, humor and of course the music is always great. Avoid the other vampires films for this will top them all.10 out of 10Time to kill some vampires, you with us padre?  "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film sucks.  No pun intended.  I picked up a used copy on a whim and couldn't give it away after I was done with it.  I ended up throwing it in the trash.  It was godawful terrible crap.  There's more testosterone than blood, a lot of misogyny that was downright despicable and big handfuls of really bad acting.  Atrocious, boring, stupid, insulting, unimaginative and totally unlikable.  I didn't care about anyone in this movie, as they were all about as interesting as the drunken, stinky residents of the worlds filthiest ex-con populated trailer park.  This was the most disappointing piece of trash I have ever seen, and I still can't believe it bears John Carpenters name.  Stick to his masterpieces The Fog  Halloween and The Thing.  This movie is putrid.  "}{"Title":"pretty decent","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  pretty decent vampire flick is dull in parts but a good cast and James Woods help this to be a decent vampire flick and i must say there is a hell of a lot of gore in this to keep me happy and the script is solid the directing is fine so no complaints there **1/2  out of 5 "},{"Title":"Die, Die, Die!!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*James Woods leads a Vatican hit squad against vampires. They track the bloodsuckers to New Mexico. Woods has taken vampire slaying to a new professional level. Crossbow wire arrows and jeep pulleys are the weapons a modern slayer prefers to dispatch the undead. Forget what you've seen in the movies!Vampires has some good things going for it. Massive amounts of blood mostly. Oh, and guts. Yes. Blood AND guts. Lots of decapitated heads too. That's always the sign of a good horror flick. Plenty of gushing neck wounds as well. I love that. Great gore effects. James Woods is also very good. He's up for anything.  He pours his heart out into the action even if no one else is really trying. Die! Die you bloodsucking...Die!But something is missing from this flick. The main action has the slayers attaching a wire to the vampires and then dragging them out into the sun. The vampires then promptly explode. This effect is used about ten times. That sums up the movie. The filmmakers really didn't know what else to do with the vampires except to have them get crispy in the sun. It was also a letdown to be introduced to this super hit squad of slayers and then see them meet their maker within minutes. Of course their slaughter scene was fantastic so I'm not complaining too much. Overall, Vampires was sparse on vampire action variety. There was some plot nonsense about a black cross and a secret ceremony but it was all just an excuse to watch more combustible vampires.Basically there are two scenes of vampire killing. One is at the beginning and the other is at the end. There are some slaughter scenes in the middle to keep you interested. If you want to see James Woods make vampires explode, Vampires will serve you right. "},{"Title":"What a complete load of crap","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *Spoilers*This movie sucks due to the ridicoulus story and the even more ridicoulus music. The acting is decent all though Woods can do far better and shouldnt be in this pile of crap. Daniel Baldwin is okay but Im really getting sick of those Baldwin brothers and Ive lost track of how many there is. Daniel is as fat as the oldest in the bunch Alec.The fact that Sheryl Lee (Laura Palmer from Twin Peaks) is in it doesnt save this crap either.And how is  it possible that a 600 year old vampire can be killed so easily. Woods just have to make a hole in a roof and thats enough to make the vampire explode into little pieces.Just like Deacon Frost in Blade a supervampire that was very easy to kill at the end of the film in spite of his ability to regrow an arm instantly.As for John Carpenter he really needs to pull himself together. Such masterpieces as The Thing and Escape from L.A. is appaerently not something he can do anymore. If this is the best he can do Im afraid his time is over. "},{"Title":"Cool Western/Vamp Flick","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  John Carpenter did a great job with Vampires. He really gives it a western feel with the cool shots of the sun and what not. It did drag a little in the middle of the movie but not much. KNB handled the FX and did a great job. James Woods as always is great. Even though this is not Carpenters best (Halloween and THE THING) it is still way above  most mainstream horror movies that are being put out , and I mean much better. "},{"Title":"instant classic","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  watch this a few times and you can feel this film like the others from Carpenter its not just frightening like Halloween its a western with classic horror tale about Vampires too i dont know why it is not appreciated as should be "},{"Title":"Very Very Gory, That's The Way I Like It. NOT FOR THE FAINT HEARTED...OR VAMPIRES","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is just what I expect from a horror movie, Loads of Gore and Action. I think its a horror but it maybe a western aswel. John Carpenters Vampires is one of my favourite horror movies i have seen. If you love horror see this. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Bubblegum....","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The line C'mon padre... My nuts are on fire here! is a killer. It even beats the bubblegum line in 'They Live'.Woods is great in this. I am willing to bet he had fun with the role.Carpenter does what he does best and that is tell a story.This is a new slant on the vampire legend and only Carpenter could have done it so well.Lots of swearing, lots of gore.The Carpenter soundtrack is good too.As entertainment I have to say this film did it for me! "},{"Title":"What more could you want!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A great sound track. James Woods being moody and staring a lot. Vampires. Gore.  Fast paced tongue in cheek script. I ask what more could you want? Don't expect a serious exploration of the Vampire myth(?) or interwoven tapestries of plot, expect Dust till Dawn style slaughter and laughs with a cool ending to boot!  Get the boys round get the beer in and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Misogyny must be infectious...","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Either Joe Eszterhas somehow possessed John Carpenter for the production of this film, or the misogyny of American cinema is actually infectious. I remember sitting down to view this film shortly after it came out, thinking what the hell, it's a John Carpenter film. Even the best directors have bad days, and Carpenter is no exception.Everything in this film offended me in some manner. The women in the film might as well have swastikas tattooed over their faces, and the men in this film are truly beneath what I would call a man (whatever that might mean). James Woods is a fine actor, but his character made me constantly root for the bad guys, er girls...I actually like a bit of blood and gore in my horror films, and this nonsensical attitude of less is more than seems to be prevalent among American audiences today has got to stop. Compare the R-rated (in Australia that is, the R-rating in Australia actually means something) Nightmare On Elm Street episodes with their M-rated counterparts. Is less more? Not in a horror film. More blood is needed. The problem is, more of a story is needed for balance, and Vampires fails to deliver on that score. As a matter of fact, Vampires does a lot to undo my theory about what sort of content makes a horror film memorable, primarily because the ensuing gore is a cover-up for a weak story. The story is so memorable that I can hardly remember it after all this time. I hardly remembered it five minutes after the film was over, in fact. Hardly a result consistent with the directorial skills John Carpenter normally brings to bear.I've been waiting a while for John Carpenter to make another film that compares with The Thing. It hasn't happened yet, but hope does spring eternal. "},{"Title":"yet another disappointment from the once great John Carpenter","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  the buzz on this movie seemed unusually good John carpenter getting back to his roots, his first vampire film, and a decidedly politically incorrect slant to some of the characters.well, as with practically every film he has made starting with prince of darkness, this movie starts out with so much promise and quickly dissolves into nothing.the special effects are well done and the gore surprisingly abundant considering how the MPAA chops up horror films these days.it's almost like they had half of a screenplay completed and decided just to wing it instead of completing it.the acting is solid, with James Woods being especially good, but they are unfortunately not able to elevate this film any above a 5 in my book.disappointing and boring.rating5 (mainly due to the acting and effects work) "}{"Title":"I Generally Loathe Film Titles Which Begin With The Director's Name","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  But, while John Carpenter didn't write this, or even write the screenplay for this ~ and hence, has no reason to have his name in the title, this is a guilty pleasure film.Woods is, as always, intense as the vampire hunter ~ and retains his stature as one of his generation's greatest actors even Gene Siskel, in one of his final reviews, said the same.Some interesting twists on the vampire legend here and a few incredible FX make for some fun watching.This is easily Daniel Baldwin's best perf as well which is saying nothing.3 of 4 Niro~Stars "},{"Title":"Vampires The Real Deal...Thank God!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although talented, I've always felt that John Carpenter was somewhat of an enigma. His films can be quite good (Halloween,  Precinct 13) or unwatchable ( Escape from LA).   Vampires is a winner.   From the opening shot till the Padre identifies his current wood status, the viewer is held by the slick pacing, great photography, over the top violence, and more.  Carpenter delivers plenty of what he does best, the pacing of the film never lets up and when its over you wonder how ninety minutes passed so quickly.  I recommend this to anybody who likes their vampires movies vicious, violent and grim.  Jack Crow says it best. These vampires aren't poetry spouting, Euro-Trash,   Nope. They're the real deal.  Come and Get It! "},{"Title":"A great film from Master Horror-John!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampire is an important horror film from master John Carpenter. Good performances, James Woods is looking good, and  an interesting way to show Vampires (not in that easy way only being victims of the destiny, not monsters, not very dangerous..) Carpenter's song is well-doing and very competent. And finally, a desolate landscape made the film beautiful.  "},{"Title":"Wicked thrill ride.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent movie, a true return to form for JC since that documentary he did on my run in with those capitalist alien pigs. James Woods puts in a performance that makes him look almost as cool as myself when dealing with those Vampire scum with a distinctly Wild Bunch type of vibe. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable vampire movie","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie and I am not a James Woods fan.  I go to movies for entertainment value.  I do not go for enlightenment.  If I want to be enlightened, I read a book.  This movie was very entertaining from horror fan standpoint.  It had a great gore factor that makes it unsuitable for children as well as lots of profanity, but it did entertain me the entire time. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's Vampire$ Best of '98","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing BLADE I was awaiting JC's Vampire$ like I've never awaited a movie before.  John Carpenter has a great deal of talent while directing, and a good sense of the music that should be used in a film and where.  The music and directing of this movie is absolutely wonderful, and John Carpenter should pat himself on the back.  Some people hate this film, but true Carpenter/horror fans know that this movie kicks some serious @ss. James Woods is perfect for Jack Crow, and Father Adam is a lot of fun to watch.  GO SEE IT!  Buy the book on the way home too, it's quite a bit different from the movie, but it also rocks, even more than the movie.  My rating, 10 *s out of 10.  The best movie I've seen in 1998. "},{"Title":"Carpenter does it again!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires is easily the best Carpenter film since They Live.  Woods and Baldwin make a great duo and show they have some real chemistry together. Carpenter's talent as a director shows in almost every scene, creating some memorable and frightening moments.  The best thing is that Carpenter has finally given us an honest to goodness western, albeit one chock full of vampires. But that makes it even better.  A definite 10. Please let there be a sequel... "},{"Title":"James Woods and John Carpenter getting it done","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires was what I thought it to be.  A funny, campy vampire/western flick in the same mold as From Dusk Till Dawn and Near Dark.  Not everyone liked those movies, but for those who do, I think you'll find Vampires a quick 107 minutes.  James Woods is great as the foul mouthed Jack Crow, and Carpenter has stepped up his direction a little, and his music score has a great western feel to it.  The locations, all which are in New Mexico, are wonderful.  I can't wait for it's release on either dvd or laserdisc, hoping Carpenter and Woods add an audio commentary to a great little movie.  I think one will either love this movie or hate it.  I don't think there will be too many inbetweens. "},{"Title":"Passed my expectations, but not by much","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well throughout the entire summer and weeks before Oct. 30th, I have been dying to see the movie and I kept talking about how much I looked  forward to seeing it. Vampire$ is violent beyond belief.  It reminded me of From Dusk Till Dawn, but a little more detailed gore. The plot was fantastic and original. James Wood is fantastic. The only problem was that the movie was a little too slow paced, and after the movie I just felt kinda tired. The ending isn't very climatic, but the rest of the movie was very entertaining.  Can't wait till it comes on DVD and LD, hopefully there will be a COLLECTORS EDITION. "},{"Title":"Cheeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeese!","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Wow! This is an amazingly bad film! For some foolish reason, I watched this expecting a horror movie, but beyond the fact that it has some vampires and a light smattering of gore John Carpenter's Vampires isn't a horror movie by a long chalk.There's no tension, no buildup, no mystery, no disturbing death, no atmosphere, no uncertainty or sense of foreboding.In spite of which, I liked it. It was reasonably fast-paced, with an entertaining premise, a bunch of (amazingly bad!) action scenes, an amusing cast and script notable for its consistent unintentional humour... all served with extra cheese.At least, I think the humour is unintentional, but every time something mildly dramatic or exciting happens James Woods delivers a devastatingly funny line (like when he says to the gay supergoth vampire bloke So tell me, does your dick still work after 600 years?)...All the dialogue is like that - super-macho, utterly unconvincing and full of oddly unnecessary expletives. Personally, I swear a lot, possibly more than these guys, but the script is so awkward it sometimes sounds like they're cussing to hit quotas one penis reference, two f-words and an overwritten sexual insult per scene! The rock score (composed, of course, by Carpenter himself) is a major cheese-enhancing factor. Electric guitar solos meander almost non-stop throughout the film's hundred-plus minutes (of the type often referred to as bluesy by those who don't know better), fitting perfectly with the biker-bar look of many of the characters and the dusty desert setting, but... well, not in a good way.The lead performances were all brilliantly funny without being in the least bit good. James Woods proves once again that he has charisma even when he's asleep. Daniel Baldwin (who, not being a big fan of American movies, I've not really seen before) seemed like he was distractedly thinking about his mortgage payments. Sheryl Lee provided the least laughs at first, playing her badly-written hooker character with an almost professional attention to cliché, but in the end she got to yodel and chew scenery What else needs a mention? Well, there's a romantic subplot (by the numbers, skipping several numbers along the way), the sound fx (I love the way the vampires make a mad array of badly-dubbed animal noises every time their mouth move, as if they're carrying speakers in their pockets!), and the excuse for a plot (I will avoid the novel like the plague, but in my kindness I assume Carpenter skipped the chapters that made us give a damn)... but no, I won't go on.Because, for all the dissing (and the fact I rated it 4/10), this is a fun movie.Like Plan 9 from Outer Space with cool colour cinematography.The look of the film is the only thing that's unabashedly, no-excuses-needed good about it... but then, it's hard to make a desert look less than beautiful.My advice is to definitely watch this, but first stock up on some quality skunk... and rent, don't buy! "}{"Title":"ok vamp film nothing like the book.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i have read the book and there is only 2 things that are in the book that are in the film. (1)the main      characters name is jack crow. (2) the vatican has got vampire hunting teams and jack crow is the leader of one of them. that is the only things that are the same everything else in the movie is different    in the book there is no sacred black cross or a vampire called valeck and nothing about vampires trying to get hold of the cross so as it will enable them to walk in the sun instead we have a story about a   team who just go about they`re normal day/night job = killing the children of the night. i hope vampires 2 the sequel is more like the book. i think the reason films are never close to the books is because if  they made them close to the books it would cost more money cos in a book you can have more detail    and it would be more expensive to recreate some of the worlds/areas that are in the books. "},{"Title":"Movie vs Book -- It's bad Jim, real real bad (the movie that is)","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out and promptly forgot about it. Recently I read the book and then immediately re-watched the movie. If you like to read, or just like this genre, John Steakly's Vampire$ is a very good read.John Carpenter's Vampires however, is just bad.Admittedly I am comparing the book to the movie, and in that comparison the movie stands no chance. But really, the movie is just awful. It is full of things that don't make sense. The characters are portrayed to be shallow and stupid. The story is weak and full of holes, but above all, the acting is just atrocious, especially James Woods. I don't like Woods much anyway, but there was hardly a worse choice to play the main character in this travesty. I can forgive a weak story, but there is no excuse for bad acting imo. The rest of the actors actually do a much better job than Woods, which is good considering just how bad he really is in this. The only bright spot acting-wise is from Sheryl Lee (Katrina) and Mark Boone, for all of the 5min he is in the movie (as Cat).If you really really love cheesy bad b-movies, then you may find some enjoyment in this. If you have read the book and want to watch the movie, be warned. None of your favorite characters are portrayed here. Only their names are used, the characters themselves are not the same (watch it and you will understand). Though one of the scenes (the motel) is here, the rest of the movie is a completely different story from the book.I wrote this review to be helpful mainly to those who are wondering how it compares to the book, and to warn off anyone who believes any of the good reviews this movie has. There are many well-written and well-acted B-Movies out there, this is not one of them. While it doesn't quite get as horrible as anything by Uwe Boll (the gold standard for truly craptastic cinema), it's still painful to watch. "},{"Title":"Unrelentingly dull","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vampires is John Carpenter's film about, not surprisingly, vampires. Specifically, it is about a squadron of men led by vampire hunter Jack Crow that attempts to combat vampire infestations.James Woods gives a decent performance of the cast as Jack Crow, but the script doesn't give him much to work with. Tim Guinee and Maximilian Schell were also decent as Father Adam Guiteau and Cardinal Alba. The supporting cast is decent, but Daniel Baldwin's performance as Anthony Montoya is uninteresting and forgettable.The worst part of this movie is its story. It is exceedingly generic and devoid of the wit and charm of John Carpenter's better films. There are a lot of action sequences mixed in, but even those are sub-par and tedious. The lack of a decent story makes Vampires unrelentingly dull from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Crap crap crap...","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HOLY crap! I can't believe James Woods was in this piece of trash! And Daniel Baldwin... have you fallen so far since your days on Homicide Life On the Street? I'm not one who often turns off a film in disgust--the last time I can recall was Rip It Off with Alyson Hannigan. More like Rip ME Off!--But I digress. The inherent and sadistic misogyny made me want scream! And not in that fun way that I was expecting from a film with John Carpenter in the title. I guess the writer/director(?) didn't think it was important to explain why it was necessary to tie a woman spread-eagled and face down to a bed naked. Oh wait... it's because she may become a vampire... hmmm... I guess one of the tell-tale signs is a change in the way that her BUTT looks??? Yeah. Sure. I think the idea is an interesting one--I enjoyed James Woods' hilariously brutal scenes with the Priest--but I just can't watch a film in which the female characters are simply there for... well... the fanboys who are too timid to venture into the curtained back room of their local video store. I don't think I can remember a movie making me so angry. I admit I didn't see the rest of the film, but I also didn't see the point.  "},{"Title":"It's the anti-Buffy. And it's not pretty","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" John Carpenter's Vampires is the latest movie I watched as part of my reviewing of horror and Halloween-themed shows this October. It's also the worst so far. This movie, which is about a vampire slayer named Crow (James Woods), came out in 1998- right about when a TV show called Buffy the Vampire Slayer was on the air. Skimming through some of the comments, I haven't seen anyone else talking about this, but to me the differences are obvious. Although both are about vampire slaying, this movie is the anti-Buffy in numerous ways. And it makes the movie look fairly ugly.If you think the vampires in Buffy are too tame, and that the amount of violence that can be put on TV is too light, then you'll probably love this movie and hate Buffy. That's fine for you. Personally, though, I happen to believe in what I was taught in twelfth grade English, that less is more. Besides, I've never heard of vampires who fight like this- tearing apart and decapitating people with a single swipe of their claws. True, the vampire who does this, Valek, is supposed to be the ultimate super-strong vampire. It's just too bad they couldn't decide on how strong he is- when he's killing Crow's team he's pumped full of bullets and isn't moved by them; but when he chases after the truck a gunshot knocks him off.But the big way in which this movie is the anti-Buffy is in its view of women. I'm male but a liberal, and I liked how Buffy empowered women, made them the heroes for once, and gave them independence, smarts and strength. In contrast, in this movie the main female character is a prostitute called Katrina. She's bitten by Valek early on, almost sounding like she was having an orgasm while he fed off her. She gradually turns into a vampire, but Crow and his sidekick Montoya keep her alive in hope that she can be used to find Valek. The way she's treated by the men is not respectful. She's tied to the bed naked, for one thing. Now, as is evident from reading my other reviews, I love female nudity in movies. But here even I was wondering why she was naked. Montoya hits her, which may be forgivable in the heat of the moment, but he doesn't regret it Who cares? he asks. Later Crow also turns rough with her (and it's Montoya who ironically objects). I'll grant you, Crow's rough with everyone- too rough to be likable- but even elementary school bullies know you're not supposed to hit a girl. At any rate, Katrina is a powerless pawn, a worthless hooker, there are no heroines, and James Woods is who we're supposed to be rooting for.What's good about this? Again, it'll appeal to people who love gore, its vampires aren't fooling around. It may provide a scare (although a better movie can scare you with less graphic violence) and sometimes its presentation of vampires is valid. Vampires, Crow tells us, are not romantic. That's true to the original legend. I just wish I could have seen this less romantic version of vampires in the original Nosferatu. 4.5/10 Happy Halloween. "},{"Title":"NO!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Vampires is a total fiasco. A really bad movie that doesn't take anything seriously and it's not worth to be watched not even by real horror fans. Why? Because it's not horror! It's like 90 mins of rockmusic, angry looking vampires and lots of blood. And nothing more.I read some other user comments before and many of them say that a good director like John Carpenter totally disappointed with this film. What?? John Carpenter, a good director?? Name one good movie! Except for Halloween, an acceptable film, all the rest suck. Is that a good director? I don't think so. Halloween is probably the only Carpenter movie that's nice to watch. John, although he has the urge of putting his name in all his film's titles, as if he's some kind of God of horror movies, never impressed me and probably never will. And he'll never do better movies than Wes Craven, the guy I consider the master of horror.Let's get back to Vampires. It's like another user said, just like a music video. Carpenter, in stead of creating a good tensed scary vampire movie, concentrates only on special effects and gore. Blood, blood and only blood.So the plot is very week and predictable and you NEVER get not the smallest feeling of scare in you. Not even once.  Well i couldn't give this movie more than 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"not many stars?","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Is James Woods the biggest name in this? Daniel Baldwin is nobody and Maximillian Schell (playing a cardinal) was only known for The Black Hole.I was annoyed by the big goof that the vampire entered their hotel suite without being invited (twice, when he bit the hooker and when he came in the front door). This is a really well known rule (that a vampire can NOT enter an abode without being invited) and that annoyed me.I also realized I'd seen this as soon as I saw the priest.I caught the original version of The Fog the previous day on TV, that had worn well with age. This film despite being newer had not worn well.From reading some of the forum postings this is based on a book? Who by? Obviously the vampire hunters have a set of rules as they are both constantly quoting them at each other.Woods cuts the heads off all his dead friends (and the hookers and sheriff) and stakes them all to ensure they stay dead and don't become vampires.I assume this is to make us feel sorry for him in some way? Well it totally didn't work here then.And am I the only one whose going to point out the goof where Wood's tosses the lighter. It'd go out before it ever hit any of the gasoline.Why Montoya undresses the stripper in the hotel room (It'd look suspect as hell if room service came in there), I assume it's to stop her escaping (A vampire isn't going to have nudity issues, are they?).Woods does debunk some of the Hollywood vampire mythology but he doesn't debunk the entering a room myth. The master vampire also enters a church (so the not allowed on hallowed ground myth is rubbish as well?) Montoya is infected when the girl tries to escape (because he was an idiot and trusted her) but tried to cauterize his wound to stop himself being infected. He also lies to Woods about what happened in the room.They manage to find out where the master is by the hookers link to him (in San Miguel) and Montoya lies to Woods again about being tired (when he's turning into a vampire).We then find out why Woods has been teamed with a priest who was previously a scholar, he tells him about the sign for the sun. The Master then descends on a monastery with a group of 7 master vampires (one of whom looked very much like Charlie Sheen).Woods tells us it took 5 days for his father to become a Vampire (but the hooker and Montoya seemed to turn much quicker than that). The Vampire group kills all the monks and find the cross that they have been looking for that will allow them to walk in the day.(also debunking the crosses kill vampires myth).The hooker leads the vampire hunters to the monastery full of dead monks. She then guides them to the abandoned town where the masters nest is.The Priest kills his 1st vampire (and goes a bit mental). The priest is sent (unarmed?) to lure the vampires into the elevator to try and kill the 7 minor master vampires that the main master has brought with him.The hooker starts to remind me more of a Pfeiffer sister as she turns into a vampire. They kill 2 minor masters (a Man and a woman who breaks the jeep winch) before nightfall. As night comes it appears they have infected the whole town and the hooker has turned in Montoya's jeep as she attacks him. (It took her 2 days to turn, by the way).Woods discovers the cardinal (Schell) had betrayed his group in the town. Montoya saves Woods from being burnt at the cross as the villagers/vampires are forced to retreat back into the prison at the rising of the sun. (Oh and he manages to walk past lots of bits of daylight without catching fire, BIG GOOF!) Woods kills the main master Vampire far too easily by exposing him to sunlight, and has a weak emotional scene with Montoya allowing him to have a 2 day head start to flee with the vampire hooker (Vaya Con Dios means Go with God, by the way).Weak ending with the priest becoming a swearer like Woods (and Montoya was played by Daniel Baldwin? NO WAY! He's the spitting image of Anthony La Paglia hence me thinking it was him for the whole review, I actually had to edit the entire review for each time I'd written his name because of that!). "},{"Title":"Entertaining but really more gore than style or content","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Jack Crow leads a Vatican sponsored group of vampire slayers who travel America killing vampires by dragging them out into the desert sun to make them burn up. After one successful day's killing the group is celebrating at a motel when they are attacked by a master - Valek. Only Jack and his friend Montoya survive alone with a hooker who has been bitten by Valek. Using her physic link with Valek, Jack tries to track him down before he can uncover a relic that will allow him to walk by day and night.John Carpenter's best days seem to be long gone by recent (well - many years actually) form. Vampires is widely seen as nothing more than another slip on the downward spiral of his films. The plot is best ignored - the bones are all you need to know and it's safe to ignore all the stuff about the Catholic church creating vampires and the relic etc and enjoy the main action.However I found it all to be a bit silly and the main focus was on the gory effects which never seemed real or scary - just tacky like a straight to video slasher. Bodies splitting, bodies burning, gore, gore and more gore. In moderation gore can be scary but here it is the only thing going on and it all gets a bit tiresome. Of course it does depend what mood you're in - I did enjoy it a bit because it was a Saturday night and I was looking for a bit of undemanding nonsense to not trouble by brain.....however any other time and I would have been let down seriously and given up.Woods is always worth watching and gives a strong performance here, even if he hams it up at times. For most of the time though he gives a good tough guy role. Baldwin is OK (he is my favourite brother since Homicide) but has no good lines and is lumbered with the dumb task of convincing us he loves a vampire. The climax's potentially emotional scene between the two men didn't convince me at all. Lee is totally wasted and has almost nothing to do apart from shake and stare.Carpenter himself shows none of the subtlety or talent that he once had. The effects scream out in all their gaudiness and the action is signposted and clearly aimed at teenage boys who like to see stuff explode. Only in the odd scene does he show that he can still frame a shot or direct a good scene - the majority smacks of a hack job.Overall this is just about passable if you're in the mood for a bit of undemanding twaddle. However if you're looking for anything else then you'll be seriously letdown. At best I found this to be just passable and instantly forgettable. "},{"Title":"Lots of violence and special gory effects, but no actual scary material. ** out of ****","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  JOHN CARPENTER'S VAMPIRES (1998) **Starring James Woods, Daniel Baldwin, Sheryl Lee, Thomas Ian Griffith, and Maximilian Schell Director John Carpenter   Running Time 107 minutes   Rated R (for strong graphic violence and gore, nudity, and strong language)By Blake FrenchJohn Carpenter's Vampires is a horror movie full of violence and special effects, but unfortunately, that is all it has. The filmmakers fail to build up momentum, suspense, terror, and actually, significance of the fact that the characters are hunting down bloodthirsty vampires. They never seem to be afraid of the monsters, thus we don't share feelings of sheer terror; the characters act as if haunting down these menaces is part of their daily life--and it is. John Carpenter, the so-called master of horror, has constructed a thriller in which the tensions are low, gore is high, and there is just enough story to fall in between to give the characters something to discuss between the many scenes of gruesome vampire attacks.The film opens with a pack of vampire hunters, including the leader, Jack Crow (James Woods), and his best pal, Montoya (Daniel Baldwin), preparing themselves in mid daylight for busting into a small country cabin that is supposedly a nest of vampire goons. They expect to undercover a master, who is the most powerful of all vampires. The men sneak into the house, carry out the day's business, and head to a hotel where they have several prostitutes and alcoholic beverages waiting for their arrival. Right in the middle of their fun and games, however, a master vampire, named Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith), crashes the party, killing nearly everyone present--in various ways tearing off their heads, ripping open their bodies, breaking people's necks, shooting them with shotguns, and of course, sucking out their blood. The only characters alive by the end of the first twenty minutes are Jack, Montoya, and a hooker named Katrina (Sheryl Lee),This beginning sequence has no purpose, no meaning, no impact other than to develop a macho style of vampire killers whom themselves are overtaken moments later. While the writers may have developed a firm appearance of style, the characters are left a mystery. Whom were those people mutilated at the victory celebration in the hotel room? They appear on screen, and then are killed so quickly, we couldn't learn their names if we really tried to. The scene afterwards doesn't payoff either, where Jack must go to the hotel and make sure everyone is dead, so they don't turn into vampires later on, and then bury them in the ground nearby. There isn't a whole lot of explanation there either. Its only purpose is to exploit copious amounts of gore to the audience.Jack, Montoya, and Katrina end up teaming up to rid the world of Valek, who is indulged in a plot about an ancient holy cross that will allow vampires to be able to be active in sunlight (which normally kills them). They don't even have the chance to rebuild their team, and this is one powerful monster they are up against.John Carpenter's Vampires is never a convincing movie, more like an over formative video game with no rules, guidelines or boundaries. Although the story does get somewhat interesting in the second act, and interest permits, the first hour of the movie has little to no momentum build up and thus lacks any kind of fright. As the film progresses, it follows a particularly predictable increase of dramatic tension, which is perfectly natural for such an underdeveloped underdog action picture. The country/western setting the filmmakers try to place upon us is more painful than scary, and even the scenes of such gore don't look any more real than the bug attacks from Starship Troopers.I did like some of the performances, however. James Woods is enjoyable to watch in his aggressive character; he is simply perfect to present the over-esteemed Crow. Daniel Baldwin also puts in his fair share of hard work here, as Crow's sidekick. He, like Woods, brings a certain emotional, although muscular, style to his performance. Thomas Ian Griffith is devilish and bold as the main master vampire. Sheryl Lee does not get much to do here, except to drift around where to flow takes her like a dazed bimbo, and discuss various matters the script calls for.John Carpenter has directed many scarier flicks than Vampires, and I must say that I am a little disappointed in him here. He goes for all out gore instead of suspense, irony, and skill. The few scenes that do generate some shock have already been milked by TV ads and theater previews. I don't know about you, but after seeing some of Carpenter's past work, I have a much higher standard for this director. Too bad. Just when you think someone will go for the heart, he goes for the jugular.Brought to you by Columbia Pictures.  "},{"Title":"A scary horror film with a great cynical sense of humor.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Director John Carpenter creates a geniunely wicked thrill machine with an acceptable outcome. Relying on fancy cinematography, a wild musical composition made by Carpenter himself, and an appropriate New Mexico location, VAMPIRES is one enjoyable ride.James Woods' mordant performance is right on the money as Jack Crow, the leader of the vampire extermination squad. Woods' disdainfully sardonic sense of humor adds flavor to a solid vampire flick. Daniel Baldwin is Crow's trusty assistant who helps thin out the numbers of the vampire race. Thomas Ian Griffith  is also great as the Master Vampire, Valek, whose only intent is to gain the ability to live and walk during daylight... Oh yes, and how can we forget the beautiful Sheryl Lee, who is puissant as the tough prostitute who gets bitten by Griffith. The soon-to-be vampire also has a psychic implication with Valec and she can admonish his every move.The fight between mankind versus the vampire species is ignited.Casualties from both sides are predictably ensued, and the origins of Valek's vampirism have been traced to the rituals involving Roman Catholicism of the late 14th century...  As Crow and Valek fight man to vampire only one survivor can be left standing. Who will it be?VAMPIRES is a fine horror show. The special effects are again top-notch for a horror flick.  VAMPIRES is better than average for it offers a very detailed storyline into the creation of the vampires as well as their primary goals. This film is of course, surreal, with its nifty, swirling photography, and a vigourous musical score composed which insinuates when the next action sequence will take place. The humor in VAMPIRES remains righteously edgy as well.VAMPIRES is a prepossessing film which manages to steadily keep its tongue implanted in-cheek throughout the whole movie with solidity. James Woods and Daniel Baldwin add depth in their personalities as wisecracking vampire hunters who care only about their jobs and they don't give a hoot about anything else. The negative portrayal of the Roman Catholic Church as a travesty is also sinfully satirical and  may  be occassional offensive.VAMPIRES is a satisfying film where vampires feed humans as a culinary delight. The effects are decent, and the plot plus character analysis tries its best to be ingenious. Black humor always consistently remains iniquitous as the humans yell disparagements to the vampires before finishing their jobs with a nasty stake in the heart!  All of the trademarks of a John Carpenter film are comprised in this new installment.  VAMPIRES is a more conventional horror film with frights and scares eliciting.VAMPIRES certainly lacks the cohesiveness and substantiation that make several genre legends, legends, but this films is definitely worth a look for horror fans everywhere.  A feast for aficionados of slick scary movies. Not for the squeamish.RATING **1/2 out of ****.     "}{"Title":"Vampires","Date":"15 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I might have seen a few seconds of the beginning once, and I'm glad I watched the whole film, from director John Carpenter (Halloween, Starman). Basically Jack Crow (James Woods) is a vampire slayer on the Vatican payroll, and accompanied by others, including Montoya (Daniel Baldwin), he is obviously on the lookout for the vampires, but the only things that can kill them are stakes in the heart and sunlight, forget garlic, crosses/the crucifix and the bible, they don't help. The big threat of the film is mastermind vampire Valek (Thomas Ian Griffith) who needs a black cross or something to be able to walk in sunlight from then on. Also starring Sheryl Lee as Katrina, Maximilian Schell as Cardinal Alba, Tim Guinee as Father Adam Guiteau, Boone Junior as Catlin Mark and Gregory Sierra as Father Giovanni. The main reason to see this film form me, besides a good performance (with little dialogue) by Woods, is the gore, some good amounts. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"The Wild Bunch of Vampires","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Twenty years after Assault on Precinct 13, director John Carpenter re-states that he actually prefers making westerns over horror movies. Vampires looks like a giant tribute to Sam Peckinpah's The Wild Bunch (even the illustration on the DVD-cover is taken from it) and handles about a 600-year-old super vampire that operates from the New Mexican desert. Because you see, vampires don't sleep in coffins or live in old castles; they dig holes in the sand and emerge from them at the break of dawn. James Woods plays Buffy the Vampire Slayer, working for the Vatican and assisted by Daniel Baldwin and a naive young priest as they're trying to prevent bloodsucker Valdek from finding the Cross of Berziers; a religious relic that gives vampires the power endure daylight. The set pieces are quite impressive and the screenplay definitely contains exciting sequences (like the multiple spontaneous combustions!), but Carpenter completely ignores building up tension and opts for brainless macho action. Maybe this was meant to be a tribute to Peckinpah as well but Vampires is truly women unfriendly and barbaric. Female star Sheryl Lee, who stars as a prostitute slowly turning into a vampire after being bitten, gets slapped, abused and yelled at repellently while the only other female cast members are some hookers that're used as bullet shields for the men! The aforementioned sequences in which the vampires crawl out of their sand beds are the only real atmospheric moments in an overall disappointing and forgettable horror flick. "}]