[{"Title":"Well-crafted comedy with old Hollywood quality","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a lovely romp without a wasted moment. The often quite broad comedy is believable due to the great script and fine acting. The story cuts to the chase in a way that is refreshing (see the scene where Lilly and Dan go outside at the wedding). The leads are all appealing, especially Danny Nucci and Paula Marshall as an unlikely duo and Bette Midler and Dennis Farina, who are evidently having a fabulous time.This is just flat out enjoyable and well-written, the way a lot of comedies were in the golden days of Hollywood. And like those great classic comedies, this is not a sappy sentimental story with any false nobility. People admit to not being perfect. They don't try to be anything they're not - or if they do they are quickly deflated.The underlying theme is be true to yourself and don't get sucked into the boring b.s. of life. This is the kind of subversive edge that the great screwballs had, right down to including a pompous wannabe politician and a gold-digging second wife.Bravo. If only they'd make more like this. How about a sequel or the same team coming back together for another project? "},{"Title":"Who says life has to be logical?","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie on tv it seemed way over-exaggerated so I decided not to watch it again. Oddly enough when a second time came around to view it I did tune in and really started to appreciate the humor of it all. It's so downright funny, at times in the extreme, yet how true to life in some moments. It grows on you! Needless to say, when I like a movie that much I go and buy the video too. It's an endearing comedy to lighten your day, overall entertainment, and everyone does a fine job with their part in this over the top comedy. Try it, you'll like it! "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didnt think that this movie would be any good but i rented it anyway. Boy was I wrong because this movie is so funny especially Bette Midler and Dennis Farrina as a two people who love each other that much that they hate each others guts. And there is more romance, I willl not say between who.... but its so cute.Rent this movie  IT'S FUNNY!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the few movies which manage to set up an excellent mood..","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie just saved my day - I know this is not a movie for everyone, but I fell in love with in the first minutes. This movie has the certain something, which I find rare in movies these days - you can clearly see that everyone has had great fun doing this. Bette Midler and Dennis Farina pull out the best roles, and the casting is awesome overall. I might just be naive, but this film kept surprising me all the time, and I can't recall the last time any movie has gone by so fast. There is not great depths in the plot, it's just plain old 'feel good have fun' hour and a half !Worked for me, went straight into my top ten !  "},{"Title":"Don't underestimate this movie!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is adorable.  I've seen it about six times but I never tire of it.  I enjoy the comedy between Bette Midler and Dennis Farina, who are both fantastic, but watch this movie for Paula Marshall and Danny Nucci.  They are both hilarious and sweet.  This movie may not be the most popular one, but I'd rather watch this than many of the romantic comedies that have come out recently.  Rent it, especially if you're a romantic comedy fan!  It's great!!! "},{"Title":"A nice surprise...","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't have high expectations for this movie but was I surprised. This was one of the funniest romantic comedies that's come along for quite some time. Bette Midler and Dennis Farina are great! Paula Marshall and Danny Nucci have some really good scenes. Jayne Eastwood as Aunt Iris is a hoot. Perfect casting in this one all the way. If you have been married for awhile you can practically feel the sparks sizzling between Midler and Farina. The music was even enjoyable. The latin music at the wedding makes you feel like dancing. Bette Midler and Dennis Farina prove that some things get better with age... "},{"Title":"Amusing vehicle for Bette Midler","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was a fun movie. Admittedly, it was not the best film ever made, but it hangs together well enough, and is quite enjoyable.Molly DeMora (Paula Marshall) is about to marry Keith Marks (Jamie Denton), the rather stuffy son of a Replubican Senator. Unfortunately for Molly, this means that she will have to invite both of her parents, who have been divorced since she was a little girl, and still don't get along well. Her mother, Lilly Leonard (Bette Midler), is a famous actress who is now married to a psycho-babbling therapist, Alan (David Rasche). Her father, Dan DeMora (Dennis Farina) is a famous writer who has married Rowena (Gail O'Grady), the woman he left Lilly for. Molly expects some sparks to fly between her parents, but the ones that do surprise even her, as they rekindle their romance (in an hilarious scene involving a rocking Volkswagen), and leave the reception together. Unfortunately, Keith fears that these kinds of antics will cause a scandal, something detrimental to both his career and his father's. So, he rather sternly orders Molly to handle the situation, which she does, with a paparazzo photographer (Danny Nucci) hot on her tail. However, as Molly tries to bring her parents to their senses, she starts to wonder if maybe they shouldn't be together after all - and if maybe she doesn't belong with Keith.Admittedly, it's a silly story. In spite of that, it's still a well written one, and a well acted movie. Midler is hilarious as always. Farina shows an ability to charm even while playing for laughs. Nucci does a great job of showing a decent human being in spite of the slimy way he makes a living. Denton is wonderfully stuffy. But the best performance is Marshall, who seems to have an absolute gift for comedy.Yes, it's a silly movie, but every now and then, you need a silly little diversion, and this is just the thing for those times. "},{"Title":"That Old Feeling-Bring Back those Screwball Comedies ****","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Dennis Farnina and Bette Midler are the best chemistry match for this outrageously screwball comedy.Attending their daughter's wedding, after 14 years of being divorced from each other, and remarrying, the two despise each other and pull absolutely no punches. After a major screaming match at the reception, the two are put out in the street and told to calm down. It is at this point that the old feeling captures them and the picture becomes an absolute madcap comedy. The duo run off and are pursued by the daughter, and a photographer who can't stop snapping pictures of Midler.While on their escapades, the daughter realizes that she has feelings for the photographer. She has married into a political Republican family who pride themselves on good family values. Some values. While waiting for his bride to return, the young husband gets drunk and has a one-night fling with Farina's second wife!The ending is an absolute pip in the tradition of the 1930 screwball comedies. This is a marvelously crafted film- one of the best of this type that I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"Spontaneous Combustion","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As larger-than-life as she is, Bette Midler manages to allow her co-stars to share the spotlight a little in this naughty comedy.  David Rasche and Gail O'Grady could each carry a film on their own, and Farina's role fits him like a glove.  Rasche was my favorite character.  Jennifer Aniston was offered Paula Marshall's role as the daughter, but they wouldn't pony up $1 million for her.  Marshall is fine, but Aniston may have been worth it to draw more people into the theatre and make this film the bigger hit it deserved to be.  Her stuffed shirt of a husband exudes a sexy stuffed-shirtedness.  But Nucci is annoying and his supposedly comic scenes with Marshall fall flat.  He's supposed to be likabke, he's not.  With Carl Reiner directing, it would hard to not find this film funny, and unpredictable.  This film is not for people with conservative morals, but everyone else should enjoy it. "},{"Title":"No Feeling Needed.","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" That Old Feeling (1997) Dir Carl Reiner / Cast Bette Midler, Dennis Farina, Paula Marshall, Danny Nucci, Gail O'Grady Cruel comedy about the passion once felt by a couple now divorced. Paula Marshall is getting married and stressed about inviting her divorced parents. Dennis Farina and Bette Midler arrive and the bickering begins until Marshall orders them outside. This turns into an adulterous affair. Why would parents do this to their daughter on her wedding day? These parents are absent minded and selfish. Even worse is that the other characters are engaged in their own orgy. Predictable and shameless low for director Carl Reiner who once made hilarious insightful comedies such as The Jerk and Oh God. How h got reduced to this is a fact that is best not examined since he is known for material more intelligent than this. Farina and Midler are both talented comic actors capable of better than this. They aren't even remotely likable here. The fact that they lock Marshall in a hotel room so that they can continue their fling is revolting. Perhaps it might have been for the better for Marshall who is given little to do. Danny Nucci plays an obsessed photographer out to harass Midler while she is harassing her daughter. The film could have examined one's failed marriage and its desired passions but its humour dictates the experience as a joke, which is insulting. Score 3 / 10 "}{"Title":"This movie was amazing!","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know it was only a romantic comedy but this has been one of my favorite movies since the first time I watched it. I can never get enough of it. It's like Groundhog Day. This movie does not get annoying if I watch it a hundred times because I just love it so much. The acting is hilarious, I love the plot and the script is wonderful. And of course, who could complain about Danny Nucci?! Definitely one of my favorites! I love how Joey seems so annoying in the beginning. The audience is convinced not to like him yet when he starts opening up to her about taking the pictures and how he thought she was beautiful at her birthday party, it brings them closer. I have always thought this was the most romantic movie I have ever seen and I have yet to find one that has outshone it. But you know the saddest thing about this? I haven't even bought it on tape or DVD yet! *sighs* I really have to do that soon! Anyway, if you're just browsing and you don't know whether or not you should watch this, trust me, it's wonderful, you should!  "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable film","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am not a big Bette Midler fan, so I wasn't too sure I would enjoy this film, but I rented it on a friend's recommendation.  I enjoyed this movie so much, I now own it on DVD.  I think the casting was excellent from Bette Midler and Dennis Farina all the way through to Jamie Denton and Paula Marshall as the unhappy newlyweds Keith and Molly.  This is a must-see for fans of any of the actors involved in the production, as well as any fans of movies with a feel good ending.  I would recommend it as a great way to spend a rainy afternoon. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think THAT OLD FEELING was the best movie I  will ever own .I  think BETTE MIDLER and GAIL O' GRADY were the perfect people for the movie! Even though I am only 13 and I think everybody should watch this movie! It is the funniest ever. and also BETTE MIDLER and GAIL O' GRADY are my favorite actress's. "},{"Title":"It's a fun movie","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very funny. It has a great script with a lot of really funny one-liners and dialogue.  Bette Midler is her divine self in this one and the whole cast does a good job. Especially the fighting scenes between Bette and Dennis Farina were great fun to watch. This movie is very romantic and the end, even tough predictable, is just what you want. Really enjoyable! "},{"Title":"a surprisingly funny romance--I give it a 10","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps unlike some people, I expected to enjoy this movie because Bette Midler and Dennis Farina are two of my favorite actors. Well, my expectations were fulfilled and then some. In addition to Midler and Farina, I also greatly enjoyed Danny Nucci as Joey the paparazzi, Paula Marshall as Molly the bride (Midler & Farina's daughter), and David Rasche as a manic-depressive, psychobabble-spouting marriage counselor and Midler's second husband. I usually agree with Roger Ebert's reviews, but for this movie we have totally different opinions. He thought this movie was too predictable and that the dialogue was stale. Maybe it's a tad formulaic but I didn't mind because (1), I really cared about the characters and wanted them to end up where they were headed, and (2), I was too busy laughing. There are many genuinely funny lines (especially by Rasche) and a few very touching moments. The actors are all quite talented and appealing (even the bad guys) and maybe that is what makes it so enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this film!  Bette Midler and Dennis Farina are hysterical as the warring ex's who find they still love each other.  Controlling your parents, no matter how hard you try, is an impossible task.  Paula Marshall's character was beaten even before she started. "},{"Title":"Some great moments","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really love this film and I am not sure why.  Paula Marshall has a terrific screen presence, and some of her scenes with Danny Nucci are truly magical (like when they dance at a wedding).  Unfortunately, Nucci didn't become a star because of this movie, but he should have. Same w/Marshall.  Vets Midler & Farina let the kids do the work in this one, and the movie is better for it.  Good old Carl Reiner directs with the lightest of touches.  Also has a terrific soundtrack.   "},{"Title":"Wanna get that old idiot feeling? Buy this darling film, like I did, then forget to watch it","Date":"23 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Molly (Paula Marshall) is newly engaged to a handsome candidate from a political family dynasty. She's in love with Keith, she believes, but suggests they elope. You see, her parents, actress Lillian (Bette Midler) and writer Dan (Dennis Farina) have not spoken to each other in 14 years, due to an ugly divorce. A lady (Gail O'Grady) stole away Dan while Dan accused Lily of cheating on him with their marital counselor. What a tangled web! Nevertheless, it turns out both parents promise to be civil at the ceremony, as they are thrilled Molly is getting married. It doesn't take long, however, for the two to start fighting a few minutes after the wedding. Yet, things get crazier. Lily and Dan get caught up in spontaneous combustion and make out in a parked car. After that, they disappear. This leaves their present spouses baffled and confused while Molly can't enjoy her wedding night. This new bride must locate her folks before they kill each other. In addition, a longtime paparazzi fan of Lillian's tags along, hoping to get the scandalous new photos. This cute young man might also have eyes for taken Molly. Keith is also mixed up and, eventually, resentful. What in the world will be the final couplings amid this marital merry go round? This is quite a fun film, making those like me, who put off a view, get that old idiot feeling. Midler and Farina are vastly amusing while the supporting cast, including the lovely Marshall, is a nice foil. The Manhattan setting, costumes, comedic script and energetic direction complete the winning picture. Want to chase the blues and restore a feeling of optimism? A couple of hours with That Old Feeling should be just the tonic needed. "},{"Title":"Masterful Bedroom Farce","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I *love* That Old Feeling and it bugs me that this effervescent bedroom farce is not received as a classic along the lines of It Happened One Night or When Harry Met Sally. For my money, it's a masterpiece in its genre. Comedy is a lot like music. It requires timing, choreography, and expertise to look effortless. That Old Feeling is the product of a master &#x96; director Carl Reiner &#x96; and it shows in every gesture, every beat, every scene. That Old Feeling is smart, witty, bubbly, bouncy, sharp and sweet from first scene to last. That Old Feeling doesn't make much sense; it isn't supposed to. It's supposed to make you laugh and feel romantic and good about life, and it does. Anyone, of any age, could see this movie and feel, afterward, that they could walk out the door and stumble across the love of their life. Though I've watched this movie several times, I still laugh out loud at favorite gags. Molly (Paula Marshall) a straight-laced twenty-something, is marrying Keith (James Denton), a ridiculously handsome politician's son. Molly's divorced parents have not seen each other for years. Lily (Bette Midler) is an actress. Dan (Dennis Farina) is a writer. They hate each other. They, in turn, are married to Alan (David Rasche) a therapist and self-help author, and Rowena (Gail O'Grady) an interior decorator. Lily is being chased by Joey (Danny Nucci) a paparazzi. The rules of the bedroom farce genre are that a roundelay of characters must rapidly pair off in unlikely ways, their pairings interspersed with improbable plot devices and lots of slamming doors and aghast hands to faces as couplings are discovered. That's pretty much all that happens in That Old Feeling, right up until the very last moments of the movie. It's no small feat that Reiner keeps all these juggled balls bobbing compellingly in the air. It's all funny and sexy and smart, but it's also actually pretty deep. That Old Feeling, like all good bedroom farces, comments on love and hate and attraction, commitment, fidelity, and adultery, and on relationship trade-offs. All of the characters in this film are likable and they are all flawed. If character X ends up with potential partner Y, she will gain in one area of her life, but lose in another. Charm v stability. Passion v consistency. Love/hate v security. The exciting unknown v the old reliable. Every performance is terrific. Bette Midler is, well, Bette Midler. She's never been better than she is here. I often find her over-the- top but here she is just the right amount of the Divine Miss M. David Rasche, a former member of the Second City troupe, makes me laugh every time he is on screen as the therapist and self-help author. He's every bit as funny as Will Ferrell. Danny Nucci is appropriately sleazy and scruffy and he is also wonderful after his transformation via wet fingers and another man's jacket. Dennis Farina is amazingly, wonderfully hot as an arrogant, macho guy who gets what he wants by waving large bills between his fingers under the noses of hotel staff. I could go through the whole cast but suffice it to say that every performance is funny, tender, human, and expert. One of the lovely plusses of That Old Feeling. It depicts people over fifty having sex and enjoying it. I watch this movie over and over because I love the signature of a master's hand in every scene. In the opening scene, a man proposes marriage to a woman. In the background, there is a bouquet of flowers. The flowers are on screen for less than a minute, but they are lit so beautifully it takes my breath away. It's that kind of meticulous attention to detail that makes a movie worth watching for me. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, well acted comedy","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" No one has better credentials in American popular comedy than Carl Reiner, and he's achieved a minor classic in this story of a divorced and remarried couple whose relationship shows what a fine line there is between love and hate when they show up after 14 years apart at their daughter's wedding. Bette Midler almost steals the show, but luckily the other actors are good enough to stand up to her performance. The ensemble acting is impressive, and the escalating bickering scenes between Midler and Dennis Farina are very funny. Advisory some mildly explicit sex and occasional language, and a generally adulterous plot line. I saw it on the Universal DVD, where the transfer is very good. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Refreshing Comedy","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I found myself watching this today and absolutely loved it. The chemistry between the actors are just fantastic. It doesn't sugar coat anything. Its just like life. Messy and fun and it shows that the best things in life aren't perfect but sometimes they are perfect for you. It definitely delights down to the very last minute when the credits role. Midler and Farina are brilliant and the sparks that fly between them are palpable. The surprise twists don't stop coming. I was laughing throughout the movie. The therapist was played great. Absolutely hilarious on how he over talks everything. I can't wait to watch it again and see all the little nuances I missed the first time around. "},{"Title":"Wonderful screwball comedy - Enjoyed it so much I've watched it 3 times","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Paula Marshall is a delight. The movie's universe revolves around her character and if she couldn't' pull off the transitions in the straight role, Midler's and Farina's tour-de-force performances would have felt out of context. But she did. Director Carl Reiner in his last directorial credit to-date has set all the screwball romantic comedy to a fantastic classic musical score and lots of wonderful sight gags. Gail O'Grady and David Rasche Play their roles as spurned spouses for all they are worth. The actor playing the paparazzi reporter had such good chemistry with Marshall that they married in real life. This movie made me laugh more than any romantic comedy since Crossing Delancey. "},{"Title":"Very Predictable But Some Nice Laughs","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      I just caught this movie on cable. I'm not a really big fan of romantic comedies. I like them, it's just that Natural Born Killers, Love and a.45 and One Night Stand(Wesley Snipes & Nastassja Kinski. Those movies always involved trouble with romance. In some ways That Old Feeling involves danger in the form of the two main characters hate each other in the beginning. To make a long story short, they fall back in love and along the way are some pretty funny scenes if not predictable. Some parts of the movie are so predictable, I actually thought I was psychic because I knew exactly what would happen by the end of the movie. This movie's dialog is not great. There are some interesting characters like Roach, the paparazzi guy who follows the movie star around. The movie survives purely on pure force of personality. Bette Midler and Dennis Farina are great and they save this predictable mess. It's good to watch once but you will do just that, watch it once and never feel the urge to see it again.Rayvyn  "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I personally loved this movie.  I thought it was very funny and entertaining.  Midler gives an excellent performance as usual.  My whole family and I watched and everyone enjoyed it.  This is deffinently one of my favorite Bette Midler films.  A must see! "},{"Title":"So-So","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I was at a party with a couple of friends. It was pretty funny, and I liked it, but I have to agree with 'I don't know why'. It made a lot of sense, but even Bette Midler couldn't save some of the scenes in the movie. The actors and actresses were pretty funny, and the ending was terrific, but it just didn't 'click' with some of the better movies that Bette has made. Ah, well, you know you'll never get over it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful screwball comedy!","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I read the synopsis for this film on the t.v. channel, I immediately assumed it was one of those screwball comedies of the 1930s. Instead, it turned out to be a modern screwball comedy which kept us glued to the screen the whole time. Everything about the film was so enjoyable the acting of everyone, and above all the clever writing, managing to relate all the main characters in the filmic version of a quadrille. By the looks of things, I would guess that everyone involved thoroughly enjoyed themselves in the making of this film. As always, Bette Midler was supreme, whilst this film yet again showed how brilliant and versatile an actor is Dennis Farina. "},{"Title":"Chemistry makes for sly humor that works","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this is the kind of movie that i try to remember with a fondness even in excess to how i really feel about it, just to make up for the fact that i often fail to make any real converts to my strange passion for movies that work better than they should. That Old Feeling is a good example (others I could cite My Fellow Americans, Odd Couple II) of just how hard it is to really convey the intimacy that certain long-term rancor breeds...Denise Farina (who first entered my hall of fame in Get Shorty, because he nailed it, the way he abuses Gene Hackman, the huge oft-broken nose...brilliant). And Bette needn't reprove herself to me, and though I'm hardly a die-hard fan, there's something so vibrant about Bette Middler as she negotiates her raging trysts with her loathed ex...That friction, the movie suggests, is central to any sort of authentic passion. And, like any closet-romantic, I am dazzled by the knowledge that Paula Marshall (Molly, the newlywed) ended up getting married to her costar Danny Nucci (plays a paparazzi following around Molly's mom--Bette Midler) a few years after shooting on the film wrapped. chemistry is crucial. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrific!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS, OK?!?! SHEESH, GET OVER IT!*** I have extremely high expectations for movies. Unbelievably high expectations - unreasonably high.This picture meets - and even exceeds - expectations. Predictable? Yeah, but so what? You know that Molly's parents are going to end up together in the end. And you know Molly isn't going to end up staying married to the congressman. Who cares? That's not the point of the movie.The point of the movie, is Molly, her heart and soul. She's so tightly wound, she's about a quarter of an inch away from blowing a gasket. For anyone who's grown up trying to keep their head straight while their parents were off being crazy, you'll identify with her instantly. She's so self-loathing, trying to run her world and feeling like she's failed any time any little thing goes wrong, that she can't even see that her husband doesn't love her. Now, it's not that she's self-absorbed. In fact, quite the opposite. She's totally and completely giving of herself. Too much so; this is what comes about from a lifetime of having to keep other people's sh*t together. But she's simply not in tune with herself and her feelings, because of all the noise from all emotional sh*t going on inside her.Slowly but surely, bit by bit, she loosens up. And it's not the kind of loosening up where somebody just tells you, hey, relax, don't be so stressed out, everything's cool!, and the hero realizes, hey, all I have to do is relax, and not be so stressed out, and everything will be cool - that's terrific!. I hate those kinds of movies, they're insulting. That's not how sh*t changes.It's the kind of loosening up that happens slowly, subtly, without her (or the viewer) even noticing it. A slight shift here, a small turn there, a little diversion inside herself. Bit by bit, she goes from having a hurricane inside her head to feeling some bright, clear sunshine for a change. It happens without her even realizing it. You won't realize it either. That's why people can't figure out why they like this movie. It just kind of sneaks up on you, then BAM! So relax, set your intellect on cruise control, and allow yourself to be fulfilled by a charming, wonderful film. "},{"Title":"You have to see this one","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Bette and Dennis are absolutely fantastic in this.They just about explode every scene they have together. The young couple that play the married couple and the photographer are likewise wonderful. They more than hold their own with Bette and Dennis.Wonderful ensemble of characters. "},{"Title":"Good writing, acting, make for an enjoyable film","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film a lot more than I thought I would, being not particularly a fan of Bette Midler. But she was great in this movie. And Paula Marshall was fantastic. Dennis Farina and Danny Nucci turned in good performances also. The script was excellent. Definitely worth a rental. Grade B+ "}{"Title":"Made in Wrong Decade","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe they made this movie in 1997. It seems one of those 80's comedies. Which is not bad in itself, just the fact it somehow seems really dated. Everything seems to have done before. And audience have seen this many times before. Both Bette Midler and Dennis Farina have played many similar characters lots of times.Just within a few minutes you can guess what is going to happen. Script is predictable and clichéd, dialogs are cheesy straight from 80's. I am just surprised how this movie got to be made.The movie title itself serves as a warning. While watching this movie you also get that old feeling that you have seen it all before. "},{"Title":"5 out of 10","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sexy, juicy, blonde Bette Midler and grey, stubborn Dennis Farina are in top shape as two ex-lovers who hate each other so much, that they fall in love again at the wedding party of her nervous daughter Paula Marshall. Carl Reiner has never been a assured comedian director, but here he almost pulls it off with a charming cast full of funny, but slight characters, played all around well. Marshall is surprisingly good as well as Danny Nucci, who played the friend of Leo Dicaprio on the TITANIC. At one point Midler sings, but it's not as good as her acting. Not much new material then, but still acceptable, uneven fun. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Boring yet entertaining!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has me very confused.  Although I don't like watching it, I find myself putting it in the DVD player once a week.  Then if finally dawned on me.  The plot sucks, but the writing and the acting are absolutely superb. Bette Midler and Dennis Farina had such a chemistry going, it was hard to stop laughing.But you can't forget about the other acting in this movie.  Bette and Dennis's current lovers are even more amazingly funny.  I found myself wishing that they would be in the movie more, have more lines.  Much like on Will and Grace.  Will and Grace are great, but come on, Karen steals the show.  The show should be re-titled, Karen and Jack..  Just have a role reversal, Will and Grace can be the sometimes in the show people, but Jack and Karen own it.  And that's how I feel about this movie.Wonderfully funny, just need to get through the borinnng, sloooow, plot. "},{"Title":"What a load of garbage","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A young woman invites her parents to her wedding, knowing that they absolutely hate each other and haven't spoken in 14 years.Warning them not to ruin her wedding by making a scene, they agree to her demands, for her sake.But we all know that won't last long...This is a sweet comedy but is utterly unintertaining and absurdly boring in some parts.The acting is hideous, the lines are cheesy, the story is boring and the end is laughable.Imagine Father of the bride without any funny or touching moments, coupled with watching paint dry. "},{"Title":"LAME","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yuk. Bette Middler must be desperate. I can't think of any other reason why she would get involved with such a pathetic script. How does garbage like this get made?  "}]