[{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally a truly great film from a star of TV's Friends. Jennifer Aniston is fantastic as a single woman who becomes pregnant and wants to raise the child with her roommate George, who is gay. Unfortunately for her, she ends up falling in love with him. This sets up what is a nonstandard ending to a romance movie, but the payoff is satisfying enough that you aren't in the least disappointed. "},{"Title":"Never mind the critics. This movie is a must see.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's amazing how this sensitive film can be realistic all the time. Although this is, indeed, a love story, there's no need to give the viewer happy solutions just to make them fulfilled. Every second of the movie is real, every emotion, every fact. Justice to Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd. There's an amazing cast here, including Mad About You's John Pankow and veteran Alan Alda (all great) but the movie belongs to Jennifer and Paul. They make you think no one else could do a better portrait of Nina and George - they were born to do it. Anyone can relate to them at some point. Congratulations not only for the two, but also for the entire crew who made this movie - including, of course, the great sensibility of director Nicholas Hytner. A job well done. "},{"Title":"Sensitive straight/gay romance pre-Will & Grace","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite a downright peculiar finish which gives new meaning to the term 'feel-good', The Object of My Affection is a careful, perceptive and insightful comedy-drama about a straight woman and her gay-male best friend living together. Keeping the obvious sex-jokes at bay, the movie strives to create three-dimensional people and works most of the time. This is due in large part to Jennifer Aniston, an easy presence on the screen. The set-up is pure formula, but the results are occasionally offbeat, squirrelly, sometimes funny and moving. Story thread with Nigel Hawthorne as an elderly gay man who gets dumped-on shows the casual cruelty inherent in gay relationships, and this is handled with quiet taste. Not everything works in Affection, but it is remarkably pleasant and (for better or worse) hetero-friendly. *** from **** "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this film was terrific.  I read the book years ago, and  actually thought that the movie was better.  First of all, it makes more  sense to look at the storyline from Nina's perspective, since she has much  more at stake than George does. Secondly, the character played by Nigel  Hawthorne was beautifully written and played, and he didn't even exist in  the book.  I also disagree with the assertion that George was boring in  this movie.  I thought that Paul Rudd gave a wonderful and moving  performance, particularly at the Science Fair when he tells Nina how much  he would love to be a father.  Don't believe the critics -- give it a  rental.  It's a terrific film. "},{"Title":"chin up, young person!","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" They say you can't help who you love, and people have used that line forever to make terrible decisions about romance. This movie explores the idea that while you might not be able to help loving someone, you can still choose how you respond to that feeling. Choosing wisely is the difficult part! ) The characters (and not just the main characters - there are some great sub-plots and well-rounded side characters here) learn a lot about being realistic (and how & why that can be difficult) when it comes to romance. Many aspects of this theme are played out, and in more ways that you'd think just from reading the back of the DVD cover.I highly recommend this if you like that class of chick flick that goes beyond the obvious to ponder some of the deeper questions about love and the things we do to find it, keep it, and occasionally break our hearts over it. Like other beautiful movies of this kind (eg, While You Were Sleeping, French Kiss) the comedy is fairly subtle and character-based. All the elements are there casting, direction, script (story and dialogue) and acting are all good. I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did! "},{"Title":"The Object of My Affection is one of the finest films ever.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Object of My Affection is a very realistic movie about a woman who finds a good-looking gay man attractive.  Paul Rudd is particularly fine as the man who befriends Jennifer Aniston's character.  She is very much disappointed in her old boyfriend's faithless attitude towards her.  Paul Rudd's character is fun to be with and, even though they have no sexual encounters, they are both very good friends.  Paul Rudd's character finds an attractive young man and falls in love.  This upsets Jennifer Aniston's character.  She should have seen it coming.  The ending is quite wonderful in that all are able to remain good friends.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, funny, and sad movie","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I especially liked the performance of Nigel Hawthorne in this movie as Rodney, the companion of a friend. Jennifer Aniston is delightful, and Paul Rudd is a treat as well. Jennifer and Paul have great chemistry together, and although the story is a bit sad, it is an entertaining and light comedy. Watch with someone you love! "},{"Title":"Very moving!","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a gay man myself and having had a similar relationship with a woman, I found the film very moving and beautifully done. "},{"Title":"A well-crafted treat for fans of tales of the heart","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Object of My Affection is rather heavily aimed at a gay audience - at least it seems that way to me.  It retains quite a theatrical feel; there is always the feeling that the director is conscious this is a performance, and it's not given the natural or polished feel that accompanies so many Hollywood movies. Paul Rudd is perhaps just a little camp of centre for the role of George - he is supposed to be interested in the female lead, after all.  However, it's a tricky balancing act, because if he becomes too convincingly involved, he becomes the bad guy, so it's perhaps just as well.  Some very classy moments come from his deriding of ex lover Professor Joelly, and some great gay stereotypes are held up for examination along the way. Particularly amusing was Paul's blind date with the Village People wannabe ear nose and throat specialist, and of course, the incredibly self-serving Joelly. Perhaps surprisingly, the strongest performance of the piece comes from Friends star Jennifer Anniston.  Struck by the love bug, she admirably portrays the lover in the bedroom next door, and I defy anyone not to be moved by her character's deepest lows.  No review of this film would be complete without mention of Nigel Hawthorne, who very nearly steals the limelight from Anniston with his marvelously opinionated (but very likeable) literary critic, forced to share the love of his life.  Simply put, he's brilliant. So why does The Object deserve a 10 in my opinion?  In the end, the relationships in the movie don't come down to gay or straight, or anything one can label.  They're honest to goodness relationships between people - and that's why there is an element of doubt as to who will end up where - at least part of the way through.  That's why despite it's light feel, it has the ability to evoke some really deep feelings of tragedy in just the right places.  It's everything you wouldn't expect, which is a wonderful breath of fresh air. "},{"Title":"I loved it!!","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was talking to my friend, and she mentioned this movie, and said she loved it, and thought I would too. I was flipping through the TV guide when I saw it was on at 700pm I was so excited. I watched it with my Dad of all people, and then my Mom thought it looked good so she joined in, she quipped I have seen this before in theaters back in 1997, it was fabulous and sweetI think the exact same thing, I will not leave a summary of the film because so many others have, but I have to say this one was different for me. I have no problem with Gay homosexual men, and this movie pulled on my heart strings a couple times and made me cry. I was nervous at first to see Jennifer Aniston in this role, because what if she didn't pull it off, and I was disappointed?? Well I wasn't I was blown away by her dramatic, yet uplifting, and funny performance.If you haven't yet seen this movie, it is a must see. it is also worth owning on DVD "}{"Title":"Exceeded my expectations.","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUT THIS POSTI just had the opportunity to see this recently and must say it was a pretty good movie which actually surprised me because I had tuned in because there wasn't anything else on and I expected a garden variety popcorn flick. Not so. This was surprisingly touching more sweet then funny and the characters had a realism to them that I quite enjoyed. I like movies that aren't predictable and this movie surprised me several times. I also throughly enjoyed Jennifer Anniston in this role . I guess I'm a fan of hers because with the exception of Picture perfect I have enjoyed every movie I've seen her in so far.What surprised me so much was, this movie was not at all what I had thought it was in my mind which was- a typical romantic comedy where, in this case, girl falls for boy who is gay, doesn't tell him till end, he realizes he loves her too and they get married. I was quite wrong on that, girl does indeed develop feelings for male roommate but they don't wind up together and the characters' relationship is developed and explored in a very mature, sensitive, human manner. In fact all the characters and the development of all their relationships are interesting and realistic, and the thanksgiving dinner scene was particularly touching. This movie to me is a solid 8 or 8.5 and really goes to show not to make assumptions going into a movie-you never know what you'll like until you give it a shot! Good job by everybody in this movie and I'll add my vote to solidly recommending this flick. Wish I'd seen it years ago. "},{"Title":"This great and typical 90's movie!!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hello you people. Im Daniel. I want talk you about this wonderfll movie. The Object of my Affection is a great moovie, and it has a modern plot, sure written by talent writers. This film is very modern and talks about many stuff of the 90's, and i think every single young person should see this movie, because it shows tolerance, respect by different kind of people, and good love and friendship. The actors play very well their characters, specially Jennifer Aniston, who is very talented and a pretty good actress, besides a nice face. The film's direction is great. So, i guess everybody has to watch this movie. Thanks.   "},{"Title":"Suprisingly good","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite the film's dubious premise, it is suprisingly good.  It may have you wondering at first, but the story refrains from being overly simplistic. I wasn't very eager to see another the only good guys are the gay ones type movie where heterosexual women get the best of both worlds in a sensitive, caring, homosexual.  Unfortunately this is how the movie was marketed; fortunately this is not where the movie ended.  A definite movie to recommend. "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie for such a long time but I didn't get to rent it until today. I saw The Cider House Rules (excellent movie!) last night and liked Paul Rudd very much. So I finally got to rent it. This is a sweet movie with a good balance of funny and serious moments. Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd are great just like the rest of the cast and I think the 2 had a great chemistry together.What I liked most about this movie is the way they portrayed gays. Usually, in Hollywood films they are just minor characters to get some laughs and they are sometimes shown as totally wacky persons like the character of Nathan Lane in The Birdcage (which by the way is a funny movie). But in this movie, we see that gay people can be normal with an everyday job and feelings just like any other person. Paul Rudd played George as such an ordinary man and his character was so much more besides being gay. George was a sensitive and loving young man. More movies should follow this example.A great movie I definitely wanna watch again. I rate it 8/10. "},{"Title":"This film was beautiful.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently saw the movie The Object of My Affection.  I have been wanting to see the film ever since it was released to the Box Office.  I was finally able to see it today.  This film made me cry, and made me laugh. I was so moved by the dramatic issues in this film.  Seeing Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd's characters on screen made me see just how precious love is. While I was watching this movie I kept wishing that the guy and girl would get together just like in other romance movies.  In the case of this film, I was moved by how it turned out. Everyone was happy.  I would like to thank and give credit to all of the people who helped to make this movie possible. I want to have a relationship like the one that Jennifer and Paul's characters did in the beginning.  Someone to talk with, laugh with and to love.  This film was truly a masterpiece.     "},{"Title":"Some people just won't get this movie","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The essential elements that make this movie enjoyable for those who do get it have already been covered so no sense in repeating them.  I don't think you'll like this movie if you have never had at least some of the experiances of these characters, things will just seem to foreign to you.  For example, if you have never really known what's it's like to be in a relationship where you want the other person and they don't want you the same way you will have a hard time relating.  If you have never been the third wheel that can't move on or at least been one of the wheels of the three, you may not be able to relate.I guess what I'm saying is that this movie isn't so much about explaining how these things come about, it's more of a reflection of what happens when they do. So if you don't already have some familarity the movie may just leave you cold, especially when it makes some of the jumps where it seems like something has been left out.  If you've been there you know, if not, you are just left wondering. "},{"Title":"Touching, the best romance of 1998, so far.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  Jennifer Aniston proved herself to be a serious actress.  Paul Rudd did a magnificent job.  Despite critics and other audience members alike, this is one of my all-time favorite romances, particularly because it didn't have a Hollywood ending. "},{"Title":"One of the sweetest movies ever","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS* The Object of my Affection is one of the sweetest movies I've ever seen. Jennifer Aniston portrays Nina Berowoski, young woman living in Brooklyn, New York.  She meets George Hanson (Paul Rudd) at a party being thrown by her step- sister, Constance (Alison Janney) and husband Sidney (Alan Alda.) George is gay, and ends up breaking up with his boyfriend.  George comes to live with Nina and they become best friends.  When Nina becomes pregnant by her boyfriend, Vince (John Pankow,) she realizes that she would rather raise her baby with George.  Vince is angry, but later accepts the decision. Nina soon comes to realize that she has feelings for George, who is now into a relationship with a man named Paul.  She denies it some, but not really, and eventually tells George how she feels.  He does not feel the same way, which makes Nina quite upset, but she eventually moves on.  It is a wonderful, heartwarming story which I enjoyed very much.  Jennifer Aniston does a spectacular job, as she does in every other movie and Friends episode. Jennifer Aniston is my absolute favorite actress, and I enjoy watching her in anything.  This is a great movie, and if you like Jennifer Aniston, as I do, you ought to see it.   "},{"Title":"Outstanding movie!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen! If you are a fan of Jennifer Aniston and comedy, this movie is perfect for you!Nina (played by Jennifer) is a nice young lady, who lives in New York. She starts to run into some trouble when she and her idiotic boyfriend, Vince each make some poor choices. Meanwhile, her good friend George (who is a queer) needs a new place to live. Nina is kind enough as to let George move in with her. Only problem with that is, Nina begins to fall for George! Nina is in bad denial about it, but eventually starts to admit it! That could be trouble, but I can't spoil it for somebody who never saw it.I could relate to Nina in some ways, personally having a similar experience. I once became friends with a Lesbian girl who I fell madly in love with. However, I eventually had to understand that in reality, we both liked girls! On a scale of 1-10, I give this movie a 9, and grade of A! This movie is perfect for anybody like me--who is heterosexual but NOT prejudice against gays. (I'm sure gays will love it too!) The beautiful and talented Jennifer Aniston has yet to star in a better movie! "},{"Title":"Great.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is full of nice touches. It has great actors, a good length, a cool story and it proves that Jennifer Aniston can do a good dramatic movie well. (not that she hasn't already).Aniston plays Nina, a lovely lady who has just lost her boyfriend. Uh-oh. Now she has fallen in love with a gay guy (Paul Rudd), and does he have the same feelings?This film is entertaining and lovely to watch.  It made me feel warm inside. My rating  8/10. Its just lovely. "}{"Title":"A special film","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its not often that I get the opportunity to say that a film spoke directly to me, but I can bestow this honour on Nicholas Hytner.I have found myself in a similar situation with two female friends, over the last 3 years, and the character portrayals and writing in this film proved remarkably perceptive. I found myself referring to the film in an effort to try and explain why that type of relationship cannot work.Paul Rudd`s portrayal of George was sympathetic, and showed the emotional conundrum that can arise in such a friendship. Jennifer Aniston played a determined, sympathetic character, who is ultimately forced to accept that her dreams cannot happen. George cannot be converted.I would strongly recommend this to anyone who has experienced similar emotions, or wants to understand that love doesnt always follow strict guidelines.  "},{"Title":" A REALLY TOUCHING FILM","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I should start off by saying first, that you must see all this film, before judging it.  I didn't see all of it the first time i saw it on cable, and saw really only the last 40 minutes of it.  Then it was on one day, and I decided to give it a chance and watch the whole film... I'm glad i did.  This movie is really good.  It touched me, I couldn't believe that it did.  I really enjoy movies that don't have the hollywood ending, but I mean when this movie had ended, I was hoping that it had that ending.  I acually started crying, (badly I might add, i'm a young guy, who isn't use to stuff like this).  It made me realize of course that was the only way to end a movie like that.  And i'm glad I did, but I like many other people have had that feeling of not being with the one we love.  Nigel Hawthornes characters quote says it best, ONE SHOULDN'T BE TO HARD ON ONESELF IF THE OBJECT OF ONE'S AFFECTION RETURNS THE FAVOR WITH RATHER LESS ENTHUSIASM THEN ONE MIGHT HAVE HOPED. That said, you shouldn't be, but where all human, and we do feel the pain, and it hurts.  He felt Nina's pain.  I know I did.  This movie really is good, check it out. "},{"Title":"Great movie. Do not miss it!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A surprising film and worth every single minute!   Paul Rudd and Jenifer Aniston have great performances and give the story the touch of reality that captures you.  Never mind what critics say, go for it.    Predictable it might be in a way, but the story and the characters are really moving.   Just like I Think I Do this one is already included in my all-time favourites.  "},{"Title":"EXCELENT FILM","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just want to say that this is one of the best films I have ever seen that deals with human relationships. Regardless of sexual orientation, race or nationality. I think that Paul Rudd´s role as George is brilliant; I do not want to exclude Jennifer Aniston´s role as Nina. Both gave a wonderful lesson of love, and friendship. If someone disagrees with my comments I will be willing to respond to any message addressed to kasper@quetzalcoatl.igeofcu.unam.mx  "},{"Title":"Two Great Leads Here!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Object Of My Affection is an okay movie, nothing that brilliant though. I have to say Paul Rudd and Jennifer Aniston both did give great performances. They work well together and have great chemistry. Well, this isn't the best of comedys out there, but like I said to the leads are great. All in all, not too bad. "},{"Title":"Can totally relate to it!","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I decided to watch this movie as I was intrigued by the title,having had a few objects of affection myself. Frankly, after the first few minutes of the film, I was confused as to who was who's object of affection.But what was unexpected about this movie was how Nina falls for a gay man. Though she knows his love is unattainable, she continues to hang on to it until she can no longer ignore the truth that he will never love her back the same way. I could totally relate to the situation of wanting something that seems so perfect, and feeling hopeless as one watches it go further and further away.Jennifer Aniston's acting is superb. Paul Rudd, as the first-grade school teacher, who though simple, but clearly aware of what he wants in life, delivers convincingly. Overall, a deeply moving and thought-provoking movie. Definitely a must watch! "},{"Title":"Society Ills Are Good Here ***1/2 Object of My Affection","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Contemporary society's focus on homosexuality takes an interesting twist in this 1998 movie.Basically, a pregnant Jennifer Aniston wishes to raise her baby with an endearing homosexual she has met.This movie doesn't stop there. The race question is also brought in when she meets a black police officer.Paul Rudd is excellent as the conflicted gay guy. He has feelings for the Aniston character, but his male preference ultimately prevails. The picture is a good one as everyone eventually comes to terms with their beliefs.In a brief appearance, Nigel Hawthorne shines as an elderly, realistic gay man.We're in the mix of the wealthy and not so wealthy people here. We have writers, educators and others confronting their homosexuality. "},{"Title":"Strange...but it works.","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First off, i'd like to say that yes, i know this movie has been knocking around for 8 years. Working in a music/video store, i often browse the stock for potential purchases and have often browsed straight past this hidden gem. Except maybe to stop and dream of skipping through a meadow with Miss Aniston. I'd never been interested for two reasons. 1. The cover doesn't exactly scream BUY ME I'M REALLY BLOODY BRILLIANT...PLEEEEAAASE!. And 2. Jen hasn't had a lot of luck in the movies, at least not in the height of Friendsmania. Picture Perfect bombed as did that other garbage she did with Cam Diaz, i forget the name. But after seeing this movie glaring at me from my TV guide last year - it was during her break up with Brad (THEDEVILHIMSELF) Pitt - and i thought..why not? She's needs the support of her fans right now and her performance in The Good Girl left me speechless. So here goes...Within 5 minutes i new i'd got this all wrong. Jen looks dowdy and well, normal, just like good girl (Having bad hair and wearing terrible clothes seems to somehow enhance her performances). You instantly believe the connection between Nina and her new gay best friend, George, played by the equally brilliant Paul Rudd. But before you know it the story has progressed so much that you're lagging some way behind. All of a sudden Nina's pregnant and wants to raise her child with George. But hold the phone! George is gay...and Nina has a boyfriend! Whats a boy to do? Simple, George watches a guy playing baseball with his son and get all broody. Hooray, Nina dumps the boyfriend and George buys a catchers glove. Everythings great and we're nearly done...but hang on a sec, i've only been watching this for an hour. It's OK, put the phone down, no need to complain. Their kissing - that looks fun - and she's undoing his pants and...the phone rings. Damn It! We suddenly find ourselves with two new characters and again we're confused. And so is George who finds himself having funny feelings for the young friend of a theatre critic played by the wonderful Nigel Hawthorne. Suddenly Nina's spending her nights alone while George has some bum fun. And there it is. An hour and a half later this movie is getting good, really good. You see Nina loves George but doesn't know that George now loves Paul (the friend), as does Rodney (the critic). It's becoming less confusing, a lot less. This all explodes after Thanks Giving dinner where Rodney lets slip about all of George's late night visits to his and Paul's place. The next 5-10 minutes are heartbreaking. Nina's world implodes as she realises for the first time what's going on and confronts George in the movies best scene. Sreaming and shouting ensues and we're finally left in no doubt that this gay/straight relationship will never work out. She loves him, but he loves someone else, thats all it comes down to. This movie rules. I love it when you watch a movie thinking you know what its all about, but then it sneaks up behind you and screams BALLS in your ear. The ending however, is bizarre. I won't let to much slip but lets just say if you thought this movie was heading to a really depressing finalé...it doesn't. Really...really...strange. But it works! And that really sums up this movie, strange...but it works. Give it a chance, excellent performances throughout ensure you won't be disappointed. Special mention to the vastly underused Nigel Hawthorne and subtly hilarious Alison Janney.All in all, a treat. Head up young Person... "},{"Title":"This is an outstanding movie","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never before have I felt so involved in and connected to the lives of the characters in a movie. This movie was wonderful, everything was believable. It made me feel like I knew Nina and George personally. I felt happy when they were happy, and I felt hurt when they were hurt. I wanted everything to work out for them, exactly as if I had been them. I was pretty disappointed with how the film ended, but it's probably more realistic than what I would have liked to see happen. I love this movie, thanks to the ABC Family channel it has instantly become one of my absolute favorites. Definitely see it - 5 stars! "},{"Title":"I Love It !","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1998 ... the first time that it had released in Thailand. I love it so much. 'Cuz I think.... I have the same feeling as Nina in this movie. Nina loves George. And for me, I love someone who is GAY ! ..... Nina can't accept the relationship between herself and George. But I think I can accept everything .......... between myself and him... the one I love. I always think that I'm Nina. )This is a great movie that you guys who are falling in love with a GAY man should see !! 'Cuz I saw it from the theatre, Cable TV and VDO for several times ! "}{"Title":"Stephen McCauley's excellent novel thankfully is not disgraced.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An excellent movie, featuring fine turns from Jennifer Aniston, Paul Rudd, Alan Alda, Nigel Hawthorne, and John Pankow, among others. An examination of relationships, straight and gay, that thankfully never descends into all the typical stereotypes of gay-male-with-straight-woman friendships. Very different from Stephen McCauley's novel; but innovative and fresh. Often rather too sentimental; however, in comparison to other movies with similar themes, it never becomes over-bearing. A fine movie. Kudos to all involved. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film once a year or so ago and although I liked it I didn't think it was anything special, just another vehicle to try and get Jennifer Aniston into the movies. Rewatching it now it had a completely different effect on me. I think although it is a very enjoyable film on it's own the key to making it a brilliant film is how much you can relate to the characters and the situations. I've been in a similar situation to Nina myself so it speaks to me a lot more now than it did when I first watched it. A warning though; if you think you're gonna relate to it make sure you have a *big* box of tissues with you when you watch it! "},{"Title":"A real feel-good film","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think that this is the type of film to be over-critical about.  It is a good film with a nice story and some excellent acting by Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd, who were well supported by the minor characters.  Overall, I believe that this movie is definitely worth seeing for the warm fuzzy feeling you will get at the end.  "},{"Title":"Witty and wise","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's quite possible to watch and re-watch this romantic comedy without choking on the sentiment. Which must count for something in this age of pathetic, overwritten scripts. The way the movie introduces the multiple characters is also praiseworthy, economical and intelligent. All in all, good, solid and witty entertainment, head and shoulders above the competition.   "},{"Title":"THE FILM WAS JUST GREAT, THE TOPIC WAS VERY UNIQUE.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I FOUND THE FILM TO BE GREAT. AND DIFFERENT FROM OTHER ROMANTIC STORIES. PUAL RUDD ACTED EXCEPTIONALLY WELL, POTRAYING WHAT HE DID. JENNIFER ANISTON AND TIM DALY WERE ALSO GOOD. I HOPE A BRIGHT FUTURE FOR ALL OF THEM.  "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  THIS IS A BRILLIANT MOVIE.I STRONGLY RECOMMEND IT TO GAY PEOPLE WHO STILL DON'T COME OUT.PAUL RUDD'S ACTING IS EXCELLENT AND GIVE POSITIVE IMAGE OF HOMO.     "},{"Title":"Beautiful Movie","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie, its just such a good film to watch when your bored, i mean sure there's no deep meanings but its no run of the mill romantic comedy. And, ever since i watched this movie, i can't sit through Will and Grace anymore without feeling that maybe they just ripped the idea off of this.Only fault i would say is the cheesy song at the end when the camera pans across the family when Sidney goes 'Go Molly' or something, yeah i just hate that, kinda ruins it for me, but i guess the director couldn't resist, hey i forgive him.Basically great film to watch whenever, though ITV show it like literally every other week. "},{"Title":"The movie was just great and very moving. Paul Rudd did very well.","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found the movie to be very sensitive and touching.  The scene where Paul Rudd and Jennifer Aniston almost slept together was the best scene. Paul Rudd and Jennifer Aniston acted very well. Even straight people like me liked the story about a gay man and a straight woman, who loves him. I think that the movie was good and should be rented, despite what the critics have said. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I ever saw","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow. I love this movie. The acting, the story, I just couldn't help myself to see this movie more than 10 times. I don't care what anyone said about this movie, it was a worthwhile terrific film. If you ever get a chance to catch this movie at the movie rental place, please go for it. Hopefully you'll love it just like me. o) "},{"Title":"Aniston and Rudd hit all the right spots","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I caught this on TV last night, and in the absence of anything else on, I decided to give it a go. A pregnant New York social worker (Jennifer Aniston) begins to develop romantic feelings for her gay best friend (Paul Rudd), and decides she'd rather raise her child with him, much to the dismay of her overbearing boyfriend Vince.Even though Aniston is on the other side of 40 these days, she remains one of the most sizzling actresses on the planet. Back in her prime, she was the best eye candy of the era. From her beautiful face to her womanly curves to her cute personality, she was (and still is) the perfect package. But her movie career his been hit and miss at best. For every We're The Millers there is a The Switch.While she has given us glimpses of her greatness in many different flicks, such as The Good Girl they are not shown often enough, and this is another one of her good acting roles.All the lead characters seem nice people to hang out with, though Vince (John Pankow) would be annoying to spend too much time with. Alan Alda is enjoyable and deserves special motion. Aniston and Rudd make an endearing romantic pairing and have decent chemistry, they would re team for Wonderlust a few years later. Look of for a young Hayden Panettiere and Sarah Hyland in early roles "}{"Title":"Unexpected Allicances","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have not seen too many truly great romance movies. The Object of My Affection is one of the best. The complexity of emotions involved was mastered brilliantly and smoothly by both Aniston and Rudd. This is especially true as Nina begins falling in love with George and George is torn in the midst of powerful, conflicting impulses. The confusion and exasperation of Aniston's sometime-boyfriend is well-acted, too. What could easily have been a clumsy and tawdry movie is instead a lively, genuine, informative and inspiring classic that teaches us all many lessons about life. The acting, direction, production and screen writing are all exemplary. "},{"Title":"Light comedy that doesn't disappoint","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Thought the story is light, it delivers entertainment and a good time. The casting is very spontaneous, the actors weren't that known back there but were good enough to act decently. The story is quite original, I have never seen other movie where the girl falls in love with a gay man. The plot would be better if these kind of people really existed; we know that in real life people are prejudiced, intolerant and fight for anything (specially we, men). In this film, people accept things very easily, men don't dispute women, parents have no problem in the daughter living with a homossexual and biological father has no problem with the new dad. Those things create lots of fray in real life.So that's it; an original comedy not much funny, but satisfying enough to don't disappoint the viewer. "},{"Title":"One of the better romance/drama/comedies out there..","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably tells much about this film, when I say I have only seen a couple of better romantic comedies. The characters are portrayed excellently, the plot is great, everything works. The one thing that didn't work for me was the ending.As said earlier, the characters are great, and every one of the actors do a good job portraying their own; Jennifer Aniston pulls out one of her best performances, if not even the best. When ever I have seen Paul Rudd, he has pulled out a good effort, as is now. The side characters are interesting, yet aren't shown too much. This, along the fact that it makes you laugh at least a few times, has a couple of magnificent scenes, and so on, make it very worth a while experience, a memorable two hours or so to spend on a movie. I'd encourage everyone, everyone to give it a shot.8.1/10 "},{"Title":"Is this the right one?","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" That is the question that Nina have when she falls in love of a gay kindergarten teacher, George. If this is not a kind of romantic that you usually used to hear in an almost XXI century, now is so much different. In the same year comes Will & Grace and then The Next Best Thing. Now, the relationship between gay man and straight woman is yet a typical formula of romantic Hollywood comedies (I guess that not always this characters live together, but always the lead female character has a gay friend, and a gay has to best friend to a single woman). If The Object of my Affection don't start it all, is (In movies, because Will & Grace is a great and very funny T.V show) the best of all films of this kind of plot - or better the best that i have seen-.In our lives, always we find special people that full us. That makes us feel so different, in a good -very good- way. But, in spite, this person is not always the suitable one. And, in spite that we know that, we suffer of this person. The Object of my Affection is the portrait of this kind of uncontrollable suffer by the heart of human beens, show it to us by the story of Nina, who met George, who broke up with his boyfriend. Nina, who see how sad is George for some of the problems that this broke up begins, decides to offer him to stay with her until he be stabilized. Nina lives with other man. She is pregnant of him. After a while, Nina begins a strong relationship with George. The Nina begins to fall in loved of him... Wow, what problem going to begin! The Object of my Affection is a drama that, when you watch at the beginning like another romantic comedy which is all the opposite. The Object of my Affection is a tender drama that analyzed a hard topic, but that is inevitable in our lives Love. The movie counts with great performances too Jennifer Aniston (Shines like ever as Nina), Paul Rudd as George, Timothy Daly, Amo Gulinello, Alan Alda and Allison Janney.Of course that are a lot of movies about unrequited love (Look for one the best movies of this topic My Own Private Idaho) but the bitter way, dressed of colorful, of The Object of my Affection is unique. The story is not a chick flick although that much thinks that. This movie is a contemporaneous drama which is fill of an optimistic voice, since the begin to the end. The Object of my Affection is great movie that keeps in mind of much - or only me, if is the case-, and marks the thing that Will & Grace makes with so greatness and that The Next Best Thing ruins.*Sorry for the mistakes... well, if there any. "},{"Title":"A Different Tale of Non-Traditional Love","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In order for me to get properly engaged in a movie, I have to relate to most of the major players. As such, I tend to shy away from gay-themed movies, because I just can't relate to the characters and their situations. This movie is different.I found all of the characters to be extremely well-written. There was a lot of depth-of-character in all of the parts, both major and minor ones. This movie stayed away from clichés and took a fresh look at the complexities of love and the expectations that we have about our relationships. Perhaps the best compliment is that I had no idea how this movie was going to end. That's rare in modern romance movies.The acting was exceptional as well. Paul Rudd seems to be taking shallow roles in shallow comedies like Ron Burgundy lately, but it's clear from this that he can engage in serious acting. I wasn't terribly impressed with Jennifer Anniston's acting in Friends, but it's clear from this film - and subsequent work - that she is capable of acting with considerable depth.I was quite surprised at the relatively low rating from the IMDb crowd. It is quite possible that is was marketed wrong. I watched this on HBO and it was billed as a romantic comedy. No way. This is a very dramatic movie, with some deeply sad and heartfelt moments.I recommend this movie very highly if you are interested in character-centered, movies with complex, expressive emotions. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a small movie but quirky, endearing, and with a very strong moral about how things can get worked out in unconventional but satisfying ways. Jennifer Anniston was delightful and very believable as the beleaguered Nina. Paul Rudd was adorable, if a tad less convincing. And Rodney, who delivered the line that provided the film's title, was deliciously subtle and heartbreaking.Allison Janney was a stitch as Constance and I really enjoyed the interaction between her and Alda. Most of all, I loved the expression, head up, young person and use it frequently. It was certainly a major part of the plot and the film's point. When life hands you lemons...Every film has some unique little theme and this one was a delight, as was Madam's color-coordinated eye patch. This and much else in the film indicated some very subtle as well as slapstick humor and very good writing, which is absent in far too many films. If you look at this film as beyond another pleasant chick flick I think you'll find it. "},{"Title":"A girl and a guy live together, but the guy is gay and the girl is in love with him.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie had laughs, tears, and silences and thats what i love in movies. I'm only 14, but i study the word love, and this movie is made out of it. love is different within the whole movie. they could be a love/hate relationship, a just friends relationship, or a love relationship, where you start loving each other and never stop. this movie just says a lot of how love works in mysterious ways, and how it always has its flaws. whether the man is gay or straight, he means so much to her. and sometimes, its hard to know that. having something you cant have. but really, it has more than a girl wanting something she can't have, its that she tries to get it, and just didn't accept it right away, she tried. thats love. "},{"Title":"There is something about this film...","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really like this film... there is something about it that makes me want to watch it over and over again. I think Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd bonded really well and their chemistry was fantastic... A great film that I seem to be totally addicted to!! "},{"Title":"Loving a Gay Guy","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cried during this film and that usual means I enjoyed it!! I like Paul Rudd ever since seeing him in Clueless and I think he brought a sensitive side to George and also the fact that even though a man is gay the need to be a father is still there as it is in many childless women. I have seen Jennifer Aniston in quite a few things but she has never been more unRachel-like in my opinion than in this film, in other words she was amazing as Nina who falls in love with a man who is caring, warm, sensitive and wants to be a father, but who is gay. Nigel Hawthorn steals the film when he is with Nina in her kitchen on Thanksgiving. It was predictable a few times and until Nina had her baby I wanted her and George to be together but at the end it was perfect!! "},{"Title":"Unusual romantic comedy/drama","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  I thought it would be your usual predictable romantic comedy with a set formula, but it was surprisingly different.  Jennifer Aniston played a different character than what we are used to seeing, which made it a better film.  Paul Rudd was fantastic as the gay room mate, putting himself in all too believable situations.  It probably goes on for a bit too long, at nearly two hours, but in a way thats needed for the plot to fully develop, and make some sense by the time the film winds up.  If you are in the mood for something different, then this may be a film to consider watching. "}{"Title":"Flawed exploration of friendship, love, and romance","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When this film came out, it was touted as a positive portrayal of the gay community. After seeing the film, I can only say that such a description is a little overly optimistic, as Hollywood still had much to learn about gay male sexuality in 1998.The film centers on George Hanson (Paul Rudd), a first grade teacher who lives with his pretentious partner, Dr. Robert Joley (Timothy Daly). The film opens with George arriving late to a dinner party given by Dr. Joley's friends Constance (Allison Janney) and Sidney Miller (Alan Alda), an equally pretentious couple whose main claim to fame seems to be name dropping. Finding little in common with the other guests, George is relieved to find a kindred spirit in Constance's sister, Nina Borowski (Jennifer Aniston), who, to his delight, turns out to be his dinner partner. Delight soon turns to horror when Nina, assuming that George already knows, spills the beans that Dr. Joley is about to dump George. She does this by offering George the spare bedroom in her apartment since he will need a new place to live. When George confronts Dr. Joley and finds that this is true, he takes Nina up on her offer, as he has no place else to go. They become good friends, and enroll in a ballroom dancing class together, something Nina's boyfriend Vince (John Pankow) refuses to do. When Nina finds out that she is pregnant, she realizes that while she wants to keep the baby, she doesn't want to marry Vince. George, however, would be the perfect father. She broaches the subject with George who agrees to help her raise the baby. However, she begins to read more into his willingness to help than he means, which causes a number of complications as George moves on with his life. When George finds romance with Paul James (Amo Gulinello), who is on his way out of his relationship with Rodney Fraser (Nigel Hawthorne), Nina's jealousy threatens to destroy her friendship with George. Will she be able to reconcile the obvious disparity in their relationship? Or will they go their separate ways? It's an interesting premise, as the lines between friendship and love often do blur, even when we know we can't have someone we want. And their is much that is done well in this tale. George and Nina are both portrayed as people who we would want as friends, and their friendship with each other is a joy to watch. George's sexuality is treated in a matter of fact, and ultimately quite positive, way, and he actually does get the guy in the end. Unfortunately, while Nina's infatuation with George is perfectly believable, her stubborn insistence in pursuing him is not. She knew from the outset that he was gay. She shouldn't be surprised that he is going to try to find another man to get involved with. Yet she treats this as though it were betrayal. This makes her initial acceptance of George's sexuality disingenuous. And again, while she should know better than to try to seduce George, it's not outside the realm of possibility that she would do so. His going along with it, even for the brief time he does, is totally out of character. And it stops because a phone call interrupts it, not because he puts a stop to it. The message of this scene seemed to be that any gay man can be had by any straight woman who comes on to him. This is unforgivably weak writing, and ultimately, it was a scene that I found totally offensive. Still, for the most part, the movie is a big step forward for portrayals of gay characters on the silver screen.The acting was quite good. Rudd and Aniston play their roles with considerable charm, and you can't help liking the characters they create. Daly's smug portrayal of Joley is perfect. Pankow's confusion and anger are quite believable. Janney and Alda are wonderfully irritating. Gulinello's young gay man is nicely done. Perhaps best is Hawthorne's portrayal of the aging gay man who loses his younger partner to a younger man. He accepts his fate with grace and nobility, not an easy task, but Hawthorne pulls it off beautifully, leaving you feeling sorry for him even while you root for his lover and George to get together.There is much to commend about this charming film, and if you can overlook the inconsistencies of the writing, it can be quite enjoyable. Unfortunately, it's those consistencies which point out just how far the movie industry has to go in accurately portraying gay men in the movies. "},{"Title":"Sweet-natured comedy drama with a 90s twist","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" THE OBJECT OF MY AFFECTION Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalThis is the kind of moonshine Hollywood has been spinning since its inception, but with a newfangled frankness. Jennifer Aniston, fresh from her success on TV, plays a pregnant social worker who rejects her overbearing boyfriend in favor of her gay roommate (Paul Rudd), with whom she subsequently falls in love. Complications - as they say - ensue. Warm-hearted, funny, and only slightly sentimental, Object is assembled competently enough by noted theatre director Nicholas Hytner and played to perfection by an attractive cast of newcomers and veterans alike. You could argue that the ending is a little too pat and predictable, or that the plot's dark underpinnings have been sacrificed in favor of a feel-good resolution, but who cares? A light-hearted comedy with dramatic asides, done to a turn. "},{"Title":"A very touching story","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Object of my affection is truly a very moving and emotional movie that is a great time to watch. It really showcases Jennifer Aniston's great range, going from Rachel in friends to Nina in this film, she really handles the dramatic scenes very well, and so does Paul Rudd. Paul and Jennifer have really awesome chemistry on screen together too, they work so well. And Allison Janney and Alan Alda were both good and they acted well. The Characters and the script all mesh and work together so well in this movie, it's really very impressive! I absolutely loved the friendship and relationship between Nina and George here, it was so sweet and unique, and ya know they really treated gay people very well in this film, they didn't stereotype or anything, they represented them with healthy living relationships, like they are in reality, so that was great too. All around this is a very well made and smart movie! 8/10. "},{"Title":"A real feel-good film","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think that this is the type of film to be over-critical about.  It is a good film with a nice story and some excellent acting by Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd, who were well supported by the minor characters.  Overall, I believe that this movie is definitely worth seeing for the warm fuzzy feeling you will get at the end.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know exactly what it is about this movie, but I love it, and am absolutely addicted to it.  Although I have never had a relationship like that of Nina (Jennifer Aniston) and George (Paul Rudd), I find myself relating completely to the characters, and am moved by the wedding scene every time.Jennifer Aniston is one of my favorite actresses, and does an excellent job in this movie.  She has an amazing amount of poise and confidence on screen, and is able to portray so many emotions with just her eyes.  Paul Rudd is equally genuine, making them a perfect match.  What results is a moving account of the relationship between a gay man and a straight woman, who just happens to be in love with him.As a romantic comedy, it does better than most, forcing the viewer to think about different kinds of relationships, as well as breaking the played out formula of every other romantic comedy. Aside from a few cheesy, unoriginal lines (I never want to lay eyes on you again! and I'll talk to you about poetry) Wendy Wasserstein's script is both moving and funny, and really hits the spot.My one issue with the movie, even after seeing it over and over again is the casting of John Pankow (TV's Mad About You) as Vince, Nina's boyfriend and father of her child.  He is so annoying and unappealing, it makes you wonder why she was ever with him or attracted to him in the first place.Despite its few (very few) faults, The Object of my Affection remains one of my favorite movies.  Jennifer Aniston captivates me on the screen, and I just cannot stop watching this movie. "},{"Title":"gives great image of homosexuality, pshaa, yea right","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i would just like to say that i did NOT enjoy this movie at all. Sure, there were some scenes here and there, but the ending, ugh, gag me, please? Paul Rudd gave an excellent performance as a nice sensitive gay man who ends up in between a rock, a hard place, and jennifer aniston's puppy whimpering. The scenes that involved gay men were trite, unrealistic, and portrayed gay men as promiscuous. It engorged me with rage to see this, realize this, and ultimately hate the otherwise great premise of a movie. I thought that Paul Rudd was cute, but not who i would pick for the leading gay role. He tried too hard to act gay that his acting was hard and rough and edgy. All in all, it left a bad taste in my mouth. I don't recommend it to anyone at all.  "},{"Title":"Dealing honestly with the need for intimacy","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unabashedly crowd-pleasing (notwithstanding a bittersweet conclusion), this movie shows us definitively that Jennifer Aniston is more than just a haircut.  Aniston demonstrates a deft comic timing that underscores her sincerity as well as her vulnerability.  Like Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss, this film deals honestly with the need for physical and emotional intimacy in relationships.  Interestingly, it manages to show us something of each major character's emotional complexity without short-changing any. For a scene of exquisite, almost painful tenderness, one between Paul Rudd and Amo Gulinello (You can read poetry to me any time) stands unequaled. Another scene between Aniston and Rudd is, to almost universal surprise, almost unbearably erotic.  It might not turn off even your sister's straight boyfriend. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea. J-Aniston, the only bright point of the movie.","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" POSITIVESI do like the vibe of the romantic-comedic movies, because they are light and happy movies. And this movie has such qualities. J-Aniston is very good and beautiful in this movie. NEGATIVES This movie is unnecessarily vulgar. It is also not very intriguing. And it is also, kinda bland. Paul Rudd is not very charismatic here. I'm thinking he is not a lead role kinda actor. Another thing is, I didn't know this movie was about gay people, so it kinda caught me off guard. I'm not very comfortable watching relationships and flirting and touching of gay nature. Man to man. And this movie had some such moments.The plot of this movie is so - so. Too many gay twists and improbable turnarounds. Despite it all, it is somehow slightly watchable and enjoyable.So, in conclusion not exactly my cup of tea. And even from a more objective perspective this movie is mediocre at best.*************SPOILER ALERT***************At least they stayed true to the story and finished the movie with Rudd actually straight up rejecting Aniston! So, he is still gay and stays gay. And she ends up getting together with a nice black man. Real rating 6.4MY RATING SYSTEM9.4 - 10 = rating 10 ***** 8.6 - 9.3 = rating 9 ***** 7.8 - 8.5 = rating 8 ***** 7.1 - 7.7 = rating 76.1 - 7.0 = 6 5.1 - 6.0 = 5 4.1 - 5.0 = 4 3.1 - 4.0 = 3 2.1 - 3.0 = 2 1.0 - 2.0 = 1 "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but good enough...","Date":"12 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know this doesn't exactly sound like a rave review, my emotions regarding this film are kinda complex. The film certainly has its flaws, and while it hasn't aged as well as one might hope, the emotion behind the film is so genuine. It may be my own experiences, but I feel that this film has something to offer more than the obvious female and gay male audience. Jennifer Aniston is very likable as Nina, which is saying quite a bit for me because I tend to not go nuts over her. There are traces of her standard Rachel character, but she proves herself much more capable in this role. Paul Rudd does a great job as George, basing his character more on genuine human emotion than gay stereotypes. The emotional dynamic between these two is the central focus of the film and is written extremely well. All in all, this film definitely has its flaws, but its genuine emotional core make it worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Yay Aniston!","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Aniston does well in this, one of the few film jobs she has secured since finding fame in the hit-US sitcom Friends that allows her to move away from the stereotype of her character Rachel. I like Aniston as an actress; she is natural, sensitive and has a comic flare but to make it really big on the big screen and go further with her career she must get out of those fluffy Hollywood romantic comedies that she seems to get frequently cast it.She wisely accepted the role of Nina, a social worker in a deeply- troubled relationship who becomes best friends with her new flatmate, a recently dumped gay man. Emotional turmoil ensues, however, when she falls pregnant by her controlling boyfriend and falls in love with this gay man.Though the script takes itself a little too seriously at times and is riddled with typical US sentimentalism, it is a sensitive and very human piece where Aniston, who admitted to being stretched as an actress on this film, does a good job, demonstrating range.As far as I am aware, this film was not a box-office smash but it is enjoyable and did go down well with the critics. Aniston needs to do more films like this and more people need to be prepared to watch them. She's good. "}{"Title":"Sweeeet Movie!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well I thought it was really sweet and I'm slightly biased because I love Paul Rudd, but honestly it was the perfect movie to watch before going to bed. I felt like I had ate a pound of sugar without the tooth decay. Well yeah, it was just very cute and quite adorable (and just a touch of sad) The whole way through it I wanted Nina and George to be together but then I also wanted Nina to go off with the policeman and George to be with his man and they'd both have separate love lives but then I wanted them to live together forever and just be friends and so on...until my head exploded from the overdose of sweetness...but it was a good ending D "},{"Title":"Interesting changes from the book.  Janney steals the show.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fun little movie!  Before I saw this film, I had never heard of or seen Allison Janney.  I became, like many others I'm sure, an instant fan.  I think she plays Nina's cousin in this, and her sometimes wise/sometimes wacky advice to Nina (Jennifer Anniston) is the comic highlight of the movie, along with her scenes with Alan Alda.  Anniston's more subtly comedic performance drives the film.  The story in the book was told from George's (Paul Rudd's) perspective, here it is told from Nina's.  Nina's attraction to George come on gradually, but this is more a film about two people whose lives are both messes coming together and form a solid bond, a surrogate family, if you will (not unlike on Friends--hmmm).  Another good thing this film adds, that wasn't in the book, is a wise father figure played superbly the late Nigel Hawthorne--a pleasure to watch.  They don't shy away from portraying the chemistry between Paul and his love interest, who is also much younger than in the book--another interesting dynamic, having George switch from the role in his previous relationship.  The epilogue that wraps it all up for these characters is great.My only (minor) quibble with Paul Rudd's performance is that he does not convey George's wry sense of humor so much, he's merely charming, otherwise he makes a fine leading man.  Good thing, too, because APPARENTLY THERE IS A SHORTAGE OF ACTORS WHO ARE ACTUALLY GAY!!!!!!  That's why these heteros have to keep snapping up the roles.  Pity.  Maybe the Screen Actors Guild can have a gay membership drive, hmm? "},{"Title":"* out of ****","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never knew that a movie like this could get made.  It's absolutely pointless.  It carries on for what feels like an eternity without following a basic structure.  There's virtually no plot and the characters are shallow and selfish.  It almost seems like real life instead of a movie; New characters are introduced, stuff happens, but there's no result to go along with the movie.  It was virtually in limbo.  This is a movie collage. Stuff's thrown in and they don't clash.  What a MESS. "},{"Title":"No accounting for tastes","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Its very interesting to read another's comments on this site.  I agree with 'Willzo' below for most of the thoughts shared but with one glaring difference.  I loved the end of the movie and cried quite a bit, especially when I saw the cop had re-entered the story.  I was immediately interested in his character and sorry he was seen only briefly.  It did not strike me that it was a sugercoated happy ending; it was the only part of the movie that moved me at all.   "},{"Title":"A perfect blend of comedy and romance","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Living in a small rural town it was a treat to see a movie about such a subject as a person's sexuality.  We don't get to experience a lot of that around here, so anyone can understand my feelings.  The movie was very well acted and fun.  I think that if a lot of closed-minded people could watch it, they'd be able to let go of some of their prejudice to see that being heterosexual doesn't mean being straight "},{"Title":"I stayed up for this? ....Do'h","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just another Rachel character for me and I never did like her. I found there was no depth or sense of reality in the whole set up between Nina and George. The man's gay ~ get over it. Nina's character really irritated me, because this was all about her notions of an ideal relationship. (yep, so you pick a gay man, really!). The whole thing was unrealistic from start to beginning. She finds herself pregnant, and decides the ideal situation would be to raise it with a gay man. I felt she passively aggressively railroad George into 'setting up home' with her. Who was she trying to kid, certainly not me. Do you really have to complete ten lines, to get your views across ~ am I the only one who finds it difficult to say anymore about this film than what I've said already.OK rant over. "},{"Title":"This Object Gained Little Affection From Moi.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Object of My Affection (1998) Dir Nicholas Hytner / Cast Jennifer Aniston, Paul Rudd, Alan Alda, Allison Janney, Tim Daly Dreary romantic comedy offering insight on relationships between people who cannot love each other in the manner they expect. It really regards the inner person we truly love about individuals whom we know well. Jennifer Aniston is pregnant and asks her live in friend to help her raise the baby. He puts together plays for children, to take his mind off a recently bad relationship. Directed with insight by Nicholas Hytner who previously made The Madness of King George. Here he demonstrates the gap between two people who could be romantically compatible had it not been for the fact that their sexual preferences prevent it. That in itself sounds fine except that it is thrown into a pathetic formula driven screenplay that reduces it all to a by-the-numbers fiasco. Paul Rudd is believable as Aniston's homosexual friend who offers support. Aniston struggles with affection that cannot be returned. This cannot end in union as hinted throughout the screenplay. In flat supporting roles are Alan Alda and Allison Janney who can certainly do better with broader material. Interesting setup with relationships reduced to predictable formula. Theme of acceptance and love is given an interesting viewpoint but the film is more dull than funny. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Stupid, boring and absurd.","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nina played by Jennifer Aniston invites a gay man (George) into her house to be her room mate, first sign her relationship with her bf (Vince) is going south is she doesn't invite him to move in.Nina soon falls pregnant and then decides to move in with Vince. However Nina gets frustrated when Vince makes some comments about trophys given in schools. I found the reaction or the script was just unbelievable. The character Nina is so shallow that she can not have a difference of opinion or respect other peoples opinions that she needs to react in a way as if Vince was abusing her.Nina then falls in love with George. The concept of a straight women falling in love with a gay man, the absurdity that she believes a relationship should work. Sure, some woman might be able to relate, but others with brain cells know and understand the stupidity of the concept.The film is a complete fantasy with little to none humour. I don't recall actually laughing once.Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Simplistic but entertaining","Date":"11 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gay Robert Joeley (Tim Daley) more or less throws boyfriend George (Paul Rudd) out of the house. George moves in with str8 Nina (Jennifer Aniston). They get along great until Nina gets pregnant from boyfriend Vince (John Pankow). However she doesn't want to live with Vince--she wants George to live with her and bring up the baby. He initially agrees--but then Nina gets jealous if he tries to have a boyfriend!I saw this back in 1998 and had no idea if I liked it or not. Seeing it again I now know why--this is entertaining but simplistic and dumbed down. I'm no fan of the original novel but it was a lot grittier and concentrated more on George than the movie. But--Aniston was more well known than Rudd so this movie is now all about her and totally ignores any of the more interesting aspects of the novel and makes the characters more accessible. This is the kind of movie where a teacher and a social worker can easily afford a HUGE beautiful apartment in Brooklyn. Also it's suggested (in a truly horrendous scene) that Rudd COULD switch from guys to her. Speaking as a gay man I can tell you--it doesn't happen. You don't just switch back and forth. Still--for 1998--that's probably as far as a studio would go. Also a kiss between Rudd and another man was cut out so it wouldn't offend str8 audiences! (Although him and Amo Gulinello have a few cute little kisses). Still, if you can ignore that, it's OK.It has a good cast and acting helps. Aniston is very good in her role. Rudd is totally miscast as a gay man (I never believed him for one second) but he's not bad. Nigel Hawthorne and Gulinello are excellent as a gay couple. Daley is interesting (and hot) as George's ex. Alison Janney is just hysterical as Ansiton's sister. And it was fun to see Stephen Macht (The Spirit himself) in a bit as an ex of George! The movie looks good and has a nice music score too. So it's not even close to treating its subject seriously but it works as fluff. I give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Tugs the Heart","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so sweet & poignant that I'm not ashame to say I cry, and I cry every time I see it. The chemistry between aniston & Rudd is unreal.This is an old time movie that is just well written & acted and free from hype & frill like the way movies use to be made.I can't say enough about Jennifer's performance; her range is unbelievable from sweet & caring to intense angry to being vulnerable & hurt, and she does it all with great conviction. She is also extremely gorgeous; the next Olivea dehavlyn.It is just so touching, specially the dance scenes.A good, no great old fashion movie, that teaches us about life and life choices that sometimes we painfully have to make.A moving experience. "}{"Title":"like a nice winter fire","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is tragi-comic movie about selfish people who get themselves hopelessly entangled in a giant web of romantic relationships. They scream and struggle and, bit by bit, grow up and learn to care for others and ensure life works out for everyone.Most of the characters are gay, but they are not your usual gay stereotypes. The lead gay character, Paul Rudd, plays a handsome, but rather phegmatic homebody.The relationship between the leads, one gay man Paul Rudd and one straight woman Jennifer Aniston, don't go for the silly Hollywood stereotype that one night in the sack is all it takes for a gay guy to turn straight.Nigel Hawthorne does a brilliant job of portraying the sadness and loneliness of an older man who must learn to tolerate his pretty young gay protégé having sex with another.Allison Janney is a treat as the name-dropping bossy stepmother, reminding me a bit of classic Eve Arden.Even though the plot is preposterous, (basically every new character that appears on screen you know within minutes will be romantically involved with someone) and several of the peripheral characters are painted in one-dimension strictly for laughs, emotionally, this is very true-to-life movie. It captures accurately the love-hate, push-pull, exaltation-despair of getting involved.I got such a warm rush from the ending, so neat, comfortable and kind all round. Something for everyone. "},{"Title":"Dance All the Way Home","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Object of My Affection contains such light comedy potential, that it's a shame it doesn't come off more successfully.What's with all that ballroom dancing? What appears a casual remark about the leads taking up dancing is carried to a overblown extreme.Minutes go by with the two engaged in tripping the light fantastic, but to what end? The writer director must really have had a thing about Gene Kelly type routines, which here seems way overdone.Otherwise, the script's perky and the cast is quite strong. There was a delightful breeziness to the film, with most appealing situations. Just, enough with the dancing, already! "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've ever seen, it made me laugh and cry at the same minute! In my opinion, a good movie is the one that makes you feel what the characters are feeling. Jennifer Aniston is a great actress, I'm a big fan of hers, and she played the role of Nina Borowski superbly. During the whole movie I felt exactly as she did, and for me the good actors make you feel that way. Paul Rudd is also a good actor, but I just didn't feel like him in every moment. I think the role of George Hanson didn't fit him well. To sum up, the movie is great, I truly recommend it, but I shall give you a piece of advice If you're gonna watch it and you're pretty emotional (as I am) you'd better take many handkerchiefs with you. "},{"Title":"Fairly enjoyable.","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The Object of My Affection' is a simple, sweet little movie. Nothing too great but I'll still watch it because I found the actors worked well together and separately.The effort and creativity put into this film isn't anything fantastic. The casting was done partially well. Jennifer Aniston was totally wrong for the part, but she still let her acting talents play out the character in a fairly decent way. The part of Nina Borowski, a pregnant woman who is struggling through her pregnancy with her gay roommate, doesn't seem like it should have been played by Aniston. I don't think that she could pull the pregnancy role off. Two thumbs up for the character, George Hanson, played by Paul Rudd. I thought that Rudd did a terrific job while working with Aniston. Although it wasn't entirely believable that he portrayed a gay man, his performance was still pleasing. The main reason I enjoyed this film was because the duo of the main characters worked very well together.The plot...eh. It wasn't entirely entertaining but it was good due to the writing. The writing was at times funny, but more dramatic. One thing that was good about it, was that it had a lot of input from the different characters besides Nina and George. I also liked how the film consisted of a generous amount of actors (Janney, Pankow, Alda, Daly).Two problems I had with this film. One, it played out a little too long. Yes, the writing and acting was still good, but it seemed like it would never end. Two, the part where we meet Rodney and Paul seemed to take the movie off track. I thought that these two characters had little effect (except on George) towards the main plot. On the upside, I found it a little weird but nice as to who Nina ends up with. 'The Object of My Affection' should entertain you. Especially if you like simple and sweet movies.   "},{"Title":"Sweetly entertaining film about real people.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ads for this movie made it seem slapstick and rather pathetic (a woman in love with a gay man? SHEESH!). I only rented it when I found out the screenplay is by Wendy Wasserstein, a terrific playwright (Uncommon Women and Others, The Heidi Chronicles). The script certainly showed its origins, and what could have been a goofy and predictable story was instead very real, nuanced, and funny without being embarrassing.The gay angle is really only an easy way of showing us a complex issue -- as becomes clear when, late in the movie, we learn that a gay man is in love with another gay man who loves him only platonically. Gradually we see that this movie is about figuring out how to live our lives in the presence and absence of love, and especially how we accommodate the difference between friendship and romance.Nina and her gay roommate George have a special and warm friendship. We see it develop with real-life timing and naturalness. She also has a boyfriend, Vinnie, who gets on her nerves. She begins to see that George feels like home and Vinnie does not. Doesn't that matter more than sex? The movie weaves in and out of a bunch of not-too-predictable plot twists before coming to any kind of conclusion.Some of the humor is terrific, although I didn't find it to be laugh-out-loud. George endures the blind date from hell with the Ear Nose & Throat man with whom his brother sets him up (hysterical). Nina endures a step-sister from hell who is disdainful, pretentious and loud (irritating). George and Nina share the landlady from hell (funny but not brilliant).The Object of My Affection has laughs, music, sweetness and a few tears. The characters are people you know, or could know, because they're insecure, loving, opinionated, and angry -- real people with real feelings and flaws. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good due to cast and screenplay","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watched this because the screenplay was written by Wendy Wasserstein, who just died at age 55. You could tell what a great playwright she was.The predictable story is so well acted by Aniston and Rudd and the supporting cast really brings it all together. I liked the fact that it is quite pro-gay and anti-straight male -- something you rarely see from Hollywood.It was nice to see them use openly gay Nigel Hawthorne, a famed British actor in a pivitol role. Hawthorne's advise to Aniston really provides the main message of the film. "},{"Title":"Homophobia On The Cute","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, Joy, joy......another film about a gay man who only needs the right woman to convert him. The scene in which Aniston's character SUCCEEDS in seducing Rudd's character is purposely geared to have the audience saying See, I KNEW he didn't REALLY want to be gay. Now he'll be cured and they can live happily ever after!. The only thing that stops them actually having sex is A PHONE CALL! He doesn't stop it...it has to be a freaking phone call! What an epic cop-out! I'm sorry to burst your hetero female fantasy bubble, Ms. Wasserstein, but men who are actually gay DON'T.....even deep down....want to have sex with women....even if they're Jennifer Anniston. All the gay relationships in the film are depicted as horrible, shallow messes which further serves to egg the audience on in hoping that Rudd's character will be converted by Anniston's because he'd be so much happier with her if he could only see. That makes me so angry I could vomit! It makes no difference that he ends up with a guy at the end. The point of the script is that he COULD have been converted. This is homophobia, pure and simple and no less sickening than that to be found in a Klan meeting or a Baptist church. I....HATE....THIS....MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Promises edgy but turns into bland sitcom","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nina Borowski (Jennifer Aniston) counsels at risk girls. George Hanson (Paul Rudd) teaches little kids. His boyfriend Dr. Robert Joley (Tim Daly) dumps him and he moves in with Nina. They would make for the perfect couple if he isn't gay. Nina has an overbearing boyfriend Vince McBride (John Pankow). Everybody continually keeps trying to fix them up with people despite their resistance. When Nina gets pregnant, Vince gets on her nerves, and they break up.There is some edgy possibilities here. The problem is that it's handled like a sitcom. Paul Rudd is gay but he's barely allowed to kiss a guy for most of the movie. He does some naked spooning late in the movie but it's not anything more than PG-13. Apparently, the movie gets R for just talking about it so why be so tame? It's trying to be a subversive rom-com. The only thing subversed is this movie. This might as well be a straight up rom-com with the meek silently-pining best friend. That would be better. At least, it doesn't promise to be more than a bland conventional rom-com. Quite frankly, the movie plays it that way most of the time. Aniston and Rudd have good possible straight chemistry. Maybe he should have said bi because he doesn't really sell gay. "},{"Title":"Worst movie in the History of my Sunday mornings","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately, spending writing a 1,000 critic about this film is as time wasting as this movie was. This is Sunday morning time I will never get back. The storyline is not credible. The characters are not credible. The relationship between the characters are not credible. And the screenwriter uses the same level of language and expressions for all the characters. This is not deep research and development of characters and storyline. The acting was OK but not outstanding. The end was expectable. The movie all in all was extremely boring. Do yourself a favor and take this one off your list and never look back. You will thank me later. "},{"Title":"The Incentive for My Hesitation","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My guilty-pleasure enjoyment of Hollywood romantic comedies is just one of the things that ostracizes me from the rest of the populace. Because I know the type of person who quietly watches something like a Sandra Bullock movie and thinks about tying Denis Leary up so we can fully iron out the terms of our rocky relationship (if it wasn't rocky, it wouldn't be a comedy now would it?), and demanding security in his commitment before I continue with the wining and dining process, is not typically the same type of person who enjoys watching horror films for the love of art. That's me, flaws and all. I am a freak full of vigor, but darn it- I want total control. That's why this kind of movie makes me all noodle-like. I'm too wishy-washy (like that pioneer of discontent, Charlie Brown before me) to tell the world that this is not the way things should be. The lives Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd lead in this movie are the result of not having the guts to tell other people what they want. They still get what they want, which is the product of the Happy Ending disease of Hollywood cinema. But do I really have to sit and watch them talk and talk, without just coming out and saying this is what I want? I hope that's not too cryptic.Anyway, the answer to that question is yes. I have to sit and watch this talky movie. Not because it's a Hollywood film from a fairly homophobic studio about a gay man and his quest to become a father... with a woman having a straight man's baby. But because all the good-looking men in this movie are idiots. Except the young guy, Paul - played by the dreamy and very talented Amo Gulinello (who has since been completely buried in the cast list under a mountain of bit part players just because years later they did high-profile movies and shows). I have a theory about really good-looking men. I find almost all of them under the age of 25 only get attention for being very good looking, and then later can only combat becoming a complete moron if they are raised by really intelligent but also easy-going and honest parents. Not honest in the eyes of the world. Because, who cares what everyone else thinks? But honest in that they don't lie to or hold potentially vital information from their children.Jennifer Aniston's Nina is so flawed, her drama in the movie is barely worth discussing. Let me just say though that, while I'm sure every romantic comedy fan in the audience will shout you can do so much better than Vince!, meaning the character (not actor Vince Vaughn), I found John Pankow absolutely irresistible in the film. And that the type of guy he was playing was not given a fair chance to prove his sensitivity in the first 50 or so minutes of the movie. And why is that? Because Aniston could never tell him what she wanted. You may feel the urge to bring up the scene where she tells him that is his fault. But, I think it's her fault. I don't usually blame the woman, but in this movie I'm blaming George and Nina as a couple for the problems they encountered. Because together, they had the perfect excuse to never be honest. It would hurt the other's feelings. I'll bet that was the reason.Anyway, when watching would-be serious movies, I like to pick a character to identify with. In this movie, I wanted to be George. Not because I have ever cried thinking why can't I be a father (thank God for that). But because I haven't had any luck in love and could easily see the attraction to a guy like Tim Daly's character. A pretty obvious manipulator. Other than intense good looks, he wouldn't keep his mouth shut about something even if he thought he'd swallow his shoe if he left it open. He's reliable and predictable. And God, that's what I want in a lover. I like surprises, but they also scare me. Again- I want total control. This kind of movie is not for people like me. But it is enough seeds to be able to make something grow out of it. As a piece of film-making, it's at least better crafted than a huge slew of modern Hollywood romantic movies. As formula, it's quite sloppy at times. But it mistakes its way into, I think, portraying George's new relationship with a younger guy with a sweet wild streak that makes me smile. It's not a movie that will challenge you to think much, but it won't hurt your face by making you frown too much either. "}{"Title":"If you're in a good mood ....","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" don't watch this movie. It'll bring you right down. I watched this movie again after not having seen it for several years and only just realized, there is not a single person in Nina's life who is likable. . . except the old queen and the guy who Nina ends up with off screen (we see him very briefly 2 times and then finally at the very end). George promises never to keep secrets .. and then promptly starts keeping them. Vince has got to be single most unpleasant liberal to be around. A lot of people tell her they love her or care about her yet no one treats her like a person. However, she does seem to have a large extended family around her and Molly will be a very doted on little girl . . . and luckily no one around her seems to age while she gets 5 years older. "},{"Title":"A romantic stroll","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is like a stroll through someones life.... I really enjoyed Jennifer Anistons' representation of her character, She plays a great character and because the film rolls through a few years of the characters lives you can see her character growing and developing. The scene which is depicted on the film poster of Aniston and Rudd dancing is beautiful.This is a shout out to relationships and social situations of the late 90's to the present, and there is no cop out at all, but even despite this you are left with a positive good feeling which feels more real than cop out movies where everything slots into place traditionally.I am not a fan of romantic films but I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Day for New Rules","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In matters of romantic relationships, this '98 film creatively explores contemporary changing mores in interesting ways. Its basic premise is still pertinent and relevant the old rules of previous eras have become less solid, while younger folks relax in their acceptance of and participation in alternative lifesytles.The Object of My Affection plays like a slightly watered down version of I Think I Do, that satirical comedy that investigated similar territory.  Lots of varied coupling off transpires, both platonic and non-platonic, with such relationships taken in stride.Although some characters still feel a need for his/her object of affection to make a singular partner choice and stick exclusively to that decision, others still allow for relaxed flexibility.  Is this a loosening of exclusive commitment a sign of less genuine love being expressed, or merely a condition  of greater social freedom?The gamely cast is talented and indulges itself in this average script with sincerity and feeling.  While all this may one day seem quite passe to our children (and especially our grandchildren) it still creatively traces societal trends of our particular time. "},{"Title":"Very sweet, if not exactly top class film making","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of a group of girlfriends at an overnight rom-com fest, this was our top choice with other contenders being 'Notting Hill', 'You've Got Mail' and 'She's The One'.  It wasn't exactly Oscar-worthy, and the plot line was a little unbelievable, but in all it was wonderfully cliched, with a sweet couple (or not-couple, depending on how you look at it) and was great with a few tubs of melting ice-cream, seven make-up bags, a pair of hair curlers and enough cuddly animals to sink a small ship.   "},{"Title":"A beautiful-but-flawed movie with beautiful-flawed characters","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being a straight woman who once had a similar relationship with a gay man (minus the pregnancy!), I was very moved by how realistic the 2 main characters and their relationship was.  It was like reliving all the joy and pain of my own long-ago relationship all over again!  I've never seen Jennifer Aniston in anything else, not even Friends, but I was very moved by her performance.  You could see all her emotions just by looking in her eyes sometimes.  Paul Rudd was adorable and wonderful and he did a beautiful job of portraying all the mixed feelings George was having.  And I loved Nigel Hawthorne's Rodney character -- I wish I had known someone like him back when I had my own relationship!  I also loved all the scenes between Nina, George, Paul and Rodney (together and in pairs).  The chemistry between all of them was very nice.  I was very relieved that they didn't make George turn straight and live happily ever after with Nina.  They had me worried there for a minute during the scene where they almost slept together.Now for the stuff that bugged me.  What ever did Nina see in her boyfriend, the father of her baby, that made her want to sleep with him?  I found him very obnoxious until after they had been broken up for awhile and saw absolutely no chemistry between them.  Yuck!  After awhile I knew how it was going to end, which means it was a bit predicable at times.  However, that in itself isn't always a bad thing, as long as you enjoy the process of getting there -- which I did!  And as hokey as the ending was, I was in the mood for a good happily ever after kind of movie so it was fine by me. But after thinking about it for awhile, a bittersweet ending might have worked better and would have been more realistic.  The ending they gave it, even though it was cute and funny, seemed rushed and tacked on at the last minute. It was as if someone said Oops, we ran out of time.  Quick! We have 5 minutes to tie up the loose ends before the credits roll.Even with all its flaws it's still a beautiful movie and definitely worth the price it cost us to rent it. "},{"Title":"Interesting topic well dealt with","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why did they all have to be upper class apparently well-off people? None of them seemed to have money problems, which is unrealistic. Otherwise, we liked it very much-very well acted, no stereotypical behavior, funny. "},{"Title":"Interesting and Entertaining","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enjoyed this film.  It  tackles some interesting and relatively complex issues, in particular, the diversity of modern family life, fairly well.I've only seen it once but imagine it would be one of those films that I'd appreciate more with repeated viewings.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent romantic comedy","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I believe it is very rare for a romantic comedy to be intelligent. However, The Object of My Affection certainly is. It is funny and charming and interesting. Even though I think the film does go on for too long I was still very entertained while watching it. The cast is superb Jennifer Aniston (I was pleasantly surprised, after watching Friends I wasn't that impressed), the charming Paul Rudd and the always so brilliant Nigel Hawthorne in a supporting role. But it is not until the end I realized how good this movie is, the ending really surprised me since the writers could've made it so easy for themselves. Okay, granted, the fairy tale ending isn't brilliant, but by choosing to ignore the ending that I -- and probably many others -- expected the result is so much better than other romantic comedies. It really surprised me that I liked this movie so much since I'm no fan of romantic comedies. I would happily give this movie a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Charismatic leads overcome script","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very good movie and the leads (Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd) have very good chemistry.  The problem was the script, which at times becomes so predictable, you could doze off for 10 or 15 minutes and still would have not missed anything.It really was a very unique and interesting idea for a plot, but most of the time it just taps on the surface of emotions of the characters.  Situations are dealt with in a simplistic and unrealistic way.  Granted it is suppose to be a comedy, but it really never reaches a comedic level.  This one would have been better as a light drama and went deeper into the frustrations of finding that perfect someone, but instead it turns out to be unrequited love.Again, the performances here are very good, including Alan Alda as the step-brother-in-law.  For a light comedy, without much thought and depth, it does better than most.  Above average 6 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time; Read the Book","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was eager to see how such a wonderful writer like Wendy Wasserstein could possibly make The Object of My Affection any better while adapting for the screen. A couple of months after reading the Stephen McCauley novel, I rented the movie, only to find this was nothing like the story I loved so much. Jennifer Aniston's portrayal of Nina really ruined it for me; I bet she could act if only she actually tried to be something other than Rachel from Friends. Paul Rudd was the best part of this film. His portrayal was flawless and I would have preferred the movie to be from the perspective of his character, George, as the story was told in the book. But, no, we get stuck with the perspective of wanna-be actress Aniston. Don't waste your time with this film; it doesn't even come close to doing the novel justice. "}{"Title":"Absolutely, mind numbingly boring!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was home ill, from work the other day, and I noticed that my house mate had bought a film that I had never seen.  I decided to put it on, as I had nothing else to do. Wish I hadn't!  I've had more fun plucking my nose hair! The plot is pathetic!  The film just meanders along at such a slow pace that it could be travelling backwards!  There's absolutely no on screen chemistry, and no charisma shown by any of the actors! As you may have gathered, not my favourite film. "},{"Title":"it's obvious who the target audience are","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this would be an ok film (in my opinions anyway) had they cut down on the homosexual stereotypes and focused on some reality.i was really furious about how this movie portrayed gay men as just merely happy go lucky, loving and ready to drop everything for their best friend. it's such a load of CRAP!!! gay men are stereotyped into these sorts of roles playing onto the single, white, heterosexual  female views of the ideal gay man. in all reality, i probably would like PAUL RUDD's character too but it DOESN'T HAPPEN and to portray this is just insulting the intelligence of the audience (one whom i find usually liking this one).so in the end, what could have been a fairly decent movie turned out to be pathetically lost. "},{"Title":"How?","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How could a movie with such a great premise go this wrong? A young woman (Jennifer Aniston) falls in love with a devastatingly gorgeous young man (Paul Rudd) who happens to be gay. The possibilities were endless. Instead they made this boring terrible movie. ONE good thing I can say the performances by all of the women, and Paul Rudd are fantastic. But the movies just so bad... What a shame. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Affection","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except for a too-tidy ending, this film is as charming as Paul Rudd's smile.And Jennifer Aniston CAN act!  It's a very difficult role that could've been unsympathetic and whiny. But with a deft adaptation by Wendy Wasserstein and direction by Nicholas Hytner (Madness of King George),what could've been sitcom and cliches, is very moving.It's was just released today on DVD. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I totally recommend this movie, it is a very funny and moving Comedy/Drama. Don't be fooled when you see Jennifer Aniston, She has upgraded from the Quirky/Irritating Rachel from Friends and Is really Convincing as Nina, and I wont be surprised to see MR.A list knocking on her door pretty soon. The Supporting cast Is good, Paul Rudd and Nigel Hawthorne in particular play their roles very well. Also stars Ex Brat packer Tim Daly, Steve Zahn, Alison Janney (American Beauty) and Alan Alda. Strongly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Decent.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that I could probably have only liked better if it had been completely spineless and had Paul Rudd's character be cured of his homosexuality.  This however actually would have made me hate the movie because that would have enraged me had that been done.  Still, it was one of those situations where, as I was watching the film, I couldn't help but ask Why did you have to make him gay? or, alternatively, Why did you have to make her a heterosexual female? I had the same problem when I watched Three of Hearts, where the main characters were perfect for each other except for that little issue of sexual orientation.That being said, I knew when I sat down to watch this film that I was going to feel this way.  What was more important was that I liked Rudd's and Aniston's characters, since in so many movies I could care less who got together because the characters were unlikeable.  The only character I really didn't care for in this film that was of any importance was that of Aniston's (ex-)boyfriend, but he was not supposed to be terribly likeable or we would have condemned her for dumping him, I guess.  Hawthorne was absolutely fabulous, as usual.I do not agree with the assertion that the gay characters in this movie were portrayed as being promiscuous, at least not any more so than the way heterosexual characters are portrayed in 98% of movies, where they have sex within two weeks of meeting someone.  Rudd's character does jump into the sack with his new boyfriend fairly quickly, but I never got the impression that their relationship was supposed to be just about sex.  It seemed to me they genuinely cared for each other, so I don't see how then it can be construed as promiscuity.  I also saw him as being ecstatic to have finally found someone who was nice and very compatible with him, after having been alone for months.  I also inferred from the dialogue that Hawthorne and Rudd's boyfriend had never slept together, so there was no casual sex going on there.  The only person who might have been engaging in it was Daly's character, but just because he dumped Rudd for someone else does not mean he jumps into bed with everyone.  And anyway, he was supposed to be a big jerk.I was also impressed with the scene where Aniston and Rudd almost slept together.  I think it was a fairly brave move, considering that a) it could have viewers wondering why, if there was enough attraction to do it once why there wasn't enough for them to be together, and b) it acknowledged that a person does not have to be a strict heterosexual, homosexual, or bisexual; it is possible to be predominantly hetero- or homosexual but still have some attraction, however small, for the unprefered sex.  It was also a demonstration of just how much Rudd's character cared for Aniston's, that he even considered sleeping with her despite very little attraction (or perhaps none), which just reinforced to me that his character was not just looking for sex in a relationship.  He was willing to do almost anything to make her happy; fortunately, he didn't do anything, although that certainly would have made for an interesting plot twist.The ending was a little too rushed and neat, but I am in favour of happy endings; I just wished they'd gotten there a little more slowly.All in all, this movie was good, and a must-see, as far as I'm concerned, for those who really do believe that gay people are only interested in one thing.  7/10. "},{"Title":"This movie was really great, though is specific to taste","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I personally thought this movie was great, and that it really shows how life has changed these days - things are so accepted, and it is great.Poor Jennifer, or Nina, as she is in this movie, what a life.  I don't think I know anyone with so many men in their life.Wonderful movie, a tear jerker for those really sensitive folks, but ultimately a happy ending. "},{"Title":"cutesy","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A cutesy, touchy-feely comedy with a few genuine laughs. Both Paul Rudd and Jennifer Aniston are charming as the young pregnant woman who falls in love with her gay roommate. The plot is fairly predictable and the dialogue quite routine. The script does however, allow a little more complexity in the characters and their relationships than your standard romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"with only a few small changes....","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't generally subscribe to the whole philosophy of wishing a movie had changed something.  Often, it is difficult to watch a good film that is marred by a critical flaw in casting, direction, dialogue or character development, but I tend to just take the flaws in stride.  If they made the film worse, then it is a worse film.  It seems futile to wish something had been changed, because that is not an analysis of the film at all, rather it is just a fantasy.But The Object of My Affection made me re-think this philosophy completely, because if it weren't for a few FATAL scenes, this movie would have been utterly brilliant.  I feel it could even have set the standard for films of its kind films that really study the blurry boundaries between friendly love and sexual/romantic love.  As it stands, the film is little more than fair.Space does not allow me to rant and spew bile to the degree that I would like, so I will provide only one example of what I mean.  It is, in fact, the most particular example I have on the matter.  I have seen the movie 3 times now, and I continue to be moved almost to tears by the near-end scene at the wedding, where Nina breaks down in front of George and tells him that she can no longer live a lie.  And, then, I physically gag at the flash-forward scene that follows, indicating that, five years in the future, everything has worked out, and all are happy.  That shameless cop-out destroyed everything that the film had going for it.I am directly addressing this to the filmmakers YOU SEEMED TO HAVE A TREMENDOUS GRASP ON THE MULTIFARIOUS NATURE OF RELATIONSHIPS.  YOU SEEMED TO BE GIVING US A VERY POWERFUL STORY THAT ILLUSTRATED HOW COMPLICATED IT CAN BE TO SHARE YOUR LIFE WITH SOMEONE ELSE, NO MATTER HOW.  AND TO STICK A FAIRY-TALE ENDING ON THIS STORY MAKES THE WHOLE THING SEEM LIKE A JOKE.  "},{"Title":"Nice try, nice performances...","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston's Rachel on Friends is a great comic creation but here she nicely plays things differently and more seriously. She has a decent shot at seguewaying into film.The movie is a more difficult read. It has some nice truths and terrific individual scenes that show the inherent messiness of intimate relationships and unrequited love. The problem is that for all those truths, things wrap up so neatly that it undones itself. Also a little balance would have been nice. We see so much of it from her perspective that Paul Rudd's character comes off looking very selfish. That's a shame because the movie could have been far better if things were less black and white.  "}{"Title":"Nice!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the film. In my opinion, Jennifer Aniston proved that you can take her really serious as an actress. The other actors were good as well. It's a nice movie to watch, but it's also no fault NOT to see it. It seems to me that playing a gay guy in a film is becoming more and more popular and I fear we might all soon get very annoyed by that. "},{"Title":"Predictable but funny","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gay man moves in with Jennifer Anistons character, she finds out she is pregnant by her boyfriend, then realises that she doesn't love him. Asks her gay room-mate  to be the surrogate father, then falls in love with him, tries to convince him that he is not gay. This film is predictable, and drags on at times, however it does have funny  moments, but it is also far fetched. "},{"Title":"All right movie...","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not the worst I have seen.  The whole gay thing, I guess, was ok.  It did not bother me.  But I don't know many homosexuals (but I don't care about sexual orientation), and I think it was good.  But I know that gays are not only obsessed with sex like that.  Jennifer A. was great, and the rest of the cast was good... but I think it could have been better. And why couldn't her character been gay?  Most movies don't have lesbians in them.  So why not try it? "},{"Title":"So Middle of the Road","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing hundreds, if not thousands of movies, I think a person typically can see what would have been or could have been. To me, it's plain to see that the script was revised in The Object of my Affection. As a result, it's too politically correct, so that no one is offended. In doing so, I believe they cut the heart out of the original story. Commercial TV and film companies go out of their way to see that no one in their target audience is offended. Sadly, this creates a situation in which no one is satisfied.Also, they act like the 'my best friend is gay is something almost revolutionary. It isn't.The main gay characters is so PERFECT that who could hate him?Finally, to its credit, while the happy ending seems tacked on, at least the characters would up where they belonged.  "},{"Title":"Just A Terrible Movie","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could find only one redeeming feature in this film, Jennifer Aniston because she's beautiful to look at.  Gay people should be up in arms about how they are portrayed here, they just jump in bed with each other, without how it might affect their friends and lovers....just instant gratification.No one in this movie cared about how they made others feel, just a bunch of uncaring, snooty, artsy types.  It was made for and about those kind of people, and by those kind of people.Didn't think a movie could be bad enough that even 1 1/2 hours of looking at Jennifer wouldn't be worth it. "},{"Title":"Touchingly funny","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Anniston & Paul Rudd establish a fantastic chemistry, supported by a fantastic Nigel Hawthorne and (as always) Allison Janney. Very funny, this movie is very sweet but unlike other romantic-comedies this one really is original and never bores, making one cry and laugh all the way through it, leaving with a sense of a statisfaction. An who cares about what critics say??? "},{"Title":"cute, but almost too cute...","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, I rented this movie because I enjoy Aniston as an actress on Friends. I think she's funny and a good actress, but somehow that wasn't enough to carry this movie all through the end. It has some really cute scenes and deals with an interesting topic, and all though it's cute, at times it turns a little boring and too cute and oh-so-sad. But it is O.K. as a passing time movie, and the ending is pretty neat. So all in all it isn't too bad, but don't rent it in the hopes of finding as quick and funny lines as you do on Friends. You'll only wind up disappointed... Personally I give it a 5, but hey - be my guest to judge it different.   "},{"Title":"cute, but almost too cute...","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, I rented this movie because I enjoy Aniston as an actress on Friends. I think she's funny and a good actress, but somehow that wasn't enough to carry this movie all through the end. It has some really cute scenes and deals with an interesting topic, and although it's cute, at times it turns a little boring and too cute and oh-so-sad. But it is O.K. as a passing time movie, and the ending is pretty neat. So all in all it isn't too bad, but don't rent it in the hopes of finding as quick and funny lines as you do on Friends. You'll only wind up disappointed... Personally I give it a 5, but hey - be my guest to judge it different.   "},{"Title":"Bad copy","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Isn't this a copy of The next best thing? It's the same plot and it's not very special anymore, every movie nowadays is about straight girls falling in love with gay guys. This movie had it's moments but it could have been better. "},{"Title":"Sweet and safe","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A cautionary tale of the suffering that can come about when a well-meaning but naive gay man tangles with a straight woman's agenda.  This being a major Hollywood product, everything is resolved happily in the end.  Amusing situations;  generally light and enjoyable. Surprisingly high-powered older actors appear in minor roles; hope they were well-paid.  Paul Rudd is so extremely adorable and sweet that he practically makes your teeth ache; he's like the living definition of a million-dollar smile.  Jennifer Aniston is photographed surprisingly poorly; her very heavy camera-makeup occasionally shows through.  As is so often the case, I found it somewhat annoying to have very appealing straight guys playing gay; the tone they bring is far from reality. "}{"Title":"Okay, I guess.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't crazy about it but I didn't hate it. Jennifer Anniston is verycutesy, there's a surprise, and Paul Rudd smiles a lot as if to say I'mgay! Literally!. Everyone is so darn happy and cute that the movieseems about to float away from weightlessness. There's not a lot here towork with, but everyone does an okay job. New York City looks beautiful,that's something. Overall, nothing to write home about but notoffensive.    "},{"Title":"Object of my revulsion","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films I have ever seen.  The writing is poor, the dialogue ridiculous, the characterizations weak, and those are the high points.  If Jennifer Aniston ever plays any character other than Rachel from Friends it would be a shock.  This movie was so obnoxiously PC that I was waiting for all the characters to hold hands and start singing I'd Like To Teach The World To Sing.  The fact that this movie was released in theaters makes me weep for the future of cinema in this country.  The only good thing I can say about this ridiculous mess is that at least it wasn't The Slugger's Wife. "},{"Title":"The Horrors!! The Horrors!!!","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen such a pathetic piece o'(blank) in my entire life!! This movie is the answer to why movies are going down hill nowadays.jennifer Aniston falls in love with a gay paul Rudd and can't get it into her head why he just doesn't favor her scent. Maybe it's because he's gay?!?!? This movie proves that Jennifer Aniston will never make it as a big time, main stream movie actress. She is destined to play Rachel Green characters her entire life, not to say that's a bad thing. She gets plenty to play the part. And she can always fall back on the fact that she's married to some guy who makes movies. But still!!! This movie left me feeling that movies are no longer watchable. And I was dragged kicking and screaming to it. I wanted to see something else, but everyone else said ' but this looks good.' I no longer speak to these people for that sentence alone!!! If you have the opportunity to see this film, change the channel, rent that other film you heard about, or just READ A BOOK!!! But whatever you do, don't get dragged down with this mistake of a film. There, I got out. "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy without either romance or comedy","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of those out-of-the-box romantic comedies that did badly on both genres. There was not much humour in the failed relationships of the main characters and the only romance I saw was in the relationship between the two gay guys. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this film was alright, a bit weird at times.... you didn't know where it was gonna go next! Seen it and noticed that Jennifer Aniston was in it... and then noticed that Paul Rudd was in it, who's in Friends too and thought it would be alright.The film centres around Aniston who get's herself into one hell of a situation with a variety of people. There's a gay friend of a friend, there's an ex-boyfriend, a new boyfriend, in-laws the list goes on and on....There are some funny bits as well... and it's quite a good ending... but I don't know... it just didn't light my fire.An alright 4/10 from me....Dave "},{"Title":"Well Made Movie","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This well made movie is full of good performances.  Jennifer Aniston does some of her best work here and the rest of the cast is also strong.So what is wrong with the movie?Actually nothing other than that it ultimately is too honest for its own good.  Thus the action plays out along lines that are really what is most reasonable, probable for those characters in their particular situations.  The gears to set up this inevitable conflict were too evident, i.e., this works only if each person in the triangle at the heart of the movie was a certain type of person ... and guess what? Each of these characters is precisely the right kind of person to cause the inevitable conflicts and crises.  Since I never felt convinced about the conflict at the heart of this story, it is pretty easy to be dissatisfied with the final result. "},{"Title":"By the numbers sweet and forgettable","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What can one say?And when? As soon as you've walked out of this film you'll be forgetting it, step by step. A sweet little romcom, a by the book, done by the numbers. I expected to find the director to be a relative rookie- instead it's Nicolas Hytner, well known theater director in the Uk with writer Wendy Wasserstein, American playwright. It has all the feel of a contractual obligation more than someones obsession.A sweet boy meets girl film with the twist of the boy being gay. Jennifer Aniston is her own cute self being paired initially with the unlikely pairing of John Pankow. Now come on! Is this the non-porn equivalent of Ron Jeremy? Is this a plot or what? The potential /possible coupling of everyman with this ex-friends goddess? I'd dismiss this if she hadn't been paired with the equally visually unblessed John C Reilly in THE GOOD GIRL.A cast of been there's, also rans and who the hell was that until suddenly out of left field comes the remarkable Nigel Hawthorne. Out of place until you realize that he was in THE MADNESS OF KING GEORGE directed by Hytner. He gets to deliver one of the more poignant speeches in the film and makes the film all the better for his appearance. Like candyfloss- sweet, fun at the time and forgettable as soon as you've finished. "},{"Title":"The Object of My Affliction","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Give me a break...  Jennifer Aniston can only play Jennifer Aniston on friends, and that's a stretch.  Her puppy dog face gets old after about five seconds and you can only hope to choke and die on your popcorn.The only redeeming quality of this movie was Paul Rudd.  He delivered a realistic performance in an otherwise trite and completely white-washed tale trying to deal with unrequited love and sexuality.  The ending was tooo perfect, and everyone won.  All the males come out to help raising the child and everyone's happy.  Oh, sounds real.I thought the embolism in my cranium was going to explode when that terrible child actress delivered her commercialized line of you are in response to Paul Rudd being gay.  Jennifer Aniston attacks the movie like a cancerous tumor and infests the entire cast to destroy the production and erode all possible venues to a decent picture. "},{"Title":"Sucked","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the two WORST movies I have seen (The other being the Love Letter). I actually walked out of this film, which I have only done on one other occasion (The Love Letter). I would suggest that you rent something else. "},{"Title":"How Do I Sum My Hate In 1,000 Words?","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, if you are even THINKING of watching this movie, STOP! Don't. I just did you a HUGE favor. You might have just started watching it, or )god forbid) PLAN on watching it tonight, but just don't, STOP! NO this is not a telegram, I am trying to emphasize what a waste of time this movie actually is. Everything that is wrong with movies is in this one. Cliché after tired cliché. There might be some people who say, If you are a fan of Jennifer Aniston or Paul Rudd, it makes the movie watchable. WRONG! Whammy! Trust me, there is nothing about this movie that makes it worth watching. The fact that not just one person, but a whole slew of them green lit this project with this script. Who read this and said Yes I believe this would happen. A gay guy is living with a woman and is going to be the 'father' of her child. But not biologically, and then oh wait, just to prove we are Big PC cool guys we'll make Aniston end up with a black cop! But just so we don't offend the red states, lets make the father involved in the end somehow, ensuring this child will have the MOST difficult upbringing ever. Imagine being that kid on the playground. My OTHER daddies aren't gay! Did A.W.E.S.O.M.-O come up with this? You want some spoilers now? Jennifer Aniston and everyone live happily ever after! Anyway I managed to sum up my hate in less than 1,000 words! Anyone who says this movie is even worth watching has their head WAY up their own ass. They are the kind of person who like Paris Hilton and Oprah's Book Club. Rock em Sock em Robots! "}{"Title":"Don't Bother","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The acting was fine, but this was one of the most brazenly political pro-gay films ever made.  Gay characters are fine...Rupert Everett, for example, in My Best Friend's Wedding was very funny and very likable.  This was politically correct nonsense without a hint of nuance or subtlety. "},{"Title":"Too much friends...","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie about a week ago, and it was enjoyable. Aniston is a clever, individualistic social worker who is pregnant and living with a gay roommate. This movie is entertaining, almost funny, and a genuinely decent performance. However, Aniston's character is too much of a clone of her Friends character, and the storyline is quite typical - is plainly obvious what is going to happen. All in all, a decent movie, but not a great one. "},{"Title":"unrealistic gay / straight friendship film","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'The Object of My Affection' was Nicholas Hytner's second film, after the excellent 'The Crucible'. It is the story of a straight woman's friendship with a gay man (so far, so good) which eventually turns into romance (which is where it gets bad). Other films trod the same path, but this one teamed Jennifer Aniston, then flying high from her success in 'Friends', with Paul Rudd (an actor is who is pretty unmemorable).This is an OK film, but no more. It is fairly well-written but somewhat pedestrian. The saving grace is the appearance of Nigel Hawthorne as a typical gay luvvie (with young boyfriend), and he is excellent. The rest of the cast, and the film, doesn't leave a lasting impression. "},{"Title":"euww!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is probably the most messed up movie I have watched until now. All the characters in this film must be burnt at the stake. Its not that I am conservative but I find the story-line outrageous!And thats an understatement! It just goes to show how messed up contemporary society has turned into. I am glad I succeeded in not puking all over the computer screen while watching this disgusting film. I only forced myself to watch it as Jennifer Aniston was one of the actresses. So much for deteriorating moral values! Everything about this movie is bad, to say the least, and doctors... the supposedly most dignified people in society, should not be acting the way they did in this movie.Its repulsive and mars the sanctity of their noble profession. Having said all this, I must also add that some parts of the movie were funny too, and I guess we have to take it with a grain of salt. The movie is good to watch if you don't have anything to do and throw logic and seriousness out the window.  "},{"Title":"waste of my time","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, here's the deal I like movies with a happy ending. And I consider the ending not happy. Girl does not get guy. But I guess it's too much of a fairy tale if they're the one who'll get together. Besides, a gay man turning straight? Not possible!The thing is, the movie lack fluidity. There weren't any development of characters and the situation. Something was missing. I really thought this would be a good movie, a movie you could watch with a person/people and end up smiling or laughing with it. BUT NO. You could watch it all by yourself and end up thinking why the hell you watched it in the first place. Which reminds me, the only reason why I bothered watching this is because of 1. Paul Rudd. He is gorgeous in his other movies. I think they intentionally made him look like an idiot. and 2. The story, from the trailer. It sure had me fooled. And I guess I was interested in Jennifer Aniston's acting...Call me crazy, but a good movie for me has a good ending. Sure, George gets Paul (ooh. Beatles!) but what about Nina? And what's with the cop? Confusing confusing confusing. This movie could've been so much better.  "},{"Title":"The Object of my annoyance.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that just tries so very hard to be CUTE, that you wantto slap the people who made it. Paul Rudd is playing Sandra Bullock, andthe amount of sacharine will make you run for your insulin shots. A fewclever lines, but basically this is a sitcom come to the big screen.Jennifer Anniston is perky and loopy, there's a surprise, and the musictells us how to feel every step of the way. Insulting. The onlycharacter who is in any way shape or form believable is Nigel Hawthorneas the old gay professor. How he managed to keep his head above water isa big lesson for the other, lessor actors. Avoid it.  "},{"Title":"Simply awful","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The whole premise for this movie is to take a large number of stereotypes, lump them together and how what comes out in the end is something digestible. This movie fails in all cases. A tired plot (what little there is), some incredibly bad acting, and enough liberal clichés to choke even the likes of Michael Moore. Paul Rudd and Jennifer Aniston walk through their roles. I would even respect this movie if it tried to honestly depict some form of political sentiment for its debatable views, however even that aspect is glossed over to make this into a feel-good about yourself film.This rates as one of the all time worst movies I have ever seen. Do yourself a favor and read a book rather than attempting to watch this. "},{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possibly the worst movie I have ever seen. There is nothing redeeming about this film at all. The story is horrible and the acting is absolutely atrocious. This is one of those films that tries to make a social statement and fails miserably. "},{"Title":"A girls movie. Not more...","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my point of view an awful movie. The idea is interesting, the acting is passable, but well, nothing could save that bad script. The turns in that movie are predictable or boring, but sure not appealing. I had a hard time to watch that development of those stereotypic characters.Every reasonably intelligent girl loves her gay friend. Sure, they are sensitive, they listen and there is no chance they end up in bed with. This movie just draws the perfect romantic picture of that idea. Her husband is awfully insensitive, the parents are, the neighbors are, everybody beside the gay guy and (of course) she, the main role, are insensitive. Stereotypically insensitive. She needed to fall in love with him.I can see the point, but well, i wasn't entertained. Avoid this movie if you are male and don't like Jennifer Aniston. I can't recommend that movie neither to heterosexual nor gay guys. There is simply too less content, too less level, too less appeal. "},{"Title":"Liberal & extremely politically correct","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Film covered all the de rigueur, liberal, politically correct platitudes one would expect from a movie Allan Alda is involved in The angelically sensitive and great looking homosexual teacher, working for next to nothing because he is benefiting humanity ; the idealization of the homosexual life style, which can do no wrong and if you do one just glosses over it; a leftist lawyer, who also works for nothing but is a hetero cave man; an anti establishment, idealistic real social worker unwed mother; tolerance of all thing currently is style; the sensitive black man; even the punker/brat kid the who has more sense than her rich insensitive wealthy parents. Juxtaposed to - male hetero bashing; rich insensitive, pretentious Hampton folks (Brooklyn vs. the Hamptons); crass policemen, who bash women; promiscuity of the rich. It's very interesting that these folks who are rolling in dough create a movie by bashing the establishment but the underbelly is much different than what they are spewing on celluloid. One of the primary themes is homosexuality. Why didn't they hire homosexual actors to play homosexual roles? Interesting that of the main characters, only one, Nigel Hawthorne, was openly homosexual. Why did they chose not to work with homosexual characters? Just curious. Why did they chose to gloss over Dr. Joley's crass behavior but accentuated Vinces'? In contrast most belieable character in the movie was Nigel Hawthorne. The pain he felt at his lover's betrayal was genuine. As was his admonition to Nina, Don't fix your life so that you're left alone right as you come to the middle of it., came from a deep knowing place. The ending... oh, God! Please!!!! "}{"Title":"Cute & moving Affection","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    I saw this today on TV.  Cute and moving story of the perfect couple, George and Nina, played by Paul Rudd and Melissas Marx who share a cozy apartment in Brooklyn.  There love for eachother has one hitch;  George is gay and when she says she's pregnant by Vincent things become complicated because Nina wants independence while her father and Vince want her to get married.  Well George is so loving, he decides to become surrogate Dad.  All this to the dismay of her father played by Alan Alda.  5/10 "}]