[{"Title":"Lost its charm","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This takes place right after the contest of the original movie. Babe and Farmer returns to the farm. One day Babe's curiosity causes Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) to be severely hurt. The farm starts to get into trouble with the bank, and Mrs Farmer Hoggett (Magda Szubanski) is forced to take Babe to another contest. On the way they got into trouble with airport security and they're stuck in the big bad city.This is an ugly movie. No matter how bright the picture is, the city is full of uncaring mean-spirited people. It is completely opposite of the nice fun gentle hopeful spirit of the original. The exterior shots have it's fanciful charm, but the interior of the hotel is just completely artificial. Also the movie misses the presence of James Cromwell. He's only in the movie for about 15 minutes. He provides the steadying influence of his acting prowess. Without him, all that's left is the animals and Esme doing some funny bits. "},{"Title":"Bad sequel to a good movie.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The original (Babe) was a charming, low-key movie.  The sequel has taken Babe to the city, but ignores the charm of his naievity which made the original such a success..  Instead, we're treated to animals being run over by trucks (almost, but scarey), drowned (almost, but frightening in the possibilities) plus a chase scene that goes on forever and in its length becomes pointless.  How much nicer it would have been to have Babe be awestruck by the sights and sounds of the city--and how much funnier.  After having seen this I would not take a child to this show.  An adult daughter walked out and I suspect others did, too. "},{"Title":"Piggy in a muddle","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When George Miller's sequel to the popular and prestigious family film Babe hit cinemas in late 1998 it was squeezed into a crowded family film market, having to share the spotlight with Pixar's second film A Bug's Life and the surprising popular cinematic debut of Nickelodeon's Rugrats. As a result very few people actually saw Babe Pig in the City while it played in theatres. In proportion to the film's budget so few that it lead to the dismissal of several high-ranking executives at Universal. While it is true that the public cannot truthfully dislike a film it has not seen, I think it's fair to say that the film got an at best mixed response among those of the public that did see it both on it's original theatrical release and subsequently on video and TV, with many viewers alienated by it and few finding it as endearing as the original. Yet there have been many vocal and noteworthy fans of the film ever since its release. The much missed Gene Siskel placed Babe Pig in the City at the very top of what would tragically turn out to be his last annual Top 10 list. His on screen partner Roger Ebert also found room for it on his Top 10. While not many professional critics quite shared their level of enthusiasm (although the film received generally decent reviews) the film nonetheless developed a kind of cult following who did, among their number being acclaimed musician Tom Waits and popular internet personality the Nostalgia Critic.I saw Babe Pig in the City upon its UK television premier when I was 13; not really, in my opinion, still a child, yet not at an age where I feel I had fully developed critical facilities that might appreciate the nuances and qualities the film's strongest advocates see in it. At the time I thought it was pretty much a fiasco. Would I keep that opinion or join the film's list of fans after revisiting it as an adult?Well I'm sorry to say I side with the public over the critics on this one, and still found it to be pretty much a fiasco. I can't even really see what the film's fans see in it. Ultimately, it's a pretty dull slog of a film, with not enough of interest to justify even its slender running time. Granted, there is some good stuff in here. The cinematography, camera-work and production design are often sumptuous, and far above anything you would normally see in a live action kid's movie. The early scenes, set on the same farm the first film took place in, do have the kind of mythical, fairy tale quality Miller clearly intended the whole film to have, but which didn't come across in later parts of the film. And towards the end there is a imaginatively staged and pleasingly old-fashioned slapstick romp involving a clown suit, a lot of bouncing, a well-stacked pyramid of wine glasses and a frustrated waiter. And... that's about it. Which is not to say I cannot appreciate the level of ambition Miller brought to the movie. I think it's ultimately failed ambition, but I can certainly appreciate the effort. Pig in the City is certainly one of the more unusual big budget sequels out there and about as far away from a carbon copy of the original you can get (although perhaps the mice and that'll do pig could have been left out this time). But sometimes you find failed ambition entertaining and interesting to watch in it's own right, and sometimes you merely appreciate it. Unfortunately for me, Babe Pig in the City falls into the later category.I also find Pig in the City to be short on the charm that its fans must see in it. After the early scenes we are treated to near-fatal injuries, a (thankfully off-screen) cavity check, an group of terminal ill children, starvation and a dog facing something which comes disturbingly close to water-boarding. That's could all be fine in the right context, but this time out Babe doesn't have an interesting enough adventure or a strong enough narrative to get us through it; we just slog from one depressing incident to the next. Do I think kids will be adversely affected by this stuff? Not for a minute, but I don't think they'll be particularly entertained either. I know I wasn't. Also, I hate to say this as I know they can't talk back and are maybe even dead now and certainly didn't ask for this kind of exposure, but a lot of the animals in this movie are awfully hard on the eyes. Am I alone in really not liking looking at monkeys wearing T-shirts, dresses and lipstick? About the only likable animals who have considerable screen time are Ferdinand the Duck, and Babe himself (adorably voiced by singer Elizabeth Daily, ironically perhaps best known for voicing Tommy Pickles from the Rugrats), both of whom can be enjoyed in the vastly superior first film.Babe Pig in the City is well intentioned and in some areas well executed, but if you want to be charmed or entertained you're probably better off watching Peppa Pig! "},{"Title":"this pig won't hunt","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the animals are cute, Babe is a charming creation, and the movie looks like a million (or 90 million) bucks.  As the saying goes, it's all up there on the screen.  But what's also up there is a weird mean-spiritedness and a sense of frantic desperation.  I wasn't hoping for a mere rehash of the first film (in fact, I was hoping it wouldn't spawn a sequel at all), but Babe Pig in the City follows the standard blueprint for sequels bigger, faster, louder, MORE!  Not to mention unnecessary and utterly inferior. "},{"Title":"If I wasn't so cheap, I would have left before it was over.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a sequel which doesn't really follow the original, but will bring in viewers because of the success of the original, which we really enjoyed. The story line was far-fetched, and the humor slapstick. The singing mice were cute but were totally detached from the rest of the characters and the story line. Could not understand why they were there. The only entertainment I had was to wonder Now how did they do that! when observing the special effects. Mickey Rooney's cameo was sick! It was not clear whether he was a good guy or a bad guy.  I was not sure whether he looks that bad for real, or the make-up guys did it to him. Save your money unless pure chaos is your idea of great humor. "},{"Title":"Babe the jellybean communist","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I commend the effort to make this sequel different from the original, but this movie was TRASH! What exactly did Babe DO? Farmer Hoggit almost died, he had Mrs Hoggit strip searched and probed, missed the fair so they didnt get money for the farm, he ruined, then killed a clown, had an animal sanctuary shut down, dozens of animals impounded, destroyed a party, and along the way encouraged a bit of jellybean communism by forcing (by BRUTE FORCE) the monkey's to share, rescued a dying fish by spitting him in the water, and earned a monkey's respect. AMAZING stuff.Where's the fun? Whats the morals? Be nice.....and you will survive the scary dog chase, the lack of food, the theiving and scheming monkey's, the pig-napping clowns, the evil pound that takes monkey mug shots, pig-killing chef's. No sorry, I forgot. There are some nice people. Creepy pig-men who would give me nightmares if I was 6.Not to mention, if you don't like monkey's, avoid this at all costs. Most of the movie seems to be an excuse to dress up chimpanzees in dresses, which is, undoubtedly, creepy.And how were all these problems resolved? What was Babe's solution to the absolute mess he created? Was it me, or DIDN'T he fix things up? Instead, the weird lady who looks like a pencil started a nightclub. And everyone lived happily ever after. Farmer Hoggit even congratulated Babe at the end........because the tap worked. And I guess maybe for bringing 50 stray animals into his home aswell. (He sells the puppies in the first movie, but keeps a monkey and a poodle in the sequel - logic?)And for those of you who support the dark tone? A scary dog chase IS STILL a scary dog chase, despite the morals in the movie. A farmer falling down the well IS ALWAYS violent and disturbing for a child, despite what some people may think. Animals cruelly being captured and abused IS NEVER a nice thing to watch, even if Babe saves them in the end. The closest thing to cuteness was the animals walking through a childrens hospital, which still brings a tone of dying children.In short, Babe earns the respect of a monkey, kills a clown, saves a baby monkey, and introduces communism. It's the sort of movie that critics enjoy reviewing, describing it as a gem, while they don't realise that it isn't actually entertaining to watch. Bland, pointless, and disturbing. At least they achieved what they were aiming for - a different movie to the original. "},{"Title":"What a horrible horrible travesty. NOT for children or anyone else","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a *huge* huge fan of the original Babe, I was hoping for at least a mildly amusing sequel. What I got was a disgusting waste of money on useless effects and pointless action scenes. The plot was so random & aimless, I'm not even sure what the point was. We actually walked out of the movie after an hour, I just couldn't bear to watch them ruin what was a perfectly good franchise. There were scenes that upset me to the point of near-tears and I am an adult. I think taking a child to see this film would be a huge mistake. The pointless vilification of Animal Control was entirely unnecessary and the gratuitous slapstick was entirely useless. Babe 2 was an utter mockery of what made the first film great, and should have been released straight to landfill. "},{"Title":"Inevitably disappointing","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Too much slapstick for my liking. And yet much was too subtlefor kids, too silly for adults. Way too surreal. Innocence,magic, and sheer novelty of the 1st film were inevitably notthere -- and destroyed by the inclusion of far too much of theReal World. Effects sometimes intruded -- don't want to noticewhen a character is a live animal vs. animatronic as much asthis. This didn't happen in the 1st film because it captured me.This one distracted. Overall, they tried too hard.  "},{"Title":"I hated this movie -(","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's so technically well executed and gorgeous to look at (obviously George Miller asked for and got a huge budget this time around) but almost every thing that happens to these cutest-of-cute animals is *mean-spirited*. The sweetness of the last film is gone, as is that movie's easy-going but tightly-woven plot.  Instead we have Hollywood histrionics and chase scenes and randomness that just seems like delay tactics for the first 3/4 of the film.  For example, we follow that duck every now and then as he chases after but never finds Babe.  The duck arrives in the city and is immediately shot at by twenty members of a rifle range.  Funny?  No.  It's done in an ultra-realistic way, it looks like he's actually injured, there's no Roadrunner & Wile E. Coyote cartoonness to this violence.Finally after much depressing animal cruelty the surviving heroes get together and head off towards a final rescue act, but by that point I'd turned off.  It involved the farmers wife in a clown suit bungee jumping around a restaurant and a bunch of balloons and other silly fighting.  Not a very fun movie, and it could have been!worst moments* Andy Rooney, made up as a clown, led off to die in a stretcher.* Cute puppy says, my human put me in a sack and threw me in the water "},{"Title":"forget it.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  forget it.babe remains as cute, as are the 3 singing mice. 1-2 real sweet puppies and kittens, and that's it.during the movie, you can actually feel the loss of direction, the frantic search for a funny slapstick, by the script writer(s). of cos it was never found. "}{"Title":"Give it another chance!","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"44 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my opinion one of the year's best films, I cannot help but pity poor Universal and director George Miller for the loss of the sequel to Babe. Kudos go to them for making a film so original and daring, so out of place in the family film market today, as it defies almost everything that stands for these days you don't forget the entire movie within a few hours; rather, it stays with you, filling your head with bold and imaginative images that rival those of the best children's books out there.Babe Pig in the City is much like many other great sequels (The Empire Strikes Back, Aliens) in that it is superior to the original but so different from it, that it is not even worth making a comparison of the two. Why have so many people rejected it? Why was it on so many critics' ten best lists, and the public shunned it so much? It is really rather simple. There is no place for a THOUGHT-PROVOKING family film in this day and age, with the exception of perhaps The Prince of Egypt.The thing that makes me laugh here is, teenagers and adults alike are commenting on how violent Babe 2 is, yet if I remember correctly few or no animals at all die in the film. And no big deal seems to be made when the same stuff happens to human beings in family films.To be honest, I don't think they should have rated it G, simply because it seems that anyone seeing this under the age of nine would be confused and perplexed by it. Most people over that age however should be able to follow it well, and understand that the things happening in it are no worse than what kids (and especially teens) see everyday, whether it's on TV's The Simpsons (my favorite show) or something at the multiplex (a whole ARMY of people gets drowned in The Prince of Egypt- a PG rated film).In the end I am truly hoping that Babe Pig in the City is given at least some Oscar nominations, especially for the art direction, cinematography, and visual effects- all of which were superb. A great movie, even though it has not found an audience.This movie just screams Give it another chance!  "},{"Title":"Death is darker","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"33 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Many people just don't get it. They may tell you this movie is too dark for children. Don't believe them. This is a great movie for children. Didn't Snow White have an old hag try to kill her with a poison apple. Death is darker than any dark tone laid out in this gorgeous piece of cinema, but Snow White didn't get as many negative comments as this movie. The kids that watched the original Babe have grown up, and so did the franchise. Sure the movie may have a few adult moments than the original; for instance, most kids won't understand the whole Mrs. Hoggett cavity search incident. But overall this movie presents the great moral that everyone should be good to each other over everything else, even to someone who might have done something wrong to you. That is a message that everyone, adults and children, should hear and consider. In the end, Babe achieves respect and gains a whole new group of friends from his good deeds, and everyone is happy including the audience. I think this movie will be considered a classic sometime in the future, as it should be. "},{"Title":"Gene Siskel was right in picking it as Movie of the Year","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"30 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First off, this movie is not a kids' movie. Many critics have accused Babe Pig in the City of being too dark and violent for children.  Let's remember that George Miller also filmed the three Mad Max films - what did you expect?This film is a masterpiece - it has a story that may seem simple but is full of symbolism; it is full of amazing special effects and animatronics; and it has incredible compositions and film directing.The special effects have improved considerably since the first film. In fact, one scene involves over 300 talking animals!  The goldfish were very convincing and the cute little cat is adorable.The filming of this movie was incredible.  No one can forget the shot of his silhouette as he looks out the stain-glass window at his owner.  Or the shot of Polonious holding the goldfish in the center of the room.In no way can the first Babe movie and its sequel be compared.  The two are entirely different.  And though the story may seem childish, the film has so many sub-plots that can teach us a lot.  The one that stands out the most to me is Polonious and his Godfather-like role.  He strives so hard to be human, and when he accepts the fact that he is a monkey he comes the closer to being human then he had ever been.  So many people today need to accept who they are in order to become what they want.Don't quickly dismiss this film as one for children.  Give it a chance and you will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"INSPIRES OUTRAGE - Love it or Hate it","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As evidenced by the survey of comments on this site alone, people either love or hate this movie.  Unfortunately, I hate this movie.I wanted to love this movie.  Really.  I loved the first one.  But Babe 2 was the worst sort of sequel - not only was it just disappointingly bad, it actually ruined the pleasure you got from the first film.One of the greatest thing about the first film was Babe's relationship with Farmer Hoggett.  In Babe 2, the formerly dignified Farmer Hoggett is only in it for about 10 minutes, but in that short time, he's flung down a well, and then makes goofy gestures.  He's completely robbed of his dignity.  I mean, did anyone enjoy seeing Farmer Hoggett's head being slammed over and over and passing out?In fact, all the humans in Babe 2 are frighteningly abused, for no good reason.  Mickey Rooney, a very creepy clown, literally just drops dead. Mrs. Hoggett is strip-searched by drug agents, is doused with a bucket of glue, and then is flung around a ballroom on a bungee, dressed in the dead clown's costume, no less.  Was this all really necessary?  In a movie that kids watch?  It wasn't funny, it was just sad.  Very sad.  Abysmally sad. Not to mention completely pointless.And in the first movie, Babe the pig had a unique mission, making his triumph truly sweet and heartwarming.  The storyline was singularly original.  And the first movie dealt with some real-life issues (at least in the animal world), which gave weight to the notions of fate and destiny, which was nicely intoned throughout the movie by the narrator.In Babe 2, all the obstacles are contrived and trivial, so the attendant triumph becomes hollow and pointless.  And if you think about it, Babe the pig doesn't actually do anything.  He just gets chased around, or just acts witless, and does things that everyone tells him to do.  The first movie was about Babe's courage and originality.  In this movie, he's led around like... a sheep.  (how very ironic.)  You never root for him, because he has nothing to accomplish.I was deeply disappointed.  I had to watch the first movie over again, just to cleanse my palate, but I'm still in mourning. "},{"Title":"Not For the Kids (or adults?)!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, the surreal beauty presented in the trailers of this film is just the entree to a rather dark and Fellini-esque sequel to one of the most charming fairy tales of modern times.I enjoy films such as The Godfather & The Road Warrior but even those heavy dramas had more light-hearted moments than this G-rated film. Babe Pig in the City is just one string of dark, depressing, anxiety-inducing scenes that puts it just a little left of Peter Jackson's Meet the Feebles. At least THAT film (Feebles) doesn't present itself as anything other than adult fare.What surprises me even more is the number of glowing reviews this nightmarish picture received. It's not a film I would want my kids to see. Many of the situations are terrifying--especially to young minds trying to come to grips with the world in general. I'm not saying you need to sugar-coat everything. But does one have to go out of their way to make a downbeat children's film?Film's such as Willy Wonka, 20,0000 Leagues Under the Sea, Old Yeller all have their dark side but in BPITC, ALL the characters seem to be dysfunctional, twisted, or downright mean. And we're not even sure why.I'm not a prude. I work for a visual effects studio that sometimes creates truly horrific images for adult-themed films. It just seems to me we could use a break from that now & then and enjoy something a bit lighter. The physical world is harsh enough--do we want that in all our entertainment as well? "},{"Title":"WAY too dark and disturbing for a kids movie","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A truly terrible sequel to Babe (which was a wonderful movie). Famer Hoggett (James Cromwell) is seriously injured when he falls down a well. Great way to start a kids movie--see a character we like getting seriously hurt. Mrs. Hoggett (Magda Szubanski) has to go to the city to save the farm from being sold and takes Babe with her. That's when the movie just goes out of control.The city is a mishmash of all famous buildings from other cities around the world. Some may think that's clever--for me it was disorienting and annoying. Babe meets other animals and here's where it gets really disturbing. At one point Babe picks up a fish in his mouth to get it back into water. The way its shot u think Babe is going to eat the fish. At another point a dog's leash gets tangled on a bridge. He falls over into the water. Because of the way the leash is tangled and he falls he can't get his head out of the water for air! We get a nice shot of the poor animal trying to get some breath. At ANOTHER point a baby monkey is clinging for dear life from a chandelier. Also the human characters aren't treated much better. Mrs. Hoggett is ordered to be strip searched early on! I caught this at a matinée in 1998. I have never forgotten some kids crying because of what they were seeing and outraged parents storming out of the theatre and complaining LOUDLY that this film was not a kids film. The original had dark moments too but nothing like what we see here. This movie seems to enjoy putting humans and animals in danger and shoving it in the audiences faces. THIS has a G rating? Don't let your kids see this one. "},{"Title":"Dark, disappointing movie--not for kids","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I took my 8 year old son to see this movie, expecting something like the first Babe movie.  Instead I spent the time we watched the movie alternately trying to reassure my son that Babe would be ok and that this was just a movie.  As in the first movie, Babe was a charming, sweet, and considerate individual. A model for us all!  But the situations in which he was put were terrifying for my son.  The G rating is definitely wrong.  Perhaps older children would enjoy it, but I cannot see its aesthetic or moral value to anyone.  I suggest that anyone wanting to see more of Babe should rent the video of the original movie and see it again. "},{"Title":"A.K.A. Babe  Pig Meets Fellini","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't go see this film.  At least, don't if you're a kid or if you liked the first Babe.   This one is nothing like the first.  The first Babe felt real; this is a dark fantasy.  The first one was open and upbeat;  this is dark. The first one was kind - kind animals, people, plot;  this one is just mean. How kind is it to watch a dog held head-first underwater, with no hope of survival?  How uplifting is it to watch a clown entertain a room full of cancer victims, old people, sick people, all without hope, and the big laugh comes when he burns it down by mistake?   How exciting is it to watch a crippled dog smacked across a dark street, left to die.It might be artistically fun and ok to try to emulate Fellini, but not riding on the coat-tails of a very good kids' movie.  It's not bad marketing, it's deceptive. "},{"Title":"Gene Siskel, you had the right idea!!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would just like to thank Gene Siskel for all the tribute he gave to this movie. He ranked it as the best movie of 1998!! I would have to agree with him! This has got to be one of the funniest, wildest, best films of all time!!! The first Babe is pale in comparison to this movie! Anyway, it's about how Mrs. Hoggat is in debt, so she takes Babe to live in the big city with her. When Babe gets there, he meets tons of new animal friends, cats, dogs, monkeys, you name it! I also remember how the one monkey lady would always call him the pig whitey thing. There were so many animal characters, but yet it worked because they were all each in some way important to the story. The duck was funny, too! Give us more of the duck! It was also cool how the bulldog wanted everyone to obey Babe, and it was like he was Babe's protector. What was also satisfying was how at the end, they told about what happened to all of the animal characters. It makes you realize how these animals all have their own communities and such. That's why I adore movies like this and Homeward Bound The Incredible Journey.I'll never forget my favorite part, the scene at the end where Mrs. Hoggat was flying in those big trousers and everyone was in a frenzy to get Babe. And they made cute references, like the part where Babe was giving the jellybeans (Thank the pig) was probably a reference to the pope, I believe. I can't believe this movie has no quotes! Please don't listen to the Leonard Maltin review. I personally think the first Babe was darker than BPITC. Anyway, this is truly a wonderful film. I've only seen it once (I think) so rent it today! A perfect 10/10. "},{"Title":"Cool design but too dark and disjointed.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This sequel is too dark for its intended age group. The design is interesting--an almost Batman-like Metropolis--but its effect is not at all in keeping with the tone of the original. Moreover, the darkness makes no sense. If the idea is to contrast the city with the country, it misses the mark.A bigger problem is the the lack of flow; it's more a collection of scenes than a cohesive movie. There were numerous plot problems, and even kids will sense when things don't follow.Worse in all honesty, the animated talking mouths are creepy, rather than cute as in the original.Sorry to say really disappointing. Needed another run or two through the script before shooting. "}{"Title":"Sorry Babe...","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sequel to Babe picks up after the first one ends, with a triumphant babe returning home to Hoggett farm, but disaster awaits as farmer Hoggett(played by a sidelined James Cromwell) is injured in a freak accident, forcing his wife to take babe on a trip to the city to make money, only to be separated in an increasingly tragic set of circumstances, as neither of them may make it home again...Disastrous sequel is a complete botch from top to bottom, containing none of the charm and warmth of the first, instead contains an unappealing, unbelievably contrived story that goes nowhere, and an ending that is nothing but a bloated cartoon-like slapstick fiasco. Utterly pointless film is best ignored, as it can only mar an otherwise classic original. "},{"Title":"Come, gaze into the abyss","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Draw a bath and grab a razor blade - it's the bleakest film ever made! Babe travels to the city and learns that the world is a great big dark pit of despair and suffering.Cringe! in slack-jawed horror as animals and cancer-stricken children flee a hospital fire.Weep! as a depressive orangutan tries in vain to maintain his dignity in a world that strips all dignity away.Sob inconsolably! as innocent animals tell (with children's voices) tales of the unspeakable cruelties they have suffered at the hands of Man.Finally, fall! to your wretched knees and pray desperately in the implacable face of an uncaring universe for some small sign that life is more than an endless black night of pain and despair that makes a mockery of hope and a cruel joke of the conceit that there is any kindness or joy to be found in the barren desolation of this cold and merciless world. "},{"Title":"Watch the Original and ONLY the Original","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The original made sense--Farmer Hogett won the pig at a fair, his wife wants to cook him out, Hogett notices he has a knack for grouping chickens by color, and he puts him in the sheepdog trials when his own sheepdogs are injured in their own brawl.The sequel--well, what was it about?  I watched it, and I know Farmer Hogett's wife had to go to the city to save the farm from forclosure, but what happens after they get to the city.  It makes no sense!  Why would she even take the pig???  It was just way too confusing as if the movie was made from puzzle pieces all from different puzzles--they don't fit together!  Don't watch it! "},{"Title":"One of the most unjustly ignored movies ever","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie works magic like few movie do.  I wasn't sure that a sequel was necessary.  I loved the original.  I loved this one.For different reasons.  This was like watching WILLIE WONKA or THE WIZARD OF OZ.  It is a kid's story, but it has darkness in it.  Every good child's story should have a little darkness in it.  Life does.I also loved that this film expects a certain amount of intelligence from it's audience.  When I saw it, a kid asked his mother what sanctuary meant after it appeared on a title card.  The mother seemed irritated that she had to explain this.  I thought it was a wonderful opportunity to teach her child a new word.  The best stories should teach.  Perhaps parents have gotten used to leaving their children in the care of unchallenging pap that doesn't require their children to do anything other than buy the toys and merchandising.I don't know what the reasons were that kept people from seeing this movie.  Whatever they were, it was a crime.Outside of all of this, the movie is very funny, very touching, and well-crafted.  It was exciting to see George Miller bring some of his ROAD WARRIOR style to a kid movie. "},{"Title":"This pig should've stayed at home...","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Talk about a major disappointment!  First time George Miller has ever made a dog.  From Road Warrior and Dead Calm to Lorenzo's Oil and the original Babe, this guy has turned everything to gold.  Nothing lasts forever.  The only thing this film managed to show is that animals can be as ugly as humans.  Gene Siskel actually picked this as one of the 10 best films of the year.Thumps down... "},{"Title":"Babe Pig in the City","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I saw BABE earlier this year, I was pleasantly surprised by its rustic charm, warmth and dignity. This sequel has none of those qualities. Gone are the simple but engaging situations, replaced with wacky mis-adventures, irritating slapstick and bombast, and even mean-spiritedness. There is nothing funny or endearing about any of it. It is a cynical misunderstanding of what made its predecessor so lovable. The film's climax is painfully slapsticky and broad, and moreover leaves our titular hero with no agency whatsoever. Not since TEMPLE OF DOOM have I seen such a disparity between a beloved film and its follow-up. I will praise the accomplished photography, effects and animal wrangling, but the content is so phenomenally disappointing. I know this movie has its champions, among them Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert. I can only say that I felt no affection for it, and will henceforth pretend it doesn't exist. "},{"Title":"Family Entertainment???","Date":"2 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The FIRST Babe was great. A wonderful story with interesting characters, and funny moments. Great for kids.This movie is a total disaster. It is twisted, dark, violent and has almost no connection to the original movie. It should not be classified as a family movie. And it should not be shown to little children.The story itself is stupid, bizarre and a waste of time. Whoever produced this was going through a heavy drug and alcohol abuse phase in their life. It has no redeeming value and is not suitable for children! What a disgrace of a movie.People who were expecting a light-hearted continuation of the original BABE will be greatly disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'd hate to say it but I didn't find Babe Pig in the City to be as good as the first movie. The plot was okay but it just didn't seem to live up to the original. Mrs. Hoggett and Babe go off to the city to rescue the farm. I was rather disappointed that Babe wasn't accompanied by Rex and Fly in this one and that they're roles were shorter than in the first. I sorta found the whole thing with the animals in the hotel kinda funny but weird. The whole movie just seemed kinda childish and not as good as the first. It just doesn't live up to the first one. If you were a fan of the first movie like me I suggest that you don't watch this movie! It's just not as good as the first movie! I give it a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"pork chops","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Everyone knows the majority of sequels are rarely more than a pale imitation of their predecessors, and in 'Babe Pig In The City' we have a textbook case in point.Maybe it's not fair to compare good and bad apples, regardless of how similar they look on the skin. Certainly it violates Rule #2 of The Beginner's Guide to Film Criticism, which says comparison is a quick and convenient but also cheap and lazy way to judge a movie. But an exception might be considered when the follow-up actually tarnishes the memory of what made the first movie so distinctive.In this case the original 1995 feature was one of those all-too rare children's films that everyone except the most jaded adult could watch without shame, and as close to a genuine classic as any movie can get in our strictly disposable, video-devalued 21st century entertainment culture. These days no one even bothers to camouflage the fact that motion pictures are only another cog in a corporate marketing machine, packaged and sold alongside a blitzkrieg of merchandise tie-ins, each one an advertisement for the others soundtrack albums, videos and DVDs, toys, books, clothing, fast (and slow) food, so forth and so on.The working principle behind this juggernaut of commerce is a paraphrase of P.T. Barnum there's a retail market born every minute. And in the same spirit of unashamed exploitation a small Australian pig can, with careful management, become a lucrative cash cow.On its surface the new film at least matches the look of the original, with many names reprising their roles on both sides of the camera. James Cromwell and Magda Szubarski are back, playing farmer and Mrs. Hoggett (the former in a sadly diminished walk-on designed to simply tie the two movies together), and the same teams responsible for editing, photography, music and production design are for the most part reunited.But director Chris Noonan is conspicuously absent, his position usurped here by producer George Miller, the man behind the auto-apocalypse 'Mad Max' trilogy in the 1980s. An aptitude for staging car crashes might not seem the ideal training for a children's fable about an adorable talking pig, but Miller clearly sees himself as a visionary fabulist in the mold of Terry Gilliam or Vincent Ward, and not without some justification.Keep in mind that the physical scale of any sequel is always grossly inflated from its parent feature. And every penny of Miller's (more generous) budget is visible on screen, notably in the utopian cosmopolis of the film's title an amalgam of every famous civic landmark around the globe, from the Eiffel Tower to the Golden Gate Bridge and beyond.But with so much money spent on the often stunning art direction there obviously wasn't enough left over to afford a decent screenplay. The result is thus a near identical film, but with a gaping hole where the story and characters should have been.Miller himself wrote the new script, along with two other 'co-authors' (the scare quotes are a warning that two or more separate screen writing credits rarely indicate a collaborative effort). Apparently none of them had the time or inclination to study the original story very closely, settling instead (in classic sequel fashion) for an over-plotted, underdeveloped action adventure, too complex for its own pre-teen target audience, and supported by necessity on the usual crutch of voice-over narration.The film opens immediately after the last scene of the earlier feature, with Babe's triumphant return to the Hoggett farm after his stunning victory at the National Sheep Dog Trials. But that initial silver lining is soon overshadowed by a token cloud of foreclosure. It's the same nebulous threat facing every farm on the Hollywood back lot the rural property owner's analogue to whatever killed Ali McGraw in 'Love Story', and in this case providing little more than a thinly contrived excuse for getting Babe lost (never mind how) in the big city, at which point the save-the-farm crisis immediately sinks below the narrative radar.Lost in all the subsequent heavy spending is the innocent, organic charm of the original film, re-imagined by Miller and company as a novelty animal act straight out of a Ringling Brothers circus tent, with the title character reduced to just another sideshow attraction in a menagerie of real and robotic talent. These include, in no special order of importance a pack of wild urban dogs (who naturally become allies after Babe rescues their leader from drowning), a family of performing monkeys, assorted other wayward pets, and a gratuitous cameo by Mickey Rooney in heavy-duty clown drag.A cast like that doesn't really need an actual plot, leaving not much else to look at besides a lot of frantic, pointless (and surprisingly violent) action, with an acrobatic, mock big-top demolition derby climax. There's a telling disclaimer buried in the end credits reassuring viewers that no actual animals were injured during the production, a moot point given the sometimes alarming realism of the animatronics. Maybe an apology should have been offered instead for spreading cynicism and disillusion among impressionable younger moviegoers and their long-suffering parents.In the end it all boils down to the inevitable theme song a transparent bid for an Oscar nomination composed by the ubiquitous Randy Newman and performed by erstwhile prog-rocker Peter Gabriel, regressing to the level of his former Genesis back-up vocalist Phil Collins. You might recall the song's title ('That'll Do') as the final line of dialogue from the original film, and a model of expository understatement all but extinct in an industry now geared more toward attention-getting superlatives and sledgehammer subtlety. It's a sad thing, but altogether typical of the mercantile nature of the entire film, to hear such precious nuance so crassly deployed as a (less than memorable) soundtrack sales pitch. "},{"Title":"Hamming It Up.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very, and I do mean very, strange picture that is suffering an identity crisis in every major cinematic area. Babe Pig in the City is of course the sequel to the critical and box office smash of 1995. This time the titled animal must go to the city with its owner's wife (Magda Szubanski) to raise money from guest appearances after his success in the original. The farmer (barely seen and totally wasted James Cromwell) suffered an accident and his property is about to be taken by the bank. Thus Babe must come to the rescue once more. In the city Szubanski finds a hotel full of dogs, cats and even monkeys and stays there. The story-line then goes out of focus as animal rights and the place that all of God's creatures have in the world becomes the major focal point. The subject matter is dealt with in a distorted way that is more dark than funny. Director George Miller (who produced the original and assisted with Chris Noonan's Oscar-nominated direction in 1995) does a great job with visual effects and art direction, but struggles with a screenplay that has no earthly idea what it wants to do. The fact that Miller is not the director that Noonan is becomes an apparent problem pretty quickly as well. The original worked because of warmth, compassion, intelligence and believability. None of those attributes are in this sequel. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"How to make a sow's ear out of a purse &#150; charmless tat","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fresh from sheep dog trials success, Babe and Farmer Hogget are the toast of the land.  However an accident puts Hogget in traction and leaves the farm dangerously close to being repossessed.  Mrs Hogget sets out to America with Babe to attend a major Fare with a large appearance fee, however a misunderstanding at customs results in them missing the fare and being stranded in the city.  The pair go to a hotel that illegally takes animals of all sorts but Mrs Hogget's arrest and the capture of the animals leads Babe to once again show determination against the odds.At the end of the film Babe, Farmer Hogget says `that'll do pig, that'll do'.  It is a wonderfully touching moment that is fitting for such a charming story that was told without malice or clumsy humour &#150; just one warm moment after another.  However the studio didn't hear Hogget's words and pumped out a sequel that will have all but the least demanding child clambering to watch the original to wash away the bad taste in their mouths from this.  The plot is nothing like the original in theme &#150; it tries to set out it's stall (sorry) as being a tale of how the brave heart overcomes etc but it is nonsense, instead it is more like Home Alone with monkeys than Babe.The humour comes with things falling etc and the plot is far too dark and cruel to have anything like the original's charm.  It is just plain dull to be honest and I never found myself involved in the hectic going-ons that were occurring before me.  Worse still are the characters.  On one hand we have a few famous (read American) voices added to the cast (Wright, Rooney and a few I couldn't place) but they don't ever get close to being as good CHARACTERS as the original had.  Where the original had animals that we knew or grew to care for as Babe did, here we have comedy monkeys (one alarmingly dressed as an `Nu Yark' hussy!) and dogs that barely get a line.  These are animals played for laughs (oh, look at the monkey getting dressed!) and not played as characters as in the first film.Overall this is not awful it is just very poor and difficult to enjoy.  Kids will laugh at the animals chasing humans etc but adults will be unmoved and uninvolved.  For me this film was worse than it actually was as it traded on the name of that charming film Babe.  It slightly ruined the memory of the original for me with a sour taste and I shall never wish to see this thing again.  If you loved the original and were interested in seeing this &#150; don't.  Just don't. "},{"Title":"Inferior and unsuited to children","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sweet promotion. On the cover, we have Babe, looking innocent and smiling as always, on the yellow-brick road to the city. In both this and an advertisement I saw recently, the sky is sunny, clear blue. And to cap it all off, the film is rated G.Ie, totally misleading.This movie is not disastrous, but it was aimed at the wrong audience. Babe does not turn nasty, but everything around him does. Going away from the stability and peace of the farm was the first mistake. Putting the farmer out of action for 95% of the movie was the next. In their place, we have a host of seedy characters, both human and animal, and a dark sky (it's mostly at night) which conspire to turn this film into a B-grade nightmare.No one gets killed, although this and the fact that there are so many narrow escapes make for an unrealistic adventure. Or DO they? I saw the sinister clown (Mickey Rooney) getting taken to hospital and not returning, but other reviewers claim he dies. This is equally unrealistic, because HE did not suffer any injuries at all - he pretty much just fell down without cause.Most of the human characters are also totally unrealistic - they are made out to be born animal-killers, though they don't succeed this time. In other words they behave like animals. Mrs Hoggett, one who doesn't, is treated like an animal by other humans and, like her husband, made a fool of.The animals, to counter, are too human, usually. The savage dog who lands in the river is not. But, it and the monkeys (or chimpanzees) are the sort who are arrogant and spiteful toward Babe until they get to know him better. This is an undesirable and very human trait which one sees occasionally in humans in other movies. When all the animals are together in the one set of flats, they are organised like a congregation of people. Etc, etc, you probably get the idea by now.There is nothing wrong with the plot, except that it will give the children nightmares. There is nothing wrong with the voices, except, as I said above, totally sinister and/or unbeliveable characters. Some older people might enjoy it, but (aged 19) I didn't particularly, rating the original clearly better.Also, we were all at ease in the first one. In this one, tension is in the air from the word go. Hoggett out of action, the farm in danger of being lost, and Mrs Hoggett up to her ears in trouble. Very unpleasant.So to conclude, don't take your children to see this one. It ought to be rated PG. It made me go back and watch the first one again for some refreshment. This sequel could have been completely different (but set, say, at the happier parts of the city) and so much better than it was. To quote from the movie, IF ONLY.A reasonable plot allows me to give it 3/10. "},{"Title":"Touching classic","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I, too, have been shocked by the many critics who condemned Babe Pig in the City as mean-spirited and too dark for children. One review even suggested that the round-up of the animals and Flealick's near-death were played for laughs! Nothing could be further from the truth.Many of these naysayers should go back to the early days of Disney and take a look at such works as Bambi, Sleeping Beauty, and Snow White; all beloved by millions of children for decades, all undisputed classics. And what kind of scenes do these classics contain? Trees that come to life and grab at your clothes in dark forests. Evil queens who poison apples and threaten to bury beautiful girls alive. Witches who turn into dragons and scream, now do you deal with me and all the power of hell! And scariest of all perhaps, human hunters who slaughter mother deer and leave their baby sons to cry, Mother? Mother?The world is a scary place. Disney knew that and children know that. Look at the violent games they play, which are for them a way to feel in control of an unpredictable environment. Any child can identify with Babe's fight to survive in an unknown place, and any child would cheer his ultimate victory. Babe 2 repeats the excellent message of the first film that hard work and a kind and steady heart will triumph in the end.Babe 2 also teaches children the importance of caring for their fellow creatures. This movie is a searing indictment of man's cruelty to animals, of the way we often discard them like worn-out toys. None of the animals' suffering is treated as a joke. My eyes fill with tears every time I hear the mournful Irish music and watch Flealick desperately trying to save his friends. His decision to come back from the brink of death is one of the most touching moments in the history of film. "},{"Title":"So good.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Arthur Hoggett is injured within the first few minutes of this movie and is MIA for the rest of it. This turns out not to be so bad after all&#151;at least, not for the audience. Because now, Esme gets to take center stage and have her own movie with the little pig. And that's great because she is a bubbly, fun character. She's lively, feisty, motherly, aggressive, honest, righteous, a little gullible, and sweet. She sets out with Babe to save the farm from the bank but unfortunately, they never even reach their destination&#151;and all the action plays out in a strange city where they're stranded and forced to find a place to stay. Babe gets mixed up with a variety of city animals, some much more pleasant than others, and through all of their escapades, scary, sad, or otherwise, he ultimately winds up teaching the whole lot of them the lessons about simple kindness and courage that we know Babe is already famous for. He brings everyone together with his cute piggy power and by the end, heals both the hurting farm back home and the worlds of those living in the cold and dangerous city. And for those willing to look, the messages of this whimsical, strange film go even deeper.There are far fewer human characters than animals, but they too are well worth meeting. Esme befriends the slightly eccentric young woman who owns the only hotel around this whole insensitive city that welcomes animals. She's a thin, nervous, timid girl with a tender heart, who cares for her mysterious Uncle Fugly (in the Big Five personality types, I figure her for a definite RLOAN and Esme likely an SLUAI.) All we really know about *him* is that he has a troupe of performing monkeys and he entertains ill children as a clown&#151;he also has a speech problem and his niece is the only one who can understand his mumbles. Kind of like Kenny. (I half expect someone to say to Babe, OMG! You killed Fugly! You -------!) His death comes before we find out much more, but it is a pretty pivotal event. BTW, I've noticed so many errors in these reviews from people who obviously saw the film once, didn't pay careful enough attention, and forgot or messed up details. Like, why is there a question of whether Fugly dies or not--don't you remember his niece saying ...my Uncle Fugly on his deathbed? There ya go.At any rate, the film only has one true villain&#151;Hortense, the nasty lady who lives across the street from the hotel and is responsible for having all the strays Babe's brought in for sanctuary taken away in a very cruel manner. The landlady had tried to create a safe haven for animals and friends, but ultimately found that she could not do that in this cutthroat city. Of course, the finale is a heroic rescue scene in which everyone does their part. It involves Esme bouncing around for quite some time and ruining a very fancy dinner party in Fugly's old inflatable costume, which is the only thing she can wear after her own dress has been destroyed by former chaos. Among many, many other things, Babe saves two newborn chimpanzees and earns the respect of an old, embittered orangutan who ends up transferring his loyalty to Fugly, onto Esme. For all of the darkness this movie's accused of, it has a happy ending if I ever saw one. By the end, Esme and the landlady have clearly bonded; they work out a deal for the future that is perfect for both of them. They rent out the hotel (and it becomes the loud and obnoxious Dancelands, which should please Hortense even more than living across from a menagerie of vacationing animals). The money saves the Hoggett farm. All of the animals, from the monkeys to the poor assortment of down and out, needy strays who showed up to take advantage of Babe's hospitality to the landlady's pets to the random hotel animals who I guess have just been abandoned by their people and now need to be placed, move to the countryside and take up with the farm animals (at least for a while.) Miss Floom, the hotel landlady, now has nowhere to go-but Esme isn't about to leave her all alone. She brings her home and, I gather, practically adopts her as well, on the peaceful farm--a place to which she is infinitely better suited. From the ending I gather that she's now living either with or near Esme and Arthur, filling the role of the sort of daughter they never had (given how distant and disconnected the Hoggetts are from their own child in the first film, and what a wretched brat their granddaughter is.) Reading such things into the movie makes me appreciate it all the more; as different as it is from its predecessor, it enriches it a great deal. I have to say that Babe Pig in the City is one of the finest sequels I've ever watched. I get new things out of it on every single viewing. "},{"Title":"Not a sequel","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not a sequel to Babe. A sequel by definition has the same characters, the same point-of-view, the same philosophical outlook as the original. However, this film is a huge break from the original Babe.While the first movie was pastoral, this is a dark urban tale. The only characters from the first film who have significant screen time are Mrs. Hoggett, babe, and the duck. The first treated its characters as honorable country people; this film paints Mrs. Hoggett as an idiotic buffoon and drops Mr. Hoggett after the first 10 minutes. The first was lyrical and sweet, this has all the sensitivity of a trash compactor.The scene with Mrs. Hoggett bouncing around in a balloon suit will stick in my mind like old gum stuck on the sidewalk ... it's got to be one of the cruelest bits of cinema I've ever seen. It's an insult to the character, an insult to rural farm folk everywhere, and an insult to the audience.I've read James Cromwell on how the first Babe movie promotes vegetarianism... well, this film has no such point, it seems to be cobbled together by studio executives. "},{"Title":"Expressionistic, Absurd and Existential","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Babe Pig in City is a deeply stylized, Alice-in-wonderland interpretation of talking animal films. While its predecessor, Babe, is traditional and safe, the sequel offers more of a post-modern world-view that encapsulates various structural narrative elements, including expressionism, absurdism, futurism, and existentialism. I now wish to conduct an analysis of the piece and describe how these elements apply. I intend, however, to show how the film predominantly relies upon the expressionistic and absurdist structures. Here's why.Expressionism In a way, the film seems to mourn over the loss of spirituality. By 'spirituality,' I mean the essence of comfort and balance&#151;in a word, home. As the expressionistic structure suggests, the art we create ought to include characters that try and reclaim their homes of comfort by recognizing the world as imbalanced. Only with this recognition can we then seek and desire to reclaim balance, and thus our homes of comfort. As applied to the film, Babe's home of comfort is upset when he accidentally falls down the rabbit hole (i.e. well). Consequently, he indirectly compromises the life of his owner and severely bed-rids him. With the bank's hefty demands and the farmer's wife unable to pay the farm-land debt, she takes Babe away from his spirituality and embarks upon a mission with him into the city. Her overarching objective to reclaim enough money to sustain and preserve the farm. Babe's overarching objective to reclaim his spirituality&#151;his home. Both characters need each other to fulfill the other's objective, thus suggesting our need to serve and love others. Upon entering the big city, Babe recognizes a dramatic change in his environment. It's a strange place, and this leads us now to analyze the absurdist qualities the film possesses. Absurdism The absurdist structure seeks to purposefully defamiliarize the audience to that which they have become familiarized with. Its purpose is to help people not take life for granted, but to recognize just how truly amazing and wonderful this life is; not to forget show how profoundly strange it is too. As applied to the film, Babe becomes unfamiliar with his environment upon entering the new, strange city. There is a sense of uneasiness he feels as his lonesome eyes scan the city from a birds-eye-view looking out an open window. As he looks, the film literally begs the question within Babe's soul What kind of establishment is this? The filmmakers, too, seem to ask the audience the same question(s) in reference to earth-life. Questions like What kind of place is this? What is reality? Why are we here and where are we going? Like Babe, we are all foreign pilgrims traveling through an unfamiliar world as we desperately try and familiarize ourselves with our surroundings. Also like Babe, we are all searching for the cure to our spiritual homesickness. We find this cure by developing an expressionistic desire to restore our fallen, imbalanced lives, but only after we have recognized just how absurd our imbalanced lives really are. There are some individuals who never become enlightened to this. They are not consciously aware of life's absurdity, and so view their lives as balanced and in no need of curing. Consequently, their souls hunger on a very deep subconscious level for spiritual reconciliation because they are unable to acquire absurdist-like glasses, and therefore do not rigorously question life as something that ought to be deeply questioned. Existentialism Life for an existentialist only gains genuine and authentic meaning by one's active level of participation in the life process. The meaning that we find in life is ours to create; it's as if it floats out in the ether just waiting for us to reach out and grab&#151;but it cannot be dictated and made somehow objective by authorities/institutions. It also is a structure that causes people to ask the why questions of life. In the film, Babe is chased down by a pack of ravenous dogs that try and violently hurt him. Upon seeing the destruction they create, Babe humbly asks, Why? This question is profoundly existential and it seems to ask the audience why we live in such a bleak and violent world filled with hateful beings. Along the same line, the film seems to presuppose that there's something wrong with the world that Babe/we live in, and it's up to us to fix it. To fix our world, we're going to need high moral principles. The film teaches us to live with high moral principles when Babe is shown saving the life of his enemy drowning in a river. Babe Pig in the City is a wonderfully charming yet also thought-provoking tale that can entertain both child and philosopher. At its core is a sweet, ingenuous pig that possesses the type of morale that every human being ought to possess too. In this sense, the film seeks to uplift people, helping them to live as Babe does. Though it may appear that he possesses an inferior and weak personality, the filmmakers suggest that it is only those who humbly exempt themselves from the limelight who are exalted in the end. The story of Babe does just that. "},{"Title":"Screen's Sweetest Pig Is Back..with Lots Of Colourful New Friends","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Those who liked 'Babe' will wonder whether 'Babe Pig in the City' is a good enough sequel. My answer is definitely! Here are adorable pig is seen with some new colourful friends, lots of them, in a new adventure. Just like the first one, this one too is sheer delight, albeit a little more serious. I don't understand why people are complaining that this isn't a movie for kids. Why not? I think it's an excellent family film. There is no death or blood. It portrays a part of reality (e.g. that accidents happen, that there are others who are less fortunate than us etc) without getting to graphic and that's why it's great for kids too. It's a lot of fun and even suspenseful. I was in my teens when I first saw this film. There's one scene where Flealick follows the van but one he loses hold, he slides onto one side of the street and lies there motionless while the wheels on his 'scooter' rotate. For a moment my heart had stopped beating (as I thought he was dead) and I was so hoping that he hadn't passed away. The sequence that followed brought me back to laughing mode. Magda Szubanski has more to do here and she displays her comic abilities brilliantly. A strange thing I noticed was she had an American accent in the first film but here it's Australian and British. The rest of the voice-acting is done very well and in sync. The fictitious city (it may be Sidney as the famous opera-house was visible in one scene) is suitably dark and mysterious. I found 'Babe Pig In The City' more uplifting than the first movie. I wish there was a third movie that would have made it a complete trilogy. "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lets be honest, this film is appalling. This was the first film my brother and sister ever watched and to be frank, what an awful introduction to cinema. The film goes along without you feeling any empathy with the characters and boredom at the lack of anything exciting happening. I know it is a children's movie but please instead of including a darker element lets have some entertainment and fun. It just didn't work, it would have been better as just an animation but unfortunately the director wanted to make it a 'grown-up' kids film, not a great idea. Next time just make something funny, entertaining and without an annoying pig which no-one really cares about. Instead of this go and buy something like Lion King or Beauty and the Beast which CAN incorporate excitement and emotive sequences. "},{"Title":"Brilliant-- but definitely not for the kiddies...","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although it might initially seem like a strange comparison, I must rate Babe Pig in the City alongside Alien 3 as two of the most grotesquely misunderstood and underappreciated films of the last 10 years. Both films are brilliantly crafted, with complex elements of plot, theme, and symbolism that stunned and confused moviegoers expecting to see films that resembled their respective predecessors. The challenges that Babe faces in his second adventure are much more demanding-- both of Babe himself and of his viewers-- than any mere sheep-herding competition.Gene Siskel's assessment of P.i.t.C. as the best film of 1998 is completely accurate-- it even exceeds the standards of such award-winners as Shakespeare in Love and The Truman Show, which says quite a bit about a certain little pig.The dark tone-- one that makes this movie unsuitable for kids under 10-- is established very early, with an accident that gives Babe (and us) a horrible scare and that sets up the necessity for Babe and Mrs. Hoggett (a delightfully comic character who brings needed levity to the movie) to venture into the forboding city. The city itself is a visual masterpiece, incorporating well-known landmarks from around the world, adding to the universality of the movie's message.The direction is flawless-- which is quite an achievement considering the myriad animatronic animals that were used; the climactic scene in which Mrs. Hoggett bungees around a ballroom, trying to rescue her pig, is one of the most memorably hysterical scenes in recent memory.Each of the P.i.t.C's many characters is carefully developed to an extent that is rarely seen today-- from Thelonius to Flealick, each dog, cat, goldfish, bird, or monkey adds something uniquely *human* to Babe's experience in the city. Together, the animals create a subtle lesson about the importance of self-acceptance and of maintaining one's integrity of identity. Most importantly, the film conveys this message without ever becoming trite or hyperglycemic in its presentation of the plot events-- even the more unpleasant ones (the goldfish...)-- or of the characters.Rating 10/10. There is NOTHING about which to nit-pick with Babe Pig in the City when it is NOT interpreted as a children's movie.  "},{"Title":"Great film undone by bad marketing","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is unfortunate that this movie is being marketed as a children's movie. It's having a tough time at the box office against its more heavily cross-merchandised competitors.  So many people will not be able to discover that Babe Pig in the City is truly a remarkable and totally unique achievement in film.  It would be an injustice if this movie were not nominated for the Best Production Design Oscar, because its visuals are stunning.  Babe is the center of the story, but he's not the main focus. Wonderful voice acting gives life to a motley bunch of chimps, dogs, and cats.  But I've gone on too long.  Go see this movie before it leaves the theatres! "}{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film will one day be recognized as a classic. It is cinematic magic from beginning to end. Who cares what it is about and whether it is dark (and what film doesn't have a dark element, there is a nasty trend where we are supposed to keep the darker impulses from the wee ones, as if ignorance is wisdom), it is wonderful to look at, the acting is amazing, the animals are perfectly on cue, the action sequences are brilliant. It is a lovely and colorful dream, that yes might be a bit fantastical. So what? Imagine what a difference a movie set must be when it is predominantly animals in the movie. "},{"Title":"Yes!  Better than the Original!  Pigs in Leather!","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A film that seems too odd to be truly made for kids -- seems director Miller put one over on the producers.  the resulting film is a vivid fantasy about a talking pig with a bloated ego (presumably because he's a hero from the first film in the series) who makes the trip to the big city and has to make his way in a house full of animals when their humans disappear.  Interestingly grown-up social satire as Babe rescues a pit-bull who uses his muscle to enforce the pig's utopic vision of animal community.  Rooney appears in an excellent bit as a strange circus clown for whose death Babe is apparently responsible.  The finale features a crazy group rumble a la Marx Brothers that will please everyone in the audience -- a class A product, too good to be popular, but sure to please anyone not attatched to its more treacly forebear. "},{"Title":"A Triumph","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe Pig In The City is captivating; a triumph. It's right up there with other subversive, surreal masterpieces like Delicatessen and The Cook, The Thief, His Wife And Her Lover, but in spite of what you might have heard Babe 2 isn't too dark for children, or for any older human. It's full of many wonderfully melancholy moments but it's not nasty. Above all Babe Pig In The City is a triumph for gentleness and a plea on behalf of the marginalised; the weak in our community. It's one of the best films yet made and an ideal film for children to see.What did Hollywood expect? Writer/director of Babe Pig In The City, Australian George Miller couldn't be expected to roll over and produce a sweet (read merchandisable) sequel to the original Babe. He's far too human and thoughtful for that.George Miller for heaven's sake has been intimately involved with The Mad Max Films, Lorenzo's Oil, Flirting, Dead Calm, Bangkok Hilton (TV), The Year My Voice Broke and The Dismissal (TV) a list that has no hint within it of a thoughtless panderer to the consumer society. The Witches Of Eastwick was the only aberration and Miller reportedly hated that experience, swearing to never work with Hollywood again, not on their terms anyway.But then there was the phenomenon of Babe which made a fortune. Miller consented to do a sequel but demanded final cut and dismayed the toy makers when they found that Babe 2 didn't fit in with the money machine. So Babe Pig In The City was dumped, with bad reviews generated probably from people who haven't even bothered to see it.Babe Pig In The City sees James Cromwell as Farmer Hoggett dumped (down a well) early in the film and the famous sheep-pig heading off to the city with Mrs Hoggett (Magda Szubanski) to earn some money to save the farm. The Pig gets separated from Mrs Hoggett and becomes aligned with a set of urban frightened animals who are threatened with being evicted from their homes. Babe saves the day by means of his sweet, giving nature.This film looks wonderful. The same digitalised mouth movements to match speech are used as in the original movie. Similarly amazing animal training has the stars doing wonderful things as they tell the story and the sets are simply superb. The city is a composite of Sydney, New York , Paris, London and others with the copperplate ETERNITY graffiti well known by older Sydneysiders sitting gently above it all; an appropriately sensitive emblem for the world Miller has created.Babe 2 is about innocence; about children. Some would say that the film is concerned with Animal Rights but I don't think it's drawing too long a bow to say that the film is commenting on the loss of power and self determination many millions are feeling in the western world as their jobs are disappearing. The lost, threatened animals in Babe have an aura of hopelessness, or at least helplessness before the bright and brave Babe shows them the way to assert themselves.Babe Pig In The City is also often very funny, very human, even if animals are the stars. It's an absolute must see for all animal lovers, of any age. And if you think it's too dark, well grow up. That's life. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Babe.","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Babe A Pig in the City (1998) Dir George Miller / Cast Magda Szubanski, James Cromwell, Mary Stein, Mickey Rooney, Paul Livingston Misguided sequel about being out of your element. After the celebration concluding Babe, Mr. Hoggett is injured with the farm under threat of being sold. With an offer on Babe Mrs. Hoggett flies to the city with the pig and settle into a hotel. Soon she is arrested leaving Babe with new animal companions. Similar plotting but parents be warned of dark images including a dog dangling by its collar that Babe saves. Inventive job by director George Miller as a far different film from what he is often tagged with. He previously made Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome. James Cromwell received Academy Award recognition for his role in Babe, so how unfortunate that his role is so reduced here. Magda Szubanski embraces her role as Mrs. Hoggett with hilarity within every bizarre situation she encounters. Mickey Rooney makes an appearance as a clown but more would have been great. Mary Stein is flat as the landlady whom assists Mrs. Hoggett. Paul Livingston plays an angry chef whose disappointment likely stems from the idea that Babe needed a sequel to begin with. The originality is lacking and the story is standard fare. Triumphant production as expected but parents may exit children from this city when dark themes set in. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!!!","Date":"15 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Babe is such a great movie. I loved the commentators for the animals. Elizabeth Daily, the voice of Babe, was great. She also was the voice of Tommy Pickles for Rugrats, which was definitely one of my favorite childhood television shows. I am disappointed that this movie did not do as well at the box office. I would have thought that it would have made a lot more money than it did. It spent about 90 million dollars to produce the movie, but only grossed around 18 million. What a huge difference! The production of the movie was great. The film was not choppy at all and actually flowed very well. I definitely would rate this film a 10 out of 10, especially when I was a young kid. It is funny, loving, and a must-see! "},{"Title":"Thank the pig... for a marvelous sequel.","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My Take Darker yet just as enjoyable as the first BABE.After the success of the original BABE (both financially and, well we all know how much it attracted the Oscars), Universal and the film's producers probably realized Hey! The people want more! And like any sequel, BABE PIG IN THE CITY was heralded by all BABE fans, and those who liked the original (and I doubt who didn't), and inevitably exited with a big disappointment. While BABE was both dark and light, BABE 2 is much, much darker, in fact more menacing than any film I have ever seen in a G-rated family picture. But what sounds like a disappointment to some, can be a pleasure to others. And I accepted BABE 2's change of pace as a welcome difference. With this, they didn't just make a sequel to a great film, they made another film, a different film, overall.Filling in the shoes of the original director Chris Noonan, the new director George Miller (also the co-writer/producer of this and the original film) ventures deeper and darker world which we presumably caught a glimpse of from the original BABE. In the original, Babe the Sheep-pig is accepted by his owner, an earnest Arthur Hoggett (the great James Cromwell, surprisingly underused in this sequel), as a pig who can tend sheep, meaning he's more valuable than a holiday feast. But there's less glee here than there is a cloud of shadows. Just a few minutes after the jolly introduction, the film dives into depression. After an accident, farmer Hoggett is left wheelchair bound after falling into a well, not entirely Babe's (voiced by E.G. Daily) fault, if only he had been more careful. Anyway, without the farmer doing all the work in the farm, therefore unable to pay their debts, Mrs. Hoggett (Magda Szubanski) brings along Babe and moves to the big city, thinking she can make a little profit with her husband's little Sheep-pig.And this is quite a city by the way! We're not just talking New York or San Fransisco, this is an original city. To create his city, Miller combines all famous landmarks around the world (e.g. The Statue of Liberty, The Sydney Opera House, The Golden Gate Bridge) and puts them all together in an impressive and imaginative special effect. But this city isn't the only thing imaginative about the picture, the characters are pretty elaborate too. The humans are less colorful, but for a talking animal movie, the animals here ARE the humans. They exhibit their own unique character. In a small, isolated motel accepting homeless animals, there's a family of chimps, which actually resemble a small human family by any account. These animals are once again a convincing alternation of animatronics, special effects and the real thing. The story, while it certainly has a share of its enlightening moments, is darker and more menacing than anything depressing about the original. The elderly sheep's death in the original (Hope I didn't spoil it to anyone reading this review!) is nothing compared to the much darker and depressing atmosphere here in this sequel. Yes folks! Animals do get hurt in this film (while maybe not physically real) and the story moves into a much darker territory than any of your kids fairy tales.BABE PIG IN THE CITY didn't really make as much money as the original, nor did it spare a large number of raving parents (back after complaining for the man-eating dinosaurs in two JURASSIC PARK films) who deemed the film too dark for a G-rating. But set aside the parts that may frighten young kids, BABE PIG IN THE CITY is a perfect family film. The story is strong and highly original. It's also the perfect holiday film. So set it up on your DVD and enjoy a highly original and highly underrated film. It probably deserves a place in both your DVD selections, and your heart.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Look, I honestly don't see why people are getting all fussed about this film, mainly the part where the Pitbull gets hanged underwater from a bridge. I remember watching this film every day with my sister, who also loved it when I was eight. Basically, it's a great film for kids and adults alike.The Story After Babe's wild success at the sheep herding contest, Farmer Arthur Hoggett turns down all offers he gets to utilize Babe's talent. But when he tries to fix the farm well, he gets hurt severely. His wife, Esme Cordelia Hoggett, tries to take the reigns, but the Hoggetts are in serious debt to the bank. Esme Cordelia Hoggett and Babe go to the made up city of Metropolis and stay at the only hotel where pets are allowed. Mrs. Hoggett tries to make some money, but finds herself in trouble with the law when she attacks a thug who mugged her and accidentally starts a riot. Babe, on his own, befriends the animals in the hotel and takes in some outsiders, but gets into even more trouble than Mrs. Hoggett.Babe Pig in the City didn't get a warm reception because how it's more darker than the first movie (ie. the Pitbull nearly drowning while being hanged off a bridge), but, despite also being a box office flop, it did get positive reviews in general and the movie does have a cult following. Film critic Gene Siskel named Babe Pig in the City as his choice for best movie of 1998 and said that it was better than the first movie (I agree with him there).To sum it up, Babe Pig in the City truly is a great movie. I personally think people expected it to be exactly like the first but were disappointed that it wasn't; however, what we got is even better than the first. An excellent movie for a family's night in. "},{"Title":"Why this movie doesn't quite work","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first Babe has a consistently mystical feel that makes the movie wonderful to watch.  Pig in the City also creates a feeling, but it is more of a detached haze that is somewhere between enjoyment and horror.  The first movie has many touching moments that generate actual emotion, while most touching scenes in this movie seem somewhat forced.  Also, various scenes go on way to long (the dog chase, the raid, and the restaurant).  It still adds up to a quality movie, but it's not the masterpiece the first movie is. "},{"Title":"Rose coloured spectacles.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The general opinion of this film cannot be determined wholly one way or the other, but as a love it or hate it.The premise could not be different. With the first film we viewed the innocence and simplicity of rural life. Every living thing knew its place, from the sheep grazing on the fields, to the border collies rounding them up. There were no food shortages. There was no homelessness, the sun shined perpetually and life was good. In the city, this almost routine, comfortable way of life is upended and turned inside out. Babe was magical, Babe 2 is reality.People go hungry, people are homeless, they commit crimes, they break laws and live on the edge. Where better to illustrate this reality than in a huge, dark, looming city? To have an inhabitant of the magical rural world flung into the city with no preparation and no prior knowledge of what to expect is explored in this film, although urban residents may find it an unfair portrayal. A similar theme was explored in Crocodile Dundee, although some would admit the city at night is a far more inviting prospect than the Australian outback.One thing I didn't like was the use of the noble, courageous and loyal breed of dog the English Bull Terrier as a bully-boy pit bull. Some may find the pit bull to be the media created stereotypical vicious killer, although I think the director set out to show how the pit bull has become a victim of cliché in being adopted by the tattooed, skin headed type to be the four legged version of themselves.No matter how pleasant the world may seem, the opposite is just as real.  "},{"Title":"A pig without a tale","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The original Babe was something of a breakthrough in animaltronics or getting real animals to look as if they are talking and doing various other improbable things. In best fairytale style, the pig who wants to be a dog learns how to handle sheep and wins the sheepdog contest at the local show.This film follows on from Babe but it is not the usual paler copy of the original. This time Babe ventures into Metropolis, a city more like Batman's Gotham City than Superman's adopted home town. The plot scarcely matters (unlike the reasonably strong storyline in Babe). Babe and Ma Hoggett are in town to earn enough money to save the farm from the Bank and put up at a cheap hotel which takes animals.This is a kid's picture, but it is not for viewers who have difficulty distinguishing film fantasy from reality. Nothing actually gets killed but there is a continuous air of menace here almost absent from the first Babe. Oddly, the ending is farcical. Naturally there is a happy ending but it does not fit well with the rest of the film.The animaltronics seems to have progressed since Babe and now even the goldfish are convincing. The Metropolis setting is a wonderful pastiche of a city with bits of Sydney, New York, Paris and even Seattle showing. A peculiar Sydney touch is the Eternity neon sign easily mistaken for the Coca Cola script, and there are scenes shot inside the restored sandstone magnificence of Sydney Hospital. But the clear message is that cities are not very nice places.Sadly, Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) who added so much to the original Babe appears only at the beginning and end of the movie. Mrs Hoggett (Magda Subanski) has to carry the human side of the film on her ample shoulders - the rest of the humans are bit players only.Really, the problem here is not the dark mood but the story. The miraculous animaltronics and the droll settings and the quite substantial animal characterisations are confined by a thin plot meandering at an oddly slow pace. Even some of the action sequences are lethargic eg the Pit Bull rescue scene. One wonders what was cut out. Still, the film is visually splendid and will probably do something to redeem the reputation of Pit Bull terriers even if it does not interfere with bacon sales in school cafeterias. "}{"Title":"from the sad, chaotic city to the farm.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe is a very sweet, loving pig. He saved the dog from drowning in the water, although that same dog had almost killed him. The city was a scary, dangerous place. The authorities stole the animals from their home when a nasty neighbour tattle tailed on the woman who owned the hotel. I wish that I could have a house like hers! Babe, Pig in the City is in the midst of this strange world of tall buildings and noise, and unknown dangers. The animals ask, is there any place in the world where we can be safe? and Babe says that he knows one place.  "},{"Title":"Hugely underrated classic!!","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" George Miller's Babe Pig In The City is quite the underestimated film. Following on the sweet, good natured fable that was the first Babe film, Miller delved into his creative well, pulled out all the stops and came up with a rip roaring, wondrously exciting sequel that outdoes the original in almost every way. The production design and sets alone are enough to make the film a winner, the titular city comprised of aspects of LA, New York, Sydney, Paris, Vegas and many more. It's every rural village's idea of what the cities are like, a gigantic metropolitan dream world of a creation. Miller starts, in a charming sequence, at Babe's humble beginnings on the picturesque, old world farmland and hurtles him on a madcap adventure in this city of cities, joined by some of his farmland friends (Ferdinand the duck and those adorable singing Mice, whose musical numbers here are hilarious), and sees him meet a whole host of new animals. This is where the magic of the film really takes hold, as we see hundreds of dogs, cats, multiple species of monkeys, and a hapless goldfish all come to amazingly realistic life courtesy of Miller and team. Each animal is beautifully voiced and given his or her own dignity, grace and absolutely grounded story arc to the point where this no longer just becomes a children's film, but a surrealist take on city life, moral hardships and personality and classist conflict as enacted by the national geographic channel. My favourites are the sinister German shepherd (of course voiced by a German dude), the wise old orangutan Thelonius who heartbreakingly won't leave a risky situation without putting his human clothes on, and the opera singing cats (laughed so hard). Mazda Szubenski deserves a medal for her physical comedy and tart, spry turn as the farmers wife, diligently pursuing babe and way in over her head. James Chromwell briefly reprises his wonderful Farmer Hoggett characters. Mickey Rooney, looking so old and delirious I'd be surprised if he knew what film he was working on, let alone what planet, has a demented cameo. But it's the animals show, and amongst all the cartoonish, wild goings on, there's the wonderful theme that a kind and steady heart can help you on your travels, which provides a touching, yet not preachy undercurrent. A momentous achievement, miles in different territory than the first Babe film, and an absolute joy every time I revisit it. "},{"Title":"One of the best animal-films ever made ...","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" To be honest, I never thought Babe Pig in the City as a worth watching sequel. I couldn't see how the magic of the first film would operate again, what new could Babe ever learn? I compared Babe to Bambi and Dumbo and the idea of a sequel was as ludicrous as the sequels trend that almost ruined the Disney classics.Yet Roger Ebert put the film on his top 10 list of best movies released in 1998 (the original Babe had only 3 stars) and Gene Siskel made it the top on his list, but I thought it was a sentimental choice for a man for a reason that makes me feel guilty now. Anyway, I was wondering how the film could surpass the original and made the two critic's list, but then I recall what Ebert said once when they disagree, one is right and the other is wrong, when they both agree, they're both right. That's enough due to my respect for the distinguished critics, to give the film at least the benefit of the doubt, and watch it to see where I stand for.In fact, it's all a matter of mindset, if you decide to watch Babe Pig in the City as a sequel recreating the same cutesy magic of the first opus, you prepare yourself to a big disappointment because the film carries much darker undertones than the first, featuring in very explicit scenes, the notion of violence and some unexpected near-death experiences. But it's less a flaw but rather than the basis of the film's originality. Babe Pig in the City is not a sequel, not even a part II, it's simply the recreation of a character in a new universe, and what a beautiful universe. I said that the farm in Babe could be any farm; the same applies for the city. It feels like a city, something like Sidney or New York, yet it avoids all these clichés, there's no sight of animals crossing a road in the middle of a traffic jam, or meeting a group of hookers or kids in skateboards. The city is here without its archetypes, and that's the big surprise of the film it's still an animal-centered movie.However, the film takes is kind of slow when it comes to gain our trust. I must admit I was so perplexed about the 'sequel' that the opening sequence made me cringe, the sight of good old Arthur Hogget (James Crowell) being accidentally wounded after the water pumping incident took me by surprise, but I didn't see the violence because I guess I was relieved he didn't die. Babe Pig in the City is full of unsettling moments where we feel the presence of death, and really expect a character to pass away. It starts with a fire caused during a circus show, ruining the act of a clown played by Mickey Rooney, later, a pit bull who savagely chases Babe and then throws him in a river, before accidentally hanging himself and almost drowning in the water, there's also a goldfish asking for help after a bowl is broken, and a dog on wheels that gets hit by a car. Yet the genius of these scenes is to flirt with violence without getting too much disturbing for children, because no one dies.The film, directed by George Miller, didn't meet the same critical success than the first, it was even a box-office flop, and I guess the darker tone was to blame. The problem is that retrospectively, if you compare the film to any other one made after, it has everything that would make it a classic a magnificent setting, actions, thrills, comedy through an unforgettable climax involving a swinging chandeliers and a scene-stealing Esme Hogget, played by a talented Magda Zubanski, who forms an irresistible duo with the tall and slim landlady (Mary Stein). And last point, if not a message, the film shows a new facet of animals, as living creatures. In many films, you see fishes agonizing after a bowl is broken, but what if you could hear them talking? That's the little details that elevate the film above the common children's movies. And the monkeys are the real stars of the show and they're absolutely believable, as the closest animals to men, it's interesting that George Miller chose to focus on them as to give them a sort of human look, not human as 'like us', but as 'more human that us'.Babe Pig in the City had all the ingredients to be a great and successful film, but I guess it only suffered by comparison with the first film, and its failure put an end to what could have been a beautiful saga. But what a second sequel, how thrilling it is, some parts are weird and it takes its time to grab you but when the action starts, it's really a heart-pounding experience, with great special effects, and unforgettable characters, Babe is here, the three singing mice, and Ferdinand the Duck desperately trying to follow the airplane, creates a hilarious moment, but was it as funny as the go fly, noble duck, from the pelicans, or the unfortunate place he landed.? I concede the film is a little adult-oriented at times, but there's no way a kid could really be traumatized by this, or let me be more direct, if any parent believes that it's too much for kids, then they should also throw away movies like Pinocchio (think of Monstro, the Coachman, Stromboli), Bambi, and Fantasia and while they're at it, every animated film containing a death.Babe Pig in the City trusted the maturity of its audience but it went wrong somewhere, whatever is the reason, I don't put the blame on the film which, if not as great as the first, because the element of surprise disappeared, is a gutsy sequel with some parts that transcend the charm of the original. "},{"Title":"Not just a great sequel, it's a brilliant ORIGINAL.","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 1996's BABE was an out-of-nowhere hit. Coming out on a risky summer season, where BATMAN FOREVER was the talk of the town, BABE found its audience thanks to word of mouth and some positive critic reviews. Now, it's considered one of the finest family films ever made; an witty, creative and original movie. If only its sequel BABE PIG IN THE CITY received such grace. It more than deserves it. At first, a sequel to BABE seems like trying to sequelize the original WIZARD OF OZ (And no! RETURN TO OZ does not count). Why make a sequel to a surprise hit that was unique and surprising which would only detract from what the first one achieved. But in the hands of the inventive yet sadly under-appreciated Australian filmmaker George Miller (co-writer and producer of BABE), the sequel finds an interesting direction Why not do what the original did; do something that goes against what audiences are expecting. Sadly, audience don't always warm-up to re- inventions of familiar premises. And whereas BABE was a light-hearted charmer sprinkled with moments aimed at grown-ups, PIG IN THE CITY is a little darker and more menacing, but still mixed with some of the same charm and inventiveness of the first. People sadly didn't warm-up with Miller's darker and more eccentric tone (the film is almost outright surrealism) and it remains misunderstood to this day. Luckily, home video has done the proper justice to this little gem and its finally seeing more positive light than during its original release. The storyline is incredible; combining a witty live-action cartoon, a quirky slapstick comedy, a Dickensian modern fairy tale, and some totally oddball surrealism. Immediately, the story begins with Farmer Hoggett (the brilliant James Cromwell, given very little screen time here though) getting caught in an accident that leaves his wife Esme (a hilarious Magda Szubaski) doing all the work in the farm, until a notice for foreclosure forces her to travel to the big city, in hopes of taking Babe to a special appearance and use the appearance fee as payment to their loan. But their city isn't as welcoming as expected. Almost immediately, Mrs. Hoggett finds herself accidentally convicted of drug possession and gets kicked-off almost everywhere (Scram lady! This isn't a farm!), until she finds a small hotel that actually hosts a couple of strange homeless animals. There, Babe meets a number of strange denizens including a group of showbiz chimpanzees, a disabled- to-the-waist dog named Flealick, a couple of other dogs and cats, and then some strays who finds comfort in Babe's hospitality and a ruthless pitbull who finds himself converted when an act of kindness from Babe gives him a wake-up call. Eventually, he also meets up with old pal Ferdinand, who thinks of Babe as his lucky pig, only to realize to this little porker's potential. Though the storyline is rather simple (it's really another fish-out- water tale) and its morals are traditional, the film doesn't offer easy paths. You're just a pig in the big city! says Ferdinand the duck at one point in the film. What could you possibly do? Why even try? Immediately, the merits of morality and kindness in a different world where the rules are very different from the simple life in the country are questioned. Could kindness and humility overcome differences, change lives, inspire others even in a world as hopelessly bleak as an uninviting urban environment? Add to that, the movie even makes possible references to Babe as something of a Christ-figure, who finds himself serving up kindness to a bunch of city animals who finds the very idea oblivious. I'm just a pig on a mission. Babe says at one point. Even if you don't see it at that angle, the movie is still the stuff of classic fairy tale viewed on more mature eyes. Kids will love its cute animals and fun slapstick (the climax is as crazy as it is lively and hilarious), but adults will find the story actually willing to transcend beyond the levels of what kids movies would usually go. There's just so much to say about this movie (Did I even mention about how creative and how seamless they make the animals talk and act?) that it just begs to wonder why people don't even notice something so unique and wonderful. It's not just a brilliant sequel, it's a brilliant original work all its own. I say, go see BABE again and love it as you always have. Now go see BABE PIG IN THE CITY again, and see a vastly different film that you might not have noticed before. "},{"Title":"I loved the 1st but this one is much better ;)","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really liked the original Babe but for some reason I thought BABE Pig in the City was a much better take on.It's a bit better than the first because it's set outside the farm, there's new characters which a massively good change and there is more action and commotion to handle in this film.When the farm's underway of getting destroyed or something like that, something negative happening to the farm, the farmer's wife and Babe go along across the country and end up in a large city that they have never been used to. Babe also has to try and make piece with many new comers of the film.For a great story, excellent acting and some better characters, BABE 2 gets an 8/10.Hope this review was good. ) "},{"Title":"Stunning film but maybe not for very very young children","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a actually a sinister and dark social satire with a bold vision integrated into a great story. With George Mad Max Miller directing, that's unsurprising. When I first saw the film, I was in shock at how much punishment our little pink hero had to endure and the dark tone of the film as I was expecting another dainty tale like the first. The animal effects are astounding and its their performances that really elevate this film to greatness. Babe finds himself in a nightmarish environment of very little charity where everyone is having to fend for themselves and fight for survival. This makes babe grow up quickly and having to find solutions not just for himself but for others. This may sound depressing, well it is in terms of story premise but its the diversity of characters that absolutely engages you in their struggles. I understand why it flopped in the box office. It was targeted towards all young audiences but I know if I was a 5 year old, this will give me nightmares. It still has charm and more importantly, the morals are fully intact but just be prepared for a much darker vision than the first film. But don't dismiss this. It is truly a brilliant film. "},{"Title":"A Kids movie to enjoy and learn from","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like to view again some titles I believe I already watched The Shawshank Redemption no less than 7 times, the same for Magnolia, no less than 10 times Pink Floyd - The Wall... now readers can guess my preferences are variated... I love Spanish, french, British, Brazilian films. But now there is this little gem, a movie creates apparently for kids... that will never bore or disappoint me... so clean and neat are the concepts on which it's based, so incredibly fresh and simple...If the ideals and toughts in Babe's head where more spreaded among us, no doubt this world would be quite a nicer place.If you decide to rent or buy it, pay close attention to some of the narrator's comments. Pay close attention to the Pitbull's statements, Ferdinand occurrences and of course, Babe's unique decisions. Because they will put a smile in your face, and a question in your mind ¿Why, if things can be so simple, we always try to make them so complicated? "},{"Title":"Great film (just not a children's movie)","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Babe 2 is a prime example of what can happen when a director chooses material that is not suited to his particular gifts. Director George Miller is best known for The Road Warrior and Mad Max, two of the most manic, insanely brutal films ever created. Putting this guy in charge of a children's movie is like letting a bull loose in a china shop. Children's films, more than anything, require a light touch. Perhaps more than any other filmmaker watching Miller's movies is like watching the neighborhood bully on a wild sugar rush. Exhilarating and slightly scary. A lot of times this works (The Witches of Eastwick, The Road Warrior), but here it seems misplaced. Miller is a visionary director with many strengths, but a light touch he does not possess.Babe 2 begins roughly where the first one left off. Babe comes back to the farm a hero, but when farmer Hoggett is laid up after a tragic accident Babe and the farmer's wife must journey by plane to make a celebrity appearance at a livestock show, so they can save the farm, which is in danger of being taken away by the bank. After missing their connecting flight Babe and the farmer's wife are stranded in a strange fictional metropolis that looks like someone took New York, Venice, Rio, Los Angeles, and Paris and squashed them all into a single city. They are then separated and have various cliff-hanger adventures.All of this is eye-popping in the extreme. Miller is definitely a director who thinks outside the box. Twenty minutes into the movie you realize you're watching something totally unlike any other children's movie. Everything is visualized astonishingly and in totally unorthodox fashion. The animals are amazing, particularly a rowdy family of monkeys. They really have personalities. Miller's camera (as in The Road Warrior) goes everywhere - up and down walls, underwater, under doors. It begins to feel like the camera is actually a character in the film. The one definite problem (and I love Miller's movies so I say this with great reservation) is that Babe 2 is just too too dark for kids. In fact, by the time I got to the scene where a wild charity show featuring monkeys and magic explodes into psychedelic chaos it became clear that this isn't really even a children's movie!! It's more some strange experimental film that happens to have talking animals in it.This IS a great movie. Miller is a one-of-a-kind director with a unique vision but I think this just may be too dark for kids. "},{"Title":"Fanciful","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A far from brilliant film, but one of the finer family films. Darker in tone that the original, Miller probably found inspiration from the works of Jeunet and Caro and shows this in the Grimm visuals and storytelling. Fans of the original might be put off by the darker story and whimsical plot, but this film surpasses the original in that it isn't overly sentimental and has the ability to entertain without sacrificing the charm that also comes from the original. It's unfortunate that it tanked at the box office because it deserves to be seen. Hopefully with the increase in DVD purchases, this film will get the attention it should have.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Endearing","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe Pig In The City was a smart film that took a while to get into. This is the story about a talking pig named Babe who went into the city to save his owner's farm; a heart-felt gesture and plot. I really liked this movie because it was a film for everybody whether young or old; this movie will touch everyone in a way that will make you see it over and over. I wouldn't go as far as calling it the best movie of 1998, but it certainly is on my top ten list. The special effects were great in that the way the special effects people got the animals to talk. There were not many real live actors that were in this film, but the actors such as the hotel owner and the farm owner's wife, Esme Hoggett that were in the film did not act that well. I was more impressed by the way the pig gathered the morale of the other animals in the hotel and eventually saved the animals from the pound.Babe Pig In The City is an endearing film that everyone will enjoy. "}{"Title":"Amazing, albeit dark, clever film","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like to punish myself by reading through user reviews for films that I like and this time around I've actually been driven to respond myself. Many people who don't like this film say oh, gee, this one had a huge budget and look what happened... or where's the magic of the original? or this film was just so dark that I found it depressing.  Bla bla bla. The real depressing aspect is that these comments are far off from reality. Of course, everyone is entitled to their opinions, but sometimes closed minded opinions are irritating. First off, lots of people say, oh gee, this was a kids movie, how dark! Personally, when I watch a movie I like to view it as a movie, and not under any particular genre.  Granted it was dark, but it had plenty of good intentions that really aren't hard to catch.  Babe is still Babe, and although mishaps happen, and are scary, that's what they're supposed to be. The important part of the plot is that Babe holds on to his innocent nature despite the things that go on.  Viewers are put off by animal characters in the film describing their encounters with humans (my human put me in a sack and threw me in the river... etc. etc.) but if animals could talk, what else would they say.  I'm drawn to look back on the sales of dalmation puppies after 101 Dalmations came out, puppies that were sent back to the pound or abandoned after families realized they required lots of responsibility.And then people complain about the continuity...what about it?  They say that Babe goes through one conflict after another.  Well, when I break down my day of rumbling through the city, things are so hectic that I can only imagine what would happen to an animal if it were on its own.  There are so many different aspects to city life that in order to recreate it, you almost HAVE to have it layered in plot and conflict.  The place has to seem foreign to Babe, because Babe is a tourist he is unable to fit in immediately. This is a different world, and other animals have adjusted differently. Hard times for a society that doesn't exactly pursue animal rights.More over, just reading the first 20 comments on the movie, someone said the absolutely MORONIC line, Why would she even take the pig??  Did this person even watch the movie?  My god, the answer is right there in the first 10 min!  That's the whole reason they're IN the city!  Then somebody else said, These are animals played for laughs (oh, look at the monkey getting dressed!)  GOD NO!  These are animals that might seem funny from mannerisms, the Orangutan getting dressed is almost heartbreaking if you understand his reasons.  Christ on a crutch, the people who found the movie depressing are closer to the truth while the other complaints are just irritating.This movie is very clever, smart, portraying real human emotion under the curtain of animal characters.  What would animals say if they could talk. Probably what they said in this movie.  Thank god Babe is there to offer some hope! "},{"Title":"A beautiful fable.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the first Babe was a coming of age story, the sequel is sort of a Bildungsroman, as Babe meets a new set of challenges.  A thoroughly marvelous realization, from the seamless animal work to the lovely score, the incredible production design, and the dark humor sprinkled throughout. Also of note is the strange, unspoken depths of the relationship between the Ape Thelonious and his washed-up Clown master, played by Mickey Rooney. It's rare to find a single frame provide so much feeling, but the sight of the ape watching his master being taken away to die, a posture of total despair, is remarkable.See this at once.  "},{"Title":"A remarkable, daring film!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Enough cannot be said about Babe Pig in the City.  I expected another film like Babe, a film that told its audience exactly how to feel, a film that tried to sell a way of thinking to the public, and our politically correct critics and family audiences ate it up.  It was, to say the least, a minor acheivement.  The sequel, however, trusts its audience enough to project a fantastic, surreal, yet utterly dark vision of the world, not coddling or reassuring its audiences.  In the original, Babe's kind heart changed his world for the better, and his talents spared his life.  In the sequel, everyone Babe meets on his journey (the DEA dog, an astonishingly expressive Mickey Rooney, the apes, the vicious dogs) is inexplicably evil.  The horror here is not so much that these characters are selfish or unkind, but that they nearly destroy Babe's life and the future of the farm for no apparent reason.  Much like Iago in Shakespeare's wicked tragedy Othello, these characters have little to gain in their acts of wrongdoing, save for a purely sadistic pleasure.  Babe's kind heart is barely heard in this world (he only takes control of his destiny with the help of a bully dog).  Babe almost becomes a dictator of sorts, enforcing his law on the animals, and the film's semi-ironic treatment of this scene is refreshing.  Is Babe rubbing off on the city, or vice versa?  Babe Pig in the City is such an emotionally wrenching and depressing film, I felt like I was watching a PT Anderson film (see his debut Hard Eight).  If you want to get your mind blown, see Babe PITC intoxicated. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest family films ever!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first Babe was a great charming, heartwarming family film. This sequel is a great dark, strange family film. When there are so many dumb family orientated films like Ed, and people say 'it's a family film, what do you expect' (and I admit I was one of those people), THIS is what you expect! Congratulations George Miller and company. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really appreciated this film. Having seen the first one I am glad that I didn't have to sit through 'the first one again but worse' sequel syndrome. Say what you will, at least this film is different. I happened to sit through the risible dog-fascist nonsense of Cats and Dogs earlier this week, and this film tops it in terms of character, message, wit and tone. The creepiness of the talking animals in that film wasn't so much in evidence here either, as there is a minimal use of off-putting and unnecessary CG to 'enhance' the effect. There are many fantastic examples of imagination and humour, delivered in a refreshingly unpatronising way. However, on a negative note, I would grant that the film drags a little towards the end.On the issue of its rating, It should have been a PG. Seeing as I'm twenty, I probably appreciated it more and was able to take its negative and dark imagery with more of a pinch of salt than, say a ten year old. I would recommend sitting with your kid while watching it, but for people to criticise it as being different? We need more of these sort of films in the children's film genre, which produce an emotional reaction. The one film I remember most in my childhood was a marginal silent film called the Red Balloon, which was a very distressing tale, but as a consequence memorable, and it didn't affect my mental growth. Go and see Rugrats or Stuart Little with your children if you want something predictable and anodyne, something your kid will forget in a day. Watch this film if you'd like to be provoked into an emotional response when you watch something and you appreciate fine films. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have watched this film a number of times and have enjoyed it very much each time. The most recent time however I was amazed at its beauty and quality.Films like this one are so rare. There is a certain spirit in movies like this that make you still in awe as you watch. The Truman Show was one of those films.I loved the art direction. The warm and safe farm that we know and love, and the dark city with a thousand landmarks, the endless and cold airport terminal, the multi-floored Flealands hotel, the eclectic canal streetscape, all fantastic, penetrating images.The characters in this film are so involving. The lonely pink poodle, the paranoid (who can blame him after dropping in on the Metropolis Gun Club) Ferdinand, the triumphant Flealick, the yes-no Nigel & Alan, along with the menagerie of other cats, dogs and monkeys and of course, not forgetting Babe.This film has something to say. It talks about our uncaring world. It talks about poverty, nimbyism, pride, destiny and most importantly how a kind and steady heart can save a sad and sorry world. And a cruel world it is. Cats and dogs licking the spaghetti stain on the carpet since there is no other food. The little dog who says My owner put me in a bag, and threw me in the water.There are many beautiful and touching scenes in this film. The scene where Babe saves the pitbull after almost being killed by him. The reaction of the onlookers suggest they have never witnessed anything like that before.The most beautiful and touching scene in the movie for me is when Flealick, the little Jack Russell with wheels for back legs is tossed across the street while trying to save his friends. As the camera pans towards his upturned body, one of Flealicks wheels spins slower and slower as his breathing becomes more labored. Finally the wheel stops and the next scene shows the deceased Flealick in paradise, jumping with healthy legs on a flowery meadow to catch colorful butterflies. This is one of the most touching scenes I have seen in any movie. Period.This movie also has some great wit. Just look at the crowd of characters in the street after a police officer throws Ms. Hogget into the police van and says OK freak show over. Hardly!This move is also very, very funny. Ferdinand's paranoia is at its best when he cries Oxygen! simply because someone closes a door. The bungee jumping ballroom scene is great!Good for you Roger Ebert for it being part of your top ten pick for 1998, and even better for you Gene Siskel for giving it the best film award for that year. Again, this film is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A pig of a different color.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Possible spoilers Babe, Pig in the City is definitely a different picture from the original Babe.  It has replaced the gentle charm of the original with a dark tale that can be interpreted on several levels.  I found the anti-fascist statement made by this movie to be perhaps more powerful than Life is Beautiful.  And not much less painful - a dog hanging by a leg with its head submerged in water; a dog paralyzed from the waist down hurled to the side of the road while the camera gives us a close-up of the mangled wheels the dog uses for mobility; a fish bereft of its life support flapping helplessly on the floor pleading for water; animals distressed by their hunger with little resources to remedy it; animals mercilessly trapped and ripped from their homes in the dark of night in a scene reminiscent of the raid on the Warsaw ghetto in Shindler's List.  This movie gives us yet another telling of the innocence in the grip of evil theme in quite a different context.I think this movie is much more creative than the original - and the original was pretty inventive to begin with. The city is a masterful invention.  I think it would take several viewings to get a full grasp of its true complexity.  Its rather oppressive darkness reminded be a bit of the city in Blade Runner. And the music was woven in with much sophistication and it added additional subtle meaning.  I particularly liked the Edith Piaf songs.The only scene I did not like was the goofiness in the restaurant - but I did admire how the pyramid of champagne glasses remained untouched.  Also, the movie kind of backed itself into a corner so that a deus ex machina was the only way to end it.  If it had gone directly for an adult audience, I think this could have been a very good movie indeed, but it seemed to waver in terms of just where it was going.This movie could be very disturbing for a small child. I don't think there were ultimately any dead animals or people - but there were a lot of close calls where animals or people looked like they were going to wind up dead.Trying to compare this sequel to the original almost makes no sense, since they are really two different movies.  I have to admire the creators for not just offering us a bland remake of the original. "},{"Title":"What a gem","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ignore the kids movie marketing hype and see this movie. It is surprisingly entertaining and moving, if you love animals (as I do) you will be deeply touched by this film.The visuals and special effects are magnificent and the movie seems to draw on elements of Batman,Brazil,and Delicatessen (among others) for it's unusual urban characters and mood. "},{"Title":"Hard Work Evident","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fantastic movie - the results of the hard work that went into this movie are clear - the movie is extremely funny and worth seeing whatever your age.  The animals are so beautiful -especially the dog with his back wheels, he brought a lump to my throat.  I'd thoroughly recommend this movie to anyone needing cheering up, or to any animal lover.  "},{"Title":"Not only stands up to the original, but does it one better","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With Thanksgiving 1998 full of patronizing junk that we had all seen 300 times before (Rugrats, I'll Be Home for Christmas, etc.), this film was actually a movie that lived up to the standard Disney (this is not a Disney film) set long ago when it decided a family movie was for both children and adults. More surprisingly, this sequel lives up to the original Babe which was one of the best family films ever released. It may lose a bit of the heart, but for every artery stolen, there is a new whistle or bell which needs to be seen to be believed. Although the end gets a bit carried away and is obviously intended for a younger audience, this was the family film of the year and should not have been missed. People avoided the movie in droves when it came out at the theater.  Hopefully it will become the classic it deserves to be on video. Babe Pig in the City was a bold attempt at making art where others were simply making money.  This is one of the few sequels that, upon repeated viewings, not only stands up to the original, but does it one better. "}{"Title":"Babe goes big - again.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In 1995, Babe popped into the world and grossed a total of $250 million. In 1998, Babe bounced back and made even more money than the original. And it totally deserved more, too. This sequel is better, but it doesn't patch up for the terrible progenitor....Anyway, when Babe wins yet ANOTHER contest in rounding-sheep he gets taken to the rounding-sheep finals all the way in the city. As you can probably tell, he gets lost and has fun, but will he ever be able to win the contest?My Rating  6 and a half/10 "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a really good movie. I love the Babe movies. This is not as good as the original, but it wasn't that far behind. The plot was good. I really don't have much to say about this except that if you will watch it, you will not be disappointed. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good family movie, and liked the original. "},{"Title":"A few steps short of good.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The original was an absolute marvel, and deserved all the praise it got. The sequel wasn't necessarily bad, but it was disappointing, and for good reason.To its credit, it is a visually appealing film. The special effects, set design, and cinematography are top-notch. What ruins it is the fact that humans are reduced to caricatures (Mickey Rooney's clown character, although very well-played, in enormously embarrassing; parallelisms to the real-life Fugly the Klown are evident). In addition, the animals are given incidental treatment, even Babe, him(?)self. Despite the fact that he(?) is the protagonist, he does not significantly contribute to the storyline.George Miller is an apt directorial substitute for Noonan, considering his hand in the original. I suppose, if anything, what's to blame is the writing. I didn't have much (if any) compassion or sympathy for the characters, and by consequence, was unmoved by the payoff (if you want to call it a payoff).As films go, however, there are other children's films that are far, far worse than this one, and seeing as such, I'd take kids to see this before countless other films; like I said, before, this is not a bad film, it is just disappointingly crafted. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this on video, and now I wish I had seen this on the big screen -- I like Babe a lot (though I was extremely irritated that it won the Oscar for special effects) -- but this one appeals to me so much more.  Visually it was incredible, but it also plucked tenderly the chords of my emotions. It is a very moving film, what Watership Down or Secret of Nihm (Children stories with very dark moments) is to books, so this is to Film.This is not for everyone, but it certainly does not extend the Babe franchise in vain.  This is a magical film that amazes at almost every turn -- I gave it a nine because I felt that the plot wandered in some places and the climatic scene with the farm lady was way too long -- but now I understand why so many critics put it on their top ten lists.I am so impressed.  Wonderful they didn't just rehash the old, but put the same lovable and sweet, tender character into another situation entirely -- and in the end showed that such a character can survive the most bleak moments and affect those around them for the better.One of the best family films ever made. . . too bad not many saw this gem. It is not Miller's masterpiece (His Road Warrior wins that title) -- but it is a close second indeed.  Well, perhaps it is a masterpiece of his new born vision.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Here's a highly favorable review","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie immensely.  First off, it's very original even though it is a sequel.  The animals are very convincing and varied in personality. Notice how they seem more human-like than the weirdo human characters.The supposed dark elements are done way better here than in most G-rated movies.  The negative situations are more like real life tragic moments and obstactles as opposed to the manipulative build-up to a world crashing event like many Disney flicks.  Babe leads by example and solves problems. There are very good lessons for kids although this isn't for kids under 6.The special effects are great, the humor is varied and smart, and the whole thing is imaginative and whimsical.  Somehow, the singing mice are really fun to watch.The only negative thing I have to say on this one is that I miss James Cromwell who is one of my favorites.  He was really not in this film.One last thing I wanna point out to the it's too dark crowd is that the point of the movie is taking a character from a pleasant environment in putting him into a scary and challenging place.  The Babe character does not have some looming evil edge...he inspires others to be better.I'll have to agree with Siskel & Ebert on this one. "},{"Title":"**** (out of four)","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There's a certain freedom in George Miller's Babe Pig in the City which is unlike many another movie aiming for that same one-word plateau.  This freedom is all the more surprising when one considers that this is the follow-up to one of the most beloved children's movies of recent times, 1995's Babe. Indeed the term sequel usually implies a continuation, but those jaded upper-crust Hollywood producers, and some unimaginative members of the bourgeoisie, also seem to think it means a rehash. This may explain why Lethal Weapon 4 outperformed Babe 2 nearly seven times over at the box-office.  Nevertheless one year later Chris Rock's raspy one-liners hold no bearing in my memory while a simple shot of an orangutan holding a fishbowl seems to be permanently branded within the depths of my brain. That is the price money can never buy.Babe Pig in the City is indeed a continuation of the odyssies of the lovable porker from the Oscar-nominated original.  But like so many great movies, it's much more than that.  Babe (voiced by E.G. Daily, taking over dubbing duties from the original's Christine Cavanaugh) finds himself in a rut when Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) injures himself and the farm chores are pinned on his wife (Magda Szubanski).  To pay off the inevitable foreclosure on the estate, Mrs. Hoggett and Babe attempt to fly to a press junket where the pig's appearance would bring an end to their financial problems, but problems arise when the good wife is falsely identified as a drug runner by a canine narc (characterized as an addled stool pigeon a la Henry Hill in Goodfellas).  After the mistake is cleared up, Mrs. Hoggett and Babe are given shelter by an eccentric hotel-owner who runs a private establishment for all kinds of animals, a fact which sits none-too-well with the conservative classical-music aficionados next door.Providing the backdrog in Babe's journey is Miller's spectacular realization of his setting, captured in exquisite production design and visual effects. This isn't just a city, it's The City, a breathless amalgam of famous landmarks (including the Statue of Liberty and Big Ben) and darkened alleys, of shady characters and public apathy.  The atmosphere alotted to this metropolis cuts close to the mythological underpinnings of a city's existence, a point Miller and fellow screenwriters Judy Morris and Mark Lamprell ingeniously introduce with their assortment of metropolitan archetypes in animal form washed-out prostitutes (the poodle), street-smart con men (the chimpanzees), reformed killers (the pitbull), determined invalids (the beagle, who inevitably reminded me of Ronald Where's the rest of me? Reagan in King's Row), orphans (the homeless dogs and cats which seemed like a ragtag group of furry Dead End Kids) and misunderstood loners (the aforementioned orangutan).Indeed, though, the most courageous subtext of Babe Pig in the City is in the sophisticated dialogue, a rarity not only in children's films but in all films.  The animals don't sing comforting lullabies unlike the cutesy Disney characterizations of the past years nor do they speak in condescendingly childish lingo like similar characters in the movie Homeward Bound The Incredible Journey from a few years back.  Indeed even the Doberman Pinscher sounds as if he's read Whitman.  There's a breathtaking moment where Babe, being chased across the many avenues of the city, turns around and directs a simple question to his attacker Why?  Compare that to Disney's A Bug's Life, obviously a technically amazing film but operating far below Babe 2 in the intellectual department.  That film ends with the inevitable fight where the villain dies and everything remains happily ever after.  In Babe Pig in the City the only villain is the loss of childlike innocence, and the film ends subtly with the realization that our adorable hero's naivete has been tested and preserved.  There's a lesson all those Hollywood sequel-mongers should take to heart.  "},{"Title":"Misguided...","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an extraordinary film. Miller taps into his abundant creative genius to create a very unique experience indeed. I can certainly understand why some might find it chaotic and a bit on the dark side, but I am baffled by those who deem it to be a bad film. It is unusual... even edgy at times, but nothing less than an outstanding achievement. It perfectly appropriate for children of all ages, and this opinion is coming from a father who typical won't let his kids watch PG movies. Be prepared for you children to laugh, cry, scream and clutch your arm at times. This Babe contains signifcantly more action than its predecessor. Nevertheless, the positive moral message for youngsters remains intact, and adults will marvel at the skilled direction, special effects and top notch entertainment value.Don't be scared away by the naysayers on this one. They are misguided souls who cannot seem to recognize the beauty of Miller's creation. Perhaps you will. "},{"Title":"A great sequel!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's not fair to compare this movie to the first one. The biggest problem with sequels is that sometimes because of a lack of creativity they rip-off the previous movie. Well, this movie doesn't. A whole new story, a whole new set of the wonderful surrealistic Big City and a fantastic new cast of animals.One thing is still the same, though. The magic. Tons of imagination create a whole new style like nothing before. The movie is funny in some bits, but very touching as well. Some bits of the movie are quite dark and will make your heart sink and the edge-of-the-seat action scenes will make you cheer and smile.I love Babe!  "},{"Title":"G-rating misleading","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie, but the G rating might not be appropriate. There are some dark moments in the film; animals going hungry, and a dog having a near-death experience. "},{"Title":"Sweet and imaginative","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story once again has its heart in the right place.  Sets and effects were outstanding.  A sweet movie, but I really liked the first one a little better.  I think this one needed just a little more human presence. "}{"Title":"This really IS the best movie of 1998.  Here's why.","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let's address the it's too dark/scary for kids issue. If we look at the original Babe, we had one scene where Ma, the sheep, was killed by wild dogs.  We had another scene where Farmer Hoggett was going to shoot Babe because he thought that Babe had somehow killed Ma.  The opening of the first movie, which takes place in a dark slaughterhouse, is pretty grim. In Pig in the City we have an accident happening to Farmer Hoggett, which we are shown was not fatal. We have another accident happening to Flealick the wheelchair bound dog, from which he bounces right back and continues onward. We have the chase scene with the angry pit bull who almost drowns - until Babe saves him.  Now how is that too dark for kids?  The only person who actually comes to any harm in this movie is Mickey Rooney's character, but despite arguments to the contrary it's no more traumatizing to see Mickey Rooney carried off in a stretcher than it is to see poor old Rex muzzled and given tranquilizers in the first movie!  I think there are a good many people who are overprotective of their children.  The kids that I know who watched this movie loved it. Now, why is this movie the best one of 1998? It has a better plot, more likeable characters, and a better resolution than any movie I can think of from 1998.  Period.  All of the critics, except Siskel and Ebert (RIP Gene!) missed the boat on this one.  Hello critics, does the phrase magic realism ring a bell? And what great images. When the chandelier falls and hundreds of electric blue balloons descend on the golden/yellow ballroom, and the little pink pig rises out of the mass of blue balloons -- the colors and contrasts of this one shot, and the way it was executed, is brilliant.  The scene where Thelonius turns around and says, But I'm not dressed! - the scene where the animals slip through the children's hospital ward while one boy watches in wonder - these and many more images from the movie deserve close and careful study. These are the points I wish to argue from this excellent movie. I suggest that you not take any critic's word for it, nor should you pay attention to the overprotective whiners who would shield children from life itself if they could.  Buy this movie and see for yourself.  In years to come it will be known as a classic.  "},{"Title":"The Best Family Film Since Willy Wonka","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've read a number of user comments, and they seem split by those who credit George Miller for creating an amazing world, and crafting a film with elements from the original, but in a new way.  The rest seem to want to string him up for daring to have such a dark view of things in a children's film.Well, I gotta throw my hat in with those who would pat Miller on the back. This film is engaging, engrossing,and thought provoking.  Yes there are moments of terror - the chase sequence, which ends with the word why?. The fire in the children's hospital.  Heck, the Farmer's accident at the beginning of the film.  All are elements which may cause kids to shut their eyes.  So what?  Isn't Hansel and Gretel about child abandonment and cannibalism?  Does that mean it isn't suitable for children? No.This film is a great conversation starter for you to have with your kids. You can point out that despite all the adversity, neither Mrs. Hoggett, nor the Pig, lose hope.  In the end, good triumphs over bad.  These are the great lessons of life.The film itself has many great touches - I loved scene where the recently saved pitbull enforces Babe's law, making everyone share in the food the monkeys found.  The first view of the city itself is a hoot.  Get this in widescreen if you can, and hit pause.  Check out all the landmarks!In truth, though, I wouldn't suggest this if your kid is still into Barney. But if your child is in the 9-13 year range, and wants to see a movie that won't rot his brain, I encourage you to give this a shot.  I LOVED it. Much better than the 1st.  "},{"Title":"The Dark Side of Babe.......","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Indeed, BABE has no dark side, but this is certainly a dark movie compared with the original Babe. But it is also gothic and imaginative and compassionate and fun! The plot is gripping, the effects delightful, and the scenic and visual imagination displayed is great! This is one of those movies which creates a whole new world--on the order perhaps of Time Bandits or Popeye or The Borrowers.I am not sure if this is an ideal family movie for the youngest set, but it is full and satisfying and really worthwhile. "},{"Title":"A delightful film that had a lot of heart behind it","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe Pig In The City was a smart film that took a while to get into. This is the story about a talking pig named Babe who went into the city to save his owner's farm; a heart-felt gesture and plot. I really liked this movie because it was a film for everybody whether young or old; this movie will touch everyone in a way that will make you see it over and over. I wouldn't go as far as the late Gene Siskel did by calling it the best movie of the year but it certainly is on my top ten list. The special effects were great in that the way the special effects people got the animals to talk. There were not many real live actors that were in this film, but the actors such as the hotel owner and the farm owner's wife, Esme Hoggett that were in the film did not act that well. I was more impressed by the way the pig gathered the morale of the other animals in the hotel and eventually saved the animals from the pound. "},{"Title":"Destined to become a classic.","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is destined to become a classic, in a league with The Wizard of Oz. Not having seen the original, I viewed it with no expectations other than if my favorite critic Gene Siskel thought it was great, it must be great.Right he was, as usual. To expand on great, it was original, imaginative, engaging, funny, technically brilliant, visually stunning and morally uplifting. Seen another movie like that lately? Critics who complain about the film's darkness must have forgotten the flying monkey scene in The Wizard of Ox and surely never read any of Grimm's fairy tales. Thank you George Miller for making this beautiful film.  And bless you, Gene, for your integrity and lifelong (alas, not long enough) championing of little known but worthy films.  "},{"Title":"A MOVIE THAT PLAYS LIKE A DREAM...A REALLY GOOD DREAM.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best films i have seen in a long time and has some of the best creative scenery ever. I loved this film and will watch it again and again. Give it a chance, and about 20 minutes to get into, then it explodes into a giant burst of fun. "},{"Title":"Definitely A Classic","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ....I've only seen the film once, but intend to see view it several times more. It's rare that I've been so moved by a film featuring, say, a melancholy orangutan, a pink poodle southern belle, a nervy crippled dog etc. What a film! It haunts me still. It can't be compared to the bucolic simplicity of the original, because that one served that theme well, while this one quite rightly explores another venue. But it never loses its goodness of heart either. Several scenes should provoke honest tears in even the most jaded souls--such as the rescue of the ostensibly vicious, drowning dog by Babe. It's a difficult film to easily absorb at first, perhaps, and I can now see why it was not a hit with mainstream audiences, who are always being primed and fattened up for the most marketable, formula-type pap, but with some effort this BABE sequel deserves the highest of praise. It will seep into your mind and emotions the way the best movies can. To evoke a phrase, it'll do.   "},{"Title":"Simply Brilliant!","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite the late, great film critic Gene Siskel's naming of this film as the best film of 1998,  this movie was painfully overlooked by moviegoers and the Oscars.  A sequel to BABE, the film follows the talking pig to the big city where he tries to save the farm from foreclosure.  Along the way, he encounters a variety of other talking critters with whom he shares his adventure.I know that some of you may be thinking that this is a kid's movie or a film for animal lovers,  and you'd be correct - kids and animal lovers will love the film.  But I recommend the film to ALL viewers.  It has something to offer everyone.  Yes, the animals are adorable, but I hesitate to call this movie cute.  That would somehow minimize the importance of its themes, and would overlook the beauty of the sets and cinematography and the brilliance of its simple, yet poetic script.While not at all preachy, BABE has much to say -- about us and about the state of our world.  The film is entertaining, clever, moving, funny and meaningful - all the things good movies should be.  In a time when so many films exploit that which is dreary in the name of realism or futurism, BABE shines a bright, Technicolor spotlight upon our collective subconscious and reminds us of the things we all once knew to be real and truly important. "},{"Title":"It's merely the second best children's film ever made!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  George Miller's Babe is one of the greatest children's films ever made, one of my favorite films ever, and an astonishing Christian parable.  The innocence and wonder of Babe, the sheep herding pig, who learns that The Boss not only allows death, but at times, even kills, and yet still loves his animals was so richly rendered that when I heard that they were making a equel, I groaned.  What possibly could be added to perfection? Typical Hollywood, I grumbled; make a sequel when none is necessary.Trying to milk a franchise for all it's worth.  And then I began reading about Babe, Pig in the City, and I was even more disenchanted.  Put Babe in a City?  Remove my favorite film character of the last ten years from the bucolic Eden of Hoggett farm?  No no, a thousand times no.Well, this weekend, I saw Babe Pig in the City.  And I loved it. It's not as good at the original Babe--but nothing could be. It's narratively confused, and it's pretty dark.  It's a very strange film.  But the heart of the story--the innocence of Babe overcoming evil in the world, and the possibility of a redemptive vision in the midst of a world full of death--is at least as beautifully rendered as in the original Babe.  This is very simply an extraordinary film.The film has a few moments of such lyrical loveliness that they took my breath away.  Babe looks out a window from the animal-friendly hotel room he and Esme Hoggett (the stupendous Magda Szubanski, an actress who proves, if anyone ever doubted, how breathtakingly lovely a stout woman can be) have found to stay in, and sees a Manhattan-esque skyline, with the Hollywood sign to the left, the Eiffel Tower in the background, the Sydney opera house in the middle, and in the harbor, the Statue of Liberty.  All rendered in the sepia colors of a sunset. It's just an amazing shot--funny and heart-breaking at the same time.The film is dark in places.  Babe inadvertently angers a bull terrier watchdog, who chases him through the streets in the most terrifying chase scene I've seen for awhile.  Babe falls into a canal (the City also has canals, a la Venice or Stockholm), and nearly drowns.  The terrier goes after him, and dangles from his chain, likewise drowning.  And Babe sees this ferocious dog dangling, nearly dead.  And goes back in the water and rescues his mortal enemy.  It's an amazing scene of forgiveness and charity, and afterwards, the terrier becomes Babe's ally and friend--even forcing all the other animals to pay obeisance to our non-plussed pig hero.The best scenes in the film take place in this bizarre, Dickensian animal hotel, and Miller creates a whole universe of amazing animal characters, from a Tabernacle Choir of singing cats (who nonetheless take a feline interest in Babe's small chorus of singing mice), a family of monkeys, a world-weary, deeply tragic Orangutan, and a little Jack Russell terrier named Flealick who has somehow lost the use of his hind legs, but scoots around handily in a little cart, drawn by his front legs.Flealick is, in fact, the center of one of the greatest moments in this film.  In an utterly terrifying scene (too dark for children?  My five-year old didn't think so), jackbooted animal control officers invade the hotel and capture most of the inhabitants.  Flealick, driven mad by fear and anger bites at a piece of fabric protruding from a car door, and is swept away, his cart battered.  He crashes, and lies there--he looks dead.And then, suddenly, soundlessly, Miller shows Flealick in dog heaven, cavorting, healed, in a field, snapping at some butterflies.  And then Babe calls to him, and he comes back to life, shakes himself, and the plot continues.  It was simply breathtaking, the loveliest moment I can recall from any children's film, and it redeems the ugliness of the scene that had just preceded it.  When has life after death ever been so simply, so beautifully rendered?The film has its excesses.  The ending, with Mrs. Hoggett bungee cording through the air like a member of Cirque du Soleil, while wearing inflatable clown pants like a huge bouncy ball was preposterous.  I loved it for its preposterousness, and found it funny and charming and amazing and pretty and silly all at the same time, but it ends up tying up way more plot points than make any logical sense.  The throwaway images Miller infuses nearly every frame with--two nuns walking, giggling down a street, the silhouettes of animals crossing a building while children in a hospital watch, amazed--are so dazzling that you are tempted to forget that the film's story doesn't really make sense.  Best of all, Miller doesn't explain the life out of some of his best material.  The animals are all in the lab--Babe breaks in to rescue them--time is of the essence.  And the Orangutan (who has worked in a circus and is used to wearing clothing), with quiet dignity, asks if they could all wait a moment for him to get dressed.   And so they all wait, naked of course, and the Orangutan puts on his clothes.  And then they escape.  Okay, it doesn't make much sense, but dang, it's terrific stuff.Okay, I loved it.  You may not.   You've probably read criticism of this film that has persuaded you not to go see it.  I say, ignore them.  Babe was one of the finest children's films ever made.  I'd say that Babe is also one of the ten greatest films ever in any category.  Babe Pig in the City isn't quite up to the standard of its predecessor.  It's merely the second best children's film ever, and one of the great pieces of Christian filmmaking I know.Thanks to Eric Samuelsen.    "},{"Title":"Best Film of 1998","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I add my ditto to those who've said that PIG IN THE CITY was the best film of 1998 -- most especially the late and lamented Gene Siskel.  A lot of critics didn't care for this film (apparently because it is indeed different from its even better predecessor, BABE), and American audiences stayed away in droves.  It was thus a flop in both crucial senses, which fact must have saddened George Miller and his team of loony geniuses after they put so much love and time and talent into making it.  But a few end-of-year newsmagazine wrapup pieces named it to 1998's Top Ten, and I think it's slowly getting recognition -- too late to produce much money or fun for its makers, but not too late for film history, where I predict it'll join such reputational slow-builders as THE WIZARD OF OZ and IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE.It's an amazing piece of work from beginning to end, and maybe the most amazing thing about it is that, after the first ten minutes or so, the special effects stop calling attention to themselves and start looking quite natural.  You just buy it all.  At the same time, however, the sui generis Look of the film never stops startling you.  (It's half David Lynch and half Frank Capra.  In other words, it's George Miller.)  See this movie, preferably on some sort of big screen with high resolution.  If you don't like it, I will (as Mark Twain used to say upon completing one of his lectures) do everything in my power to make it up to you. "}{"Title":"Thank the Pig.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought it was an endlessly original, daring, dark, intelligent, fun, funny twisted masterpiece. Kudos from me and the boys on getting the animals to talk. The fact that it bombed and that crap like THE WATERBOY are hits says something truly disturbing about the tastes of our country. But all that will be a-changin' oh-so-soon.. . "},{"Title":"Bizarre.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bizarre, to say the least. If Babe had a form of a kids movie, then Babe Pig in the city more resembles an existentialist drama. Don't get me wrong, the movie is great, but it is so much different from the first one, it's nearly impossible to compare them. Some of the scenes are truly disturbing, and some of the characters are truly tragic. Overall, very surprising, but excellent nevertheless.  "},{"Title":"The bitter fears of George Miller.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Interestingly conceived, astonishingly filmed, but bitter to its core.This movie has so many disturbingly mixed messages that it seems like a compendium of Grimm's fairy tales. Babe's innocence and good-will are praised repeatedly, and yet result in tragedy as often as not.The tone of the film is established with an opening scene which would be slapstick if it were funny (it IS violent and frenetic).Be prepared to meet a self-interested sniffer dog, an oppressed hotelier, a disabled terrier, an obese and ridiculous clown-magician, a group of world-weary chimps, an emotionally scarred and distant orangutan, a malformed whippet, an undernourished kitten, a manic duck, a used and abused poodle, etc etc...If you can remember the sequence featuring the evil and threatening child-catcher in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, just imagine an hour-and-a-half of that and you've pretty much got the picture.Oh, and you also have the least-glowing happy ending in recent memory to look forward to. "},{"Title":"Saddened it didn't do better at the box office, but is this really a commercial film?","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  -Too mature for small children, but with a subject matter which doesn't appeal to the adult masses.-Experimental on most levels cinematography, lighting, effects, script writing. Even the same story would probably seem strange if it were made as a cartoon.-With a hybrid of German Expressionism and dark comedy marketed in a family film package, there's bound to be trouble.-Timing couldn't have been worse. With A Bug's Life released the same weekend, families tend to pick an animated Disney film over just about everything else.Overall, I loved the film. It is certainly one of the most innovative and entertaining pieces of movie-making to come out of the studios in '98. It is probably going to take strong word of mouth and a unique video marketing strategy to have another installment made. Regardless of its future, I applaud the filmmakers for making an audacious, thrilling, and heart-warming sequel instead of following a tried and true formula. "},{"Title":"Wondrously original, sweet-natured movie for kids of all ages","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe Babe Pig in the City will win all the Oscars Babe was nominated for and should have gotten.  These movies are so original, so entertaining, so technically accomplished, and so affecting that they should clean up.Babe must be the sweetest, most endearingly deep-down good  character in filmdom.  The other animal characters are also terrific, particularly the chimps and the pit-bull whose life Babe saves after nearly being tore apart by him.  Farmer Hoggett and his wife, as before, are hilarious.It kills me that this movie was not a runaway smash.  I have young kids and I hate family movies.  Forget the treacly junk Disney keeps grinding out; this is truly a movie for children of all ages that won't make you gag.  "},{"Title":"A horror movie for younger kids","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a horror movie for the entire family to watch. It's only scary for little kids (Ages 2-10). The grown up people can watch movies like Scream and Scream 2 if you want to get scared. This will not scare you Adults and Teenagers.This movie is the best scary movie for little kids to watch because there is no killing and no blood/Gore. All the bad things you parents don't want your kids to see are not in this movie!!! Babe Pig in the City is a unharmful horror movie for kids to watch. "},{"Title":"Comparable with Animal Farm","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On a par with George Orwell's masterpiece as an allegory of modern life. Contrary to popular mythology, our four year old was on the edge of his seat, but rapt. If the critics don't frighten everyone out of seeing this film, it should become a legend.  Highly recommended for adults and even young kids (with parental support). Four and a half stars. "},{"Title":"A 'Brazil' for the 90's","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Easily one of the most astonishing movies of the decade. Not since 'Brazil' has the surreal dark fantasy that is modern urban living been so powerfully realised. 'Babe Pig in the City' soars and swoops easily between wrenching realism (death, hunger, abuse, loneliness, hope, friendship) and jaw-dropping fantasy (the meta-city, the afterlife, outrageous slapstick). The haunting imagery, determinedly dark tone and astonishing technical virtuosity make this a must-see.   "},{"Title":"Siskel & Ebert were RIGHT!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is fantastic.  I continue to be amazed by those original Babe fans who have looked me straight in the eye and said Don't bother.  What is that all about?  This film is obviously technically much more advanced than the first, it offers lots more absolutely adorable, funny, lovable ever so memorable characters, there is incredible stunt work to go along with the action, Babe comes away victorious in the battle for compassion and love winning the hearts of his peers in a fast paced adventure story.  What more can you ask for?I loved it as much as the first and hope it gets the academy award nominations it deserves.  Thank you Universal for a wonderful film.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!  Dark, yes, but LIFE IS DARK.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This sequel is as good or better than the first!  So many critics and some moviegoers keep taking this film to task for being too dark/violent/scary for children.  What they seem to forget is that real life can be pretty f****d up, too.  What's more, kids can see images ten times worse on regular network TV and in a host of other insipid, moronic kid's films.  The production design & FX are jaw-droppingly good.  The story is a tad loosely structured, but if you let this get in the way of the film's humor and look, you're REALLY jaded.  Rather than film a retread of the first film, the sequel provides something completely new.  How many sequels can you say that of?  The filmmakers should be commended for their efforts, not taken to task. I wasn't originally going to chime in with my two cents, but after reading the handful of negative reviews presented here (from folks who wholly missed this movie's point), I felt compelled to assure parents (& others) that this film is well worth taking the kids to - it's also very intelligent, which should be an obvious plus. "}{"Title":"Terrific Movie","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is exactly what a sequel should be -- a continuation, not a rehash. You have to have seen the first to follow some of the goings-on in this one. The new characters were vivid and perfectly voiced, and visually this is one of the most amazing films I've seen in years.I think this film is controversial because it touches a nerve.  It's not simple family entertainment, it delves into a real problem -- animal rights -- and gives the viewer a lot to think about.  This is why people are saying it's too dark for kids, because it's not about a bunch of cartoon characters blowing each other up in predictable ways.  "},{"Title":"Whatever the pig sez - goes!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe II is fantastical!  Wonderful cinematography, strong and lovable characters, and good storyline make for an incredibly enjoyable experience. See this one in the theatre! "},{"Title":"A Good Film, Fun and Imaginative","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  GIVE THIS FILM A CHANCE!!!  Babe PITC travels down slightly darker alleys than its predecessor, but its message of courage and redemption is clear and hopeful, and entirely suitable for kids!  The children in the audience I saw it with all seemed to enjoy it.  Babe plays a slightly smaller role this time but his interactions with the other animals have depth and charm, and the moments of suspense are dramatically plausible. It is truly sad that this film is getting swallowed up by the other children's films that are opening at the same time (much blame goes to Universal's market-crazed thinking for this; the fear that they would miss out on the timing of tie-ins and risking an opening opposite A Bug's Life has basically sealed the commercial doom of this good movie).  And it really does NOT deserve the viciousness some critics are hurling at it---I would rather kids watch a slightly darker film with a message of hope than Mortal Kombat any day!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved the first Babe and this new one is right up there with it.  It is an amazingly beautiful and uplifting movie.  Truly a movie that should be seen by all.  It is rare to find a movie with this much heart, and it should be treasured.  The movie is a wonderful piece of poetry for all ages.  You will laugh, you will cry, you will leave the theater feeling like a better person.  I loved it. "},{"Title":"Babe 2 More Emotional Than First","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie had a lot of heart warming parts like the first but a lot of sad twists.It's frustrating to see Mrs. Hoggett & Babe separated, trying to reach each other and getting into so much trouble.I think Thelonius or the little monkey deserve their own movie next ) "},{"Title":"A great sequel!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not since The Empire Strikes Back (or maybe Superman II) has a sequel so lived up to the promise and creativity of its predecessor!  *Babe Pig in the City* is just what you'd expect it wouldn't be it doesn't give us a predictable plot and more sheep-herding shenanigans.  Instead, it fills the screen with a whole new cache of memorable and lovable characters.  On an adult level, this film sends a dark message about cruelty to animals and animal testing.  Kids might be frightened by some of the more tense situations, but in my book it's better to make kids feel some real human emotions rather than coddle them with cutesy images (contrast this film with *Simba's Pride* if you want to see what I mean).  "},{"Title":"A little violent","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was rather good, but I'm a young adult, I think that it was rather violent for a child to go see it!!! The first Babe movie was not nearly as violent as this one, I think that children would be very uncomfortable watching this one. It was a good movie though, but I do not suggest taking your children to see it if you don't want them to see a lot of violence!  "},{"Title":"Babe 2  Superb!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe 2 is an incredible film, certainly one of the bestfilms I've ever seen. It's totally different from the firstone (the original world of Babe is only present at thebeginning and end of the film), and, I think, this is oneof the reasons that Babe 2 might not be a commercialsuccess. Most people are expecting a sweet, bucolicchildren's story, and Babe 2 is anything but that. It'ssurreal and wildly imaginative, and full of danger anddarkness in the way old fairy tales and myths were beforethey were ruinously sanitized for modern consumption. Giventhe average American's fear of originality and creativity,along with the fact that Babe 2 is competing with severalreal pabulum-type children's movies, I think that it willhave problems at the box office, just like The Wizard of Ozdid when it was first released. This is sad, because it onceagain demonstrates that many Americans lack thesophistication and cultural awareness to appreciatesomething special and different. Perhaps Babe 2 will dobetter in Europe; Im certain it will be greatly appreciatedin the future. Anyway, I highly recommend it. Just seeingall of the animals run through their paces, the specialeffects, and terrific visual creations is worth the priceof admission. It's also full of cinematic, literary, andmusical allusions that will delight those who recognizethem. "},{"Title":"You can take the pig out of the farm but not the...","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You can take the pig out of the farm but not the farm out of Babe. According to Hollywood poetics any film that becomes a hit must have a sequel. This aristotelean transposition runs into pitfalls. The most common is that the sequel is often not a sequel but a rapshodized product.Babe in the City suffers from just that. And since it is a city not a farm movie, there has to be due notice given to animal rights activism. Nontheless the movie is very watchable, the effects are very effective, and many plot themes this time, very accessible to children. To my taste the most memorable aspects are the animation of real animals (anthropomorphic transfiguration) and the musical interlace by the mice trio. The interweaving of Saint Saens into the score (a re-run) with a touch of Edith Piaf(new twist), will be missed by many below 10 1/2, but rewards those above 50 immensely. This tour de force in animal casting gets for the above objections and pluses a round 7. "},{"Title":"Not as light-hearted as the first","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had forgotten how much fun animals could be in the movies.  This movie is very good and reminded me of that fact.  The animals here are so cute and their mouths are digitally altered to make it seem as though they are talking.  That is very funny at times.  Nigel and his friend (whose name I've forgotten) are also very funny.  The story itself is not really worth mentioning.  In essence, Mr. Hoggett hurt himself during a work-related accident and is confined to bed.  Mrs. Hoggett then has no choice but to cash in on some of the many offers that have come Babe's way since winning the sheep-herding competition.  Mrs. Hoggett is not very wise about the ways of the city and becomes separated from the pig.  Babe in the meantime, is working to free other animals and to improve their way of life.  Babe is a very innocent animal, without any of the doubts or hang-ups of the city animals.  However, he is not as aggressive as they either.  But somehow, he manages to get the job done.  He frees some animals which were impounded and is eventually re-united with Mrs. Hoggett.  There are some great lines in the movie.  Babe at one point, refers not merely to his sense of smell, but his olfactory nerve.  Ferdinand, the crazy goose is back, and there is a family of chimpanzees who have their own understanding of the usage of the English language.  There are many laughs in this movie, primarily because the animals do some funny things and the script is deftly done.  However the fixes that Babe gets involved in are quite ominous and this is certainly not as light-hearted as the original Babe.  There were no scary animals in that movie whereas there are here.  And Babe is constantly fighting against one group or another in his attempt to maintain the liberty of the animals.  In so doing, he gets himself in a lot of trouble and there are some very dark moments.  The animals find themselves impounded.  They have to face petulant neighbours, and they are very hungry at times.  However, there are many laughs in this movie and this was worth the price I paid for admission.  But I should warn you that it is not as light-hearted as the first Babe. "}{"Title":"Surely Not A Kids Movie","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like Millions of others I loved the original Babe.  What a shock when my wife and I ventured out for the new Babe Goes To The City.The sight of Mr. Hoggett getting beat to a pulp in the opening scenes as he was trying to repair his well was nothing to seeing a dog drowning.Thinking back I questioned how anyone could 'do' a poor Babe sequel.  All they had to do was follow the original format and collect the accolades but alas... Hollywood strikes again. "},{"Title":"Engaging follow up to a contemporary classic","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A first rate sequel, Babe Pig In the City, is sure to please fans of the original and has the potential to win over new viewers as well.  The film is imaginative and creative in the best tradition of cinema fantasies. Darker than the original, the film is still appropriate for kids.  Thanks to impressive visuals and a constantly compelling storyline, Pig In the City is also appropriate for anyone who wants to see an inspired piece of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Babe Is a Sequel Well Worth Seeing!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My 3 children and I saw Babe, Pig in the City the other night and my children thought it was better than the original Babe. They felt it was much more exciting,and was action-packed. Although, I preferred the original for its touching, heartfelt, quality, this movie chose to go in another direction, and did it well, retaining the heart of the original.  There were a couple of sad moments in the film, though they were brief and ultimately turned out well.   "},{"Title":"The movie made it very believable that animals could communicate with each other.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was incredible with special effects.  But, I do think very young children might be frightened by some of the scenes.  There were places where it made me cry, but overall  - it was a very enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"thank George Miller","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I always enjoy the work of Aussie director George (Mad Max) Miller a great deal! This film is lively, inventive, and somewhat ingenious. To me it's like when Spielberg makes The Lost World, a director's visual signature simply having fun being creative and playful with loads of ideas. And what a marvel of animal acting. I would love to see a Making Of on this one. Long live George Miller and the pig movies!!  "},{"Title":"NOT a Pig in a Poke!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, compared to the first film, Pig in the City is dark, scary and even cynical at times.  Yet the sweetness, the innocence remains -- held true in the character of Babe and the determined naievety of Mrs. Hoggett.  The action goes completely goofy at times -- very slapstick -- and at other times the screen is filled with grim, gloomy images that might horrify anyone, not just children.  In other words, it is a good old fashioned fairy tale. Now, I love the first Babe a great deal, and have been accused of reading too much into such a simple story. But Joseph Campbell and George Lucas have taught us that this is one purpose of a simple story -- a myth -- the hero's journey.  Babe is indeed the hero -- the soul who begins from a point of innocence and travels to darker lands -- even the Underworld -- to bring back some gift or knowledge.  Babe's Underworld is literally any and all cities.  The view from his window includes the Eifel Tower, the World Trade center, the Sydney Opera House and the Hollywood sign.  He meets new companions, some of dubious trustworthiness, and it seems that in this hard cruel place kindess is gone from everywhere but Babe's heart.  That kindness ultimately redeems the sad, cynical (and very funny) members of the city menagerie. This film seems to me to have a great deal in common with The Empire Strikes Back -- another second act, another movie labeled as too dark and full of absurd humor.  I hope Mr. Miller will give his Luke-Skywalker-on-trotters an opportunity to bring his journey full circle. Will we see Return of the Sheep-Pig?  I hope so... Magda Szubanski is utterly delightful in her reprise as Mrs. Hoggett.  And watch for the hotel proprietress -- Wallace and Grommit fans are in for a treat.  The new city-dwellers are well-drawn and very funny (listen for Stephen Wright - he is hysterical!) and Ferdinand is a companion in the best Han-Solo tradition.  My favorite moment -- the mice do an Edith Piaf turn. If you give your children edited versions of Grimm's Fairy Tales, don't take them to see this film.  But DO see it yourself.  "},{"Title":"Downright Adorable!!!","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although not as good as the first (what sequel is???) Babe, Pig in the City is thoroughly enjoyable.James Cromwell is noticeably absent from the sequel but Mrs. Hodgett leads the adventures into a city with the most INTERESTING landmarks I have ever seen!The animals are adorable (especially the little kitten that is always hungry, the singing mice and the baby apes) and the story not too far-fetched -)Take your kids, your spouse, your parents, grand-parents (the show I went to had more adults than kids!) and be prepared to be entertained....a downright nice movie! "},{"Title":"A great sequel to a great film","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a cynic and hard-hearted individual, it's hard to find family films entertaining.  Babe was one of my favorites, and I thought it deserved to win Best Picture.  It was heartfelt, emotional, and charming... everything Braveheart was not.  Now here's Babe 2, and while I don't think it'll win Best Picture, I do think it deserves some accolades, if not for special effects alone.Babe Pig in the City begins exactly where the first one left off.  But something is definitely more noticeable.  The visual palette is immensely difference, yet similar.  While it does contain the same tone and colors as the first, it adds a more comical style, almost like a real-life cartoon. It's truly one of a kind.  The only bad side, for me, is the lack of Farmer Hogget.  Thankfully, Mrs. Hogget suffices in a very funny role.  Overall, one of the best family films I have seen in years. "},{"Title":"Possibly Better Than the Original","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was considered to be a bomb, especially given the surprise success of the original. But I actually liked it quite a lot, and dare I say it might even be better than the first one? Babe Pig in the City takes a more adventurous approach, and the film comes off almost like an art-house movie for kids. It's darker in a way that I liked, with more emphasis put on morals and consequences than on the novelty of realistically talking animals.It received an Academy Award nomination for its song, That'll Do.Don't let bad word of mouth keep you away from this one.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Very strange for a kid's film","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't remember the first babe very well, it's been a while since I've seen it, but over all I remember loving it as a kid. So I think that's what struck me to see the sequel. Figured I should give it a shot. I watched it a couple days ago and I have to say that for a kid's movie this was a very strange one, it just seemed a little dark. I mean, pigs in leather, scary and odd looking people, apes getting dressed before escaping a science lab, I mean, maybe it's just me, but it just seriously disturbed me.Babe has come back from the fair winning the sheep herding award. But the boss gets injured and cannot do any work on the farm, so when no work gets done, the bank is after the farm and is about to take it away from him and his wife. But when his wife finds out that Babe could win a prize that would be worth good money to save the barn. But Babe and the wife quickly get separated in the city of New York. Babe finds a group of show apes that try to help him get money, but it gets difficult when the ape's owner passes away. Now the animals are on their own and continue to try to help Babe.Babe Pig in the City is over all not a bad film at all, but it's just a very strange film for children. Not to mention darker compared to the first film. I think most of the reviewers agree, this was a 360 compared to the first film. But if you wanna check it out, go ahead, but I don't think it's a necessary watch if you enjoyed the first one. It was just weird seeing Babe in the leather collar, it was pretty disturbing.6/10 "}{"Title":"Yes it may be a little dark...","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes this film maybe a little dark ,and hard to understand for children I really enjoyed it as a kid. My favorite part is seeing all the animals get caught and then escape to the farm. This film is for older kids. Also when compared to original it shines considerably darker ,but by itself it stands firm. The darkness as I said intended for older kids teaches how this world can be an unkind place can be ,but to stay strong. Babe is still as sweet as ever just matures as his ignorance fades away. As for the dog drowning, the accident led to a needed rescue/turning point in the film. I give this movie a 4/10 because it could of not turn from original so much and the apes in the movie are really misfit. "},{"Title":"Ooops...where is the story","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I went to see Babe Pig in the city with a friend who had loved the original Babe movie. We both came away from this movie disappointed. Recently I watched it again on DVD (because it came with the original Babe movie so I watched both together).The story involves Babe going to the big city with Mrs Hoggett. There they have a lot of wacky adventures, but Babes heart of gold wins through (you can hear the sound of me gagging on this sickly sweet idea).The story is an original written by George Miller and not based directly on a Babe book. Here lies the folly. Miller did such classics Mad Max (Road warrior to the Americans), The Year my Voice Broke and Flirting. Great adult movies.So he though he could create the definitive children's movie, but unfortunately it overloads the audience with far too many characters, is too dark for young children and is just an unending story of bad things happening to Babe and friends. This is about budget overload. So much is done, just because it can be.There is no story, no universal struggle for good in the face of evil. Just wacky characters....yawn.In essence it covers the big topics of children's story telling, birth, death as well as modern social issues, community, poverty and so on.But without a compelling story this movie contains too little to see it through.Nice try George....I am still waiting for Mad Max, Beyond Hoggetts farm "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie better than Babe because i thought that this one had the better humour than Babe. I saw this in Ireland and i absolutely loved this movie to bits. I give this movie 10 out of 10, if you like babe 1 and 2 then i am sure you will like Gordy. Another Pig adventure movie. "},{"Title":"A different kind of film!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first Babe was a touching fable, similar enough to other children's animal stories that everyone could feel comfortable with enjoying the adventure.  This story is different, both in tone and in plotline.If this story had been told with human, rather than animal characters, it would be considered a 'film noir' entry.  As such, perhaps it is a rare example of 'animal noir,' a genre with only a handful of examples.  The Painted Hills might count, seeing as it is a crime-revenge flick starring Lassie.  My childhood recollection of Abe Levitow's Gay Purr-ee places it as a possibility, what with its criminal group of sewer-dwelling cats and the plotline involving selling the heroine through the auspices of a Parisian cathouse...The main reason such films are rarely made is that few producers want to risk money on disturbing, unpleasant, grotesque stories intended for young people.  Can't blame them, though frankly kids can stand that sort of thing much better than we presume.  The really disturbing material tends to be misunderstood adult stuff. "},{"Title":"Non, Je ne regrette rien","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A VERY unusual film, especially since (by accident) I hadn't viewed the original Babe before seeing this sequel. Absolutely surreal in every aspect. I knew I was in Oz when Edith Piaf's unmistakable voice broke through during the Fugly Floom catastrophe scene!  NOW, I must see the original to tie up a few loose ends! Watch this one and enjoy. No regrets. 8/10 "},{"Title":"exhausting and pointless","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Babe, I thought it was well made, told a worthwhile story in a way that didn't patronise adults (too much) and had a nice feelgood ending.Babe Pig In The City just felt like a pointless exploitation of a successful brand, the story was slow to kick in and not worth the wait, the characters were generally unconvincing and somehow unloveable (which was one of the strongest parts of the original), the action was, more often than not, exhausting and hard to watch and most of all it didn't seem to appeal to the child in me and certainly didn't appeal to the child WITH me.A sad way to treat a potentially great childrens character - gets a 4 from me and only that high because of the look of the film which was it's only redeeming feature. "},{"Title":"Once is enough","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What they were trying to do? Make a Tim Burton without Tim Burton genious?  The first movie with this pig was fresh, creative and original. It was Australian. Now, Miller is back in the USA and here comme the overdose of special effects and some injections of Disney's alike (with some, I admit it,interesting dark sides). In the first movie, James Cromwell and miss Szubanski have good human parts. Here, the lady is simply grotesque and the animals tooks too much place. It's very boring to hear them talk all the time. It just look like a very long TV commercial.  95 % of the sequels are bad and this one is part of it. Perhaps if Babe 2 was made in Australia, away from Hollywood computers... "},{"Title":"One of the best of all time","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't comment on too many movies, but this one seriously deserves my time, especially after reading so many irresponsibly naive fit-sessions. First, this movie is better than both its own predecessor and nearly all other family movies before it.  It clearly belongs in the realm of Snow White and The Neverending Story for its imagination, attention to detail, and moral balance, not to mention (along with Babe I) some of the most intelligent reinterpretations of the purpose of special effects in cinema history.  Add to that one of the best scripts, camera work, and directing jobs of the 90s, Babe Pig in the City is for these reasons and so many others not mentioned here one of the best MOVIES of all time.Furthermore, in addition to an unconditional recommendation for this movie to anyone, I would like to recommend to all those whose 4-year-old or 40-year-old can't handle themes of death, peril, and Expressionistic lighting to stay on the farm where the sun shines every day and where humans are never, ever represented unfavorably because maybe there you can more easily continue convincing yourselves and your children over a wholesome breakfast of bacon and eggs that pigs and ducks and people never hurt and never die and that Babe Pig in the City is unsuitable and disappointing.  Save your money instead for a rainy day, like the next Jesse Helms fund-raiser. "},{"Title":"Not Many Movies Have Done That To Me...","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was having what could be considered as the worst weekend of my life. I won't go into detail about it, but it was bad. As a lover of films I decided to try and turn to my local video store for support. I think renting Babe A Pig In The City was the best movie I could have rented. When I was in the process of watching this film all my problems and troubles seemed to vanish in the air. This movie is simply brilliant I loved it so much I watched it twice more. The film had some amazing parts that made my jaw drop. Take for example the chase scene the flashes of Babe's life that we see and the simple question of Why? are strokes of genius. Among other amazing scenes, which I won't spoil. I was enthralled from the first second of this movie all the way till the end. I'm 16 years old and I'm going to tell all of my friends to see this movie, if they decide to brush it off as a silly kid's movie they are seriously mistaken. "},{"Title":"Please Fight For This Film","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The overall reaction to this movie is enough to shatter anyone's faith in humanity.  How could something so absolutely perfect and so perfectly beauiful be so misunderstood and maligned?  One critic called it a pathetic, miserable mess.  This is a critic who called Larry Clark's Kids a masterpiece. Has it come to this?  A film about drug smoking, gang-raping, murdering children is genius? A movie about a little pig who jumps in the water to save a drowning pit-bull is pathetic?  Disney's Bug's Life, a bland, witless Toy Story retread cleaned up at the box-office.  Babe Pig In The City languished.  I'm guessing Walt Disney would've have stood behind the pig, not the video game insects and their celebrity voices.  He would've have loved this film.  Jim Henson would have loved this film. The great ones would have loved this film.  George Miller is one of the great ones.  An Autralian perfected the American art of filmmaking.Babe Pig In The City is the most stunningly beautiful motion picture ever made.  That's one man's opinion.  And I'll stand by that opinion until the day I die.  Yes, it's intense.  Maybe too intense for children at times.  I'm a 28 year old man with a great love for classic gangster pictures like The Godfathers and Goodfellas.  And I was sobbing uncontrollably for much of this film. The fact is, this movie is too good.For Hollywood to embrace Babe Pig In The City would be to admit that Hollywood has proven itself incapable of making movies this imaginative, this wonderfully creative, and this moving. Hollywood had nothing to do with this end-all be-all of movie masterpieces. This is a movie made in Australia by Australian filmmakers.   God bless the late Gene Siskel for standing up for this film.  It warms my heart that he was able to see how great movies can really be before he passed on.  Bless Roger Ebert as well, and everybody else who recognized the sheer beauty of this movie.  1998 may have been one of the worst years in cinema history.  But true to form, the little pig with unprejudice heart saved the day.  Thank you George Miller, for restoring my faith in this world.  Thank you, Pig.  "}{"Title":"As if David Lynch made a kids movie for the Adams Family","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the movie is stylish, and the talking animals are quite a technical achievement, but the story is a spiral of depressing, cruel things that happen to innocent creatures.  I found it so painful to watch that I had to turn it off after the first 45 minutes - and I enjoyed Seven! "},{"Title":"Very good movie about solidarity and tolerance","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Go see this fantastic movie! The animals give us lessons about solidarity, tolerance and friendship. The pit-bull is great. Laughing and emotion! "},{"Title":"This movie is GREAT!!!!","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  They just don't make movies this good anymore, and unfortunately they probably won't after how bad this one did. It's sad to see Babe Pig in the City lose out to such movies as the thoroughly lame and pitiful A Bug's Life, but it should really come as no surprise. I think the word quality might scare movie goers. I always hear people complain about how unoriginal Hollywood is and how studios keep making the same movies, and yet they steer clear of anything that looks remotely new or fresh. Babe is creative, original, extremely well made, and most importantly, it's very entertaining! Don't waste your time watching Disney rehash old plots in easy to swallow packages. I don't mean to insult all those Disney fans out there, because I know there are a lot of you, but with the exception of Mulan, Disney's been sucking. An original credit sequence doesn't make up for an unoriginal plot line. You know which one I'm talking about! Anyway, I suggest you see Babe Pig in the City as soon as possible. Don't assume you've seen it already because you watched the original. This one is better!!  "},{"Title":"Babe Pig in the City is just as good as the first","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first Babe was an excellent movie. The best film of 1995. The same goes with Pig in the City. One of the best films so far this year, the film is full of humour and great special effects.The plot is simple. First, Babe returns home after winning the sheep dog contest. But before you know it he gets himself back in trouble when he causes an accident that leaves poor Mr. Hoggett (James Cromwell) crippled and unable to manage the farm. So it is up to Mrs. Hoggett to go to the city so Babe can perform at a tournament to collect a fee, so they can keep the farm. Unfortunately she misses her second flight when she is mistaken for a drug dealer. Then she loses Babe and then is arrested while looking for him and so on.It may be seen as a bit dark by some, but I will mention that my little brother did not seem to be bothered by it, nor did any of the other children in the audience.George Miller is a great director and does a marvelous job. James Cromwell(from L.A. Confidential, Species 2, Star Trek First Contact) is a great actor and is the best part of both films. He alone is worth the price of admission. It is a visually stunning movie. So go see it today before it is to late and bring your kids because they will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A BOLD EFFORT!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an art movie - about animals! One can only imagine how difficult it must have been to make this movie and one must really appreciate the trouble taken with sets, lighting and camerawork to make this an extraordinary achievement. The easy route would have been to churn out some stale Hollywood follow-up story about Babe having to win another sheep competition and having to deal with a villain but then winning against all odds... Yawn. To go against this conventional expectation was brave and paid off, as it ensures that Babe Pig in the City can be viewed and enjoyed as an independent creation.  "},{"Title":"A near-perfect Nietzschean masterpiece","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Imagine the world renowned German philosopher/social critic Friedrich Nietzsche directing the film version of a sequel to the acclaimed 1995 box office hit Babe based on a children's book by Dick King-Smith. This is George Miller at his most dementedly brilliant and vivid imaginative yet.I have a story to tell. Even though I liked the first movie, I wasn't interested in seeing the second film because the first film is a bit too fluffy and I expect the same from the second movie although I'm familiar with George Miller's past work (most notably the Mad Max trilogy). However, my father offered me, my little sister and her two male friends the option to see Babe Pig in the City at a dollar theatre. I reluctantly accepted. But when I saw this film with the sparse few in the audience, it was an astounding filmgoing experience that's rarely duplicated. I was so overjoy by the sheer magic and wild imagination of the movie that I wanted to rejoice Praise George! in the dark screening. My dad, sister and her friends were, what shall I say, blown away. It's rare I cried at the movies - in particular, the injured wheelchair dog/heaven scene hit me so hard I choked up and let tears roll down my creek, if only for a brief time. This is real emotion and pure film magic without the treacly manipulation and saccharinity of another (terrible and sickeningly manipulative) 1998 box office hit Patch Adams.Sadly, Babe Pig in the City suffered poor marketing and terrible timing, released in competition with Disney's A Bug's Life (which I admit to seeing on the first opening weekend). It was a big box office flop. The audience reaction was overwhelmingly negative because they expect the same from the first movie but were so surprised and appalled by the dark elements in Babe Pig in the City they were upset - overprotective parents and emotionally sensitive children and even close-minded/ignorant moviegoers - and spread bad word of mouth, thereby ensuring the failure of the second film at the box office. Even before the film was released, George Miller had a difficult time editing some of the crucial scenes on the cutting floor because the test screenings were very negative and he needed to squeeze in time to complete the most complex visual effect shots just in time for release. This is a tragedy and a murder at the box office by audience apathy.What I mean when I said tragedy is that George Miller was said to be contemplating the second sequel with the cast from two Babe films. When the second movie bombed in North America, it bombed so badly one of Universal Studio execs was fired for greenlighting this movie with an unheard-of budget of $80 million and the plan to produce the third Babe movie was scrapped.Roger Ebert and Gene Siskel (bless his soul) unequivocally praised this film to the utmost extent of their ability at the end of 1998. They loved the film so much they never seem to get enough out of it. Read Ebert's amusingly jubilant and overly enthusiastic review - he said this film is even better than the original because it IS original, albeit a second in the series, and did not follow the sequel formula which makes it daring and groundbreaking in terms of originality AND sequel being *better* than the first (Toy Story 2 aside).Despite the flaw of the second film due to the heavy editing, we owe the great ingenuity of George Miller for Babe Pig in the City's awe-inspiring magic and hard-hitting emotion pertaining to the theme of life, redemption and death, not to mention fantastic production design, visual effects and cinematography by Miller's creatively talented crew. "},{"Title":"Advice to Babe  STAY HOME next time!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My entire family loved the original.  My entire family was anxiously awaiting our viewing of the sequel.  My entire family felt this was one of the WORST movies we'd ever seen.  It wasn't funny, it wasn't whimsical, it wasn't worth our time watching it.  It was dark, depressing, disjointed and unfit for ANY type of viewing, much less family viewing.  Maybe George Miller should have stayed with Mad Max, because Bad Babe just didn't cut it. "},{"Title":"Perfect.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is simply perfect. I enjoyed  every second of this film. I thought the  first Babe was a remarkable achievement,  the second Babe picture is just as  amazing. The animals in this film are  really amazing and the film has a look and  atmosphere that is all it's own. Awesome. "},{"Title":"A Work of Art","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Babe Pig in the City is a masterpiece.One that outdoes the first film by a whole lot. Yes, it is dark and tragic, but it's visuals and story are like a vivid dream. The city is so bizarre, full of weird people and buildings, followed by a weird, yet genius plot. The reason that I rate this film higher than the original Babe is because Babe is less memorable and less powerful. This film has resonated with me since I was nine years old. Some scenes scared me at that age, some freaked me out. But I loved it. I recommend this film to anyone; yes, it is a family film, but it's mature tones and dark themes will grasp anyone. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Lack In The Same Magic The First One Had, But Was Still A Nice Watch.","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What really made me want to see both Babe movies was when I found out that Gene Siskel--one of the best known movie critics in the world at the time--called it THE best movie of 1998. His buddy, Roger Ebert, also praised it. I saw their segment when they reviewed this and they were acting like it was a better family movie than The Lion King. I strongly doubted this was better than Saving Private Ryan and Shakespeare in Love, but I didn't think it would be that far behind. Because Siskel and Ebert gave it a better review than the first movie, and they are both very trustworthy critics, I took their word for it being a great film. I know opinions differ, but I don't get why both men loved it as much as they did.What made Babe such a treat was its lovely scenery and different animals talking. In Babe Pig in the City, Babe and the duck return for the whole movie, then they encounter dogs, cats and monkeys. Everybody sees dogs and cats all the time, and chimps are the subjects of lots of sci-fi movies. In Babe, there is a diversity of animals that are more rare to see, an unclose for that matter. Also, since it takes place in a city, mostly at night, it it not as beautiful as the nature filled farm in the first. We do see the farm in this, but only for a short amount of time. The set pieces for the city looked too comical, I guess for a kiddie effect. I liked the sets, but they were inferior to Babe's. My last problem is how weak the plot and characters developed. In Babe, the plot was kind of weak, but made up for it by having great character development. The plot in this is a bit slower and the character development is weaker too. I didn't not like this. I really did. Is it a fall from the first? Yes, but is it a bad movie entirely? Not at all. With tons of animals being human, the puppets, effects and trainers deserve huge props. Maybe the set wasn't as nice as the first, but it was still very well made and admirable. The development is a bit weaker, but some of your favourite barnyard friends are back and we meet some new, lovable animals. I may watch Babe more often than Babe Pig in the City, but there will be times where I will be in the mood to see the screen's best pig out of the farm. "}{"Title":"Take Babe, add a bit of Gilliam","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very excellent family movie, whose anarchic attitude might be off putting to some people - especially if you don't expect it. Approach this with the kind of mindset you would approach a Terry Gilliam movie (just let your imagination take seat and drive), and you will find much to love and think about here. There is plenty of ridiculously chaotic and fun action to make it a treat for even the youngest of viewers as well. Just like Gilliam usually does, it manages to express its worry over the continuing creep of alienation between us all, but never gets preachy about it. Furthermore, it is fun, smart, humane, and above all, it teaches mutual respect and tolerance. We're all in this together right, nobody really knows what's up, it's nice if people would be generally more aware of that fact. This movie encourages that attitude, which is why I think it is a pretty important piece of family cinema, as innocuous as it may seem on first glance. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies of  98","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" people say this movie is too dark for kids what are they thinking this is such a good movie its funny and adventures and wild it had the best ending song made which almost made me cry I can understand its not as good as the first one which the first is a little bit better but this one is one of my fav movies it did scared me when I was 2 Betty scary but now in these days I am not scared of it. If you have not seen this movie you should get it out on DVD if you have the first one on DVD. I like the part where emse hogget swings a cross with the clown pants that was really funny and the part where she gets covered in a bucket of glue and when she said ho dear that made me lauge my head off so if you are looking for something funny then get this movie out on DVD because it will make you lauge it will make you cry and when everyone said to babe thank the pig that was really cute make sure if you have the time to watch this because its such a good movie its better watching this then chicken little its way better then son of the mask and almost as good as star wars eps 3 so I give this movie 8.2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My favorite George Miller film so far that I have seen","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first BABE movie was a nice pig movie and HAPPY FEET got good reviews as well.And I like both of them.It's just that they didn't have that good and funny feel to them. to me they were just so-so. This movie on the other hand did. It was funny adventurous and it had a very good feel to it really did.I definitely liked it more than the other George Miller film's that I have seen.Not a lot more though I of course much preferred the STAR WARS movies and CHICKEN RUN for one reason they are a little more adventurous and funny.Though I am still wondering that if I ever got a chance to watch the MAD MAX movies or THE WITCHES OF EASTWICK and LORENZO'S OIL or TWILIGHT ZONE THE MOVIE that I would like them more than this.Oh well maybe I will watch them and find out someday. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Wonderful!","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't recommend this movie enough. If you haven't seen the original Babe, don't worry. See this one first. The original won't tell you anything you need to know, and it's not nearly as good as this one.I wasn't interested in the original Babe. I rented Pig In The City because Gene Siskel called it one of the best films of the year. He wasn't kidding. I fell in love with it immediately, and it remains one of my all-time favorite films.The storytelling is simply extraordinary. The images are breathtaking. More than once my jaw dropped at the colors on the screen. Sure, on the outside this looks like any old kids movie. However, notice who directed it George Miller, the director of the Mad Max movies. As if that weren't enough, it features the incredible cinematography of Andrew Lesnie, the man who shot the Australian classic, Dark Age, and went on to shoot the Lord Of The Rings trilogy with Peter Jackson. Like all of those other films, Babe Pig In The City has a dark edge to it. It's not all about cutesy fun time. It'll make you laugh, no doubt, but don't be surprised if it shakes you up a bit, too. It'll make you think, and it may even make you cry. No matter who you are, young or old, you have to give this movie a chance. The sooner the better! "},{"Title":"Pure Magic","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just got done watching Pig in the City again for the first time in a while, and remembered how much I love this movie. I'm not sure why I love it so much, whether it's the fact that it's not an obligatory sequel but in fact a totally different movie form the first one, or the well drawn characters (human and otherwise), or just simply the visual marvels on the screen. The city itself is amazing, a hodgepodge of different real cities around the globe, but still unmistakably unique. The animals are more interesting than any character in any Jerry Bruckheimer film, and are not just played for cutesy laughs, but are at times brave and noble and even heartbreaking. All this, and it teaches a lesson about being decent and loyal and dependable and compassionate. What more could you want?This is not just a children's movie, although children will certainly enjoy it. This movie respects its audience and does not pander or condescend to them, regardless of age group.The movie does have its dark moments, and I think parts will be too intense for preschoolers. However, it's perfectly fine for any kids age 6 or 7 on up. Will they be scared? Sure. But you know what? Kids enjoy being scared! Don't you now, as an adult, look back with fondness on the flying monkeys? )Just see it. It's an amazing work of pure imagination. "},{"Title":"a family movie adults can enjoy with their kids.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Actually, I think I liked it more than my daughter, but if it's not flashy and bright, she loses interest fast anyway... (Thanks a lot, Cartoon Network.) This film is highly stylish. George Miller deserves high marks for the interesting visuals as well as getting animals to perform so well. There are a lot of animal movies out there, but few of them have better acting by the animals than this one. (the CG can only help so much.)This is the first Babe movie that I've seen. I want to see the other one after viewing this. I've read here that some people like this less because it is so different. I hope that doesn't keep me from liking the first one. This movie has also got me wanting to see Miller's penguin movie Happy Feet that comes out next year.If you liked The City of Lost Children, you should like this film. Both are quirky and strange, yet fun and magical.  "},{"Title":"That'll do, pig...","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie again and had forgotten how much I liked it. The set design was amazing, almost Disneyland-esque, and the animals spring to life before your eyes. I would be hard pressed to call it a comedy, and some of it was heartbreaking (like when the little dog says matter of factly, my human tied me in a bag and threw me in the water, or when the old primate needs to get dressed before his escape) but it was very entertaining. Some of the old gang is there, but only for a brief time, so the most amazing thing about the movie is that it doesn't rely on the old formulaic to make the audience care about the pig again-brand new setting, new characters, new situations. Did we get that in Spiderman 2, or Goldmember? No. Good movie with lots of helpless animals that get saved in the end. What else do you need??  "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe Pig In The City was a smart film that took a while to get into. This is the story about a talking pig named Babe who went into the city to save his owner's farm; a heart-felt gesture and plot. I really liked this movie because it was a film for everybody whether young or old; this movie will touch everyone in a way that will make you see it over and over. I wouldn't go as far as calling it the best movie of 1998, but it certainly is on my top ten list. The special effects were great in that the way the special effects people got the animals to talk. There were not many real live actors that were in this film, but the actors such as the hotel owner and the farm owner's wife, Esme Hoggett that were in the film did not act that well. I was more impressed by the way the pig gathered the morale of the other animals in the hotel and eventually saved the animals from the pound.Babe Pig In The City is an endearing film that everyone will enjoy.  "},{"Title":"This film is amazing!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely adore this film and i don't care what anyone has to say! Again the animatronics are superb but this film is definately much better than the first. Much as i loved the warm countryside atmosphere of the 1st film, the second one is completely hectic and cleverly mad. The characters have been well chosen and created even down to the hair cuts and voices. It isn't immaturely funny like you would imagine a childrens film to be, and all the cast and set have been drawn out imaginatively and exelently. The film is made magical and almost like a fantasy, which is a real delight even to some more older kids like me! I have to say my favourite bit is when the clown puts on the show and it all goes wrong - the music has been well picked to give atmosphere. I must stress that although i have said how the characters and scenes in this film has been exagerated, it's not like a cartoon, but more like looking at our own world through a kaleidascope. I'd like to apologise for any parts of this that do not make sense as i have so many magnificent views on this film that i am struggling to put them in to words, especially after reading a previous comment on how terrible someone thought this film was! Anyway, I'm off to go and watch it for about the 12th time - even after so many times i still find it just as colourful and exciting! "},{"Title":"A great film. Not for young kids, though.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like I said, it's great.  The dark atmosphere created by the director is something rarely seen in a 'children's' film.  The subtle and not-so-subtle humor is very well done.  Both myself and my father (age 21 and 49) were laughing throughout the movie.  Strange movie, but most of the good ones are.  Go see it. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good - but not for kids","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dark, adult tale of Babe's ascension to uber-pig. Echoes of City of Lost Children and fabulous sets (Metropolis??) comprised of bits and pieces of cities all over the world. And dig the jets landing overhead. All in all sweet fun and more then meets the eye in this tale of the 'dog eat dog' of our urban society. Don't recommend for children - this is definitely a tale for adults. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Wonderful Film","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you have not seen this movie (and indeed the original Babe) please, please do yourself a favour and buy it.The photography is wonderful, the story terrific, the characters charming. There is humour, sadness, hope and many more things in here, along with a terrific soundtrack.I can't rave about this film enough - to say it's as good as the original Babe says enough about the quality of this movie. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Give this film a chance.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you believe in fun, imagination, risk, and love, check out this film.If you consider yourself a film lover, seek out this film and enjoy its unique blend of sooooo many good things.Just like any great piece of cinema, it mixes all emotions into a magical treat that will wow you (at least once!).Fantastic and exceptional, risky and boisterous, Babe Pig in the City will make you a believer.Thank you, George and Company! "},{"Title":"Great Movie! Not for young kids though.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The only problem with this great imaginative film is that it came out as a sequel to Babe. Babe is a great family film for all ages. Pig in the City is really only for kids 16 or older (maybe very mature 12 year olds). That is the ONLY problem with it. Please don't blame the film maker for poor product positioning. I loved this film, it is ingenious and endearing and I could watch it over and over again because it is chock full of wonderful performances (human and other) and brilliant visuals. In many ways it reminded me of Moulin Rouge with its hyper-kinetic pacing and sense of humour. Please don't miss this gem, just don't bother trying to explain it to small children. "},{"Title":"More adult then most adult movies","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is great!  My heart really went out for the porker.  I don't know how much money Universal Studious gave the MPAA for a G rating, but it's not for young kids. The look of this film, it's fairy tale message, the music, the pacing...nothing is typical, usual, or predictable other then the obvious positive outcome. It's what you'd expect from the director of the Mad Max films.  It's Mad Max with a great big friggin heart.  "},{"Title":"Just as imaginative as the first!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe Pig in the City is just that. Imaginative. A truly great film. I don't know if I liked it any better than the first, probably not. But both films are worth watching. These movies are not just for children's enjoyment, though I believe they would enjoy them as well. But adults can like these just the same. It's wonderful entertainment. "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie even more than Babe, which is saying a lot.True, it goes to a darker place, but it's a magical tale befittingGrimm or Anderson. Very well written, beautifully acted anddirected, this could be a childrens classic once all the bad presspasses. See it right after Babe,  it makes a great double feature.            "},{"Title":"Pig Noir!","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful send up of those kids films where our heroes go to an exotic location (RUGRATS IN PARIS, BRADY BUNCH IN EUROPE, etc. etc.) Babe, the friendly, courageous pig of the classic 1995 film goes with his owner (Mrs. Hodgett) to a convention in an un-named city in order to save the farm. This city is a wacked out combo of everyplace.  It has NYC alleys and skylines, the hills and sunshine of Los Angeles, Venice waterways, places that belong in CABINET OF DR. CALIGARI, Baywatch babes and muscle hunks communting to work. The characters in the film range from droll eccentric (The Mafia styled pit bull, the badly dressed opera buffs who can't stand animals, an ourang-otang who insists on being dressed in a tuxedo during a rescue) to downright creepy  (Mickey Rooney as a wordless clown.  To me, dressing up wrinkled people over 70 in white clown make-up is ghastly!!!) This is what makes the film so much fun.  The oddball people and settings.  It is as if Fellini did work for NICKELODEON! You are not too sure who too root for, but don't worry.  You'll watch this sometimes macarbe, always amusing film in amazement!  "},{"Title":"Slightly disturbing lows followed by heartwarmingly cute interludes","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"    I have to say first off that, yes, you should use caution when showing this film to young children and be ready to explain some things, and also be aware that if you are sensitive or an animal lover, there will be some scenes that could be slightly disturb you or possibly even offend you for a moment... but the sheer gripping emotion when the situation is resolved makes up for it, I assure you.  I'm glad I was watching this film with a nine year old who was talking through it, though, because I would have broken down during some scenes if I had clearly watched and heard them.  I have to say that there is nothing cuter than the singing mice who bring a bit of relief to the sometimes tense dark mood, and the surprise at the end of the credits almost gave me cavities, it was that sweet...  I'm seeing mixed reviews here (I couldn't read all of them or I'd be here all day), and some valid points on both sides.  However, I don't agree with the statement that you can't care about the characters; that you can't become sympathetic.  Maybe I'm biased as an animal lover, and it's not the most touched I've ever been by a character or animal in a film, but I was moved.  But then again, I'm a big softie and many things move me.  Most reviewers were unanimous that the visual effects were spectacular.  Well, of course they were.  You wouldn't believe in it if they weren't.  A stunning film.  9/10. (9 because of the G rating... yes, it should be PG). "},{"Title":"A good family film","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I very much enjoyed Babe II. If you are expecting it to be better than Babe (I) - it isn't - but rather it is different, with a greater emphasis on the animals and slap-stick humor.Try to spot where The City is. I noticed elements from Sydney, Paris, London, San Francisco, New York, and possibly Portland. "}{"Title":"Brilliance","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A movie that took me by surprise,  having watched it more than  once I always notice something new.  A treat for me as well as my 2 year old son. I look forward to more instalments in the Babe series of movies. Coolness "},{"Title":"Unfortunate situation brings down magical film","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When Warner Brothers decided to release this movie, it went against A Bug's Life, which single-handedly made Babe the WORST marketed movie in 1998, maybe in the whole decade.  Which is a great shame, because it is rare when a sequel improves and is far superior than its predecessor (which was nominated for Best Picture, no less!).  But Babe Pig in the City is like Dark City of the same year, imaginative but losing any attention because of its release and advertising.  A truly magical film with flawless special effects and quite simply a very strong story that would appeal more to teens and adults with some genuinely frightening moments.  A terrific film--one of the best of 1998, and of the 1990s.  Period. "},{"Title":"Babe Pig in the City Sleeper masterpiece","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Once again, the kind-hearted pig has defied expectations.  It nearly took a court-order for me to watch the first film in the series, which turned out to be one of the best-written, best directed films of '96.  Somehow it fits that a near fairy-tale, ostensibly for children, contains ace characters, excellent narrative style, and buckets of charm.  And now, Pig in the City takes the whole series to the level of surreal cinema.  Who else out there thought about Une Chien Andolou when Babe and his master's wife find themselves in the Orwellian air terminal?  Indeed, Mr. Miller's experiences in the post Apocalyptic world of the Mad Max movies, when combined with the simplicity and directness of a children's narrative, results in a film that is part Willy Wonka part Franz Kafka.  Tell all your friends to go see it; they'll fuss and fight at first, but next thing you know, they'll be singing That'll Do Pig. "},{"Title":"A Franchise Killer","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Miller and company could have made Babe movies well into the 21st century, like Tarzan, or the Bowery Boys.  But no, with Babe Pig in the City the franchise was stillborn as effectively as if Miller'd made Babe  Bacon for Breakfast.In the first scene Farmer Hoggett is seriously injured due to Babe's heedlessness.  As a result the Hoggett's are in danger of losing the farm, so off to the State Fair go Mrs. Hoggett and Babe to earn some money.  But while making a connecting flight a dim-witted drug sniffing dog causes them to miss their flight and they get laid over in The City of Lost Children. And from here the movie starts getting a bit grim.Don't get me wrong, it's not a bad movie.  It's just disconcerting watching cuddly animals behaving like characters from a John Updike novel.  And of course it flushed the franchise right down the toilet. "},{"Title":"odd, but interesting","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Best movie of the year?  No.  Among the most interesting, though.  Minimal spoliers follow.George Miller has concocted a movie here with a firm but somewhat unknowable vision.  It reminds me, in this way, of lesser Coen brother movies it's ultimately not satisfying, but you can be sure that the director got it on screen exactly how he wanted it.Some set pieces are very good and a little terrifying -- Hoggett's accident and the hanging/near-drowning of a vicious dog.  Another -- a roundup of animals -- is very touching but goes a shade too long; another featuring Mrs. Hoggett bounced about a dining hall is an altogether misfire.Overall, a fine movie with some laugh-out-loud lines and jaw-dropping sequences.  Worth a rental, but not unmitigated reverence. "},{"Title":"A unique vision","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fantastic. I've never seen a film quite like this. I was amazed by the visual flair of this movie, its kineticism and the choreography of the animals. I realize that the moving mouths were special effects, but most of detailed animal interaction seemed real. The dialogue was witty and the animal characters were drawn more richly than in mostgrown-up films. The best chase scene in recent years has to be the one here involving Spuds McKenzie. I,too, believe the stature of this film will grow in later years. Minor complaint the bouncy sequence was out of place and too long (see the beginning of Thunderdome for a better version) "},{"Title":"it was all right","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Babe Pig In The City was all right. I liked the movie and I'm 13 years old but I still think that babe the first one is the best and a good job to Mickey Rooney for his role and it is a kids movie indeed! posted by jeremy "},{"Title":"It's a different movie - Get over it!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's not often that I want to see a movie again, but with Babe II I think it is essential.  Like everyone else, I came into it with expectations based on the original classic, and no matter how good the sequel got as it unfolded, I was uncomfortable (while watching it) with the completely different tone. In retrospect, Babe II is a masterpiece.  Playing over the scenes - especially the pit bull near-drowning - in my mind fills me with awe.But to deal with the obvious flaws in turn(1) the chase scenes go on too long - hey , this is George Miller in his element, how could he resist?;(2) the bouncy sequence seemed out of place - Yeah, but it was hilarious, and generally I hate slapstick.  Besides, they didn't do the obvious and knock over the champagne glasses.(3) The method of saving the farm wasn't exactly ingenious, and wasn't even the pig's direct responsibility - no response, except to lamely point out that no-one's perfect.(4) The beginning and ending scenes on the farm seemed weak.  In particular, Fly's & Rex's voices lacked something - in retrospect, it served to underline that you can't go home again, or repeat the same formula with equivalent effect.  Thank God Miller didn't even try.  This is a different movie, and we have to look to it's strengths elsewhere.(5) The farmer was underused - but after LA Confidential, I no longer find him particularly endearing.  Blow the bastard away!  Shoot him in the back if necessary.  Unfair?  Hey, suspension of disbelief only goes so far. Would you have cast Kiefer Sutherland for the role?(6) Finally the dark tone, starting with the well incident - first of all, unlike in the original, no sheep (or female deer, or Old Yeller) died in the making of the movie.   Before having seen it again, I'll go out on a limb and say that it just seemed dark in comparison to Babe I.  Most of the action in Babe II takes place indoors or at night. But I agree that a children's movie (which Babe II had to be in order to be commercially viable) should have shorter swings of the dark/light pendulum.  It's not enough to tack on a feel-good ending after over an hour of Se7en-like doom and gloom.  But what the hell do I know?  The evidence seems to be that kids like it, and I recall some fairly dark movies from my childhood.To me, Babe II was an inevitable extension of the theme of the original (remember the machine-mother substitute descending for the nursing piglets). It would have been unthinkable for the filmmakers to back away from the important task of holding up a mirror to contemporary society they started in the first movie.  However,  I do agree that they could probably still have done so while making some adjustments that would have allowed Babe II to make money.  Oh well, there's always video.  I don't think we needed another sequel anyways. "},{"Title":"This is a truly wonderful, imaginative family film.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie made me think of the Wizard of Oz; to me, it had the same sort of rich visual imagination, plus an extra level of wit. I didn't see this movie when it was first released but decided to go to a re-release upon reading of Gene Siskel's opinion that it was 1998's top movie. It's easy to see how it charmed him we are pulled into a world, to quote the film slightly to the left of the 20th century (and reality). I think this is what many filmmakers aspire to achieve in family films (films oriented to both child and adult). I had a smile on my face the whole way through - if you appreciate imagination, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"No babe in the woods","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What the pig says, goes, intones Babe's new friend, a pitt bull who enforces this new decree with all the subtlety of a goodfella. In order for a movie to get away with that sort of line, it has to be firmly in the realm of magic realism, and Babe Pig in the City, is just that. This movie is another in a long list of very good animated and semi-animated films (i.e. Small Soldiers) that has come out in the last few years. It solidifies my theory that animated movies and T.V. shows are better than most live-action ones. Babe Pig in the City isn't animated, and maybe not even semi-animated, although there are enough special effects in this movie that one could make a case that it is, but I discuss it in this context because most people think animated movies, and kids' movies, are actually for kids. Nothing could be farther from the truth; many so-called kids movies are family movies in the sense that adults will enjoy them too.I mention this because there has been talk that BabePig in the City is too dark for kids. There are scenes that might be too intense for very young kids, but the movie isn't intended for the very young. Neither was the first Babe movie. These movies are for grownups, darn it, talking animals or not!That said, see this movie. It's not quite as good as the original, but the vision and imagination behind it is as good. The story revolves around Mrs. Hoggett and Babe having to go to the city to make money and save the farm. The city, however, is no place for these country bumpkins, and Babe must rely on his generous and giving heart for survival. The movie introduces a new raft of animal characters - cats practicing arias, dogs with paralyzed back legs who get around with a cart, and my favorite, world-weary circus chimpanzees and a too cool for life oranguatan. If these guys don't soften your heart, nothing will. The special effects are superb, you are transported to a city of cities, every city of the world melded into one. And a simple story of a pig with a higher sense of morality than most humans. Shame on us. "}{"Title":"Babe, the cute pig rules the city","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My expectations to this movie was pretty huge. I loved the first one, and I must say I also finds this one very amusing. I don't count it as a children's movie. This one is a bit scary and the scenery is very gloomy. There are some wonderful pictures along. The city looks like a modern fairytale city, and everytime the funny duck appears you'll see something spectacular. The animations is done very impressive, even in the danish dubbed version, it looks like they really talk to you. And every animal along the way is doing a great job, they are cute, scary, funny and you can't stop loving them. Babe must be the Lassie of the 90'ties.  "},{"Title":"One of the best, if not the best, picture of the year!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Amazingly entertaining movie with a cast of memorable colorful characters, an inventive story and a wonderful flow of dialogue.  A movie worth watching over and over again!  Babe is more lovable this time (if that's possible) and the farmer's wife almost steals the show because she is so funny.  I can see another sequel coming and I know I would go see the next one.  The care and attention to detail is visible in both movies, therefore if the there is a third installment, you can bet I'll buy a ticket.This movie is a must see on the big screen.  It is also Siskel's #1 movie of 1998!! (that says something)!  Go see it before it leaves the theatres. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kids films that are entertaining to watch for adults? It's a growing trend I would like to see more of, if only to get me to the cinema more often.In some parts, the film can get remarkably bleak and disturbing. It certainly descends into far more darker scenes than the first film ever did.You have probably heard much about how the city has been stylised on screen, and it is very well done. Think City of Lost Children, meshed with present day dystopia, and you won't be far off.If you loved the first film, you _will_ enjoy this sequel. "},{"Title":"Nonplussed","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know, folks, I just couldn't get too worked up over this picture.Everybody's talking about the violence, and the darkness of George Miller's vision--does anybody remember A Clockwork Orange? or Se7en?  Those movies are dark--this one was just . . . okay.For kids?  Yeah, I suppose it'd be all right.  Nobody gets seriously hurt in this movie, except the Mickey Rooney character.  And there are some cut-diamond moments, like Mrs. Hogget walking over bridge and street with the clown costume, or when she's arrested at the airport.  There are real touches of imagination throughout.But on a critical level, I have just one word  meandering.  The movie wasn't just footloose and fancy-free, it was random and arbitrary.The bottom line is this  I was tickled pink by the first film, but also, as a movie-lover, I appreciated the rhythm of that picture, and the feeling of directorial discipline.  The best Disney features have these rare qualities, as well as Stanley Kubrick, Bob Fosse, and Alex Proyas pictures.Babe Pig in the City was fun, with a few laughs, but it didn't do it for me. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the year.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to public opinion, Pig In The City is a stupendous improvement on the original Babe.  While the first film had a comfortable, engaging charm with its live action take on the Charlotte's Web theme, it was at its essence a children's movie which adults could appreciate.  Pig in the City however, is just the opposite.  Its insightful look at modern culture and excess through the eyes of the innocent provides  a truly invigorating experience for moviegoers while its absorbing aesthetic appeal and subtle humor will intrigue both adults and children, albeit on different levels. A wonderful film, similar in tone to Terry Gilliam's Time Bandits, which in the long run will be historically valued far greater than A Bug's Life could ever imagine.   "},{"Title":"More isn't always better","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are many wonderful things in Babe Pig in the City, but there are also some disappointing and oddly dark aspects to the film.  The animal characters are beautifully realized -- there are many well-defined and memorable dogs and apes (the cats are rather short-changed).  A family of performing chimps (featuring the voices of Stephen Wright and Glenne Headly) and a dignified gentleman orangutan are especially memorable.  The sets are absolutely amazing -- the city is a wonderful hybrid of Venice, New York and Paris, among others.  And the musical score is a big plus, as it was in the first Babe.One major disappointment for me was the absence of Farmer Hoggett (James Cromwell) for most of the movie.  His quiet kindness and his fatherly relationship to Babe was at the heart of the first movie.  Magda Szubanski as the farmer's wife labors mightily and shows surprising determination, but the farmer is sorely missed.This movie is not for very young children -- I would hesitate to take a child under 10.  There are some disturbing scenes, especially a horrific one when all the animals are rounded up in the hotel they live in to be taken to a hospital research facility.  The animals are netted and grabbed every conceivable way, Babe is snagged by the neck, and a goldfish bowl smashes on the floor (the fish is saved by Babe).  The scene disturbed me, but maybe I'm more sensitive than most little kids these days.  The scene also made animal control officers look mean and sadistic, which I don't believe is really the case.Overall I'm very glad I saw this film and I loved many parts of it, but ultimately I longed for the simpler pleasures of the first movie. "},{"Title":"Babe II, A Sequel Well Worth Seeing!!!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My 3 children, 10,8,and 5 saw Babe, Pig in the City, last Monday night at a special screening.  We were first in line and were not disappointed.  My children all thought this movie was much better than the original, full of action, and more exciting. I preferred the original Babe, for its charm and warmth. However, this movie, unlike many sequels was taken in an entirely other direction, and succeeded. Although this movie did have a few darker moments, my children were not bothered by them. I feel Babe, Pig in the City retains the heart of Babe, and shouldn't be missed. (would've liked to see more of Farmer Hoggett,though, his brief scenes left you wanting more.) "},{"Title":"A DELIGHTFUL SEQUEL!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  BABE PIG IN THE CITY is a surprisingly delightful sequel to the 1995 sleeper hit.  I loved how new director George Miller ( who wrote the original ) has not rehashed the same cute elements of the original to cash in, but he bulids from it and creates an entirely new fairy tale with so much innovation and imagination.  The $ 80 million dollars spent on this film is all up on the screen, and we see dazzling visuals that are just as stunning as any Batman movie, except this movie has a plot and characters that can think.  I loved how the Big City wasn't areal city, but it incorporated landmarks and famous places from various cities making a visually stunning metropolis. This movie could have easily been HOME ALONE 2 with pigs and monkies, but it chooses not to and that's why it's so clever.  There has been talk about how this movie has been too dark for young audiences, but I don't think it should be cried over. Sure it is sometimes the tone the almost gothic, but it is only used to make the themes more powerful. Anyway, the animals were all adorable in this movie, I especially loved Ferdinand the Duck and all the monkies. BABE PIG IN THE CITY is a sequel to squeal about.! "},{"Title":"Too Dark, Too Busy","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After the first Babe movie, this is disappointing in that it loses a lot of its sweetness.  I would not recommend it for kids under 6 years of age. The situations are too threatening and the overall tone is far too dark for younger viewers.  I realize that I'm going against the grain of universal adulation for this sequel but I just didn't enjoy it and the obviously virtuoso technical achievements were lost on me and my daughter. "},{"Title":"Meaningful, beautiful, entertaining; a worthy sequel","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This sequel touched me almost as deeply as the original, and I'm not even that much of a softie. I'll admit I boo-hooed all the way through; it's a strange combination of aesthetic and emotional overload.  Once again, the animals (and there are lots of them this time) are gorgeously rendered and there's a deep message behind the slapstick comedy and some rather disturbing turns of plot.  Last time, the lesson was you can be anything you want.  This time it's the one who is most compassionate (the kindest heart) should be in charge.  An interesting thought considering the kinds of people we tend to PUT in charge these days!  In any case, through an act of supreme compassion and kindness, Babe becomes a sort of king of the animals -- actually kind of a messiah figure -- in a fanciful metropolis that's not New York, but an amalgam of all the world's major cities.  He must rescue the farm from foreclosure, reunite with Mrs. Hoggett (from whom he is quickly separated after arriving at a hotel that illegally houses animals), and save a herd of stray dogs, cats, etc. from starvation on the streets (or worse).  You may need to remind yourself a few times during this film that Babe WILL succeed -- some of the scenes are pretty wrenching.  But again, it's very beautiful and so incredibly moving.  It's wonderful to be reminded that for someone who has a kind and steady heart, virtually anything is possible. "}{"Title":"charming, technically amazing","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not dark as reviews say, probably because of the last-minute editing.  The movie is funny, cute, charming and technically amazing.  You really believe that animals can talk.  Their personalities are distinct. The best scene is when the dog is chasing Babe--funny, scary and touching in the end. "},{"Title":"A Child's Ballet of Cinematic Violence & Cruelty Towards Animals","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a horrific movie to gear towards children. It is extremely violent and just plain creepy! The scene where the dog is hanging from a chain and drowning in water was so WRONG. I wish I could put 0 stars for this one. Do not waste your money on this one. This is quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen. My husband and I (who are a young married couple with NO kids) bought it as a set with the original Babe movie. The original Babe is an absolute favorite of ours. We were both looking forward to watching this movie. He was practically jumping up and down in anticipation when we put it on. What a disappointment!!! In the first scene, Hoggit has an extremely violent accident in his well and his legs are removed at knees. The Mrs. travels to a seemingly post-apocalyptic city (which is a mix of every major city in the world) in order to make money to save the farm. This city is void of any halfway-decent moral life form. Everyone she encounters harasses or assaults her. The airport does a cavity search on her. Someone steals her purse and she ends up getting carted off in a police paddy wagon. Babe is left to fend for himself. A family of monkeys is staying in the same hotel and they steal Babe and exploit him in their magic act, which is performed in a hospital full of kids (which explodes). When Babe gets hungrier than he can bear, the monkeys tell him where he can go to get food. They take him to a yard of vicious dogs who chase Babe for 10 minutes. This action attracts the attention of all the animals in the city, who watch the spectacle but don't think for a second about helping poor Babe.Eventually the animals all become friends. One puppy tells Babe something to the extent of his humans tied him up in a bag and threw him out of their car. One of the monkeys becomes pregnant and has babies in the same night. Then animal control barges in and violently captures every last animal in the house, smashing a goldfish tank and strangling Babe on their way out. These scenes were difficult to watch and I'm sure they couldn't film them without some kind of animal cruelty.After some hustle, Mrs. Hoggit gets out of court and goes to find her pig. She runs around the city wearing a clown costume, which she ties up to a runner in a fancy ballroom and bounces around the room for about 20 minutes. If you can't follow me, good. You shouldn't be able to as the outrageous movie makes absolutely no sense.The morals of the movie are 1. Animals are not allowed in cities. 2. People are horrible and will do anything they can to hurt animals. 3. City animals are evil.It is way too violent for kids. It is just plain awful for anyone else. I can't say enough bad things about this movie. It left me stressed out and angry. It was painful to watch.Throughout the movie, my husband would turn to me and say, What the heck was the director thinking!? among some choice expletives. He can stand a little violence. He is in the Army. But the pointless violence in this movie did not make any sense. Keep in mind that neither of us has been around kids for more than a few hours at a time. We were appalled. I guess some may say that we didn't get it. But honestly, what is there to get? I can't find the morals; if there are any, they are hidden deep in the darkness of the movie. And pray tell, what is the point of a fat woman in a blown up clown suit bouncing around a room for 20 minutes? It wasn't even funny the first time! The movie started with Hoggit pig's owner getting critically injured because of pig. The plot then followed to having pig's owner's wife getting abused by assorted characters. Next was a scene where pig is abducted by monkeys that belong to a very disgusting clown. Following that scene pig causes the clown's act to catch on fire and the clown to get critically injured. There is a shot where the clown is being brought on a stretcher looking like Darth Vader outside of his encounter suit! Meanwhile there have been no friendly or nice scenes. So it was nice to see a scene where a duck gets dropped off by a pelican and lands in a beautiful meadow. But as soon as the duck lands things change. A target board pops up behind it and a bunch of people start shooting at it!! At this point our daughter was in tears and we took her and left the movie theater.I really want to know why does the acclaimed director think that a bunch of people shooting at a duck is right for ~3 year old kids. I am also amazed that this movie gets a G. Just because the main character is an animal it does not make the movie safe for young children. If you have very young children I strongly suggest that you avoid this movie. It is horrifying even with both parents next to the child. "},{"Title":"So much more than you can see","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Once again, if it's illegal for someone who worked on a film to review it then dismiss this review, otherwise read on.I was the Art Dept Electrician on this film. It will always occupy a special place in my heart as the most demanding and enjoyable film I ever worked on. It was made at the height of the golden age of Film in Sydney Australia and it's demands stretched the ability of the industry here, especially when The Matrix began shooting alongside.There are a lot of Australian milestones on this film. To date it still holds the record (and is likely to for the foreseeable future) for the largest and most complex film back lot ever constructed in Australia. From beginning to end this film took 12 months in production. Months and months of night shoots were the order of the day. An enormous animal department was maintained on site for this film, the production being unique in the world. Unfortunately not many of these milestones are visible on screen.Couple to this the realization that this film was made on the old side of the fence at the Sydney Showgrounds as it was undergoing transformation into Fox Studios. As production ran overtime, a game of cat and mouse ensued where the fences were constantly moved as the new Fox ate and devoured the old site. That the film was completed at all was testimony to the resilience of George Miller and his crew to plod on no matter what, and settle for nothing less than the very best.So how can I give a film that I worked on, only 4 stars out of 10? Because despite the great story, incredible performances and wonderful production design, this film has been fiddled with. Important scenes (that were filmed) were deleted in an attempt to give the film the all important G rating when this film should always have been rated PG. The desperate and terminal nature of the film is lost - and you leave the cinema feeling cheated that something that was promised, was not quite delivered.Who to blame? Universal I guess - because what came back in November 1998 looked quite different to what we had spent 12 months making in the previous two years. The film was released in a very difficult Pre Christmas slot up against stiff competition. It's dark side was panned by critics - who believed that the sequel should have been as light hearted as the first film.But my final opinion? When I saw Babe in a cinema in 1995, I distinctly remember standing in the parking lot with my family, considering what we had just seen and remarking Now there's a film that should never be sequel-led.In February 1997 when I was first told of the plans for Babe 2, my heart sank at the memory of those words spoken by myself 2 years earlier. Of course I was excited to be on the film in the important crew position I took, we did our best and I will always be forever happy with the results.However today when I watch and enjoy Pig in the City I can't but help remember my feelings that day in February 1997. So glad I am that this film was made, that I could have been a part of it and have it turn out so well.. and yet niggling in the back of my mind.. the question as to whether it should have been made at all.Please enjoy watching Babe  Pig in the City. It was, is and always will be my favourite production. In my opinion the last real Sydney film made before big corporate money took over the scene in Australia and laid waste to it 10 years later.History that will never be repeated. "},{"Title":"I don't think it is as good as the original, but it is actually one of the better sequels to anything I've seen.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The original is a beautiful, heart-warming film, that enchanted me when I was little and still enchants me now. While slightly inferior, the sequel BabePig in the City is very entertaining but noticeably darker, with some suitably heart-warming moments and really stunning visual design and cinematography(some of the best of its year actually for me). Yes, it's not perfect, but it is one of the better sequels to anything I've seen. The main merit would have to be the animals, the adorable Babe, the chimpanzees, the singing cats and my favourite the mice who stole every scene they were in. I also really liked Ferdinand, but if anything I wish he was in more of the film. The lip movements are excellent, and the animals are well voiced by the likes of EG.Daily, Miriam Margoyles, Hugo Heaving and James Cosmo. However, the human characters weren't quite as impressive- Mickey Roony is given very little to do and James Cromwell doesn't quite have the warmth he brought to the first film. The most impressive was Magda Szubanski, and some of the most priceless scenes of the film was with her. I liked the story, and the script in general, but what I liked most aside from the animals was the music, with Organ Symphony, Il Trovatore(there was a time when I didn't like the Anvil Chorus very much, but it's growing on me) and Non Je Ne Regrette Rien, where can you go wrong? Overall, not terrific, but very enjoyable. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A  loss without the creative hand of Chris Noonan","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've just seen Babe Pig in the City, for the first time. A good enough movie entertainment, but not worth owning--or hardly even seeing again.What keeps it, I feel, from being a much better film is the loss of Chris Noonan heading the production team as director and co-writer. Under Noonan's hand, Babe was an outstanding film, a true classic, and one I'm proud to own and revisit from time to time.With Babe Pig in the City George Miller lacks the capacity to pull all the wonderful, creative elements in the film together into one arch of perfection, which all classics share. Too bad Miller didn't bring Noonan back to do this continuation of Babe.Alas, Babe Pig in the City with all its artistic potential, is so close, but sadly, not close enough to compare with its wonderful and moving predecessor. "},{"Title":"Took some chances...","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...which might explain why this got rather Luke-warm critical reviews(save Siskel and Ebert's raves)and somewhat wan box office(compared to the first BAbe movie). Still,I think when movies take some chances that's nominally a good thing,and while I probably didn't enjoy this one as much as the first BAbe,upon re-watching this movie recently,I can say that this is still a beautiful and touching film.Picking up exactly where the first movie left off,Babe(now voiced by E.G.Daily,a staple of animated voice-work) is a hero of the farm,but not for long. When the overly-helpful pig accidentally causes injury and damage to FArmer Hoggett(JAmes Cromwell,here in something just a little above a cameo),it's up to the resourceful and gallant porker and Mrs.Hoggett(Magda Szubanski,doing as much or more acting physically as verbally and emotionally)to help with the costs by going to the big city to win another contest.Once in THe City,BAbe encounters a slough of critters,many of whom are suspicious and even downright hostile,and one again he has to prove his courage and capture heart to win them over.When I left the theater nine years ago after seeing this initially,I think too many disturbing images(off the top of my heada fire in a children's ward of a hospital,at least two scenes of creatures almost hung to death,a couple of harrowing chase scenes,the farmer's wife arrested on false drug possession charges,a near-mute Mickey Rooney covered in greasepaint),and that might've clouded my judgment of this film,seeing it again also reminded me of the sheer beauty of the cinematography and the overall message that both films brought. George Miller's direction and co-writing of the script(with Judy Morris)may showcase more of his own more adult sensibility in film-making(he DID after all make the MAd Max movies if I recall correctly)and thus may've added much darker touches to the otherwise gentle fable,but it shouldn't detract from the quality of this film. With added voice support from(among many others)Steven Wright(As a less-than-hospitable chimp named Bob),Adam Goldberg(As a gimpy,cart-attached mutt named Flealick)and DAnny Man(Again as the daffy,enthusiastic duck friend of BAbe's Ferdinand),this movie almost DEMANDS to re-watching to fully get the qualities it attempts to display. Maybe not for all audiences,but the quality level is on par with the beautiful and profound original from which it came. "},{"Title":"Bites off more than it can chew","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Looking back, I don't know why I felt excited when I first heard that 'Babe', one of the most charming and delightful films that 1995 had to offer, would be next to go down with superfluous sequel syndrome. After all, you'd only need to look at how it ended to see that it was a perfectly satisfying story told well enough within itself, and that any additional material would surely be grasping the straws for ways to extend it. It shouldn't really have been too surprising that 'Babe Pig in the City' (a generic sequel set-up if ever there was one - remember the follow-ups that 'Home Alone' and 'Homeward Bound' were afforded?) would have so much trouble in justifying itself and finding our porcine protagonist something worthwhile to do in his 90-odd minutes of extra time. I'd been swayed enough by his unwavering charm to head along in Christmas 1998 regardless, and pay up for a second instalment, little knowing I was in for an evening of eyebrow raising and shuffling uncomfortably in my seat.Granted, for a sequel which existed primarily to cash in on the unexpected acclaim of the original - which, of course, it didn't - it at least made the effort to do something a little different on this occasion, instead of just retreading the same routine in an altered context (which is more than can be said for the sequels to 'Home Alone' and 'Homeward Bound'), so some credit for that. I just wish they'd found a better alternative than this strange plethora of tiring clichés (those evil folks in black suits at the bank want to buy out the farm and it's up to Babe to save it - what is it about that scenario that I find so uninspiring?), muddled plotting and blunted messages. I presume it was intended as a heart-warming caper about how one innocent little piglet winds up in the despondent city and brings hope and salvation to the masses of abused pets and outcast strays that roam the streets. But the charm of the original is sorely lacking - instead, it's been sidelined to make room for the elaborate extravagance that runs rampant through this sequel, and whatever teachings it may offer about charity and selflessness can never overcome the chaotic and surprisingly unpleasant feeling of the movie as a whole. When the champion sheep-herder isn't being abducted by creepy performing primates for use in their routines and inadvertently setting a children's ward on fire, he's having to rescue dogs from hanging themselves off bridges or becoming road kill on the freeway. Personally, I have nothing against family films that are willing to get a little sombre every now and then (moreover, I usually applaud them), but 'Pig in the City' tackles this in overkill, and with a fist too ham and a hand too heavy for its own benevolence.True, the original film had its sprinkling of darkness, which the viewers, if not Babe himself, could easily pick up on, but more than enough lure and feel-good merriment to balance things out. Its sequel, meanwhile, has gone for immensity over quality - instead of subtle darkness, we get extreme grotesquery (as exemplified by Mickey Rooney's creepy clown guise) and all-out theatrical slapstick where the warmth and heart should have been. Everything on its agenda - humour, drama, animal welfare messages - is executed accordingly, and by the time we reach the (rushed and, let's face it, overly-idealistic) conclusion, it hasn't succeeded in being nearly as cheerful and uplifting as it thinks it has.That in mind, I guess I also shouldn't have been too surprised that James Cromwell (ask any fan of the previous movie, and they'll tell you that he was easily as essential for making 'Babe' what it was as any of the animals on board) would be given such a minimalist hand in screen time. Hey, Farmer Hogget was always a deep, modest and understated man who obviously could never fit in the overblown approach that this outing adopted. It would also account for the severely diminished roles of the more restrained of the farmyard critters - Rex, Fly and Duchess have been appropriately excluded, while Ferdinand and the singing rodent trio have tagged along for little other reason than to raise their voices whenever necessary. As for the fresh horde of characters that Babe encounters on his threadbare adventure, they lack depth and dimension in just about every way possible, and if not for their varying range of visual characteristics, would be impossible to distinguish altogether (as before, the mix of trained animals and animatronics works wonders, but the addition of CGI to the visual equation - in the form of baby chimps, goldfish and some truly dreadful-looking pelicans - sticks out like a sore thumb). The only thing it really has to keep it going is Babe himself. At least he's still the charming mass of sincerity he's always been (even if his original vocal chords have bolted - wisely so, Christine Cavanaugh) and remains the one ray of positive light which keeps this film from getting swallowed up in its own profligacy.There have been worse follow-ups, I suppose. Babe's charisma, some decent visuals and its willingness to innovate are what keep me from writing this off as a total scrap-heap - just about enough merit to avoid disgracing its forerunner, but it doesn't exactly do it a great deal of justice either. Watch it if you must, but are you sure you wouldn't rather pay the original another visit instead? I assure you, that film is very re-watchable. This one, as I discovered when I finally gave it a second chance, really isn't.Grade C "},{"Title":"What  is that little piggy doing in a fake city????","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Talking animals are no longer a thing of legends and fairy tales, not anymore since the film industry has discovered the use of computer animation. And let's be honest who wouldn't like to be able to talk with his/her dog, cat, bird, fish or whatever kind of pet that you own. So when a movie is made with talking animals, success is almost guaranteed, certainly when the main character is a young animal.But we also know that when a movie is successful, a second one will soon follow. That's how we got Babe Pig in the City. The biggest problem with sequels is that they almost never seem to reach or improve the standards of the original. Somehow it always seems that sequels aren't much more but easy money makers and I'm afraid this movie isn't an exception.It's still very nice to see that little pig walking around, talking with all kinds of animals, but a pig belongs on a farm or at least in the countryside, not in a city. But OK, even when the location isn't too well chosen, that still doesn't mean that the movie can't be good, right? Right, but not entirely true in this case. The makers of the movie have made some kind of caricature of the entire city and its inhabitants, making it all very weird and sometimes unbelievable. If only the city had looked a bit better, I wouldn't have had such a problem with it. Now it looked more like a Disney version of Venice.But not everything about the movie was bad of course. What I did like was the story The piggy has to raise some money, because otherwise the farm will be sold. It will go to a sheep herding competition with the farmer's wife, but never gets there because of some circumstances.All in all this isn't a bad movie, for grown-ups as well as for children. Children will love the animals, adults may see some underlying messages in it. I give it a 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excessively dark, contrived sequel picks up right where the original left off. Babe is now viewed as a hero after his amazing performance at the annual sheep herding contest. Unfortunately, his beloved owner Farmer Hoggett is injured and unable to do the work necessary to support the farm. It's up to Hoggett's wife, and the intrepid Babe, to travel to the big city to try and save the farm, but city life is a lot more than they bargained for and Babe encounters unpleasant city animals and rambunctious havoc along the way. Heavy on animatronics, which are fairly impressive, but lacks the original's charm, has a grim tone, and subject matter that isn't very appealing to children or a family audience. ** "},{"Title":"psychedelic","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched it yesterday, having no expectations whatsoever and it turned out to be a great and very original movie. The characters were very well developed and the viewer cares about what is happening to them. I loved the dreamy atmosphere, which was at the same time quite dark. The first film of the series is very good as well but if I had to pick one it would probably be Pig in the Big City. That is not to say the original Babe is bad - on the contrary - it is a very nice and bright movie that would appeal to kids. It seems to me Pig in the Big City is not so much a children's movie, it's much more complex both in terms of narrative and visual presentation. Absolutely recommended... "}{"Title":"Too many animals - not enough humans - and the wrong setting","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie was good enough, but it seemed that the creators wanted to concentrate more on the animals than the humans.  What they failed to realize was that it was the interactions between the humans and the animals that made the original as good as it was.  Instead of the far-fetched storyline that was created, the writers would have been better off if they had allowed Babe to actually get to the fair, and then develop the story from there...perhaps another sheep-pig, a love affair with a real pig (or maybe a sheepdog) that distracts Babe from his real mission.  The Pig in the City concept was a little too strained to make it enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A misunderstood masterpiece.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" George Miller might not be the most prolific of film-makers, but he sure is one of the most versatile how many other directors can you name who are just as adept at films about talking animals as they are with gritty, brutal, post apocalyptic action flicks? When Miller first made the move from Mad Max to a sheep-herding pig, I was suitably gob-smacked, but nowhere near as flabbergasted as when I saw what he came up with for the sequel&#x85;Rather than simply repeat the formula that made the first Babe movie such a success, Miller dared to take his lovable porcine pal into surprisingly disturbing territory, fusing the macabre with the magical and the saccharine with the sinister, the action taking place in a bizarre, nightmarish world that wouldn't seem out of place in a Jeunet and Caro movie. Rather unsurprisingly, the film left many fans of the first film feeling somewhat confused and dismayed, unable to accept this altogether darker, more surreal vision.Their loss! With stunning set design, breath-taking costumes, and superb special effects, the creativity and imagination on display in Pig In The City far exceeds that of the original, while Miller's superb story-telling delivers emotional highs and lows, thought-provoking morality, and lots of laughs. As for the claim that the story is too dark for most children, has nobody ever seen The Wizard of Oz? Like that film, this is a brilliant piece of fantasy cinema that, if there is any justice, will eventually and deservedly be recognised as the masterpiece it most definitely is. "},{"Title":"A Fun and Fresh Sequel,","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Babe Pig in the City is a good movie with a very enjoyable and well developed storyline with a good cast and a tone if very lovable characters.I find this to be a very underrated sequel,I found it just as good if not better than the first Babe,I loved all the animals in this one even more than the first,and I also felt a lot more emotion in this one.The movie also has a tone of very funny scenes.Fans of the first Babe should not be disappointed by Babe Pig in the City.As he heads to a big city to save his farm,Babe goes to a hotel infested with animals.Its up to Babe to save these animals when they are discovered by animal control. "},{"Title":"THE Most underrated film of all time","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is hardly even a debate given its 6.0 on here. If you do not like this film, you have no soul. It is as simple as that. The original babe was just an okay movie to me, but this one is something special. How often does a sequel top its predecessor? Rarely, and basically NEVER in kids movies.The reasons this film owns are numerous. First off, watch the animals - most of them are better actors than 90% of the people you see in movies. Second, the setting is pristine and the camera work and design of the entire production are pristine as well. The writing is great, too. Really what it comes down to is that this movie is great for the whole family, but unlike the original babe, it has some very dark themes which only adults can comprehend. This is what a film should be - enjoyable for all, sub-textual for the intelligent, and entertaining throughout.In the end, this is a classic film, and there isn't much to debate about it besides that. "},{"Title":"A good sequel, but some voice problems...","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Even though this sequel was considerably darker than the original, it was still an enjoyable movie.  The cityscape was most imaginative, with landmarks that made it everywhere and thus anywhere.To me, however, there were several major flawsFirst, BABE'S VOICE IS DIFFERENT!  The actress who did it in the sequel (E.G. Daily) used the same voice when she portrayed Tommy Pickles in 'Rugrats', and this distracted me considerably.  Where was Christine Cavanaugh (the first Babe)  when the time came to do this film?Second, WHY IS ESME'S VOICE CHANGED?  In the first film Farmer and Mrs. Hoggett had somewhat non-accented, could-be-from-anywhere voices and most of the supporting cast had their voices looped to eliminate their distinctive Oz accents.  Now, suddenly, Mrs. Hoggett is Scottish. Why?Finally, why was it necessary to confine James Cromwell's appearances to just the beginning and end of the film?  His absence was keenly felt.  These points make it difficult for me to whole-heartedly recommend the film to people who loved the original Babe. "},{"Title":"5.9/10............Really!","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't care what anyone says, in my personal opinion, Babe Pig in the City is one of the best movies ever made. Now I will admit that the incredibly indescribable tone is a bit polarizing or whatever you call it for some people but I think it works. The story is fun. The characters are actually likable and interesting. But what really sets Babe Pig in the City apart is the visuals, music, and cinematography. Babe Pig in the City is (for me personally) the best looking movie I have ever seen in my life. I am not exaggerating st all. I have seen Blade Runner. I have seen all 3 Lord of the Rings movies multiple times. I have seen Avaturd. Anyway, Babe Pig in the City has such an imaginative,creative world to it that I just can't help but praise like a fan boy.Yes, it will be polarizing to some but just hear me out, give this amazing movie a shot because it more than deserves it. It is also I would also like to openly admit, that this is one of my top 5 favorite movies of all time. And one of my dreams is that this movie gets put in the Criterion Collection. I'm not just over hyping because of nostalgia.I didn't see this movie until I was 14. No joke. 10/10= Fantastic! "},{"Title":"A silly movie with no redeeming qualities, but lots of fun anyway!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It has been a few years since I saw 'Babe', the first one, so the details are sketchy, but it primarily involved this little pig wanting to be more than just a pig. So he was coached by the sheep to compete and win as a sheep herder. A very charming little movie. 'Babe Pig in the City' is quite different, and for me a lesser movie. Babe and the farmer's wife travel for him to compete again, but get sidetracked, and his mission becomes one to save all the animals in this strange hotel in a strange fantasy city, one that has a view out the window which includes the Eiffel Tower, the Golden Gate Bridge, the Sydney harbor, and a skyline on an island that looks vaguely like Manhattan. The animals include Chimps and an Orangutan dressed like people. And of course all the animals talk to each other. The story and action are mostly silly.What I found most fun about the movie was use of modern digital techniques to make it seem like the animals really were talking. Even using frame-by-frame viewing of the DVD, the effect is done so well that animal mouth movements and facial expressions were exactly like we would expect them to be if animals could really talk in our language.  But that was about the only thing I really enjoyed about the movie.   "},{"Title":"Not a nice review of what is not a nice film.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Babe. It makes me cry like a blithering idiot. I love the music, the scenery, the story, the acting (James Cromwell is lovely). Everything exudes warmth and makes you feel great to be a vegetarian. Then this piece of work came along. Where Babe had wide eyes and an innocent smile, this has a sneer. Babe was fluffy and warm; this is cold, hard and covered in razor-sharp spikes. Babe was heart-rendingly sad and ultimately life-affirming; this is pure depressing evil from the first shot to the last. Parents, do NOT let your kids see this. It will mess them up for life.  "},{"Title":"Horribly plotted and painfully dark.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was literally painful for me to watch this film. It is so dark; one horrible thing happens after another, and it's so crammed with plots and subplots it's impossible for most of them to find any satisfying resolution.  I would never inflict this movie on a child and would only recommend it to adults who care more about interesting visuals than plot or characterization. "},{"Title":"Babe should have stayed at the farm! What happened???","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This little piggie named Babe went out to the city. Alas, he should have stayed home with dear old Farmer Hoggett. His second little movie became roast beef when loyal audiences weren't gonna put up with it. Then, it suddenly became none. These happy ticket buyers cried foul and left the theater for good. I can remember all that happened since this was first released, and now that I've just seen the official home video edition, the verdict is now out. It isn't just the offending matter that put Babe's new film on the meat hook, but this is authentic testimony that sequels fail to live up to expectations from the original, which was so great in comparison. What happened???To brighten things up for now, the wizardry that was used in the original BABE movie remains here. I'm still impressed with the animal talents that look lively even when they're actually speaking. They still act nearly human as with the first. A few adults and children will still love and remember the gallant pig for his achievements and responsibilities that pay due respect to a family movie. At least this sequel added only one more element that signifies how to adapt in a world driven by an edge of chaos. The point of having a cast of barnyard animals in a big budget movie is magically delightful for almost every age.But things went too far. What depresses me in viewing a nice little movie that's rated G has to do with director George Miller (of violent MAD MAX fame) for making a nightmarish kiddie show that will never be regretted. I strongly urge all loving parents to please view with the children. It pains me to hear words such as serial killer and suicidal, or seeing babes in small tops and bikinis with a seductive cosmetics ad over their heads. This is considered as a perverting nature. I could see how the film producers tried to skirt around the adult-like themes to make this safe and sound. Things don't come easy anymore, but the movie is already hurt by this true amount of substance.Above all and anything else, there are a few problems. For an $80 million production, money is a terrible thing to waste. Almost every scene is shot in the dark, making one feel that it was better on the sunnyside farm. Why? This is perhaps a wrong-way move on the writer's point of view. Occasionally, you don't know how quiet it looks with rich (and again, dark) scenery that surrounds the picture tube. It also falls into the peril trap, with hard moments one too many, and nearly as violent. One surprising thing I've found is that the humans show off an abstract form of cruelty (an example is the scene with those animal control guys). With the intensity that shows, it's far from cartoonish! What's more depressing is the sudden absence of Farmer Hoggett following a freak accident. Pity on the script!BABE PIG IN THE CITY has unfortunately illustrated how weak sequels really are. Three years in the making would have achieved results more positive than negative. The pig remains to be a lovable icon, which warrants a sincere recommendation on the 1995 original. It's a crying shame a nicely told children's story has to turn ugly. A real sad-but-true disappointment!  "}{"Title":"A Pork in the Eye!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This little piggy went to market.This little piggy made bucks.This little piggy begat a sequel.This little piggy now sucks!I'll confess, the charm of the original Babe passed me by like day-old pork rinds. Yes, Miller's initial batch of barnyard bathos was technically interesting, but a threadbare script and special effects that were as plain as the snout on your face made the entire outing a B+ effort at best.But now, in true Hollywood fashion, Babe's back and Esme's got 'em.This foray into the city saps the movie of its main strength, the intimacy and warmth of a bucolic country setting. Also falling victim this go-round is the calming and dignified presence of Hoggett, who is dispatched quickly in the opening sequence (wonder what kind of salary Cromwell got from his three-day shoot?)What's left, then, is Babe running amok in some sort of uber-city, the set design of which would make Batman's metropolis look like Smallville USA.Subtlety has been replaced with slapstick, as Esme is bounced around a ballroom like some bovine bungee-jumper. Heartfeltness has been replaced with gruesomeness, as Babe and his computer-boosted co-stars escape the evil clutches of *gasp!* Animal Experimentalists. Quietness has been replaced with a biosterous booming, boinging, belching soundtrack.All in all, a rather unnecessary sequel--like most, don't you think?Babe's not the only thing lost in this movie. Somewhere or other, someone managed to mislay the heart of the original.Skip--or rent if you must.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing, yet Vile","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While at a family gathering this evening I watched this movie with a group of young children. The cute pig and sweet singing mice did not offset the disturbing, vile nature of this film.You can't help but think that those involved with this film really must have a hate on for children. There were countless scenes of cruelty and violence - maimings and barbarism. The film is a sick parody of a children's movie. I really wished I had check the IMDB reviews before pulling this one off the shelf. Not surprisingly, the children also found it quite distasteful.I would hope that those in charge at the IMDB would decline suggesting that, if viewers liked Babe, that they would also like this film. In terms of story, they have nothing in common. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not just a disappointment after the first Babe...it is a deception to give it the same name. Where the first movie had a plot, was fun and funny on many levels, had sympathetic characters, and appealed to all ages, this movie is shapeless, pointless, cruel, and lacking in any interest or appeal to any age group. It is too dark for kids and too dumb for adults. The longest scene in the movie is an interminable kidnapping of dozens of animals by cruel animal wardens culminating after fifteen excrucuiating minutes with the moviemakers tormenting and brutalizing a handicapped dog. It is incomprehensible that anyone gave much thought to what they were doing when this movie was conceived. It is like a demented and breathless child telling a story...and then the farmer fell down a well...and then the pig got lost... and then there was a chase and then the nasty neighbors told on them...and then there was a chase and then the animals escaped...but before that they were captured...and then there was a pregnant monkey...and then the fat farmer got her underwear blown up...and then... and then... "},{"Title":"Great idea that went nowhere","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great idea- let's send the country pig to the big city and have him interact with a colorful cast and then the idea went absolutely nowhere! Story line made no sense. Jokes seemed thrown in. How this film made the top 10 of some very good critics is a mystery. "},{"Title":"Not for kids - or adults or animals either","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a terrible movie.  I rented it for the whole family to see, but about an hour later, with my 4 1/2 year old daughter crying hysterically, this video went back in the box.  You don't have to be a kid to be upset by this movie.  My taste in movies doesn't run to sweetness & light (we are big film noir fans), but this movie was just plain bad.   "},{"Title":"this movie is great!!!!!","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! It is very heartwarming and a movie your family is sure to love! When babe and the animals get picked up by the animal control, it is so so sad! Everyone is sure to love this fun, heartwarming movie!!! Also I like it when in the beginning of the movie where they are all cheering for the Farmer and the Bosses Wife! Babe is a cute little pig on a mission trying to save the farm from being sold! This is a fun family adventure and very spectacular!!! I thought it was mean when the monkeys led Babe to the savage dogs and said they were sheep because that could have killed Babe! Would not want that to happen now would we?? "},{"Title":"That'll Do Pig...Again.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS       Babe the sheep pig had become a national celebrity. He and his owner, Arthur Hoggett, have returned from a sheep herding championship where Babe won first prize. Life on the Hoggett farm had returned to normal. One afternoon, Arthur went down the well to fix the water pump and Babe got it in his head that he should help. When he helps, it causes Arthur to have a serious accident and become badly injured. As if that wasn't bad enough, the bank threatened to foreclose the mortgage on the Hoggett place. Esme, Arthur's wife, came upon a flyer for the state fair Arthur had been sent and since Babe was such a good sheep herder, the prize money would surely pay off the bank. Since Arthur was in no shape to travel, Esme would go with Babe. Babe bid farewell to his friends Rex, Fly, Ferdinand, the sheep, horses and cows. Ferdinand couldn't stand to see his friend go so he flew after Esme and Babe's plane. They soon arrive at an airport to switch planes, but a no-good drug sniffing dog complicated things when he lead authorities to believe Esme had drugs on her. By the time the search was over, she and Babe had missed their plane to the fair and there weren't any flights home for three days. They tried getting a hotel room but no hotels in the area accepted animals, except one near the water in the city.          Esme and Babe checked in. Other animals in the hotel were dogs Nigel, Alan and Flealick whose hind legs were in a wheel chair. When Esme left the room to make a phone call, a monkey named Tug came into the room and stole Esme's suit case. Babe chased him into another room that was occupied by three chimpanzees Bob, Zootie and an unnamed little guy. They refused to return the suit case and were anything but polite to Babe. Suddenly, their master, Fugly Floom, returned home and saw what was up. He locked Babe in a trunk and when Esme returned, denied having seen him so Esme ventured into town to look for Babe. She accidentally caused disaster which landed her in jail. Fugly was an entertainer at the children's hospital and the chimpanzees and an orangutan, Thelonius, were his assistants. Babe was allowed to help the act, but actually ruined it. The next day, Fugly had a stroke so he was rushed to the hospital and the hotel landlady followed so now the animals were alone with no food. Bob, Zootie and the little guy went out to acquire some food. They used Babe as bait to occupy the guard dogs. The pitbull chased Babe across town and back to the hotel where a lawn mower becomes attached to his collar and he falls into the river and nearly drowns. Luckily Babe comes to his rescue and the two become friends.          Suddenly, a bunch of stray cats and dogs approached. They had no place to live so Babe invited them to stay in the hotel. Now we all know that if you put cats and dogs in a room together, they fight. And they did. They fought so loud that the neighbors called the feds. Soon the police and animal control people arrive and take away all the cats and dogs, including Nigel, Alan, Thelonius, Bob, Zootie, Little Guy and Flealick. Ferdinand arrived then but he and Babe escaped their grasp. So did Tug. They locked the animals in their vans and drove off. Flealick was caught in the van door and when he was loosened, he was nearly killed. The four friends head off to find their new friends. Meanwhile, Esme was finally released from prison and returned to the hotel to find Babe, but she found the place deserted. The landlady returned also. They learned where the animals went and raced there. Meanwhile, Babe, Tug, Ferdinand and Flealick released the dogs, cats and monkeys and inadvertantly crash a fancy party. Esme arrives then and Babe offers them all a place to live on the Hoggett farm. Some stayed, others went off to persue other careers. But either way, they all lived happily ever after.        A nice sequel to Babe! Magda Szubanski returns as Esme Cordelia Hoggett and James Cromwell makes a cameo appearance as Arthur Hoggett. E.G. Daily is the voice of Babe. In the original, Christine Cavanaugh did Babe's voice. Daily and Cavanaugh, as you know, voice Tommy and Chuckie on Rugrats! Mickey Rooney plays Fugly, which is definitely NOT one of his best rolls! Also, the chimps were very annoying at times! But other than that, this was a good movie! I wonder if there'll be a Babe III. If so, where could it take place? Antarctica? Outer space? Who knows. But anyway, if you saw the first one then by all means, see Babe Pig in the City!- "},{"Title":"One of the best of the decade","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First off, I wanna address the criticism this film is getting for being too dark and not suitable for children. The first Babe had the scene of Babe's mother being taken away, Babe with a shotgun pointed at it's head, and the bloody death of a sheep, and deaths of a bunch of other sheep is Fly's story she tells Babe. The sequel, while intense, doesn't have any deaths at all. It has no guns. Yes, I know the scene with the bulldog almost drowning is intense, but it is so wonderful to see that he is rescued.Now, why the film is great-first the film as a fantastic look. The sets look straight from a Fairy tale. While the whole film is outstanding, there is a big middle chunk that runs about 30 minutes, where all we see on the screen are primarily animals, puppets, and special effects, but the drama which unfolds is as good or even better than any human scene. EVER  "},{"Title":"Overrated.","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" BebePig in the city is even worse than the original, which I didn't think was that good in the first place. If you have read my review for the original, you know why I am writing a review for this. I was outraged by all of the critical acclaim it got. Because I thought it sucked. The first Babe movie was actually nominated for Best picture. Why? Why, why, why? What could be so good about it? Not that much.Oh, but there is so much more to it than talking animals, some one might say. No, there is nothing. Clearly, the academy agreed with me on the second one, because it wasn't nominated for anything special. "},{"Title":"Another bad film about the pig","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Babe Pig in the City capitalized off of the first film's popularity. Again, it was just as bad as the original film -- and a little more silly. I think even the children will be bored. I wonder where Babe is now... maybe part of that bacon sandwich I just ate for dinner...I think the whole appeal of 'Babe' was that the pig looked cute - I think it even had a little tuft of blond hair. (Pigs really DON'T have hair - bristles, yes. Hair, no. Babe seems to be like some hybrid human-pig breed.) Sending the farm animals off to look for the city life just seemed to be like the next step from showing them on the farm. How unoriginal. It was like 'The Incredible Journey' gone mad. I had trouble sitting through this film. I am guessing some of you would too. "}{"Title":"A turn for the worse","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We have watched Babe I hundreds of times and Love IT! My three year old was SCARED of Babe II.  This movie has a dark side to it that is pretty rough on youngsters.  If I had known going into the movie that it was rated PG here, I don't think I would have gone.  I assumed that it was G like the first one and would be a nice family film.  Don't make my mistake. Keep the kids away. "},{"Title":"Babe Pig in the City","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A sequel to a successful family film is sometimes expected, but they should make sure it has the same appeal and fun as the first film, and this just doesn't, from director George Miller (Mad Max, The Witches of Eastwick, Happy Feet). The film picks up where it left off last time, just after Babe (Rugrats' Tommy, Elizabeth Daily) has won the sheep herding competition, and his clumsiness gets his boss Farmer Arthur Hoggett (an underused James Cromwell) severely hurt, and his wife Mrs. Esme Cordelia Hoggett (Magda Szubanski) decides to accept one of the many offers for Babe publicity, going to a big city (looks like Venice). Babe (having his appearance cancelled) and many animals live in the house run by The Landlady (Mary Stein), but the house is under threat from the authorities because the neighbours know that animals aren't allowed in the area and household. Babe is ultimately the creature to save all his friends, dogs, cats, birds, chimps, etc, and get back to Mrs. Hoggett to go home. Also starring Mickey Rooney as Fugly Floom, the Speechless Man in Hotel, Danny Mann as Ferdinand the Duck and Tug, Glenne Headly as Zootie, Steven Wright as Bob, James Cosmo as Thelonius, Nathan Kress as Easy and Tough Pup, Myles Jeffrey as Easy, Stanley Ralph Ross as The Pitbull and The Doberman, The Simpsons' Russi Taylor as The Pink Poodle and Choir Cat, Adam Goldberg as Flealick, Eddie Barth as Nigel and Alan, Bill Capizzi as Snoop, The Sniffer Dog, an underused Miriam Margolyes as Fly the Female Sheepdog, an underused Hugo Weaving as Rex the Male Sheepdog, Naomi Watts doing additional voices, Jim Cummings as Pelican, and narration by Roscoe Lee Browne. What makes this film so ridiculous is not just that the characters should be staying in the farm scenarios, and the little use of good actors, but the whole premise of the film is missing, it is filled with rubbish attempts as slapstick, and even though the animals moving mouth effects are good, the film seems to be putting too many cute animals in the film rather than concentrating on the story. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Randy Newman's That'll Do, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Effects. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Just don't do it. Just don't.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is, undoubtedly, the worst film I have ever seen.I had seen the trailer and I admit I thought it looked a fairly amusing film. Plus I had seen the original Babe film and enjoyed it. So when my sister rented Babe Pig In The City out, I thought I might as well give it a shot and I sat down to watch it.Unfortunately, it seems as though everything that happens in the film, every vaguely funny or amusing bit, it put into the trailer. See the trailer, you have seen the film. The film is simply the trailer padded out with a lot of boring nothing-scenes that always spoil films.Nothing happens. Nothing at all happens. Watching paint dry becomes a fascinating, enthralling task when compared to viewing Pig In The City. It's not even as if the reason I disliked it was because it is aimed at kids. My eight-year-old sister and twelve-year-old brother detested this film as I did.I would strongly advise you not to see this film. In fact, my opinion is that every copy of this film should carry a sticker warning of severe boredom. Just don't do it. Just don't. "},{"Title":"Are You Sure the Problem Was The Marketing ?","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even to this day I have never seen the original BABE but I do remember the reviews for the sequel BABE PIG IN THE CITY that described it as  Dark  and not for very young children . After finally the sequel I do agree that it's  dark  , same as THE RELIC was dark in that the director forgot to employ the guys who use lighting on the studio floor . As for the rest of the movie who else thinks that this movie was made for any type of audience other than a child friendly family audience ? Right from the very start we have a voice over as to what's happening in the story as a farmer falls down a well and we're given a vocal resume pointing out what his injuries are and how he received them . Does anyone else think this was to stop very young children in the intended audience in the cinema asking innocent but bloody stupid questions like  Has the farmer hurt himself ?  . The whole movie revolves around a fairy tale type of story of a pig going to a big bad city to save the home of his master and meets many other types of animals that have human mannerisms and are capable of speaking . Who do you think the producers made this movie for ? Vivisectionists ? Sea Devils ? Animals who can afford to go to the cinema ? Guys I'm just sort of putting my neck on the block here when I say this is a movie that people who have a family will watch . If you find it's too terrible to show to anyone under the age of 18 then please go and rent 28 DAYS LATER or PLATOON "},{"Title":"A prime example of child abuse","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First, I wish I could give this movie a zero, but one was the lowest score IMDb allows.It isn't possible to create a sequel more unlike the original and as repellent as this one. It was so bad, both my kids insisted we leave mid-way through the picture.So why is is SO bad?! Gone is all the originality and charm of the first movie. It's as if NONE of the people responsible for the first participated in this movie. Instead, the movie is dark and cruel. This is evident on many occasions but I will provide two examples Babe's owner falling down a well and breaking almost every bone in his body in the opening sequence (wow--that's fun, kids!) and the inexplicable appearance of Mickey Rooney (who I guess is some sort of mentally impaired sociopath--I'm really not sure WHAT his cameo was all about anyway).So my advice is watch and savor the original and THEN go into denial. Tell yourself they never did make a sequel. If this does not work, repeat as needed! "}]