[{"Title":"Fear the Djinn.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wishmaster marks a huge return for theatrical gore.  What a splatterfest!  That opening scene, are you kidding me?  The KNB crew have blown me away again.  From chest exploding skeletons to lizard men, it's well done and I applaud them.  It's not just the prologue, it's the whole movie.  There's one bit in particular where a guy gets his jaw ripped off.  It's jaw-dropping (no pun intended).  There is someone from nearly every important horror franchise, and some that aren't so important, in this flick.  Cast and cameos include Robert Englund, Kane Hodder, Tony Todd, Angus Scrimm and Reggie Bannister, Ted Raimi and Dan Hicks, Tom Savini, Ricco Ross, Peter Liapis, Joseph Pilato, and Buck Flower.  Not to mention KNB effects group, Harry Manfredini did the score, Peter Atkins wrote the screenplay, Robert (K of KNB) Kurtzman directed, and Wes Craven is producing.  This is an unreal cast and crew, a who's who of horror.  Let's not forget who's leading this cast Andrew Divoff.  He has the one of the scariest, harshest voices of all time.  He is the Djinn and he's cool as hell.  I just can't understand why this wasn't as well received by the horror community as it should have been.  As for the sequels, what sequels?  Stick to the original and you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"Uh-oh...","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Geez, after reading all the thumbs-down reviews, I feel almost embarrassed.   I _liked_ Wishmaster.  No, the idea of wishes-gone-awry isn't particularly  original, but there are still some interesting elements done with it  a  guard says he'd like to see the Djinn go through him and...it does (heh).   Tammy Lauren is adequate as the spunky heroine, and Andrew Divoff (mostly  consigned to minor B-villain roles - check him out in the Highlander TV  series) makes a chilling threat.  Jenny O'Hara makes the most of her role  as resident supernatural expert.  Yes, the gore is excessive, but I'm not  sure if that's a concession to the 90's audience, or a directorial conceit  - I'm willing to assume its the former.  For a supernatural thriller/horror  (as opposed to a Scream-type slasher/thriller), Wishmaster strikes me as one  of the better efforts to come along since the last Nightmare and the first  Candyman. "},{"Title":"I wish it was more epic","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw Wishmaster at a midnight screening at the London Trocadero in summer 1998. I had been awake for nearly 24 hours but needed to kill some time. I was only 17, not old enough to get into the 18-rated movie, and it scared the hell out of me.As we get older, fewer and fewer movies have the ability to scare us as we all get more savvy and jaded to the formulaic nature of most horror films. I don't know what it was about Wishmaster that spooked me so bad, but I've been a fan of the film ever since.On a technical level, Wishmaster suffers from shoddy production design and direction that is barely above that of a cheap daytime soap opera. The acting is mostly appalling (with the exception of Andrew Divoff, who ravages the role of the Djinn/Demerest), and some of the dialogue is clunky. But, as a whole, the movie excels on pure energy alone. I mean, not only do you have more in-jokes than you can possibly count but even Jack the Ripper himself turns up before Lemmy sings hard rock over the closing credits.There's so much potential, imagination, and over-the-top carnage that the film just whizzes by. A lot of the potential isn't taken full advantage of (the 90 minute runtime keeps things to the bare minimum) but it sets up enough mythology to justify three sequels, the first sequel being the only decent one, however.The plot focuses on the Djinn, that's Wishmaster to you, and his efforts to take over the world. As you can see...it's pure hokum but it's the gory bits in between and the Djinn's wisecracking that make this movie worth the money. The Djinn will never be as infamous or as iconic as Freddy, Jason, Michael Myers etc, but that's not to say that he's not an utterly brilliant character. Divoff is absolutely perfect in the role. Even if all he did was real aloud from phone book he'd be mesmerizing.If you like gore, ghoulish make-up effects, and don't mind horror humor that feels like it was conjured up by a bunch of drunken frat boys, then you'll find plenty to like about Wishmaster. "},{"Title":"It's only a B-movie.","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me begin by saying this film is not as bad as it's been made out to be sure it's a gore-fest at points and yes the dialogue is cheesy but surely that is what a B-movie is meant to be? The film has more substance than sequels that seem to spawn in the realm of horror movies. The film concerns a Djinn, Arabic for genie, who escapes from a statue to wreak havoc onto the world. He can sustain a human form if he can give someone 3 wishes. Andrew Divoff is delightfully malicious as the evil Djinn. The main cast give fair performances which can only be expected in a,remember, B-Movie. At times the film tries a bit to hard to please horror fans with various winks to other horror icons, Candyman and Freddy Kruger to name a few (Tony Todd and Robert Englund, respectively). But if you want a half decent horror movie to watch and don't care too much about substance then this film will not disappoint.Conclusion.A fun B-movie and a must for all horror fans. Though it does nothing to forward the genre. "},{"Title":"Make a Wish, but Think First","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the beginning of the times, God created life into universe light gave birth to angels, earth to men and fire to djin, creatures condemned to dwell in the void between the worlds. One who wakes a djin shall be given three wishes. Upon granting the third, an unholy legion of djins are freed through a doorway between the worlds upon the Earth. In 1127 A.D., in Persia, a sorcerer lures and traps a powerful Djinn (Andrew Divoff) in the stone of secret fire. In the present days, a drunken crane operator drops the valuable statue of Ahura Mazda over the assistant of Raymond Beaumont (Robert Englund) on the harbor, and one worker finds the huge and priceless opal red stone where Djin is seized. Alexandra Amberson (Tammy Lauren), who works in an auction house, receives the stone for evaluation and accidentally awakes Djin. The evil creature is released later, charges the stone with people souls and feeds with their fears, while chasing Alexandra to force to make three wishes and unleash the demoniac fiends upon Earth.The gore and funny Wishmaster is good horror movie, with original deaths, great special effects (1997) and a refreshing story. Andrew Divoff, presently working in Lost, is great in the role of the evil, witty and cynical Djin; the blonde Tammy Lauren performs a smart and clever character, following the Djin's advice (- Make a wish, but think first) and luring and tricking the demon with her intelligence; and there is homage to horrors movie, with the participation of Robert Freddy Krueger Englund and Tony Candyman Todd. I have watched this film at least four times along ten years and it is still one of my favorites in the genre. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) O Mestre dos Desejos (The Master of the Wishes) "},{"Title":"Original take on a horror project","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Wishmaster' puts a new spin on most people's perception of genies. Most people think of a genie that fulfills your greatest wishes. But asking the Djinn to do so could have horrible consequences, as he twists your wishes in order to steal your soul.It begins in the 12th century when a Persian king is locked into a pact with the Djinn, who unleashes unholy suffering on the King's people. A man is frozen into a wall; a woman turns into a tree; another man's skeleton bursts through his skin and walks around; and another man turns into a crocodile. It is only through a magician's work that this suffering ends, as the Djinn is imprisoned in a fire opal that is then buried inside a statue.Fast-forward to the present day, when the statue is being unloaded at a Los Angeles dock for a collector, Robert Beaumont (Englund). An accident, however, kills Beaumont's assistant and breaks the statue open, revealing the opal. One of the dock workers steals it and turns it over to a gemologist, Alexandra Amberson (Lauren) for appraisal. During her examination, she unwittingly wakes the Djinn inside, and soon he is on the loose. First, he starts collecting souls by granting a single wish to certain people. One of the first is a homeless man, who sees a nasty pharmacist (Reggie Bannister of 'Phantasm') die a violent death from cancer after wishing for it. The Djinn then takes on a human appearance, sneaking into an anatomy lab and peeling the face of a cadaver off then plastering it onto his own face. Now he is Nathaniel Demarest (Divoff, who also plays the Djinn), a classy man-about-town. As Demarest, he continues his mission of misery by collecting souls - including that of a young sales girl by turning her into a mannequin. Eventually, he tracks down Alexandra to her place of work, and after taunting & killing the guard ('Friday the 13th's Kane Hodder) after the guard challenges Demarest to go through him, he confronts Alex's boss. He eventually obtains Alex's home address after granting her boss's wishes, and shows up menacingly in her apartment. Alex, meanwhile, has found out through a friend of Beaumont's that the Djinn are truly evil creatures who are devious & not to be trusted. When Demarest reveals his true identity, Alex is horrified when the Djinn starts asking her to make her wishes. When she wishes him to destroy himself, the Djinn fires a pistol into his head - which instantly regenerates! He taunts Alexandra by warning, 'That which is eternal cannot die. But if it's any consolation at all, sweet Alex - THAT HURT LIKE HELL!!' Alex is then taken by the Djinn into his hideous red world, where she learns about his origins. When she returns to her apartment, she heads immediately for Beaumont's party where her sister is. Demarest arrives just behind Alex, where he is confronted by Johnny Valentine (Tony Todd, star of 'Candyman' & 'Night of the Living Dead' 1990). Valentine warns Demarest to leave, but Demarest tricks him - 'would you like to escape?'. When Valentine says yes, he finds himself chained in a steel-and-glass box filled with water! 'Houdini did it in 2.5 minutes,' Demarest says as he walks in.The party soon becomes a horror show, starting when one woman turns into a glass statue and then explodes. Demarest reveals his real identity to Beaumont, who backs up against a wall then flees. As Alex makes her way through the halls of the museum she is attacked by statues of historical warriors, including a Roman Centurion & Genghis Khan. The Djinn then tries to extort Alex's third wish from her - after which he will be able to rule the world. To give Alex some incentive, he shows her sister trapped in a fire, the flames licking at her back. Through some creative thinking, Alex words her wish to suck the Djinn back into the fire opal - the same way he had 8 centuries earlier. While the Djinn had some particularly bizarre ways of dispatching his victims, he also showed a demented sense of humor in doing so. Wishmaster also brought together several prominent horror film actors (Angus Scrimm & Reggie Bannister of 'Phantasm', Robert Englund of 'Nightmare on Elm Street', Tony Todd of 'Candyman' and 'Night of the Living Dead', and Kane Hodder of 'Friday the 13th') together. This is an original take on horror since most of us don't consider genies to be evil. It offers more than the standard slasher fare the dominated 1980's horror. 8/10 "},{"Title":"great premise, missed payoff","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wishmaster is a movie that promises the world and only delivers a continent. It's not a bad movie, in fact, it's a very good horror movie. It's just that the premise was great, but the payoff wasn't.Andrew Divoff played the title role of the djinn very well, and hammed it up as the human host, Nathaniel Demerest. Good IL' Freddy K, also known as Robert Englund, had a small role, but played it well. I actually don't recall much else of the cast (sorry people, it's been a couple of months since I saw the movie). The make up on the djinn was neato-keen and the special effects are better then average.If ever a movie was made for the villain to win, it was this movie. I suppose the ending was fine, but oh how I wanted the evil djinn to win. I know I'm human and I should root for the human but I was hoping to see the djinns take over the world.Why won't film makers, if the main character is a villain/monster let the guy win? "},{"Title":"Entertaining...","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was one of my first horror movies (one of many). I first saw it when I was eleven. Back then it was extremely scary, but now, nine years later, it still had those peekaboo-moments.If you want a scary and well made horror movie with a thrilling plot, this is not something for you. But if you want a gory, humorers and easygoing b-movie, this is just what you are looking for.Although I usually like extremely complex plots, I also like watching movies with plots a three-year old could come up with - like Wishmaster and most action movies. The heroine is cliché - traumatizing past, strong and willful, protective older sister to an impulsive younger. The djinn is also quite cliché, with his cunning and evil ways. He has I am not going to succeed in my evil quest to enslave mankind written all over his face.The movie is all about gruesome and gory things happening to people. Most things that happen are funny and gory. It's not like those movies that look away when the blade meets the neck - here we see everything, the camera even stays to show us what it looks like afterward.Entertaining - but not much more. "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun and special effects-heavy deaths galore","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There are two distinct kinds of horror movies; the serious ones, and the not-so-serious ones. Occasionally, a horror film tries to be serious but winds up being... less than serious. Then there are the ones that set out to be cheesy from the start... this is one of those movies. From the very beginning you can tell that this movie was merely made to entertain horror movie fans who like their shocks with a side of humor. There's more gore and deaths in this in just the first five and last twenty minutes(and quite a few in-between, as well) than several other huge gore-fests of horror movies put together. Even better, you get to see no less than three major horror icons in the film. I'm honestly not a huge fan of this kind of movie, but I have to say I found it highly entertaining... if you're in the right mood for it, it may work for you(it definitely never strives to be something more or different than what it reveals that it is from the very beginning). The plot is pretty tame, but it allows for plenty of gore and death(and includes one well-known possible consequence of wishing for stuff from a genie). The acting is decidedly poor, either over- or underdone. The dialog ranges, but mostly it's very bad. That works to the film's advantage, so it's no big deal. The pacing really doesn't leave much room for complaining, the film doesn't really let up for a second(it is, of course, quite uneven... Kurtzman is clearly not a director). The film has a short running time and I found it to possess surprisingly high entertainment value, as well. The special effects are great. No way around it. The deaths and gore effects are original and interesting, not to mention amazingly pulled off. Fairly low budget, but it was spent right... mostly on effects, I'd wager. I recommend this to any fan of horror, particularly cheesy horror. If you're into it, you'll love this. Trust me. And be careful what you wish for. 6/10 "},{"Title":"I can think of many wishes..to defeat the evil.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wishmaster is a clever horror film, with a different storyline from the others. The movie is about a evil Djinn that grants Wishes and leaves an evil impact. Who ever makes a wish, the Djinn takes their soul. The movie has cameos from many Famous Horror legends. Some include Robert Englund of Freddy Krueger, Kane Hodder of Jason series, Tony Todd of Candyman etc. Andrew Divoff gives a Great performance as the Wishmaster. If you have seen all 4 Wishmasters, you will know in part 3 and 4, There is a different actor playing the Djinn. Andrew proves he is quite talented. Part One is the Best of the Lot. Part Two was pretty good. The others were a complete nonsense. One weakness with the film is the final wish, I'm sure they could think of a better and clever ending then that. The lead actress should of just wished for him to go to Planet Neptune and never return to Earth. She could of tried saying, I wish for you not to grant me this wish. I wish for more wishes. Anyway enough with that, i can go on for ages. The movie was entertaining and worth the watch. "}{"Title":"Not an awesome flick, but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Saw this last night and I had a great time watching it. Reading all the other comments and seeing that the main opinion is that the movie sucks, I have to disagree.  A reasonable watch, entertaining with a pretty cool ending.A thing that did bother me was the actor who played the 'human-suit' Djinn he acted a little over the top...the evil smiles (and evil they were ) got somewhat irritating after a while.One of the best parts in the movie is where the Djinn is sitting in the office of the manager of that jewellery company and the manager says he wants a million bucks.  I'm not gonna spoil what happens next, but I think it's one of the most original parts I've seen in a horror movie. I almost rolled on the floor laughing (evil ) Another pretty cool part is the part where the Djinn fulfills the wish of that really pretty female clothing-shop employee. I cracked up. )Another plus is that we see an evil Djinn instead of the friendly 'Genie'. It was a very nice twist.All-in-all, a good watch and to fill some time, it's great. "},{"Title":"Fun, gory slasher thrill-ride","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Right from the opening lines by Angus Scrimm, I knew that I was going to love this movie. It doesn't bother to waste any time, gets right to the good stuff within the first few minutes of the film. The gore, which is quite plentiful, reminded me of a mix of Hellraiser and In the Mouth of Madness, which is certainly a good thing. I had a lot of fun playing spot the horror star throughout the film; in case you didn't already know, this is loaded with cameos! It also has it's share of references to The Exorcist...the homeless man's line about being an old alter boy, the Pazuzu statues, etc. I thought that was a nice touch, to be honest. Divoff created a classic horror villain, his voice and mannerisms were spot-on. Creepy and beyond cool, he fits right in among Freddy, Jason, Myers or Pinhead. My one problem with the film was the psychic girl. Why oh why did they need to cheapen this film by making her psychic? Oh well, it didn't detract too much, I guess. Overall, this is a great film if you like a nice, gory, somewhat original slasher flick.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"As you wish......","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In ancient Persia, an evil creature called the Djinn wreaks havoc on a local kingdom before being sealed inside a fire opal.Centuries later, the stone, encased in a statue, is discovered when the statue is broken apart in a loading accident.A young gemologist, Alex, examines the jewel to appraise it. But she unwittingly awakes the Djinn inside.Soon the Djinn is loose on the streets, twisting people's wishes and and killing them so he can steal their souls.Eventually the Djinn disguises himself as an elegant man-about-town, Nathaniel Demarest.In both human & Djinn form, he pursues Alexandra to trick her into making three wishes, to enable his unholy legions to conquer the Earth...Even thought the film is as subtle as a sledgehammer, it's the nearest cinema has had to a new Jason/Freddy/Michael Myers in a very long time.Ignore the Presented by... moniker, it's for status,and get ready for some proper B-movie cheese. Divoff is excellent as the titular character, and chews his lines with glee. ##Kills are inventive, but beyond these two aspects, the film is just you average horror.The inclusion of (at the time) horrors greatest stars, is a little cringe worthy, and the effects are really bad, even for the limited budget.But if you can overlook, these little flaws, it's quite an good spin on the horror genre, with something original, which was lacking at the time of release (hello ironic horror). "},{"Title":"No sir i wish nothing","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" People have said this movie sucks. Well let me tell you something this movie did suck, it sucked the oxygen out of the room! For some reason this film charged up me and my roommates to the point of insanity sitting on the edge of our seats going Nooo don't make a wish, noooo! Yeah it was good, it did for granting wish's what Jaws did for being in the ocean. It's and old tale i know, bad genie bad wishes, where the thing goes sideways is what happens to these poor bastards. Also this film is literally loaded like a Gatling gun with horror movie icons. Every ten seconds your sitting there someone walks by, ohh there's Kane Hodder, look over there that's Tony Todd makin a bad wish. You would think they knew, but no and to our delight we see some real tasty gore. The movie was more comical then scary which made the horror very nice. See it for yourself and don't skip on the sequel, just remember if your out and a stranger with a coffee cake face asks you to make a wish, do not do it. Unless your mad clever! "},{"Title":"Divoff, Divoff and more Divoff","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of those B movies that simply doesn't know its place, that gets better with each successive viewing. I am not going to give the credit to Craven, a talented director whose track record shows that, to milk yet more sequel out of a successful franchise (in this case, Wishmaster #2 to #4) he conveniently forgets the meaning of restraint (along with another word he forgets in his sequels, quality). But this was the first in the series, the best and the brightest, and I believe in its own way it has become a quiet classic. The actors all do their jobs, but it is Andrew Divoff as the genie who steals entire scenes from even more seasoned names. The man's voice is, in its own way, as unique as James Earl Jones and moreover his wacky diction (wishes becomes WISH-SAYS, with accompanying malevolent grin) gives his character an entirely new order of menace. High recommended. Avoid the sequels. And, needless to add, avoid the Djinn. "},{"Title":"Wicked little shocker with excellent effects","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 31 Days Of Horror Day 5Now for a trip into the the realm of schlocky, slimy excess. That's not to say that Robert Kurtzman's delightfully nasty little supernatural shocker doesn't have a brain in its head. It's got a sly, high concept central character, and the movie explores the methods in which he tricks, connives and bamboozles everyone in his path using genius little verbal traps to ensnare them into making three wishes, which eventually give him access to their souls. The character in question is a growling, demon eyed Djinn, a creature from beyond our time, unleashed via a magic jewel on an unsuspecting modern world that has moved on from mysticism. This Djinn is played by underrated bad boy Andrew Divoff, and he inhabits the role with snarling, sneering glee, both in the creature's heavy, impressive makeup and later when he takes human form, equally terrifying and darkly hilarious in both forms. He's got a jaded sense of humour too, tiresome of humans and often amusingly impatient for their wishes. He is lead to Alexandra (Tammy Lauren) the geologist who awakens his slumber, as she is the key soul in unleashing his unholy horrors upon our world. The script is quite unassuming for a monster movie, as we gradually see that scene by scene, there's a learned wit and knowing mirth to the dialogue, with setups and payoffs that are pure enjoyment, both for us and Mr. Djinn. There's also a priceless running joke of having other bogeymen and monsters from various horror films show up in human cameos, only to be outwitted and obliterated by the creature. Kane Hodder (Jason Voorhees) and Tony Todd (Candyman) show up as hapless, bumbling security guards, and Freddy Krueger himself, Robert Englund as a pompous history tycoon. It's Divoff's show throughout though, and he glides through the proceedings like he was born for the role, a smiling nightmare of calamity, fear and otherworldly arrogance, stealing the film and carrying it effortlessly. The slick practical effects are endlessly imaginative and strikingly disturbing at times, a latex and blood dripping kaleidoscope of limbs, horns, flesh, innards, inter dimensional portals, gory set pieces and homemade wonder. Like any horror flick of its kind, it gets a bit cheesy, but that adds to the fun! Great flick for the Halloween season, a real haunted house treat. "},{"Title":"Better than it should be","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Receiving a rare gem at work, a gemologist finds that it contained a power genie known as a Djinn that is now targeting her and her friends to make the wishes needed to give it the strength to free its fellow entities.Overall this one was quite an enjoyable effort with a lot to really like here. What really works here is the fact that this one really has a lot of fun here with the title creature and his powers which is pretty much constant throughout this. It starts off nicely here with the opening massacre of the old-time court of the different grisly actions befalling the troupe as people get their limbs and bodily features morphed into various monstrosities, a person's skeleton rips itself free of its body, demonic hallucinations and other rather fun encounters here that makes this such a fantastic opening display of his powers which is continued throughout here with a rather nice amount of wish-granting. The main factor of generating all kinds of twisted fates and occurrences that befall the minor characters he runs into that propels the first half here which not only makes it fun to see how he twists around their wishes but also manages to get this one pretty gory and bloody here in regards to how he kills those is quite appealing here and generates the kind of enjoyment in the plot it makes this one even more fun. Even better here is the more physical torments unleashed here, which provides this with the kind of action required here to help this along as scenes like the trip inside the stone to see where he had been imprisoned to show the inner mass of the wailing wall of crying souls, a throne of skulls and twisted stone pieces and the giant monster-like dog that patrols the different hallways and corridors in a pretty chilling sequence, while the finale party here gives this one an incredibly enjoyable end with the absolutely crazy assault on the guests, the numerous chasing around by the various beings under its' control and the fantastic deaths that are a part of the tormenting done against her to force her into action, and to wrap it all up in the manner here of finally trapping it against really gives this one quite a lot to like here. There's not a whole lot here that doesn't work, which all centers around the first half here which falls into a really predictable manner of meeting up with strangers and changing around their wish to suit him while she experiences the flashing image of the attack, a process itself that comes and goes whenever it's convenient for the story, but the repetition of it all does seem to cause this one some pattern that drops a lot of suspense from the tactic. As well, the joking nature of this one might wear thin for some, but there's not a whole lot that really hurt this one as beyond that, it's still quite a bit of fun.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language. "},{"Title":"Watched for the first time ever","Date":"21 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was definitely a gore fest, but it is surprisingly good considering I watched it for the first time 18 years after it came out. The times have definitely changed because you hardly ever see gore like that in the movies today. If you're into gory movies from the 90's, then this is definitely a movie to watch. It starts from the opening scene all the way to the end. It has a nice plot that is easy to follow, and the pace isn't slow. The part in the movie where she is going to Beaumont's (spelling?) party to get her sister is interesting. Why? Because the door guard is the same actor that played the namesake of the movie Candyman. Seeing that makes me want to watch Candyman. I think I will watch Wishmaster 2 and follow it up with Candyman 1 and 2 tomorrow night. "},{"Title":"typical horror gore","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERSIn the recent world of Horror, there are some well known sets of films (Nightmare On Elm Street, Friday 13th, Halloween, etc), and there are some less well known ones. One of the more middle of the road style horrors is the Wishmaster selection. Whilst similar in basics to other horrors, this series has a much more artificial feel to it. Whilst Freddy, Jason and others run around killing people in generally obvious but fun ways, in Wishmaster the Djinn tends to kill people in some of the most obscure and outrageous styles imaginable.In the original Wishmaster we are introduced to the Djinn. A species created after angels but before humanity, these mystical beings live inbetween worlds and look to the day when they will be able to come to Earth and rule. The Djinn of this film is trapped in a Gem inside a statue Freed from this Gem, the Djinn travels around the local area killing people and demanding that the person responsible for his escape, Alexandra Amberson (Tammy Lauren), makes three wishes, thus allowing his escape.It's never a complicated plot in the modern Horror genre. Designed more to provoke a feeling of repulsion than a feeling of terror, films like this one tend to spend more time killing people in especially gruesome ways than in encouraging a feeling of dread. The Djinn in particular has a mean sense of humour, but simultaneously looks like some sort of ridiculous plastic action figure. Basically the Djinn is not scary at all.The one truely brilliant point about Wishmaster is just how much it demonstrates a link between all of Horror's different films. Featuring cameos from Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger) and Tony Todd (the Candyman), this film features two amazing horror actors who are either encouraging the development of horror, OR are just being paid a lot. Either way, having old masters taking part in this film adds an element of association to it.Ultimately, compared with true classics like the early Friday the 13th films and the early Nightmare on Elm Street films, the Wishmaster series is incredibly artificial and rubbish. As a gore filled film in which we are meant to laugh more than feel fear though, this film is a success. This is by no means what horror should be, but compared with other recent ideas, it's not that bad. Fun to watch, but not something we should be expected to pay for. "},{"Title":"Fun, in a corny sorta way **spoilers**","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is hardly going to win any awards as a great film.  Don't think it'll be like Halloween, Friday the 13th, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, et al., or other, nonslasher horror flicks (though there's plenty of gore in this one).   Nonetheless, I found Wishmaster enjoyable on it's own terms.The plot is good, but has been done (or imitated, anyway) many times. An evil genie needs someone to grant three wishes so he can take over the world.  As he follows the person (Tammy Lauren), he is forced to grant numerous other people wishes, including Kane (Jason Vorhees) Hodder, Tony (Candyman) Todd, Chris Lemmon, and others.  There's a lot of violence, some gore, and an okay amount of suspense.Andrew Divoff, with his creepy, impossibly deep voice, is superb as a bad guy.  Much of his dialogue is hilarious.  For example, after Lauren asks him to blow his brains out (and he does so) You cannot kill what is eternal. But, if it's any consolation, THAT HURT LIKE HELL!  That had me ROTFL! And the final party scene (with Robert Englund, a.k.a. Freddy Krueger) is very bloody (different than the opening one, however).  I don't know why, but when Lauren enters the party and sees Divoff calmly talking with Englund, I thought that was funny.  The shootout between the policemen (?) and the walking statues (including a samurai, a Roman legionarre, a Mongol, an English longbowman, and a wax guy with a jewel-encrested knife) isn't very scary (since you kinda know the statues are going to come alive), but it's somehow effective.  The ending is kind of cop-out, but nonetheless, doesn't take anything away from it.Cheap, corny, funny, and a good time.  That's all I ask from my movies.Six stars.And don't forget to Make . . . YOUR WISH! MWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA! "}{"Title":"A used plot, but a fun movie","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yes, there has been many Genie-type movies before, where everything isn't as it seems...but there are some new twists here. New horror actor Andrew Divoff gives a great performance as the Djinn, the evil genie. The Djinn is trapped in a jewel, & is accidentally released. Due to this, the Djinn tracks down the person who released him, to offer 3 wishes. Of course along the way, people get bothersome to him, & away they go! It's a nice return to horror writer/director Wes Craven who produced those horrid 'Scream' movies. As a bonus, you get to see many faces of horror greats such as Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger),Tom Savini (SPX master), Kane Hodder(Jason Vorhees), & Tony Todd (Candyman) to name a few. It's a fun movie, so make sure you take it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Great Promise, Poor Delivery","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When i see the plot of this movie, a really bad genie, that grants wishes in another way, i think it will be really good. The gore scenes are good, specially the first and the last ones, otherwise the movie moves very slowly, boring the viewer.I'm really sorry this movie don't have more budget and better script. This idea with a good plot could make a great movie, like Nightmare on Elm Street 3 (My personal favorite) "},{"Title":"evil wishes","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" we all grew up with stories of good genies that granted our wishes, like the genie from aladdin, but what if there was an evil genie that transformed our wishes in an evil form, that genie is the djinn. the movie is good, it has some good scares, has a very dark humour and the djinn is great, he is full of hate, you only have to look at djinn to feel and fear his evil. he also has the darkest humour. once again wes craven proves to be the master of horror by producing this movie. in short this is must see to the horror fans, other people should not see 'coz it's full of gore... and some style. "},{"Title":"Freddy vs. Candyman!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is one scene that makes seeing this movie worthwhile. Robert Englund (better known as Freddy Krueger) plays a professor of some sort, and there is one part where he is trying to get into a party. Well, the security guard outside is Tony Todd- Candyman!! Nice face-off there...Movie was pretty good overall, worth renting, maybe not worth paying to see it in the theater. "},{"Title":"Good film!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't understand why 300 or so votes and this movie only got a 5 average. The person who plays nathaniel (I forget this name) plays this role PERFECT. The way he talks and the look on his face is freaky!. There is also a ton of well thought out death scenes. Overall an 8/10 and allot better then the dismal Wishmaster 2 "},{"Title":"Lightweight but fun","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wishmaster is an uncomplicated horror film, with some silly gory moments and barrels of laughs.  The concept is interesting, and the Djinn is kind of scarey if you are about five years old.  Robert Englund and Kane Hodder crop up, and Wes Craven gets his name on the box for being the producer. Lightweight entertainment at its best. "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  People should be more aware of their own voice and make their own opinions. Critics didn't like this film, so automatically that means I don't want to see it. RUBBISH! This film is good fun. Okay, so maybe the story is lacking, but if you are looking for a good film to sit and watch with your mates, then this is it. I found this to be highly entertaining, the death scenes very gory and bloody, but who cares what society thinks. If I like it, then I'll watch it, and I recommend that you do the same. "},{"Title":"Really Gory","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't normally like horror films, and I don't have a particular problem with Wishmaster, but I did think that the violence was a bit extreme.  If you like horror movies with a lot of gore, you'll probably like this one, but if you're at all squeamish, don't watch this one.   "},{"Title":"A clever twist on the legend of the Djinn.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie, unlike a lot of Craven's recent stuff like the Screams and I Still Know What You Did Last Summer. Those teen-scream movies are crap, this was a thinking man's horror flick. Andrew Divoff is one of those actors who can make more out of a part than the writers give him (he's the best actor in the Oblivion movies). I stumbled into this movie about 10 minutes into it, so I had to do a little catching up, but I was impressed. The concept of a Djinn being evil is not completely new (I've seen the concept in a couple books) but it was well done here. Wishmaster gave us a Faustian Djinn who trades wished for souls, and even then the Djinn is annoyed at having all that phenomenal power but only being able to use it to grant the wishes of others. All in all a respectable flick, I'll hunt down the sequel soon and see if it can measure up. "},{"Title":"Hellraiser clone","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a fun movie for the most part, though all the way through it kept reminding me of the Hellraiser films. The film had fun with the movie killer cameos though for the most part they demonstrated why they are kept in make up with few lines most of the time.The only thing that really lets the film down though was the ending. It just appeared that the film makers had run out of ideas. It doesn't give you confidence about the quality of the impending sequel.  "}{"Title":"A good horror movie","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When watching a horror movie, i'm expecting to get afraid and be scared. Well, this was exactly what Wishmaster gave me.  "},{"Title":"I wish there comes a second part -))","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Brutal, Bloody and much gore, so must be a Horror-movie why didn´t Wes Craven make Scream so bloody and gory? I loved that movie like Nightmare and Friday the 13th.  "},{"Title":"Careful what you wish for.","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" According to this movie, genies (otherwise known as Djinn) are neither cute nor funny as 'I Dream of Jeannie' and Aladdin would have us believe. They're an ancient evil species that exist between worlds, and only grant wishes because that's their obligation. One such Djinn (a delicious Andrew Divoff) is freed from his captivity inside a precious gem, and wreaks havoc on assorted Los Angelenos. His primary goal is to find the jewel appraiser, Alexandra Amberson (Tammy Lauren) who inadvertently freed him. If he grants *her* wishes, his kind will then have the ability to take over our world.The mythology is most amusing in this smorgasbord of special effects that marked an early directorial effort for makeup effects expert Robert Kurtzman. He and screenwriter Peter Atkins are obviously having fun; it's nice to see a movie for horror fans made *by* horror fans. (Atkins names a few of his characters after celebrated sci-fi and horror authors.) A steady supply of cameos from familiar performers in the genre is just one drawing card. Robert Freddy Krueger Englund, Tony Candyman Todd, and Kane Jason Voorhees Hodder are just a few of them.There's a certain sadistic fun in watching people wish for things only for their wishes to backfire on them. And the movie is fun overall - nothing special, just solid, lively, well paced entertainment. And those plentiful effects are most certainly *not* gratuitous. The practical gore supplied by KNB is supplemented by a lot of great digital gags.Lauren is okay in the heroine role. Hers is a reasonably strong female character - she plays tennis, coaches girls' basketball - but she's also haunted by a tragedy in her long ago past. Englund is a hoot as a pretentious collector, and Chris Lemmon, Wendy Benson, and Tony Crane are fine in supporting parts, but it's Divoff who really commands most of the attention. He's wonderfully hammy, laying on the charm as well as the malevolence. Director Kurtzman cameos as the dude killed by the piano.Followed by three sequels, one with Divoff reprising his role and two without him.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Acceptable Entertainment!","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A drunken crane operator drops a priceless statue over Raymond Beaumont on the harbor. Alexandra (Tammy Lauren) receives the stone and gives it to her friend Josh for evaluation. Tammy accidentally awakens the Djinn and Josh winds up dead. The Djinn grants people three wishes and manipulates them, collecting their souls in the process. The Djinn needs Alexandra's wishes the most to unleash his hell upon the earth. Wishmaster is a movie that gets undeserved indifference from Horror fans and critics alike. It'll never be known as a classic horror movie, but as far as entertainment is concerned, this movie delivers in a lot of ways. I think they were hoping for another successful franchise like Nightmare on Elm Street. They didn't succeed at that, but you really can't go wrong with buckets of gore and lots of fun. Those that need their blood fix will be overjoyed at the copious amounts of gore in this movie. It only takes until three minutes in until the fun begins! Bodies are strewn everywhere. There are gore scenes that you didn't think were possible! The best part is the Beaumont party. Fun times! We even get Robert Englund paying homage to a scene in Nightmare on Elm Street 3 by spitting up a creature. If that doesn't convince you, how about the Djinn having brief face- offs with The Candyman & Jason himself? (Tony Todd & Kane Hodder) It has a bit of everything for horror fans. The storyline is nothing special, but it's presented in such entertaining fashion that it manages to rise above the ordinary material. The performances are quite strong. Tammy Lauren plays the heroine like a champ. You can feel the desperation and vulnerability from her. She manages to convey all the proper emotions and hit a home run with her show. She reminded me a lot of Lisa Wilcox from Nightmare on Elm Street 4 & 5. Andrew Divoff is plenty of fun as The Djinn. He did come across as a bit too hammy in situations that needed more seriousness, but he killed it 90% of the time with his sinister show. He had some great one-liners as well. (I did think he looked a bit rubbery in the Djinn get-up) Horror fans will love all the cameos from some of the horror greats as well. My only complaint is Robert Englund's screen time as Beaumont. More of him would have been nice! This is an entertaining horror movie! The Djinn is no Freddy by any means, but he gets the job done. This movie deserves a little more loving from horror and movie fans alike! Just be sure to avoid the DTV sequels!7/10 "},{"Title":"The Gory Genie","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An opening narration explains, Once, in a time before time, God breathed life into the universe. And the light gave birth to Angels. And the earth gave birth to Man. And the fire gave birth to the Djinn, creatures condemned to dwell in the void between the worlds. One who wakes a Djinn shall be given three wishes. Upon the granting of the third, the unholy legions of the Djinn shall be freed upon the earth. Fear one thing only in all that is&#x85; Fear the Djinn. You should think of the Djinn as a wicked Genie. From here, we briefly visit 1127 A.D. Persia, where the Djinn wrecks some gory havoc. The main gore takes place in present day America...Due to a worker drinking alcohol on the job, ancient relic collector Robert Englund (as Raymond Beaumont) watches his arriving crate smash to pieces. The broken statue reveals a magical ruby, which houses the evil Djinn. The jewel changes hands until possessing blonde appraiser Tammy Lauren (as Alexandra Alex Amberson). She is our heroine. The visual effects team orchestrated by Robert Kurtzman and Thomas C. Rainone do a good job, making Wishmaster move well. Andrew Divoff plays the monster with wicked charm. Oddly, the story ends with a character inexplicably losing the ability to reinterpret wishes.***** Wishmaster (9/19/97) Robert Kurtzman ~ Tammy Lauren, Andrew Divoff, Robert Englund, Chris Lemmon "},{"Title":"This movie is a lot of fun!","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" (This a re-watch, I have seen this once before) This movie start of with a bang, I loved the first scene in the movie, very odd and very gross, the effect was really good in those scene. I found plot really well done, I found wish master not too scary, I found him a little too funny to be scary! However I found him more creepy when he had the humans face, he got one hell of a evil face I was shocked with some of tye gore in this movie , wow, I didn't not see that come, Spoiler (He makes a prison, rip a cop Jaw right of his face, Ouch!) that had to hurt! , really fun to watch!This was a really fun movie, the acting was not too bad in this movie, it's really suited the movie well, effect were nice in this movie.I going to give this movie 7 out of 10, "},{"Title":"Wes Craven in top Form","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not a bad movie.Craven has his typical moments of horror and unreality, and a wonderful monster who really is a monster in the way he manipulates people.A Djinn is released from an ancient jewel, and starts granting wishes to people who never heard the adage, Be Careful What you Wish for. Some of those are horror icons Kane Hodder, Tony Todd and Robert Englund.The special effects, just at the beginning of CGI technology, are very effective and the character portrayals are pretty interesting. But what makes this movie work is that Craven manages to deliver the scares with some pretty good timing.Sadly, as we will see, Much like Freddy Krueger, the Wishmaster will eventually find himself in the hands of less talented masters who don't get it. "},{"Title":"Wishmaster (1997)","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With all the slashers that came after Scream, it's nice to see a gimmicky supernatural monster doing the rounds. Rather than haunting dreams, this guy grants wishes, but uses a number of amusing play on word jokes, to make sure the wishes end in disaster. It's a bit of fun and you can make a game of guessing how the exact words would be interpreted by the Djinn. There's some dodgy CGI which again takes me back to being a teen, and nice practical effects. More for gore than genuine chills, this isn't one to watch to feel scared, just watch it for the entertainment.. Divoff has a lot of fun as the Djinn, and there are plenty of horror icon cameos to spot. A fun evenings viewing. "},{"Title":"Freddie Krueger's poor man","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Had the djinn asked me for a wish, I would have said 'I wish this film were made better and he would surely have been stumped. I decided to give this a watch after being pleasantly surprised by the somewhat obscure Devil's Rejects (I gave it 4 out of 5 stars) but alas I was disappointed. The Wishmaster is a film with Wes Craven's name attached to it- so it can't be a complete disaster (and it isn't) but the quality of the horror is downright poor.The wishmaster refers to the arcane djinn who in fact is a baddie in this film. Granting three wishes to people, he ensures that if the guys aren't laconic they are ruined in some or the other way. Another twist in this tale Djinn got a makeover!! Yeah, he's now stone-faced guy in the present world who says things like 'S**t hit the fan' and 'F*** it!'. Quite updated, indeed.Djinn enters modern world in a gemstone and is released of course. He then torments the unlucky ones till his showdown with the girl who has the gemstone. So we have Mr.Djinn burning, drowning, decapitating, crushing, piercing and cursing (with magic) the guys in a customary fashion- he grants their wish. Girl gets visions about the djinn and is completely disregarded by her b**** sister ('Oh, we'll have to go through therapy for you again!' Ah, the unbreakable bond of sisterhood). Girl keeps getting visions on her investigations and faints, shrieks and possily farts but that's not shown. Uptight, no-nonsense girl confronts the djinn, makes four wishes (bonus for her! Not fair for the others...) and vanquishes the djinn. Yipeee!! I'm being funny because the movie is for most of the time a crash bore. There's not a tingle of fervor nor panic in the air, what's there is clichéd underacting/non-acting. Yeah, there are actors who are sooooooooo stereotypical, I thought I was watching an advertisement. A few examples 1) The vagabond old guy 2) The shopkeeper who argues with the vagabond old guy 3) The main lady's bimbo sister and her That's oKAYYY! to the djinn at the basketball court (Yeah, I was watching an ad!) 4) The creepy best friend turned boyfriend (At least scream when you see a hideous creature besides you) 5) Everyone in the opening scene Now coming to the two leads. Was I seeing Claire from Modern Family in the film or what? Yeah, you can say this lady is the poor version of Sidney Prescott. Neve Campbell brought a unique confidence in her character, one that does not get too boring but doesn't scream her lungs out either. This lady (Tammy, I suppose) gives contageous headaches to the audiences. The djinn can't outbeat Freddie Krueger, who is far more entertaining (yeah, I used the right word). The entire story goes like Wish. Kill. Wish. Kill. Wish. Kill..... Finally We meet.... Wish. Wish.. Wish... Kill.Kill..Kill...AAAHHHH....Oh! That's it . Fortunately, its got a decent climax, with gory deaths and lots of blood. The ending is highly predictable (Don't expect me to gasp), and the last kiss between girl and best friend turned boyfriend OBVIOUS.The Wishmaster would have been a horrendous pile of elephant dung balls had it excluded the last fifteen minutes. With that, its somewhat bearable but ultimately a sloppy work. My rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"Couldn't have wished for much more","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When i first started watching this movie i wasn't sure if i was going to like it and even considered turning it off. But i'm glad that i didn't. Wes Craven has let me down before, but not this time. I thought that it was kind of hard to get into the story but once i got in i was stuck there. The visual effects were very good considering that the movie is over ten years old. One thing i really liked was the wish master's appearance, because he actually looked kind of scary. As far as being scary, i'd give it a 6 out of 10 on the scary scale. There are a few good scares, the one that really got me is the one on the tennis court. That scare alone proves that whoever did the monster makeup did a terrific job. Another thing that i liked about this movie is that the story is fresh and it's not boring. I also like how the wish master has a dark way to twist up someone's wish.Trust me this movie is definitely worth watching and is almost a must see for true horror fans. "}{"Title":"He can give you anything you want... how about another movie?","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is based on such a great concept a monster genie. The 1990's was the premiere decade for wish-granting killers, wasn't it? First there was Leprechaun. And that became a franchise. But it didn't really work because the acting was bad, the story writing was non-existent, and on top of that, the special effects were usually awful. Then comes Demon Knight. The writing wasn't much better, but the special effects were slightly improved, and the acting was a big step forward. But it was too funny. Both of the films lacked a real dark side. They were too silly. Neither was scary.Right out of the box, Wishmaster intends to be more serious. Which is a good thing. But did it deliver what the 1990's really needed? Less of an emphasis on special effects, and more emphasis on writing, character, on some kind of point? Unfortunately, no. This film was directed by Bob (Robert) Kurtzman. Who is the 'K' in KNB Effects. So, instead of less sloppy gore, there's more of it. So much more, that the movie embarrasses itself more than the disastrous Jason Goes to Hell. Which, not surprisingly, Wishmaster's score composer Harry Manfredini also did the music for.The plot involves a woman who has an unknown link to the monster genie who escapes his prison inside a ruby and starts attacking people, most of whom he forces to wish for something. So he starts to track the woman down to make her his next victim. Or something. That's it, pretty much. Except the genie in human form keeps running into big, tall, angry, physically imposing guys and trying to play mind games with them. Trying is the operative word here. They yell and swear at him, he keeps his cool, but he gets them all to wish for something. You might have instead expected them to have less patience than this.The acting is good, I admit. But the music is awful, the special effects are terrible (which is strange, since KNB are world-renowned effects-men and the whole crew worked on this, including N & B - Nicotero and Berger), the victims make their wishes too quickly, there is no suspense in the film at all, and the story is not interesting. You won't care about any of the characters, you won't be impressed by any of the horror in the movie. All there is to marvel at here are some horror celebrity cameos. The best of which is Buck Flower (The Fog, Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-O-Rama, 976-Evil II) who is funny for about 90 seconds or so. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Mr. Divoff's performance.","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I, for one, am a somewhat offbeat horror fan - gimme vampires, fake fangs/make-up, blood & gore, but spare me the gratuitous nudity & explicit sex. This is one of the reasons I am a fan of this film - gore effects aplenty, and good ones, but none of the other crap that keeps me from being able to watch films I might otherwise like.The Djinn (Andrew Divoff; terrific) is an ancient, mystical being who is released by our heroine (Tanny Lauren) from the gem in which he has been imprisoned. His M.O. granting wishes that have . . . well, let's just say, not exactly the outcome the wishmaker was hoping for. He has a special need, however, for our heroine; he must grant her 3 wishes in order to succeed in his EEEEVIL plan, which is to overrun mankind with others of his kind. She, however, turns out to be resistant, and tougher, and smarter, than your average horror heroine (another reason I, as a woman myself, took a special liking to this one.) The main reason to watch the film is Mr. Divoff. His performance, even under mounds of good make-up, is great. Look for other genre/film luminaries as Robert(Freddy Krueger) Englund, Tony (Candyman) Todd, and director Sam Raimi's brother, Ted.Enjoy. Cheers. "},{"Title":"Undemanding gory fun.","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Andrew Divoff plays an evil djinn (or genie, as they are better known) that has been trapped for thousands of years inside a gem, hidden in a statue. When a drunken crane operator accidentally spills a drink on his controls, the statue is dropped and the precious stone inside is released. The jewel is snatched up by a dockworker, pawned, and finally ends up in the hands of gem specialist Tammy Lauren (Alexandra Amberson).Eventually, the djinn is accidentally released from the gem, whereupon it attempts to bridge the gap between his world and ours. In order to do so, it must first collect a number of souls, by granting wishes. However, this being an evil djinn, the results are never exactly as expected; the wishes are twisted around and gruesomely backfire. Once the djinn has collected enough souls, it must make the person who found it wish three times before it can bridge dimensions and, with its demonic pals, wreak havoc upon the Earth.Wishmaster, produced by Wes Craven, is popcorn horror squarely aimed at teen audiences; boasting a 'Freddy Kruegeresque' style villain, who makes funny quips whilst dishing out the pain, the movie delivers gore galore and relies on cheap scares rather than bothering with a genuine spooky atmosphere. The superb juicy make-up effects, by splatter legends Robert Kurtzman (who also directs the film), Greg Nicotero and Howard Berger, are both inventive and very bloody and will definitely keep the gore-hounds happy. The few CGI effects, however, are fairly crude and cheapen the look of the film.Much fun is to be had from the imaginative script and the clever manner in which the djinn interprets each wish so that it has an unfortunate outcome. It is a shame, therefore, that the movie falls at the last hurdle with an unsatisfactory climax Tammy's final wish is that the crane operator 'had not been drinking on the job two days ago'. Instead of twisting this wish around (ie. having the man screw up from the result of using drugs instead, or having him drop the cup as the result of a sneeze), the djinn accepts defeat and promptly vanishes.With a cast packed full of horror 'regulars' (including Robert Englund, Kane Hodder, Tony Todd, Ted Raimi and Reggie Bannister), Wishmaster is undemanding fluff for the horror fan that wants to give his grey matter a bit of a rest. "},{"Title":"It's got action, horror, suspense and gore to satisfy your needs.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Djinn (rather known as The Wishmaster) is released through a gem found in an ancient statue. Once the Djinn grants the 3rd wish by his waker, he and his brothers (other Djinn's) are released unto the earth. If he can get that far...Wishmaster's a favorite of mine. The premise of the movie is really cool and shows off some creative thoughts as to how an evil genie could twist any wish into something bad. The main problem with the Wishmaster films is that the rules of the movie seem to change. For example, in Wishmaster 2 it is said that the Djinn can only grant 1 wish to people for their soul though the security guard in the first movie (played by Jason Voorhees' Kane Hodder) gets 2 wishes. The first he uses to get the Djinn to leave and then he has another to see the Djinn go through him. I just wish the continuity in these movies had stayed intact all the time, that may have made the sequels more worthwhile.An impressive note is that this film was only shot in about 4 weeks, maybe a few days more but that surprised me. To get this quality type of movie in such a small time is quite remarkable, reminiscent of John Carpenter's Halloween which was shot in just a few weeks.The actors did a pleasant job with the movie, especially Andrew Divoff who has the most evil voice to be heard on film (in my opinion). This brings me back to Wishmaster parts 3 and 4 where Divoff turned down the roles which brought John Novak in to replace him. Now, I must say that Divoff is excellent but a lot of people don't give Novak the credit in which he deserves. Think about how hard it is to fill Divoff's shoes with this role, not just in the acting but in the voice. I think Novak took the correct approach in his roles by making the Djinn sound more like a genie (he actually reminded me of a genie when he spoke) instead of imitating Divoff's evil voice.The music in Wishmaster is your usual horror suspense score, nothing too different in this but it sets the tone well enough. The special effects, although sometimes looking a bit too fake were adequate and satisfying enough. The gore in the movie was nothing short of fantastic though. Also the addition of 4 well known horror actors (Robert Englund, Tony Todd, Kane Hodder and Angus Scrimm) to the cast is a treat, if not a gimmick to gain a wider audience by using the if they're in it, it's got to be good trick. That also brings up the fact that the movie is not directed by Wes Craven though is advertised to make people think that he did without actually saying it.Wishmaster is a treat for most horror fans. It's got action, horror, suspense and gore to satisfy your needs. This is really a recommendation for all horror fans, I don't see how a slasher fanatic would be bored during the movie, or a gore-hound, or someone who likes suspenseful movies that have you on the edge of your seat. This is some entertaining stuff. "},{"Title":"Great premise, weak script","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Kurtzman's second movie, with the hand of producer Wes Craven, turned into an average but entertaining film that even with a poor script the film delivers some fun.The premise is really interesting, sadly the script goes downhill in the last 30 minutes, but it still manages to be interesting. The movie is about Djinns, creatures of the pre-Islamic mythology that are the basis for our modern concept of genies. They have infinite power, but are forced to use it only to grant the wishes of humans. However, if a Djinn grants three wishes to the one who awakes him, the Djinn will be freed. In the plot of the movie, a particular Djinn(Andrew Divoff) is awakened in our time after being imprisoned in a jewel by a powerful sorcerer hundreds of years ago. When the jewel is found, Alexandra Amberson(Tammy Lauren) is in charge of it's valuation, and without knowing it, she awakens the Djinn. She takes the jewel to a lab for doing some tests and the Djinn appears far from his master. The movie follows the Djinn trying to find Alexandra to grant her the three wishes that will free him.Robert Kurtzman background in make-up and SFX are a synonymous of quality in this departments, the movie features surprisingly good SFX and very gory considering that this movie was shown in theaters at a time when the gore in movies was very low. The killings are very inventive and never fail to impress. It's very good that Craven produced this right after his success with Scream, Wishmaster had a fair budget and it was used wonderfully.The acting is surprisingly good, Divoff carries the movie and Lauren makes a good heroine. My only complain was that when the Djinn appears in it's true form, Divoff makes it as a Freddy clone, that was not necessary because when the Djinn is in human form Divoff makes a great original & scary character. The notorious supporting cast is awesome and many of them(particularly horror legends Englund, Todd and Hodder) shine in their roles. Hodder basically steals the show when he is on scene.Kurtzman direction is somewhat average, but he seems to enjoy very frame of the movie. This is one of those movies that gives you the feeling that the whole cast & crew had a great time when filming.The whole movie would be better than your average horror flick, but the poor development of the script(specially in the ending, although the SFX were superb) really hurts this movie and leaves it as an average effort. Too bad this was never improved in the sequels.Enjoyable film, and worthy because of the cast & the SFX. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Fair.","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A ancient creature called a djinn is unleashed from a fire opel and proceeds to slaughter people threw there wishes. Andrew Divoff makes an excellent villian, Tammy Lauren is quite good, and the special effects are excellent, but the film lacks characters and really isn't  to great for the easily offended. Entertaining enough to view, but nothing great. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Ages-old tale, wonderfully told.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Occasionally, you run across a true gem in the horror field. A story with factual bits of information, or a truly unique perspective. The story of the Djinn is thousands of years old. Richly written and well told, is this adaptation of that centuries-old legend. For what would you wish if you had three wishes?The humor is rich, and the dialog is clever and witty, dark and despairing; the perfect blend of Light and Shadow.The plot is intelligent, and Wes Craven's direction demonstrates his insightful cleverness and creativity. While this feature does contain a wee bit of campy humor, it is all in fun and a rich enjoyment of the wonderful plot this movie exhibits.With an intriguing cast of characters, a creative and rich plot, cohesive story line, and wonderful direction, this movie is quite entertaining. There are a few edge-of-the-seat moments, but for the most part, this movie is richly entertaining, rather than scary.I thoroughly enjoy this movie.It gets a 6.4 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"How did this only get a 4.9 rating?  Wishmaster rocks...","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Most of the people who voted for this movie consider Sixth Sense a horror movie.  That was a pretty good movie but a thriller nonetheless with way too much of a budget.  Very few big budget movies can be considered horror movies(Omen, Rosemary's Baby and the Scream sequels.) Seriously, if you know anything about horror you would have to consider this a really good if not awesome addition to the horror genre.  Not only does it get away with tons of gore(not sure how it got an R rating) but it has many horror movie veterans present.  How can you lose when you have Robert Englund, Tony Todd and Kane Hodder in a movie?  That's Freddy, Candyman and Jason all in the same movie.  Go watch H2O or Blair Witch Project and then tell everyone how you love horror movies.  Or better yet go see a Jennifer Lopez movie. "},{"Title":"The Wishmaster!Andrew Divoff is awesome!!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Wishmaster series is a very different series. In the first Wishmaster Andrew Divoff plays the Djinn excellently!The film starts off with a bang and it is gory but its not that bad.The film is really a good horror fest!If you like Michael Myers,Freddy,and Jason,then you'll love the Djinn,the Wishmaster! "},{"Title":"What a tribute to the movie world of horror!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No-one worth their accreditation as a horror buff could knock this film. It transcends reality. It is a veritable homage to a world of nightmares, creatures and dark beings. If you simply see a B grade film here you've missed it all.  Even on its own merits as a horror flick it isn't half bad anyway.Simplistic story of a Djinn (Want to know more? read Graham Masterton's novel THE DJINN) who turns up in modern America ready to grant three wishes to not only his benefactor (he who free's him from his sculptured home) but to any who cross his path. Amazing how easy it is to wish for something without first thinking through the unintended meaning of certain words!With cameos brief and lengthy for such luminaries as Robert Englund, (Freddy Krueger), Angus Scrimm (The Tall Man/Phantasm), Tom Savini (Horror make-up artist extraordinaire), Tony Todd (Candyman)....love his bit!, Kane Hodder (Jason Voorhees), Ted Raimi (brother of EVIL DEAD's director Sam Raimi) and exec-produced by none other than Wes Craven, you have to be majorly impaired if you don't like this one. At times highly reminiscent of NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, just enjoy it for what it is. A highly unoriginal splatterfest with some excellent fx! "}{"Title":"Fun-to-watch average horror movie","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The title of the movie was what made me want to watch it. You know the story at once you've seen the cover of the film, and it wasn't too different from what I expected.The best part of the movie was that it didn't last too long, so I never got bored watching it. The special effects weren't bad, and some of the gore was pretty interesting and a bit original. The acting bit and the screenplay could have been better, but it didn't ruin the viewing experience.All in all I enjoyed watching this movie. If you've seen John Carpenter's «The Thing» and enjoyed that, I think you would enjoy «Wishmaster», because the category and contents are much the same.6/10 "},{"Title":"Come on,people it's okay!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wishmaster isn't a masterpiece,but it is quite entertaining and simply fun to watch horror flick.Overrated director Wes Craven produced this one and I can safely say that this is his best film of the 90's(his Scream series,Mind Ripper,New Nightmare are pathetic crap,though).Of course the main heroine Tammy Lauren is annoying as hell,but there are some funny cameos to be seen here-Kane Hodder,Robert Englund,Tony Todd,Angus Scrimm(the Tall Man from Phantasm series)and Tom Savini.I like also wickedly funny Andrew Divoff's performance as a Djinn.There's plenty of gore(people are ripped open etc.)to keep gore-hounds happy.6 out of 10.Check it out,if you're bored.Avoid its awful sequel Wishmaster 2Evil Never Dies like the plague. "},{"Title":"Funny and Gory","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was really good stuff for a horror movie, it reminded me a lot of Hellraiser (the guy who wrote this actually did some Hellraiser work) and if you liked Hellraiser, you'll like this. The special effects were pretty good, but sometimes it was too gory. The way the djinn (Andrew Divoff) interpreted the wishes was really cool, laughed my bottom off. He was the best one in the film. As for the female lead, she was OK for this horror flick.Well worth seeing7/10BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WISH FOR!!!! "},{"Title":"fantastic gore effects........and that's pretty much it!","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the ONLY reason i could see renting this film is for the great special effects and the graphic and over the top gore (i'm surprised it got by with an R-rating.)other than that the movie is laughable. the story deals with some kind of evil genie being released......and actually i'm still not quite sure about the rest. it's really confusing and incoherent.the acting is average at best and all involved seemed to be taking the movie WAY too seriously.as i said before, if you're a gore hound like i am, this movie is great. you get to see all kinds of graphic disfigurations, dismemberments and all kinds of puncture wounds.but there's really not much else too it.decent on a cheese level.Rating5 (for the great effects) a 3 otherwise "},{"Title":"I was riveted to see how she outsmarts the demon)","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Good script, good lines, good acting, good effects, some humor and great ending the way she outsmarts the devil!! Excellent representation of the genre. "},{"Title":"I wish more people would see and enjoy this horror.","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Kurtzman (the K of KNB EFX) directs this fun horror movie that is, unsurprisingly, full of fantastic special effects for those who love a good bit of inventive gore splashed throughout their movies.It's all about the djinn (played by Andrew Divoff), an evil creature who grants wishes. Sadly, these wishes are almost always rather twisted (e.g. wish for a lot of money and you may find a relative just died and left you a large sum thanks to an insurance policy) and this granter of wishes is a million miles away from the nice genie in the lamp image we've been fed over the years. Granting wishes and causing havoc wherever he goes, the djinn is really only biding his time until he gets the one who woke him (Tammy Lauren) to make three wishes, upon the granting of the third wish our world will become ruled by the race of the djinn.Wishmaster works well for a number of reasons. First of all, Andrew Divoff is the kind of genre star that just IS. His fantastic, calm, mocking performance is up there with the best fun performances in horror. Then we have those numerous special effects I mentioned, they really are a joy to behold and all of them are a) highly inventive and b) created with no little skill and workmanship. There's also the fun to be had, quite simply, from the central concept - a pesky genie who will grant wishes but almost never in the way that you want them granted - it's great stuff.To top things off, we get a veritable who's who of horror stars scattered throughout the film. Robert Englund is in there, Kane Hodder has a small role, Angus Scrimm narrates the intro, Reggie Bannister appears, Tony Todd is always easy to spot, Ted Raimi is there and even Tom Savini has a blink-and-you'll-miss-him moment.A decent cast, a fun script and a number of truly entertaining gory moments. And that great central performance from Andrew Divoff. It's horror genre fun, through and through.See this if you like Wishmaster 2, Faust, The Wisher. "},{"Title":"I Dream of Jeannie...the horror version","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After so many years of genies being funny, cute, and maybe even wacky (thanks, Robin Williams!), here's a malevolent one. The overall concept in Wishmaster - modern person unleashes ancient evil force - is pretty routine, but there are some really neat scenes. I think that we all have to agree that the coolest part is the party towards the end, especially with the statues.So, although Wes Craven produced this in between the first and second Scream, it didn't quite reach the standards set by those two. Still, it's a pretty fun romp, featuring a bevy of filmdom's horror stars (among them Robert Englund, Tony Todd and Kane Hodder). You just might want to think twice about making a wish after seeing this.Just imagine what might have happened had Maj. Nelson released this genie instead of Jeannie. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil Djinn (Andrew Divoff) is released from centuries of captivity from a ruby. He then sets about granting people wishes, but all of the people's wish result in there deaths. In order to gain world domination however, the Djinn must grant three wishes of the person who rubbed the ruby (Tammy Lauren).The special effects are terrific (especially the Djinn) considering the budget and the murder scenes are graphic and creative. Film also has a good sense of humor and the party scene opening sequence and finale are just about as good as they come. Sinking the film is Andrew Divoff in one of the worst performances ever featured in a mainstream or independent horror film for that matter. Very similar to The Outing (1986) aka The Lamp.Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Make your wishezzzzz","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The cool thing about Wishmaster is that it doesn't look like anything else. You can recognise a shot from Wishmaster quite easily, because Robert Kurtzman, who usually spends his time as a special effects/make-up guy, has a highly developed visual style in his direction. Just take for instance the memorable opening scene. Things look awesome. The idea is good too because the plot is very unpredictable, and on top of that it provides some very decent gore. I could just watch that party scene over and over again. All the other things aside, Andrew Divoff just steals this movie as the Djinn in his human form. There's no make-up involved, he just has that natural evil smirk we know and love. It just seems carved right into his face, it's even more prominent in the sequel but it gets tiresome there. The main actress was a disappointment, that's the only bad thing I can say about this movie. Just doesn't carry the movie, completely colorless. Apart from that this is among the best horror had to offer in the 90's. "},{"Title":"For 'Fangoria' readers only","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" WISHMASTER Aspect ratio 1.851Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSAimed directly at the 'Fangoria' crowd, though not much fun for anyone else, WISHMASTER is 'presented' by executive producer Wes Craven and directed by makeup maestro Robert Kurtzman, so it's no surprise the movie emphasizes makeup and visual effects at the expense of plot and characterization. The story revolves around an ancient djinn (Andrew Divoff), trapped in an emerald for centuries and accidentally released in modern day America, whereupon it takes human form and grants various characters a series of 'wishes', all of which backfire in gruesome fashion (and I *do* mean gruesome!). For no discernible reason, the monster targets gem specialist Tammy Lauren whose three wishes can release the djinn's evil minions from the Other Side. Naturally, she resists...Stuffed full of 'Fangoria'-friendly cameos (Robert Englund, Tony Todd, Kane Hodder, Ted Raimi, Reggie Bannister, Angus Scrimm, etc.) and visual references to earlier, better pictures (HELLRAISER, THE THING, countless others), the movie has the same kind of bland, homogenized script and production design which afflicts many similar movies from the same period, and the results couldn't be less appealing. Content to showcase a series of grisly set-pieces - most of which, admittedly, are ingeniously designed and presented - the movie hasn't an ounce of depth. Lauren carries the picture with her gutsy performance as the imperilled heroine, and Kurtzman orchestrates the mayhem with enough flash-bang-wallop to hide the scenario's shortcomings, but the story is worthless, despite a smart climactic twist. Three sequels followed - beginning with WISHMASTER 2 EVIL NEVER DIES (1999) - all of which debuted on home video. "}{"Title":"I Wish This Film Didn't Exist.","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wishmaster (1997) Dir Robert Kurtzman / Cast Tammy Lauren, Andrew Divoff, Robert Englund, Kane Hodder, Tony Todd Lewd and pathetic piece of trash that should be flushed down a toilet. An exercise in special effects containing no artistic talent. A genie is accidentally unleashed to cause destruction. When a clerk wishes not to lose her physical appeal he turns her into a mannequin. When a security guard challenges him to walk through him upon a threat we know the crap that follows and it is about as suspenseful as diarrhea. Director Robert Kurtzman is a better effects person than a director. Tammy Lauren plays the heroine who will run and scream and then run and scream some more until she collects her paycheck for the hard work. Andrew Divoff is an embarrassment as the evil genie. He is about as menacing as the Easter Bunny. Also appearing is Robert Englund and Kane Hodder who are better known as Freddy Kruger and Jason Voorhees, and this is hardly a compliment to them or those franchises they represent. They can deem themselves fortunate if they are never remembered for this garbage. Rather than address the dangers of greed, it becomes nothing more than special effects and really lame one-liners from one of the worst concocted villains ever imagined. My wish is that every copy of this film be destroyed. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"For Fangoria Types Only","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is No Doubt that SFX Artists were Reveling in Their New Found Ability to Splatter and Gorge More Guts and Gore on Screen in Semi-Clever and Nauseating Ways by the Late Nineties. There were even Fan Magazines Devoted to this Type of Thing. Fangoria and Gorezone Come to Mind.This is One of Those that Celebrated that Type of Carnage Ad Nauseum. The Movie is Brightly Lit and the Color Explodes Off the Screen and the Whole Thing has the Look of an R-Rated Sitcom. But if This is Your Turn On, there is Some Fun to be Had Watching Each Scene Waiting for the Punchline, both Verbal and Visceral. The Money Behind This Thing is Evident, but it All Went Into the Makeup and SFX. The Lead Actress Tammy Something is Just Awful, and the Supporting Cast is Not Much Better. Andrew Divoff as the Djinn is Good Without the Makeup, but when in Full Costume His Voice Inflections Get on the Nerves.The Story is OK but Elementary and Executed in Such a Standard Way that Nothing is Memorable. Be careful what you wish for! is as Good as it Gets. Made with a Franchise in Mind, the Sequels All Went STV. This One Isn't Bad, its Just Too Artificial to be Scary, Although it Contains an Excessive Amount of Bloody Gore, the Tone is Not Serious, Like Torture Porn, and that Makes it Entertaining Enough for its Target Audience, Who Can't be Accused of Being Sadistic. "},{"Title":"Candyman+Nightmare on Elm Street+Hellraiser= Complete Satisfaction","Date":"28 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why the Wishmaster has gone so unsung is perhaps due to the limitations of production at the time. In the 80's, much was forgiven on the basis of limitation... But once the threshold of modern horror films was crossed in the 90's, certain standards set by the industry may have forced a certain forgetfulness of DIY horrific sensibility and well, good clean sadistic fun. Wishmaster makes up for its comic book campiness throughout, with its appropriately thorough approach to the mythological villain. (It's interesting that Robert Englund and Tony Todd both make an appearance in this film. Both of their characters are surprisingly upstaged by the Wishmaster, especially in the realm of dialogue. The Wishmaster's one-liners get under your skin rather than beat you over the head.) His motivation is clear from the outset, which may turn off those who seek more mystery in their horror fare. But I found the viewing experience rather comforting, much like reading the Brothers Grimm (before good night's rest...). The violence and gore is evenly spaced throughout the film, making for a satisfying viewing for blood and guts fans. The music is goofy as heck, but somehow doesn't detract from the arc of the story.Some of the best films on IMDb are rated lower than 6, don't you forget it! In fact, seek them out... what you find within such films might be the gem that most people missed. "},{"Title":"Dr. Drew says...  5 out of 10","Date":"9 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wishmaster (1997) The Good, the Bad and the Reminiscent Synopsis A long lost artifact that plays host to a Djinn (which is an ancient demon) is found and comes into the possession of a young appraiser. Mysterious events begin to unfold until the Djinn finally reveals his plan to grant three wishes to the woman and release his kind from their realm to rule the Earth.The Good I really like the concept of this movie. The idea is a fascinating one, which is no surprise given Wes Craven has made a living out of coming up with good ideas. The idea of taking the old genie in a bottle myth and making it a fairytale told to cover up the existence of the Djinn is clever. The movie works well within the guidelines of that story. While the film is not at all scary, it has a number of really good, effective scenes... even by today's standards. The party scene near the end of the film is beautiful chaos and very well imagined by the director. Some of the effects are dated a bit, but it is disturbing nonetheless. The acting is adequate and the script isn't half bad. The actor who plays the Djinn in human form is actually more effective than the Djinn in demon form. Also, the wish format is intriguing. Part of the Djinn's devious nature is tricking people into making wishes they thought were going to give them treasure, etc. In essence, the Djinn does in fact grant the wish, he just does it in a way that brings pain and sacrifice to the wisher. It's a pretty clever mechanism and makes the film work.The Bad All the things I said about the originality of the idea aside, it could have been done better. I just felt that parts of the script (and possibly the budget) held up the idea that Craven created. The movie could have been a whole lot bigger in scope with the ramifications of a Djinn invasion not localized to one protagonist. It was like the only one aware of the Djinn and apocalypse heading for the planet was this one girl. I get that they tried to make her interesting... giving her a past that made her susceptible to weakness and ultimately, redemption. It just made the stakes too small for me. Craven has always done this though, so maybe it was more the limitations of the budget or quite possibly, it was that the idea is to be more single character-centered... like he did with Nightmare on Elm Street's Nancy. Most horror films do this though.The Reminiscent Speaking of Nightmare on Elm Street, I found a lot of similarities with Wishmaster to Craven's cornerstone franchise. The evil comes from a parallel or dream-like state. The protagonist is a young female. Much of the dialogue feels much like the early Elm Street movies. The evil is trying hard to bust through into our world and finds a way to manipulate those of us on the outside. This movie even has an unmasked Robert Englund. Some of the originality is lost in this, because at times it feels a bit like a newer Elm Street movie with less of the cheese factor. I also feel like a lot was borrowed from the Hellraiser series as well. Even some of the imagery was similar - like a man hanging with his chest ripped open by chains and hooks. By the end of the film, I felt like I watched a decent movie that had maybe borrowed one too many scenes from other iconic horror movies. "},{"Title":"Slightly Above Average Film With Cameos Galore","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A long time ago, the djinn (basically genies) were an influential force, able to grant wishes while also wreaking horrible havoc on the countryside. One djinn (the Wishmaster) is trapped in a gem and imprisoned inside a statue. Many, many years later in America the statue breaks... and the djinn once again tries to continue his evil ways.The basic idea of this film is really cool a genie grants wishes and the wishes go very, very badly. This works well, especially in one scene where a man wishes he had money and then his mother gets killed (allowing him to inherit her life insurance). But I also felt too many liberties were taken with the wishes many of the things that counted as wishes were simply comments about desires, some of them vague and many sarcastic. This seems like a plot hole if ever there was one.That concern aside, the effects and deaths were cool... and the film as a whole was very enjoyable. I have not yet seen Wishmaster 2 but would be interested into doing so.What makes this film really stand out is the impressive list of horror names associated with it, starting with director Robert Kurtzman (the K in the KNB special effects company) and writer Peter Atkins (who I believe was the man behind some of the Hellraiser films. The actors? Kane Hodder, Robert Englund and Tony Todd should be names familiar to any horror fan. What about Ted Raimi or Dan Hicks (both from Evil Dead) and Angus Scrimm or Reggie Bannister (both from Phantasm)? They're here, too. Even Verne Troyer (Mini-Me) and Walter Phelan show up.Who really stands out is Andrew Divoff, who plays The Djinn and his human counterpart Nathaniel Demerest. I know Divoff from Lost (as Bakunin) but prior to the show, I think he probably had his best-known roles in the Wishmaster series, which I have neglected to watch until now. He is amazing -- both suave and a solid actor, but vicious when he needs to be. Not unlike the character of Bakunin, only far more handsome in this role.Wishmaster is something of a horror classic, if for no other reason than the people who appear in it. It's not a great film. It's a decent film. I'd like to give it some extra credit because Robert Kurtzman signed my copy of the movie, but I won't be a fanboy like that. Let's just put it like this Wishmaster is nothing great like In the Mouth of Madness but it's much better than other movies about mythological creatures, like Leprechaun. "},{"Title":"I really liked it","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While one's not supposed to think too positively about something as gory as this, I honestly like this one. It's a game on What if your wishes come true - immediately?, and it's serious business in a way. All over the place we see people making negative wishes for others, thinking perhaps that wishes have no effect, or that one can get away free for wishing harm to others.Enter the Buddhist view. All wishes have effect. Sooner or later. Wishing good is good, wishing bad is bad. This movie runs right along this track, showing what might come from wishing bad stuff. While I have no idea what constitutes 'good' or 'bad' acting, it had me glued to the screen all way through. It simply sucked me up. The perfect wish would of course have been to wish the Jinn happiness and the causes for happiness, but what does transpire makes sense anyway. Time loops are cool ) It's past midnight and Denmark just lost an important soccer match in a most embarrassing way (assault on the referee). MeThinks it's a bad night tonight and I'm worried 'bout my dreams. But this movie sure had me hooked. Swallow it up whole and let it sink in deep. It's not just there to scare you, there's an important point being made. "},{"Title":"Andrew Divoff was superb.A simple yet creative storyline & a fresh change from the old-fashioned horror flicks","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my most favourite movies of all time.I gave it a 9 to counter-balance the negative reviews,as the film (& its actors) deserved far more credit than what's been written.What the film lacked in high-grade special effects & budget,it was compensated for by Andrew Divoff's undeniably memorable performance(even the critics credited him),the witty Djinn remarks (they sound kinda Shakespearean,don't you think?) & the clever twists on the granted wishes.Sure,the story was simple & people can speculate forever on what the final wish should've been,but it went straight into the story without pointless,boring scenes & it satisfied many horror fans.If it was as terrible as some have claimed,a franchise wouldn't spawn from it.Nor would it have earned 2 nominations1 for Best Home video & 1 for Best film (both in the Science fiction/horror category of course).The sequels are of another matter,although #2 wasn't bad.Divoff apparently turned down the role for the #3 & 4,which I'm told were flops.Although Divoff stole the show,I thought the other characters were convincing enough too Tammy Lauren,who was a lot tougher & more practical than the same-old bimbos in other horrors & Chris Lemmon,who did a rather amusing scene with Divoff.The film's a nice change from the typical killer-on-the-loose horrors,with interesting ways in which the victims meet their end. My review may seem biased,but no more so than the negative ones.If you'd like to read what other Wishmaster fans have said,go to www.amazon.com.There's a lot more positive reviews on Wishmaster there. "},{"Title":"not a single link with Nightwish (the band)","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I might be a fool, but I was sure Nightwish was inspired by this movie to write their third album (called Wishmaster).Well, however, I became a fan of the Wishmaster saga because it reminds me a lot of a H. P. Lovecraft tale the Haunter of the Dark.One more thing! The song at the end was a huge surprise ... for those who can't remember, it's Listen to your Heart by Motorhead (my favorite band along with Alice Cooper).I have been searching for all the sequels, and I'm glad to tell you my mission is complete now. Only yesterday I found the Evil Never Dies, which I still wanted.I will place these four in the same shelf beside Chucky (the Bride, and the Seed). I hope I can soon add Shocker to my list. "},{"Title":"A very fun horror movie!","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Released during the SCREAM era, KNB effects artist turned director ROBERT KURTZMAN'S WISHMASTER, came under fire from film critics, who critically lambasted his film for not being like SCREAM, for not being hip, trendy, referential & not boasting some famous names from some popular teen TV show like, DAWSON'S CREEK or PARTY OF FIVE, a similar fate which befell DEE SNIDER'S STRANGELAND & IDLE HANDS, two other fun horror items who were trashed by critics. But where the horror genre is concerned, it's only important that the fans like the movie, not someone who in a million years, would never see a horror movie they were reviewing if they weren't being paid to do so & thankfully the fans over ruled the critics & as a result, WISHMASTER quickly became a horror fan favourite. It wasn't SCREAM nor did it try to be. Unlike Hollywood, which was tripping over themselves to make money with their SCREAM clones (some of which have been long forgotten) the makers of WISHMASTER wanted to do something different, not material that had to be watered down before a famous television or movie star signed their name to the contract to star in it & then later turned their nose up to the genre & it's fans. It wanted to be a HELLRAISER of the 90's (It even has a Djinn birthing scene, that is similar to Frank the monster's resurrection in that film) & that film is a clear reference of what this film is aiming for, especially in a scene in the Djinn's lair, where we see those who have sold their souls to him in order for their wishes to be granted, being strung up in chains, with hooks that have flayed away their flesh, exposing their insides & some even have their faces ripped off.WISHMASTER is a complete & loving throw back to the horror hits of the 80's, filled with gore, great monster make-ups & a simple horror story that wasn't complicated in the least. Unlike a lot of horror films, WISHMASTER wastes no time in bringing you the gore & getting right to the heart of the matter from the very first frame, as we see people in Ancient Persia being destroyed in every horrible way conceived by the mercilessly evil Djinn, who has them in his power, turning them into hideous creatures & literally ripping them apart, with blood, slime & body parts strewn all about. It never once wastes it's time & always has something going on, be it a really cool kill, or a scene with the films main villain or the heroine unlocking secrets about him & finding out how to stop him. ANDREW DIVOFF for the most part is fun as the Djinn, both in human & in demon form, his performance is devilish perfection & I honestly believe that the film wouldn't have been half as fun without him. Director Kurtzman is a pure horror fan & not someone just doing the job for the paycheck & it really shows here. Kurtzman peppers his film with some very familiar horror movie faces such as TED RAIMI (EVIL DEAD 1-3) ROBERT ENGLUND (Freddy Kruger of the A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET series) & even has TONY TODD (CANDYMAN 1-3) & KANE HODDER (Jason in Friday the 13th Parts 7-10) in cameo's (Oddly though both Hodder & Todd receive top billing as though they have big parts). Cameo's by REGGIE BANNISTER (PHANTASM 1-4) Narrated at the beginning by ANGUS SCRIMM (The Tall Man from PHANTASM 1-4) PETER LIAPIS (GHOULIES 1 & 4) & GEORGE BUCK FLOWER (PUMPKINHEAD) It has a score done by HARRY MANFREDINI (Friday The 13th parts 1-7/9-10) Edited by David Handman (Friday the 13th 9 & 10) It was executive produced by WES CRAVEN (SCREAM 1-4 & A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 1, 3 & 7 & FREDDY VS. JASON) it was photographed by JACQUES HAITKIN (A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 1-2), & Pierre David produced it (SCANNERS 1-6). Co-Produced by David Tripet (LEPRECHAUN 1-4). It was written by PETER ATKINS (HELLRAISER 2-4) it has the statue from THE EXORCIST in here & KNB EFFECTS done the special effects work, who has done work on all the big name horror movie brands! even some of the characters are named after famous horror literary's!. The special effects work here is very slimy, gooey & bloody & some are so over the top they have to be seen to be believed! I loved the Djinn costume, it was a really cool. Even the CGI used here is well done & doesn't look fake at all! The acting is not to bad, but not what I would call good, let's just say it's passive for what it is. Kurtzman directs the film with an assured hand delivering several cool shots & seems to be having a ball with the film & even manages to pull off a few jump scares as well, something the critics refused to mention in their reviews when they were comparing it up to SCREAM (Then again name me a horror film review, where the name SCREAM wasn't brought up & compared to at the time). On the downside, the only pet peeve that got to me, was the fact that everybody in this movie seems to have a serious nicotine problem. The lead heroine smokes, Robert Englund's character smokes, the Djinn smokes, a bum smokes, almost everybody smoked! it really got my nerve at times, I mean did every character have to puff away? All in all, I highly recommend WISHMASTER, is it the best horror film in the world? no, but is extremely gooey, squishy & gory fun. The special effects are top notch, the main villain is fun & any true horror fan should have a hoot watching the Djinn granting his backfiring wishes on the unwary. Followed by three direct to video sequels, starting with - WISHMASTER 2 EVIL NEVER DIES **** stars "},{"Title":"This was good.","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked this movie. When I saw it in the theater, I thought it probably was the funniest damn movie since Steel Magnolias(and yes, watch Steel Magnolias very, very carefully, and the veiled humor and the pure and refined irony will become apparent).The dialogue was great, especially the Djinn. Is that what you wish, yesssss...? Reminds me of Slythe from Thundercats.Besides that, I love irony, and this movie just oozes with it. You really have to love a Djinn who can calculate the depths of human emotion and then ruthlessly exploit the agony of the misguided wishers. I can actually go so far and say this is a morality tale about both the Seven Deadly Sins and why when you actually manage to find a Djinn, try not to wish for what you want.There's nothing more horrible than having all your dreams come true.  "}{"Title":"Excellent special effects.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  My rating **1/2 stars out of ****.A evil Genie, or Djinn (played by the underrated Andrew Divoff)is released by a woman (Tammy Lauren) and the newly-released Persian demon goes about, asking people to make a wish then twisting them dramaticly.Lots of monsters in this one, including A evil genie, a lizard-like reptilian monster, a living skeleton, living status, a half-alligator man, a killer tentacle-flinging organ-thing, and more!The special effects are excellent in this film and the digital video disk is pretty good (nice making of featurette and audio commentary on this disk as well as great picture and sound quality.). Kudos to the superior F/X work. "},{"Title":"No great shakes for a Wes Craven Present's movie","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wishmaster (1997) Tammy Lauren, Andrew Divoff, Robert England, Chris Lemmon, Wendy Benson-Landes, Tony Crane, Jenny O'Hara, Kane Hodder, Tony Todd, D Robert Kurtzman. A gemologist unleashes an evil djinn (in English, genie) from his opal prison where he morphs into a human and grants backfiring wishes for her, planning to destroy the world . . . or something along the lines of that. With much gore to spare, all the bullpucky mythology goes over our heads and the genie's intentions are unclear. Make-up genius Tom Savini gives a cameo as a pharmacist helper, and Wes Craven executive produces. Aka WES CRAVEN'S WISHMASTER. Followed by three direct-to-video sequels (they keep coming!) Running Time 90 minutes and rated R for language and strong violence, gore. * ½   "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Man this movie is dope Djinn is crazy but sadly the next three arent up to par.I love the way that in utter chaos the djinn just chills and sips his drink he's great and yo that dog thing is cool too!!!i just hope the sequels get better!! "},{"Title":"who needs wishes?","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching this movie. I know some of you will say, that this one is a bad one, but I think everybody has an other point of view - and it's great like it is.So, what I really liked about the movie was, that all of the actors you didn't know and so the story is the thing which is standing in the front. The storyline about the Djinn was great - and new! The first scene was really cruel and shocking and that's one of the things I really like on horror movies. They have to shock you - and this one made it! "},{"Title":"great","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a good horror movie, you had appearances by Freddy, Jason, and the Candyman as other characters in this film add the slimy Andrew Divoff and you got yourself a movie. I really didn't care for Alexandra, but her sister Shannon was pretty hot in this movie, I kind of hated the end, it was sort of weak, but the rest of the movie was done nice. Wishmaster 1 was the best of the series, have a look its worth it. "},{"Title":"A great horror movie !","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Andrew Divoff is fantastic as the evil Djin in this movie who takes pleasure in twisting wishes into hideous punishments . Andrew's performance just oozes with charm and wickedness and he is equally effective in both Make up and human form . Also the movie contains cameos by some of the greats of modern horror including TonyCandyman Todd and KaneJason Hooder . Rober Englund who is of coarse best known as Freddy Krueger plays a millionaire in this film and he does quite well in a non villian role . The heroine of the story is played by Tammy Lauren , she isn't bad at all allthough the spasms she throws everytime someone dies do to the Djin tend to become a bit annoying .But the real treat of this movie are the amazingly gruesome Make up Effects by KNB FX group .All in all a great movie for horror fans . Non fans maybe turned off by the gruesome effects . "},{"Title":"Great horror in a time of crappy horror","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Back when Wishmaster came out the country was going crazy over the i don't know who the real killer is until the last 5 minutes of the movie genre. You know... Scream, I know what you did last summer, and all the other crap-fests like them. Horror wasn't horror... it was a damn Hardy boys book with a little bit of blood.Wishmaster, in my opinion, is one of the greatest horror movies in a long time. There was blood, there was suspense, there were creepy monsters, great special effects, and no real campy humor. (although I'm still curious why there was a parody of Han Solo frozen in Carbonite when a guy becomes part of the wall in the opening scene.) And best of all, there wasn't any stupid teen situations screwing with the story. It was just Evil vs. Good... Who's smarter?This is a must own movie. One of Wes Craven's best. Plus the cameos of past horror greats was a nice touch. "},{"Title":"Interesting Film","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS I have to admit it took me a long time to see any of these Wishmaster films, but the first one is really the best one in the batch. Tammy Lauren shines as beauty with brains and Robert Freddie Englund does a good turn as he proves he can play more than just a psychopath. Kane Jason Hodder also has a brief role before these two gang up in Freddie vs Jason. Andrew Divoff gives them both a run for their money as he becomes even more menacing than Freddie ever was and more dangerous than Jason. The plot in this movie flows very well and stays interesting, but the ending doesn't make sense as you wonder if Lauren has traveled to the past or has just created an alternate timeline. It's a small nitpick, but it just sort of leaves things hanging to me. To anyone else, it may not matter. The movie is worth a see.  "},{"Title":"Great Fun. Add it to your Collection","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this film. Its great the way the Djinn goes about twisting wishes. An interesting idea and surprising that no one thought of it earlier. Andrew Divoff is superb as the Wishmaster and certainly steals the show. The Djinn makeup is superb and Divoff's portrayal of it is great (love the sound of its voice). The special effects are surprisingly quite good for a low budget movie. My only criticism is that it is not long enough. An extra 15 minutes would have made it much more enjoyable. Considering that the movie was not exactly a blockbuster at the box office, the extras on the DVD are also very good (containing an interesting audio commentary). This is not a 'horror' movie as such, so don't expect any frights or sleepless nights. It's a fantasy. Good fun. Enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"All out good Horror Movie!!!!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wishmaster is a all out awesome Horror Movie I give it a 15/10 I is so good! The Djinn And human form Both the same Guy Andrew Divoff! Is just awesome for the part. His voice makes you tingle under you skin. And his looks and expressions Are just evil!~~~~~*SPOILERS*~~~~~ After A large Ancient Statue Falls on a business man an opal with mystical Secrets Is found then brought to a  jewel store. A woman rubbed it waking a slumbering Demon Known as a djinn. After Alex the woman brings it to a friend who was gonna run test on it All hell Breaks loose. The computer explodes and the opal inside  Splits in 4 pieces Unleasing The djinn as a baby. after the man wished the pain could be taken away from his injury I the wishmaster Killed Him. Hey He told me to take the pain away. Well Now I was an adult form and had to have a face knowing to be known well!  An old bum made  wish and...........The rest you have to find out. And watch the deaths Pile up! Believe me this movie is just good. "}{"Title":"very scary original film","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie is just so good i had to buy it. there are some flaws but who gives? a very original idea that is freaky each and every time viewed. if you smoke i recommend it beforehand for an even better surprise. rent it if you can, i highly recommend it, unless you experience nightmares. you'll probably want to own it too. "},{"Title":"Wasn't that bad at all","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wishmaster wasn't that bad at all. Djinn looked really cool. The effects looked cool. Djinn's make-up was really good. This wasn't the best horror movie ever made but its nice to watch when there is not much to do around the house. Robert Englund was a nice touch in this movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good horror movie. "},{"Title":"*1/2        (potential spoilers)","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  D Robert Kurtzman. S Tammy Lauren, Andrew Divoff, Chris Lemmon, Wendy Benson, Tony Crane, Jenny O'Hara, Kane Hodder, Tony Todd, Robert Englund.Very Brutal and Gory Horror Flick. Alexandra Amberson had a quiet life, had friends, and family who loved and cared about her, is about to meet a creature along the lines of the Devil himself. One day, on a dockside in the new york area, a man, Raymond Beaumont (Robert Englund), is waiting for a sculpture, the Ahura Mazda, 3,000 years old of the pre-islamic god. But un be-knownced to him it is caring a red gem, worth a pretty penny, but in the gem is caring a creature known as the Djinn (Andrew Divoff), a creature able to grant 3 wished to it's waker in order to rule the planet, and able to give wished to anyone who dare wish them. While unloading the crate holding the Ahura Mazda, two men get into a scuffle, (Ted Raimi & Josef Pilato), during the scuffle the crate is dropped, killing one of the men, and shattering the Ahura Mazda into pieces, leaving an opening for a dockworker Etchison, to pick up the gem, allowing him to be released by Alexandra, un-intentionally. Now it's up to her to stop the Djinn from unleashing all the horrors on hell on the rest of the world.Co-Starring Ricco Ross, John Byner, Buck Flower, Gretchen Palmer, Ted Raimi, Reggie Bannister, Josef Pilato, Brian Klugman, Cameos Tom Savini & Robert Kurtzman.P.S Presented by Wes Craven. "},{"Title":"My favorite Horror film!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was such a surpriseing horror film.. It was funny and yet scary. I recommend anyone go out and rent this today...Wishmaster and Wishmaster 2 are both great horror films..but Wishmaster 3 is terriable!!! But remember be careful what you wish for.. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly gory horror flick","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This one reminded me so much of a Nightmare on Elm Street in that it features a seemingly upstoppable killer that is supernatrual and slaughters endless people without any remorse or pity.  This movie is a true gore fest, but not one played for camp or entertainment...frankly, it is just disturbing, and that is saying a lot from a movie lover who loves films such as Dawn of the Dead and the Evil Dead trilogy.  Like Freddy Kruger, The Wishmaster is a villain you truly despise since he seems to have no weaknesses and traps his victims' wishes in pretty devious manners.  I guess, as a horror film fan, that is a good thing for effect, but the movie itself, despite a pretty original idea, has the same theme spawn over and over again throughout the film (a dimwitted person makes a wish, sometimes in the context of harmlessness towards a complete stranger -The Wishmaster- and totally regrets it afterwards).  It does get rather tiring afterawhile.Kudos to Wes for including pretty much every cult B-Movie icon in this movie.  We have Robert Englund (Freddy Kruger), Ted Raimi (Horror film stock actor who is Sam Raimi's real life brother who (Sam Raimi) is the director of Evil Dead movies and Spiderman), Kane Hodder (Jason Vorhees in parts 7-10 of Friday the 13th), Reggie Bannister (Badass undead slayer of the four Phantasm films), Angus Scrimm giving the prologue dialogue (The Tall Man of Phantasm), Tony Todd (The Candyman) and I could've sweared that Bruce Campbell made an appearance at the end as a magician looking killer who cut some guy's head off...maybe it was just my imagination.  But, it was a delight to see all of these familiar faces especially Reggie Bannister since I had rented Phantasm II along with this one.Overall, not bad, but I must warn you, it is gory, without remorse or pity, very dark and sinister, and in a way claustrophobic.  You feel like you can never get away from this guy, no matter what, though I would've wished his ass to be destroyed and no more further harm caused to others and all past harm remedied.  It's definitely not a bad film, since it does provide these feelings, though unpleasant, that's what we want from a horror film, right? Kinda sorta...none of these feelings are 'scares' which is what we crave...we just see some supernatural being slaughter endless people in response to peoples' wishes.  And why the main character had to be the one to give all three wishes still baffles me.  And how this one slipped by the nazi MPAA ratings baffles me as well.  The gore in this one is disturbing...not campy...just a fair warning.I add one whole star to this one due to the many cameos in it.  An okay movie with an interesting premise, but it is redundant after the first 20 minutes.  For true gore and mayhem lovers only.  6/10 stars. "},{"Title":" Make your wish","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Tammy Lauren is gaurded as Alexandra in this deranged horror farce. The following cast is interesting. The costumes are sensual. One of the fair movies in the genre, Wishmaster gives rare scares. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie and it's direct sequel are pretty good. Andrew Divoff makes for a good villian as the Djinn or Demerest. I am glad to see it becoming a franchise with multiple sequels, even if the main character has changed. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie and it's direct sequel are pretty good. Andrew Divoff makes for a good villian as the Djinn or Demerest. I am glad to see it becoming a franchise with multiple sequels, even if the main character has changed. "},{"Title":"Interesting - not that bad!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *This may contain spoilers*In spite of all the negative reviews, I am going to say it - Wishmaster was actually pretty good. Some of the acting wasn't the greatest, to be sure, but the story was somewhat original (how many people expect a genie to twist their wishes and steal their souls like the Djinn?) and some of the Djinn's vile wish-grantings were unequalled in previous horror flicks (such as the ancient warriors coming to life and killing men armed with handguns).Andrew Divoff was actually quite effective as the Djinn and its human manifestation. I had never seen him before, but it was a pleasant surprise to see a villain so thoroughly menacing and sinister as Divoff's. Like another reviewer said, the Djinn is on a par with Nightmare on Elm Street's Fred Krueger as a despicable, twisted creature. Interestingly enough, Robert Englund, who played Krueger, appears in Wishmaster as a collector who was adding the statue containing the Djinn to his collection. Englund's portrayal of the collector is a stark contrast from that of Krueger, and it was different to see his character on the receiving end of evil acts committed by the Djinn.The Djinn's fracturing of people's wishes is something that is never mentioned in other stories surrounding genies. Most people had never thought of it that way and it was different to see the manifestations of people's wishes twisted by the Djinn in a way that allowed him to steal their souls. Especially good were the ones showing the security guard at the auction house (Kane Hodder, a.k.a. Jason Voorhees, 'Friday the 13th') challenging the Djinn to go through him - which he does - and the one of the Djinn asking Tony Todd (Candyman) if he wants to 'escape' - then putting him in a straitjacket & chains inside a full steel tank of water! The Djinn then hisses 'Houdini did it in 2 1/2 minutes' while heading through the door to Robert Englund's party.To be fair, the ending was perhaps a little cliched, but the manner in which Alexandra (Tammy Lauren) turned the tables on the Djinn was original. Wishmaster is a not-too-bad mix of standard horror formula and originality.  "},{"Title":"GOOD HORROR MOVIE WITH AN UGLY AND DESPICABLE CREATURE","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Andrew Divoff made a great Djinn and Tammy Lauren made a great hero for this film. The results were great.For starters, I liked the premise-an evil creature who grants wishes but turns them back on people. Watching this movie made me take greater notice of that old saying-Be careful what you wish for.Andrew Divoff was truly a slimy character and he equalled Freddy Krueggar when it came to being totally despicable.I won't spoil the film by saying what people wished for but it was fun when people wished for things they wanted but soon regretted it when the Djinn turned the tables on them. I also liked the way the hero Alexandra managed to turn the tables on the Djinn-it was really clever.It was a great film. However, some of the people making their wishes did it all wrong. If I was confronted by the Djinn and asked to make a wish I would wish for him to disappear forever without harming or killing anyone in the process. But that wicked Djinn would probably find a way to twist it.Best horror film since Candyman in my opinion. "}{"Title":"FUN PARTY MOVIE","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this has something any horror fan can enjoy besides just wishes gone awry (try statues of history's greatest warriors coming alive and killing people)may very well be the best party movie ever made, watch it with every horror fan u know "},{"Title":"Do you remember?","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Does anybody thought that this film is a return to the seventies and eighties?  Because, as many people forgot, there was a genre of movies in that period that was called GORE CINEMA...I'll be clear.  This is a critic of Wishmaster and Wishmaster 2, that are, in my opinion, exactly the same film, because the story is nothing interesting or intelligent, the acting is not impressive, the direction either, and the only point that is really good is the gory aspect.  The first two Wishmaster movies (not the third, alright!) are pretty bloody and gory, and could be qualified of survivors or resurrected pieces of a totally burried under cheap high school-related slashers period...too many adjectives and adverbs? No, it's the truth... Remember Mario Bava, Lucio Fulci, Dario Argento, George Romero (not really in the last years, though) , Peter Jackson (same thing than Romero)?  These guys used to serve us some mostly very stupid movies loaded with gruesome gore...And today, the closest things to GORE CINEMA are (the excellent and well-written)Ravenous, From Dusk Till Dawn, The Dentist and a couple of rare others...and Wishmaster 1 and 2 are some of them.  With graphic scenes of mutilations showing lots of blood, intestines and various organs, those two films amaze with their strong scenes of gore.  It's two stupid films, but a gore fan will be pleased to see the nice scenes of gruesome violence.  But, even though it's a gore movie, I'll have to rate it as if it wasn't a gore film...so, I give it 4/10 to both of them. "},{"Title":"Well, it's not that bad, but I wish it was better.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Basically, I liked it. The Djinn itself was well realised, even if it's demon voice eventually got a little irritating....there's only so many times you can listen to him saying Make......your wishesssseeeeh. Having said that, the film isn't as bad as it's sometimes made out to be, and it's nice to see a film featuring cameos by Tony Todd, Robert Englund and Kane Hodder.  "},{"Title":"I'm embarrassed","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm embarrassed to say i actually wanted to see this.  Its so stupid and trashy and a waste of money and time.  The special effects weren't so special- actually they sucked big time.  And the acting?  Lets just say I haven't seen these actors in a movie since... "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad...","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I suppose not many  will agree with me here but I think this is one of my favourite horror movies. The gore was non-stop, unlike some where you have to wait half an hour for any action. I found his (the Djinn) methods of granting wishes rather creative and fun to watch. I especially loved the the very start, and statues at the end. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"98% CRAP 2% SCARY","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When i first saw this film i expected it to be pretty good... but boy was i wrong!!! VERY overdone plot, o.k. acting but that was about it! all this movie had to go on was its over graphical scenes! Throughout the movie i just kept wishing to myself that this movie would just go away...but it didn't because my brother had the remote! (slight spoiler) the only good thing about this movie was at the end when Tammy Lauren asked the Djinn to turn back time to make a man who was already dead come back to life (if you watched the movie, you'd know what i mean) which forced the Djinn to do it thus leaving the woman alone for good.......or is he? i give this film 4.5/10 (for its blood and gore!) "},{"Title":"pretty cool!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  hey! i don't see why so many critics are bashing this movie! it's actually pretty cool! it may not be scary at all but it delivers gory fun all the way! Neat! Warning contains some graphic gore **1/2 out of **** stars "},{"Title":"is this really worth watching?","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yeah, it really is. Comparing it to many s****y films produced nowadays, it really is entertaining. The Reason I like is probably because the fair amount of great gore-sequences, the intro is quite wonderful.Another thing is all the cameo-apperances, like Ted Raimi, Tony Todd (Candyman), the military captain from Day of the Dead in a small part (he has gained some weight) , Kane Hodder (Jason) and Reggie from Phantasm.And we´ve got Robert Englund i a pretty good role, but I didn´t like the heroine, she just wasn´t cool, until in the end.See this film, but only if you haven´t got something like Hellraiser I or II, which this movie obviously borrowed some things from. 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Very Impressive","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the better recent horror movies that is out there right now.  This movie does what other recent horror's (Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer) fail to do, hold your interest.  Andrew Divoff is possibly the BEST person to play the Djinn (Jack Nicholson??)  His facial features can play the part alone. As for the rest of the cast, it is average at best, but held together with some wicked special effects (the stained-glass window/person I liked) and gory death scenes, this movie makes an excellent rental on a scary night. "},{"Title":"Well, I for one could have done without THIS","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie started with a barrage of rather neat effects that set me up for a great movie. Unfortunately, all that I got was a tired, unscary formula flick with a horrible villain and an even worse script.See, it would be okay if the Wishmaster (he's never called this in the film) twisted the wishes that the people made. But instead of that he STATES the wish, asks if the people want it, they agree, and then he twists it like HE stated. You could see where he was going with every allegedly creepy diatribe he spewed forth.Also, the bad guy looked lame. Way too latex-ey. He looked like the villain in the Power Rangers movie... not that I saw that or anything....The only good things about this film1) The supporting cast. The leads are all horrible, but in the background is Robert Englund (Freddy), Kane Hodder (Jason), Tony Todd (Candyman and 'Ben' in the NotLD remake), Reggie Banister ('Reggie' in the Phantasm series), and the voice of Angus Schrimm (The Tall Man in the Phantasm films), plus John Byner, Chris Lemmon, and George Buck Flower. Very nice.2) The scene with Chris Lemmon's mom signing the life insurance. Hilarious!3) Uh.... Um.... Hmmmm...... Well.  "}{"Title":"Don't be fooled - this one is great!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Common - you belive everything you read?I've read many comments saying I didn't like itIgnore them! Personally, I think the idea of the bad spirit, always trying to make the worst out of your wishes is quite original (you don't think so, name another movie which had a similar story). But it's not the story that makes this movie so great - it's the villain! This one is one of the most interesting bad guy I've seen since Freddy Kruger (let's hope he's more fortunate in his future incarnations than poor Freddy who was only granted two (okay, okay Part 7 wasn't THAT bad as well, but were talking about the term good, ok?)). Andrew Divoff is a real show stealer as the cynical Djinn and let's us all forget about the standard heroine Alexandra. Another big cheer for the screenwriter who invented the dialogue! There are so many cool lines in this movie (most of them for the Djinn-Part), it's really impressive for somebody like me, who's writing scripts as well. Even Robert Why Won't anyone let me play anything else but horror movies? Englund is in quite a good form (unlike in the more recent Urban Ledgend) and does not ruin the scenes he's in. All in all what I'm saying is If you like quality horror movies, take a look at this. It's only flaw (for me it isn't one, but one might think so) is, that it's definitely too gory for the normal viewer but doesn't suit the needs of the splatter addicts as well. It's somewhere in between...and I like that. "},{"Title":"Magic gorefest","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" unfortunately i saw this movie first in a German speaking region (austria) when it came out. for Germany the movie was a cut version, even though it received an adults only rating, in austria every movie is uncut or at least should be. if there is no German uncut version (they would have to ad-lib the cut scenes and that would cost more money) even in austria it's cut then.that's why the movie really was boring and pretty bad for me when i first saw it. because the stuff that makes this movie really awesome is, the nice gore effects and the voiceacting of Andrew Divoff playing the wishmaster. Tammy Lauren the main character sucked in both versions and is the main flaw in this movie.i recommend this movie to anybody who likes horror films with a charismatic and funny to watch bad guy. well, don't expect much from the plot, but many horror movies suffer from that. it is really enjoyable!5 stars  average horror film+ 1 star for Andrew Divoff's awesome performance+ 1 star for the fresh idea of having a Djinn granting wishes as bad guyand if you liked this one because of the gore, Andrew Divoff's performance and the stupid good main characters, GO AND WATCH wishmaster 2 - evil never dies, it's a good sequel, just don't continue with wishmaster 3 and 4, leave the series after wishmaster 2, since Andrew Divoff is only in 1 & 2 and he is the one who makes these movies so iconic. "},{"Title":"If it's any consolation sweet Alex that hurt like hell. Entertaining horror film.","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wishmaster starts in ancient 'Persia 1127 A.D.' where a magician named Zoroaster (Ari Barak) forges a red gemstone in which he traps an evil creature known as a Djinn (Andrew Divoff) who needs to grant three wishes to release other's of his kind to engulf & rule the Earth... Jump to 'America, Present Day' where private collector Raymond Beaumont (Robert Englund) is waiting at a dock for his latest piece to be unloaded, an ancient statue of a god named Ahura Mazda. Unfortunately the crane operator Mickey Torelli (Joseph Pilato) is drunk & causes an accident in which the statue falls on Beaumont's assistant Ed Finney (Ted Raimi), in the ensuing hysteria a dock worker named Etchison (Tom Kendall) spots the red gemstone among broken pieces of the statue & takes it. The gemstone eventually ends up at Regal Auctions where Alexandra Amberson (Tammy Lauren) begins to evaluate it but unknowingly she awakens the Djinn inside. It's not long before the Djinn has escaped the confines of the gem & sets out taking people's souls in exchange for a single wish to increase his power, then he sets out to grant three wishes to whoever awoke him so his kind will be free to take over the Earth...Directed by Robert Kurtzman, better known as part of KNB effects, I actually liked Wishmaster quite a lot. The script by Peter Atkins is silly, dumb, maybe takes itself a bit too seriously & doesn't make a whole load of sense when you think about it but it's fun & entertains. It moves along at a nice pace, is never boring or dull & contains plenty of twisted gory moments. It's fun to see how the Wishmaster twists people's wishes & watching the results. It has a nice flow & narrative to it & for the most part the silly subject matter works. I'm not sure if there was a deliberate intention on behalf of the filmmakers to try & create a new horror franchise but that's what it feels like on occasion, the wise cracking anti hero, the constant killing of character's with gory novelty deaths & the possibility for endless sequels are three examples of this.Director Kurtzman, who also has a uncredited cameo as the man who is decapitated by piano wires, lays on the special make-up effects thick & fast together with some impressive computer work, from a cool opening sequence in ancient Persia, to a slimy Djinn rebirth scene, deformed & twisted people, cool statues of Centurions & Samurai's that come to life, people who turn to glass & shatter, people spitting up gross slimy monsters, the Wishmasters dog & he doesn't forget about the gore either. There are shots of people's skin ripping open & their skeleton's emerging, piano wires that slice someone's head off, jaws being torn off faces, someone messily dying of cancer, the skin from people's faces being peeled off, scenes in autopsy labs, someone's face bashed in with a spiked club & more besides while Kurtzman knows how to splash the red stuff around with it. Wishmaster, thankfully, delivers the gory goods.With a pretty decent budget of about $5,000,000 Wishmaster is technically a fine film throughout with good looking production values. The acting is about as good as you would expect from a film about an evil genie & the cast list has plenty of familiar names in it if your a horror film fan, Rboert Englund from the A Nightmare on Elm Street series, Kane Hodder from various Friday the 13th films, Tony Todd from Candyman, George 'Buck' Flower of loads of films, Ted Raimi who was in Army of Darkness & Darkman, Angus Schrimm & Reggie Bannister from the Phantasm films, Joseph Pilato from Dawn & Day of the Dead, Dan Hicks from Evil Dead II & other's too.Wishmaster is a good film, lots of fun & very gory which helps. I liked it. So far three inferior direct to video sequels have appeared, Wishmaster 2 Evil Never Dies (1999), Wishmaster 3 Beyond the Gates of Hell (2001) & Wismaster 4 The Prophecy Fulfilled (2002). A must for horror fans & I still think it's an entertaining enough film for most other people as well, well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Nasty","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've watched heaps of gory horrors before... every Friday The 13th film, every Freddy film, The Evil Dead (1 and 2, which surely must be the two most gory movies ever made), and HEAPS more, and while they have varied in terms of quality, I've 'handled' them very well, as there was a time when I thought I was squeamish and easily sickened.But Wishmaster was different, and I'm not sure how. It upset me, and unsettled me. Decapitation by piano wire, a scene that has stayed inside my head... I've seen more gruesome stuff than that. And yet I have reacted differently. The only thing I can think of is this has a very nasty tone - something that, somehow, other horrors I've seen have not had. It's even got to the point where I have avoided watching the sequels to this extremely gruesome piece.It's really not much of a film anyway - but, unlike other weak horrors, I was repelled by it. Maybe I'm getting old. "},{"Title":"NO STARS out of four.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Evil genie is released from thousands of years of imprisonment and must grant three wishes to the person who released him in order to gain world domination. No plot to speak of. Just a series of creative murders and some really awful acting. Robert Englund who appears here in a supporting role looks embarrassed. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great Movie for all horror Fans. Not only Does it Feature Horror Monster like Freddie, Jason, Candyman, The Tall Man..But I Think it Adds a New Freak to Horror Movies. Wishmaster Is Too Scary. It Gives chills Down The Spine. It Also Delivers Much Comic Relief after such Violent, Gory, Shocking Pieces of Horror. Would I Recommend It? Maybe. It's only for a Specific Group, You should be Able to Tell if you will like it Or Not. Check It Out!!!! "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What makes this movie fun is not the plot, but the inventive gory death scenes. What makes it even more fun is the high body count. The actual pace of the movie is a bit cluncky, but the gore and violent keeps you glued to the screen if you like that sort of stuff. With that said, some of the special effects are really lousy in a cheesy sort of way, but others are quite good. "},{"Title":"Great fun, great humor, and all together just great","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Wes Craven produced this stylish, well-made, and extremely gory, and great movie. When I first saw this, my expectations were low, because people had said it was pretty bad. But I must say, it exceeded my expectations, and was a good, scary, and gory movie. Well-worth the watch, Wishmaster has become to me, a camp classic, and one of my favorites.The movie starts out about 3,000 years ago, and gives us a message on what Djinn's are. What is a Djinn? Read on and you will learn. In the opening sequence, an ancient king has wished to have the best party in history. Well the Djinn (Played devilishly good by Andrew Divoff) is best described as a smarta--, and the wishes he grants backfires on the people who are wishing it. In this case, all the people at the party come to gruesome deaths, some turn into lizards, another has his skeleton come completely out of his skin, and his skeleton walks around attacking people. Another has something coming out of his stomach, and one gets smacked against the wall. The wizard, comes in and tells the king to stop before he makes his last wish, which would make the Djinn be able to take over the world. The wizard takes the jewel (too which the Djinn lives) and commands he goes back in, he does, and stays there for 3,000 years.Then we see a statue, being delivered to a man named Raymond Beaumont (Robert Englund, best known as Freddy Kruegar). He has bought a new statue to put in his collection at his museum-house. While the statue is being lowered, the crane operator spills his coffee on the controls, and drops the statue on a man below, causing it to bust in pieces. One of the construction workers spots a jewel, and takes it out and puts it in his pocket.The man brings the jewel to a museum to which Alexander Amberson (Tammy Lauren) works. She investigates the jewel, and tries to find out how old the jewel itself is. She asks her friend Chris Lemmon (Nick Merrit), a jewel anologist to find out how old, and what kind of jewel it is. When he puts the jewel into the computer to be analyzed the laser hitting ther jewel causes the jewel to explode as well as the cpu, and injures Chris. The Djinn is now released, and asks Chris, if he wants the pain to go away, Chris wishes it away, and it does, but so does Chris's life. The Djinn is now free to find the one that released him to which that is Alexandra.He takes human form as Nathaniel Demerest, and goes out to ask people what they wish to do or not to do. And if they wish, they die. Say one wishes that his enemy would get cancer, and he grants his wish, and his enemy dies of cancer. A woman, wishes that she would have eternal beauty, and turns into a manequinn.The Djinn, who was released by Alexandra, makes her see all that he does. If he kills she sees, if they wish she sees, and has to live it all up. She has to proctect herself, as well as her sister from this evil Djinn, and try to make him not take over the world. Nathaniel, then goes to the party to which Raymond is at, and of course Raymond wishes to have a party that will go down in history, and he does (I won't spoil it). Alexandra must now, find out how to defeat this Wishmaster without dying herself, or her friends. Her final thought of defeating him is brilliant.As is the movie, I found myself entertained to the limit. I found no flaws, no gratitous gore, and no dumb story. Andrew Divoff who plays Wishmaster, and Nathaniel Demerest, does a brilliant performance, and a wicked one at that. And really gets into his performance, mixing with with terror. As does Tammy Lauren, she does a great job as her character, and gets realistically into it. Robert Englund (Who as always) plays his character well.As the movie itself? It had some great suspense sequences, most coming toward the end, and a really high count of graphic violence/gore. But what got me the most, was how fun the movie was. It was never flawed, never boring, nor was it stupid. The make-up effects on Andrew Divoff, spectacular. And the gore effects, with people being ripped open, and one gets his mouth ripped off, this is definitely not for the squeamish. But, But, If you are a horror fan, who loves fun movies, this is one for you, believe me, I don't think you'll be let down.Just great!!A 10!! Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, and for language. "},{"Title":"Wishmaster Rocks","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was great, and anyone who didn't like it doesn't know what they are talking about.  This movie was both funny and scary and had good special effects.  The best part about it, though, was Andrew Divoff, when he was in human form, because he was great with that devilish little grin of his. Also, I liked the bum who called Reggie Bannister an unwanted child of a Chinese gangbanger!  That was one of the funniest lines in the film, along with Kane Hodder's Now that is something I would like to see.  Tammy Lauren was pretty hot, and a good actress, not just a mindless clone of Heather Langencamp from Nightmare.  I enjoyed the cameos of Kane Hodder, Reggie, Robert Englund, Tony Todd, Angus Scrimm, and Tom Sex Machine Savani as the guy who tried to help Reggie as he died.  All in all, it rocked!!  "},{"Title":"Kurtzman's second effort.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I never saw Robert Kurtzman's first film, The Demolitionist, but Wishmaster, his second film wasn't too bad. It's good in a horror movie buff type way and I think the story could have been better. The special effects were great and I really liked the Djinn's make-up, but why did he have to talk the way he does in the finished film. In horror films, the bad guy has too be interesting. The concept and look of the Djinn is great, the personality could have used more work.  "}{"Title":"Amazing!!!!","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I LOVED Wishmaster. The characters were amazing, the plot was fantastic and there was a nice balance of wit and gore. I liked the use of mythology. Nothing else like it out there. Absolutely wonderful! "},{"Title":"Andrew Divoff, the new face of horror","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After recently discovering the Wishmaster 1 and 2 I have to say, Divoff is the new face of horror. The scene in part one when The Djinn cuts off that guys face and turns around and its Divoff, thats the exact moment when he becomes the new face of horror. His acting is intense, and just hypnotic. I just want more Wishmaster. I am mad that they made 3 and 4 without Andrew Divoff. So as far as I am concerned they stop at 2. Anyone got a favorite part of the movies? I like in part one when he says She got down right hysterical. Also the part when he comes out in the suit for the first time and then tricks the girl to wish to remain beautiful forever. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wishmaster is a movie that's unique in it's own way, who else would have a film about an evil genie? The film is slightly cheesy but great fun to watch, the acting is good especially from Andrew Divoff who does a great job portraying the Djinn. Wishmaster also has a huge cast of famous horror actors like Robert Englund (A Nightmare on Elm Street franchise), Tony Todd (Candyman franchise), Kane Hodder (Friday the 13th franchise), Angus Scrim (Phantasm franchise), Reggie Banister (Phantasm franchise) and Ted Raimi (Darkman, Army of Darkness). The special effects are pretty cool and the gore is great especially the party scene also the Djinn make-up is neat, the costume is different in the first movie compared to how the Djinn looks like in the sequels. Wishmaster is a great movie that should be seen. Check it out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"what I thought of Wishmaster","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was a great movie (1997) and Andrew Divoff .... The Djinn/Nathaniel Demerest just freaked me out. They really messed up by not having him in the later Wishmaster movie. Wishmaster could of been up there with Freddy and Jason if it was handled right. Just his creepy voice and what the djinn was all about. I hope they do a Wishmnaster 5 and bring Divoff back. Just like the last Batman movie that saved the series, a Wishmaster 5 could save this story which is worth it. how could you go wrong as the story was setup.Once in a time before time, God breathed life into the universe.And the light gave birth to Angels, and the earth gave birth to Man.And the fire gave birth to the Djinn, creatures condemned to dwell in the void between the worlds.One who wakes the Djinn shall be given three wishes.Upon the granting of the third, the unholy legions of the Djinn shall be freed upon the earth.Fear one thing only in all that is... Fear the Djinn. "},{"Title":"I wish I could think of a summary... . ..OH,NOOOO!!!!!!!","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ah, Wishmaster.. The potential to make a movie about the fact that modern fairy tales take much of the original stories too lightly is quite good. Unfortunately, this attempt is not. I don't think they were wanting it to be good, just fun for a goregiggle*.The neat thing about it is that it adds motive to the whole Genie granting three wishes story.My favourite part was when the main gal goes down the hallway with the armed statues.. you know they're going to come alive, but I was expecting some really cheesy makeup effects to all of a sudden pop up.. Turns out the statues I was looking at were already guys in costumes, which it didn't really look like at first.. so.. with that wordiness out of the way, bravo.I also thoroughly enjoyed the scene where the doorman (Tony Todd) stands up to the Djinn.*goregiggle ~ the act of chuckling at innards shown to you for no other reason than to get a reaction. "},{"Title":"Worth the watch","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" i am a great fan of Wesley craven and the wishmasters films did not fail to impress me. the very 1st wishmaster is a very good film in itself and wishmaster 2, 3, and 4 all lived up to a great watch.i am a great fan of Wesley craven and the wishmasters films did not fail to impress me. the very 1st wishmaster is a very good film in itself and wishmaster 2, 3, and 4 all lived up to a great watch.i am a great fan of Wesley craven and the wishmasters films did not fail to impress me. the very 1st wishmaster is a very good film in itself and wishmaster 2, 3, and 4 all lived up to a great watch.i am a great fan of Wesley craven and the wishmasters films did not fail to impress me. the very 1st wishmaster is a very good film in itself and wishmaster 2, 3, and 4 all lived up to a great watch. "},{"Title":"Wishmaster","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Produced by A Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream director Wes Craven and directed by special effects makeup artist Robert Kurtzman (also writer of From Dusk Till Dawn), this takes the saying be careful what you wish for to a new level. Basically there is an ancient creature known as the Djinn, born from fire, similar to a genie it will grant three wishes to whomever wakes the creature, upon the granting of the third it would release an unholy apocalypse on the Earth. In the 12th Century the Djinn (Andrew Divoff) was trapped inside a fire opal by the sorcerer Zoroaster (Ari Barak), then in present day America this jewel is found inside a Persian statue after it was accidentally dropped and destroyed. The opal is taken to Regal Auctioneers, Nick Merritt (Chris Lemmon, Jack's son) gives it to appraiser Alexandra Alex Amberson (Tammy Lauren) to examine, she unknowingly wakes the Djinn trapped inside when she rubs the gem. The Djinn is unleashed and begins a rampage to find victims he can grant wishes to, these wishes granted will have nasty consequences, he dons a human disguise pealing the face of a recently deceased corpse and becoming Nathaniel Demerest. Once the souls of those he granted wishes to are collected, the Djinn is ready to find Alex and grant her the three wishes he requires to unleash the army of evil, and he will still grant other people's wishes along the way, causing destruction and death to them and all around. Also starring Robert Englund (aka Freddy Krueger) as Raymond Beaumont, Wendy Benson-Landes as Shannon Amberson, Jenny O'Hara as Wendy Derleth, Tony Crane as Josh Aickman, Ricco Ross as Lt. Detective Nathanson, Kane Hodder (aka Jason Voorhees) as Merritt's Guard, Tony Todd (aka Candyman) as Johnny Valentine, Back to the Future's George 'Buck' Flower as Homeless Man, Gretchen Palmer as Ariella, Evil Dead II's Ted Raimi as Ed Finney, Angus Scrimm as the Narrator, Day of the Dead's Joseph Pilato as Mickey Torelli, Austin Powers' Verne Troyer as Creature Stage #1. Divoff in and out of makeup makes a good sinister and snarling evil genie, Lauren is a good innocent female, and the cameos by actors who played well-known psycho killers is fun to watch, the film is full of over-the-top gore and great special effects and makeup to make the grisly content, the ways the wishes granted are twisted is clever, and overall it is an entertaining slasher style fantasy horror film. Good! "},{"Title":"It's not according to the history","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The writer has created a mixture of Arab and Persian history. Ahora Mazda is god in the Zoroastrian religion. It means generous almighty. It doesn't have any thing to do with evil. Ahora Mazda can not be seen and doesn't have any sort of statue. Genie is borrowed from the religion of Islam and doesn't have any relation with Zoroastrian religion. The film can be interesting for those who know nothing about ancient Persia. The almighty genie has to provide flesh of human beings to cover himself but in the meanwhile it can do what ever he wants. The special effects are outstanding. They can make you to follow the film till the end. It's almost hard to see anything wrong with any of the imaginary things that the film maker has created. "},{"Title":"I Wish It Was Never Made.","Date":"1 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sick and disturbing would-be shock-fest has an ancient demonic djinn (a wicked genie played by Andrew Divoff) accidentally being released from a 12th century statue just as it is being taken to Los Angeles after being discovered by gemologists. Of course the crazed monster grants people's wishes with fatal twists. Now it is up to Tammy Lauren (one of those to dig him up in the first place) to save the day and keep the titled character from creating a literal Hell on Earth. Special effects galore and ugly makeup technology will please those who must have terrible horror films in their lives. As ambitious as Wishmaster makes itself out to be, it is amazing that nothing from this short fix is really memorable or even noteworthy. Followed by several ridiculous direct-to-video sequels. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).   "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has an average rating of 4.9 but deserves to be in the bottom 100. It is very very bad and I mean very bad. The film is just not very interesting, the plot is weak, the acting is horrible, it is not scary, very stupid at times, not funny or anything for that matter. The cinematography reminds you bit on mid 90´s B-movies or tv shows. This film was shown in movie theatres which just is beyond me because this film deserves to go straight to video. Not scary and not good. Just bad. 1/10.  "}{"Title":"Wonderful Wacky World of a Djinn","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Many years ago, I remember a Twilight Zone episode with a genie that was in a bottle and the granting of three wishes. All the wishes turned sour for the person. This film was similar but with great special effects and creative answers to wishes asked for. A woman that never wants to lose her youthful look and is turned into a mannequin, along  with many other wishes that go terminal for the people that wish them. A wish granted costs the soul of each person that asks or is tricked into asking for a wish. Alexandra is the person that accidently awakens the Djinn and is granted three wishes. On the third granting of Alexandra's wishes all the evil in the Djinn's world will be released in our world. It becomes a battle of wits between the Djinn and Alexandra. Andrew Divoff is the perfect Djinn displaying all the necessary evil by just looking at a person. Alexandra does make three wishes but did she outwit the Djinn? One film that adds a new outlook on the old fable of a genie and wishes that come true.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!  Highly Recommended for horror flick buffs.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie showcases film vet Andrew Divoff's  starring talent and if baffles me why people don't pick him to star in flicks more often.  Very multi-talented and serious about whatever role he assumes. I once corresponded with the legendary Angus Scrimm of the Phantasm saga and he had nothing but good things to say about Andrew.  The movie is genuinely scary as you watch the sinister Djinn deceive his victims into wishing for what they believe will be something they have only dreamed about,  only to have their dreams altered as he tweaks the actual meaning of what they want into a nightmarish reality.  Very strong supporting cast, mind(and reality) boggling special effects make this movie a staple for any horror fan.   I also exclusively recommend this to horror buffs to see how many cameos they can pick out of the movie.  An excellent treat indeed. "},{"Title":"very disappointing,","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this on Sci-fi channel a while back, liked it, and decided to rent it. I was very unhappy to find that it was actually pretty bad, with the exception of some great (and gross) special make-up and creature effects, this was very disappointing. It had WAY to much gore, even for a horror movie. Pretty passable. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A great film with great actors!!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The one thing that was great about Wishmaster,was that the story was very original,except for the fact that it goes along the lines of those classic becareful what you wish for stories.The design of the Djinn is what intruiged me,the design and make up was a masterpiece.The one thing that makes this movie so good,is the acting.Andrew Divoff gives an outstanding performance as the Djinn,his voice and the devilish smile adds to the horror.The movie is very gruesome,but thats what makes it so good.The blood and gore effects are very realistic,and at times disturbing.I've always been a fan of Wes Craven films ever since I was 2,and I've seen a crap load of his movies,but Wishmaster seems to be the best next to Nightmare on Elm Street.I would highly recommend Wishmaster to any horror movie fan,or a Wes Craven fan. This movie was great. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Forget I know what you did last summer and Scream 2, this was the horror film of 1997.A female scientist awakens an ancient genie (Djinn) and if she takes 3 wishes the prophecy will be fulfilled and he will rule the Earth.Andrew Divoff shines as the evil genie, and excellent cameos from Tony Todd, Kane Hodder, and a supporting role from Robert Englund, as well as cool special effects, make this a treat to watch. "},{"Title":"I wish..., I wish...","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The idea, however unoriginal, is fun and I really think that Wishmaster had a few fun twists on the mischievous granter of wishes scheme. That said... nothing is left to say. The movie had no story other than the outline itself and didn't bother much to dwell on the characters, leaving them utterly uninteresting and stereotype. The masks and makeup were disgusting (which in this genre is a positive adjective) but never realistic enough to shock (which is not so positive). Finally, the movie goes to great length at trying to make the djinn appear wise and clever. One would expect someone that smart to have a clause in his wish account fending off wishes such as the last and fatal (almost - there is a sequel!).I realize a producer has limited power to influence a movie, but I really think Wes Craven should have given this movie more consideration before signing his name to it. He has done so much better before. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know about you but my favorite part was at the party when everything started to go wrong and people were being killed.  It just happens to be at the guy who is played by Robert Englund aka Freddy Kruegger.   Surprise Surprise.  Robert Englund must have grown up watching horror movies since most of the movies he starred in was horror.  I would love to hear from other horror movie fanatics. =) "},{"Title":"Vastly Underappreciated","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The lead (Lauren) comes over as a likeable heroine unlike other roles she has had in her career. The bad guy is menacing yet witty. He enjoys his work and I enjoyed the film. Fun but definately not a comedy.Reminds me of Warlock for mood. The sequel is good but not as good as this.  "},{"Title":"Was this movie a comedy?","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Who else laughed out loud when that girl was turned into a mannequin? Who laughed even more when that guy's jaw got ripped off at the police precinct? I honestly thought that this movie was supposed to be a horror film?The movie starts off with a decent premise. Many centuries ago, an evil djinn is released from a gem and wreaks havoc upon a city and its occupants. We see people running in pandemonium. A skeleton extracts itself from a man's body. A woman turns into a walking tree. People are flying around left and right.Cut to the present day, a gemologist receives a gem stone and unknowingly unleashes the evil djinn after trying to cut into the stone with a laser beam. The evil djinn takes a deceased man's body and charades amongst society by granting wishes to people's problems. Unknowingly, the person whose wish is granted is condemned to an eternity in Hell. But that little detail isn't mentioned by the djinn.Unfortunately, the movie takes a rollercoaster ride down comedy lane from hereon. A woman wishes she was forever youthful and beautiful. We cut to the next scene and she's a mannequin. If you thought that was hilarious - watch for the scene where her eyes roll into the back of her head.At the police precinct, a scuffle breaks out amongst a criminal and some police officers. A man stands there with someone's fingers in his mouth. We cut to the next scene and his jaw is getting pulled off. If you thought that was hilarious - notice how in one scene the guy looks real, and the next scene when there are fingers in his mouth, his head looks like its made out of plastic. A miniscule budget and bad special effects can explain that.Finally, the gemologist faces off against the evil djinn and sends him back to where he belongs, a video shelf life of eternal sequels. So far, three sequels have been made to this clunker, but I have no intentions of watching them.If you're looking for a comedy, forget Robin Williams and Jim Carrey - this is the real stuff!!!1/10 "},{"Title":"A must see Film","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An excellent Film, made all the better by the brilliant type casting ( Andrew Divoff looks more frightening with the make-up off).  Andrew divoff plays the part brilliantly. The gore scene's are very good,without the need for gallon's blood flying everywhere, as used too excess by some other films ive watched...overall an excellent film. "}{"Title":"I wish this movie was never made...","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Negatives Boring.  Not scary.  Unfunny 90% of the time.  Unoriginal. Uninspired.  Waste of time.Positives It isn't Scream/I Know What You Did Last Thursday Under The Park Bench.  Funny 10% of the time.  Cameos by many horror film stars from the past.Do the positives outweigh the negatives?  No.  'Wishmaster' is a waste of time.  It's not the worst movie ever made, but it came quite close...  Rent one of the 'Hellraiser' films that it seemed to copy, you'll be much better off. "},{"Title":"Oh, man...it's BAD","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This played in L.A. for about two weeks before theater owners decided to stop losing money. My friends and I wanted to see it and were shocked that the only place that was still (willing to lose money on it) was at this tiny, cramped theater at the Beverly Center in L.A. I should have known.It's awful. It's really bad. It's laughably bad. Good premise but a stupid script and poor acting make this one of the most forgettable films I've ever seen. I can't even remember how it ended it was so horrendous. The only reason I wrote in was to counter-act all of the positive reviews. Hopefully some discriminating fan will see mine and decide to take a pass on one of the worst horror films ever made.  1/10. "},{"Title":"This film makes me sick!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film sucks!!!! This film make Evil Never Dies looked like it have won an award for best picture at the Academy awards.I hate this movie more than I hate the sequel. This film makes me give Evil Never Dies a much higher rating because Evil Never Dies fixed all the mistakes that Wishmaster have. So I had to award the sequel with two stars, but this film doesn't deserve anything from me.This movie is too painful to watch. I rather watch Evil Never Dies than watch this crap all over again.I will give this crappy movie * out of ****  "},{"Title":"leaving candles burning by your bedside as you sleep is a fire hazard","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Suffers from the same ailments of all bad horror movies - bad lighting, bad sets, bad acting, bad writing, bad costumes, bad make-up effects and bad directing. Now to be fair the cast of Wishmaster are each and all talented or at least talented enough, but none of that mass of talent really makes it onto the screen. The lighting problem makes it appear as though every scene is shot on a set, instead of the desired intention of having it appear as though the actors exist in a real place. When the characters speak and move it looks fake, forced, the end result is that its obvious everyone is acting. This is a good movie to busy yourself with other tasks while its on. Wishmaster? "},{"Title":"Lost family in fire and sleep with candles?????","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THis was so stupid. She lost her parents in a house fire years before, we have to hear that she had nightmares, and went through psychologists and various bull$h1t and then there is a scene where she is sleeping with 3 LIT CANGLES at the feet of the bed really close to the sheets...Hmm yeah that makes sense!! I cant believe how with millions of dollars of budget you can miss something so obvious!! where was the script and continuity girl??? In my opinion the movie had some cool scenes, but the story was weak... The blonde was cute apart from her Dumbo ears...i thought her sister was hotter. The Djinn had a Jamaican accent..WTF??? "},{"Title":"Careful what you wish for...","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't remember the last time a film was so cranked up film as 'Wishmaster' Kane Hodder, Robert Englund and Tony Todd mentioned as the leading characters; this will be a blast! WROOOOOOOOONG!!! The three horror-maestros are on screen for about 10 minutes total with Englund given most of the time. I felt cheated big time. The bad The story itself is exciting, and could have been great. But it's let down by a cheep script and BIG TIME lousy acting from the leading role played by Tammy Lauren. The problem is that the main story about the Djinn is cast away, and instead we get a lot of bla bla bla about everything else.The good The special effects is impressive, there is nothing to criticize here. These are GREAT! Another great thing is the acting of Andrew Divoff as the Djinn; he really has the 'evil look' and is actually quite funny some times. And then Robert Englund is wonderful as always, though he doesn't play the villain and doesn't have much screen time.Three wishes? 1. I wish for a decent script with interesting characters. 2. I wish for acting lessons to Tammy Lauren. 3. I wish the movie had been longer, so the 'Wishmaster'-universe could have been more explored.But somehow I still enjoy watching 'Wishmaster'. The story is, as mentioned, quite exciting and the series itself has such a great potential of becoming a cult series. I hope the 'Wishmaster'-universe will be explored more in the sequels. I'm actually looking forward to watch them. "},{"Title":"Wishmaster wack","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wishmaster is an unwatchably bad disaster of a film and Wes Craven must have been really struggling financially when he allowed his name to be attached to it. This film (aka Wes Craven's Wishmaster) is both uninspired and unoriginal and displays none of the humour which may have dragged it out of the bargin bins (although I doubt that anything could have saved this film from well deserved obscurity).Essentially, we have a Djinn, released into twentieth century Americawho needs to grant three wishes to the gemologist, Tammy Lauren (Alexandra Amberson) who awakens him and, indirectly, causes him to be released. Once all three wishes are granted he can release his bretheren and take over the world. He does this by wondering around granting wishes, in as twisted and vicious a way as he is able (You want to be rich, collect your mother's life insurance), to anyone and everyone who gets in his way while simultaneously scaring Lauren enough to encourage her to go and find out what is causing her nightmares. But we've already had the entire premise of the film dumped on us, so there's no tension and no surprises apart from the fact that this otherwise intelligent woman is so willing to accept that a 12th century Djinn is stalking her. The special effects are reasonably gruesome in places, but never stomach-churning enough to put off a family audience. They're not shocking and they're not original&#133; we even have aliens climbing out of people's chests!Wishmaster is a seriously dull film and one that I would have switched off after about twenty minutes if I hadn't wanted to comment on it here. The only positive thing in the entire sorry mess is Andrew Divoff's creepy grin when playing the Djinn in it's human disguise.The only frightening thing about this movie was when I looked it up on the Internet Movie Database and discovered that there are three sequels. Wow what more can they do. I fear. "},{"Title":"As subtle as an air raid siren","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was AWFUL! From the top, I was annoyed. I was unaware that ancient Persia was inhabited by white people with haircuts from the 1990's. It gets worse from there. Now if you wanted someone to make three wishes, would you screw them over with the first two? Personally, if I made a wish and it turned everyone you into some kind of creepy monster, I'd be a little leary of making another. The Djinn is supposed to be this millenia old, inhuman inellect, but I've seen better plot twists on the Monkey's Paw episode of the Simpsons!Robert Kurtzman's directing is without a doubt the most unsubtle, hamfisted work I've ever seen. It was pure camp, but unlike such cult classics as Phantasm, it takes itself too seriously. Was it supposed to be funny? Some of the reviews say that it wasn't funny, implying that it was supposed to be. Well Schindler's List wasn't all that funny either, but it was still an excellent film. I don't know what this was supposed to be. Interesting concept, but ghastly (and that's not a compliment) execution. Plot twists are telegraphed better than an hour in advance. On the plus side, it was nice to see (of hear, in the case of Angus Scrimm) some famous horror stars in minor parts. That is the only thing to recommend this movie at all. (Reggie Bannister automatically ups my estimation of a movie by one star.) Therefore, I give it one out of ten. "},{"Title":"WHAT A RIP-OFF!","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Screenwriter Peter Atkins did a terrible rip-off with this screenplay.  The problem is, the guy's ripping off himself.  This movie is a near carbon-copy of another movie he wrote called Hellraiser III.  (That one was actually a pretty good movie in my opinion.)  It's like they said we need you to write a movie by tomorrow and he just pulled out that script and changed the cube to a crystal, the demon to a genie, and set the party scene (which is almost exactly the same in both movies) in a mansion rather than a  night-club. Wes, you are such a good director, why can't you learn to produce? "},{"Title":"save it for the children","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hackmaster would've been more clever, but eh. Anyhoo, save this one for the kids. You know how you see a movie when you're a young'un that scares the pants offa you, then you see it years later and think that was it? This is one of those. This has kids written all over it because it's got a scary dude in it. As far as horror movies go, that's all it's got. The rest is an unintentional joke.A jinn/ genie? Magical wishes? OK OK I admit that could have made a good plot. But it didn't and here's why. This movie is entirely too real life. It's like You've Got Mail with Freddy Kreuger playing a minor role. Whether it be more of the horrific, or just the suspense that terrorizes people in the meantime, a good horror movie needs THAT. Wishmaster going clothes shopping while the saleslady flirts with him? That's not horror. Alexandra getting killer migraines every time the Wishmaster makes a wish real? Yawn. It just doesn't work. It's comical in all it's failure to deliver. It's so BASIC. It's cheap and easy. It's terrifying if you're 6 years old.The characters are BORING. Alexandra is boring. Everyone in her life is boring. Watching the victims pile up is pretty cool, but they're still boring. I doubt anyone roots for Alex to beat the Wishmaster because neither she nor anything in the movie has given you a reason to. But I also can't see how anyone roots for the Wishmaster because HE'S lame too. Evil jinn, yeah right. This guy's a poor imitation of a real villain. He's a joke. I imagine he got pants'ed and got his milk money taken away a lot when he was in grade-school (do jinns go to grade-school?). Everyone that falls victim to him is just as lame as he is and you know they're gonna die and furthermore Wishmaster is doing the world a favor by reducing the lame-o's.Anyways. The Wishmaster is some kind of Disney-gone-bad type of horror flick. Kids will probably like it though (ie be scared). So I wouldn't recommend any people possibly reading this to watch Wishmaster unless you've got kids that want to see a horror movie and then imagine Wishmaster's hiding under the bed so they can keep you up all night. As you can see, it's an all around bad film. "}{"Title":"This was awful","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How I managed to sit through the whole movie is a mystery to me as it was awful...no it was CRAP.For those of you that watched this sad excuse for a horror movie, my sympathy goes out to you all.It is ironic that the premise of the movie is that by having a wish granted to you by a demon...horrible things would happen to you (slow painful death etc).  During the movie I wished I was no longer watching it....My pain was to have to sit through it.This movie actually makes Grandmothers House look like a plausible horror movie and that movie I rated 1/10.Do yourself a favour. avoid this rubbish at all costs  "},{"Title":"Laughable...","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think I should point out that the reason I became a registered user was just to badmouth this movie.  I read the sparkling review of the user before me and had to set the record straight- this movie is terrible.  My friends and I laughed throughout the whole thing on the big screen, and we laugh at it every time it comes on television.  We use it as our standard bad movie (That movie was bad, but it was no Wishmaster).  This is the sort of movie that keeps you thinking that they must have intended it to be bad - this couldn't just be some sort of horrible mistake.  Maybe I give it such a bad rap because they started with a pretty good premise and I went in with rather high expectations. All things said and done, this movie was about as bad as it could be given what they had to work with.  This and New Nightmare certainly haven't helped Wes' stock. "},{"Title":"I wish&#133; I wish, nah bugger it.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After centuries a malicious Djinn is unknowingly released into modern day Los Angeles from its prison confinement of that of a ruby, by a young gemologist named Alexandra. So, now Alexandra has three wishes to use and the Djinn is trying every little trick to get her to use them up, because in doing so he can bring the demons of the netherworld upon mankind and that means total destruction. While, trying to entice her into asking for those wishes, the Djinn disguised as an human passes time by granting wishes to people that he comes across and these aren't happy ones either because they twist back onto his victims with dire consequences, so that eventually he can take their souls for performing their wish.Would I be stretching it if I told you this was a great horror piece? Hell yeah! Sure, 'Wishmaster' isn't one to write home about and there are plenty more better horror flicks of the same ink, but I was slightly amused by it because of the warped mood and that of The Djinn. Also with that many horrors names behind this project and being led by producer Wes Craven, you'll be expecting a real blast. Although don't have big expectations for it because you surely will be dented, but if your just looking for plentiful grisly moments that goes for shock value, well this is for you. That really goes for the opening and closing moments that bloody goes out there with its nasty mayhem of effects. It looks a b-grade film, but it had decent budget, which you can easily tell that it went for striking visuals and cheap scares (well they aren't much of a scare) than stimulating material and suspense.Here is a schematic horror film that has nothing entirely new to provide, but to shock us with its huge amount of sadistic violence and nasty gore. That's the basic mind-numbing idea for the plot too. If you had a choice I say just watch 'Hellraiser' instead, at least that had a story to it; sadly this one seems to be missing one. The focus is that of special effects, and yeah it was impressively good, but gee it got a bit tiresome and silly for my liking. There were some clever touches in certain death wishes, but his shenanigans got a bit repetitive though and so did his wisecracks. I don't mind wit, I love it actually, but at least try not kill a moment with something you know that's plain dreadful when you hear it. The plot, if they bothered could've been interesting if they had more of a detailed back-story to this villain and really it did kinda skew off course when the attention drifted away from the main protagonist Alex. The performances definitely won't win any awards, but they were fun nonetheless. Andrew Divoff steals the show as the demonic Djinn and Tammy Lauren as the gorgeous heroine Alex added a strong-willed persona to her character. Plus it nice to see some familiar horror veterans in amusing cameos like Robert Englund, Tony Todd, Kane Hodder and Angus Scrimm. Although too bad that most of the characters were unsympathetic and stupid, which made them easy targets. Peter Atkins messy script weakly steals ideas from many other horror flicks and borders on ponderous, with laughable dribble that's sometimes painful because it's delivered with such force and seriousness. But what was the deal with the constant swearing, did I miss something or does that do a lot when confronting a powerful demon(?). Director Robert Kurtzman franticly paces the film to good effect and stages the effects with nice timing, but some of these moments aren't as imaginative as they may think. It felt like the idea was mishandled, with some confusing editing, lousy score and maniac camera-work that didn't come off here. The main liability would have to be the story, though, or the lack of one. Director Kurtzman probably knew that(?) and decided to keep with the film's few strengths, by stringing together set pieces of mindless effects to pass the time.The film's path just becomes one of another long list of endless horror identities with the idea of franchise on mind, than anything really more. But hey I'll rather watch this than the likes of 'Leprachaun' and 'Nightmare on Elm Street' sequels. Anyway I was mildly entertained from what I saw, which I guess is its main purpose. Just some things worked out better than others. Indeed, there's not much of a screenplay, but you get a special effects extravaganza instead. Who's to argue? "},{"Title":"Wishmaster","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Djinn is a demonic genie caught between two worlds who needs the person who calls him to ask for three wishes so that he can release his legion upon the earth. Shannon(Wendy Benson-Landes)unfortunately blows on a gem, created by a wizard to hold the Djinn inside, wiping it on her shirt so that she could get a clearer picture of it's center not knowing that was how you release the demonic genie from his cage. The Djinn takes the face of a dead corpse and names himself Nathaniel(Andrew Divoff, who is perfectly cast as the purely evil demon in human form). The theme of Monkey's Paw is utilized in this film as anyone who desires a wish from the Djinn suffer the consequences losing their very soul in the process. These victims are merely a pawn in the Djinn's game for proposing that Shannon use her three wishes to halt the torture that will take place to those who made wishes. The climactic showdown between the two occurs in an cultist artifacts collector, Raymond Beaumont's(Robert Englund playing a normal character for a change) party where he wishes his shindig were like another in the past(the one Djinn suggests..the very gruesome one the viewer was privy to at the beginning in the past when a King's people were being slaughtered by the Djinn). The slaughter at Beaumont's party is quite graphic as well. It will come down to one last wish and whether or not Shannon can make it one that will not backfire releasing pure evil the entire Earth can not overcome.Making up for the silly premise is the film's outrageous graphic violence. People die in hideous, unusual ways. The idea that wishes can spawn evil to those who desire them is merely used as a tool to flood the screen with various means of bloody death. But, Divoff as the demonic genie is very effective and there are many cameos from B-movie types such as Buck Flower playing, yes you guessed it, a homeless person who wishes for pharmacist Reggie Bannister to die of Cancer because they hate each other. You have Ted Raimi in a small role as Robert Englund's assistant. The Tall Man Angus Scrimm even has the credit of narrating the opening introduction to the Djinn and where they came from. "},{"Title":"Three wishes! Was the director paying any attention?","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this movie half way and at double speed and i could still follow the story. So the idea is that there is a villain (demon) that grants you three wishes, and after those are granted, all Hell breaks loose, humans are doomed etc etc. This could be a good start for a thrilling movie, but they lost it somewhere after the beginning. It was visually OK to watch, pretty funny when it came to its horror parts (after watching all the 60's horror movies, I'm used to it and am able to appreciate it in a movie), but one thing bugged me to the end Alexandra made more than THREE wishes! So there was1. blow your brains out (and he did) 2. I wish to know your true nature. 3. I wish I was in my apartment without you. That's three to anyone who can count higher than 2. Why does the movie continue? Why doesn't all hell break loose? And, dear God, why does everyone keep thinking she has another wish left??? Wes Craven should learn to count...and do it all over again after he graduates kindergarten. "},{"Title":"Anyone wished for gore and splatter? You got it!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's quite sad when you come to think of it, but Wishmaster actually is one of the better American horror films of the nineties... It's absolutely no masterpiece of plotting, it's short on tension and atmosphere and the premise is very ridicule, yet it's amusing and reasonable well-made junk that spoils the gorehounds among us. Wishmaster brings forward a new type of bogeyman; the evil genie in the lamp (only he's stuck in a piece of jewelry here) who makes every wish come true in an atrocious and ambiguous way. Supposedly, he only requires to fulfill three wishes for the person who woke him and then the ugly Djinn can unleash his evil troops upon the world and wipe out humanity. Tammy Lauren (who mainly just did TV-work before) is the heroine who stupidly has to trick the malevolent Djinn back into his emerald for good (...or at least until the next sequel). What this movie really lacks is a director! Robert Kurtzman is credited as such but he's a special effects and make-up guy to the backbone and he obviously spent more time supervising the gory eye-candy than putting any coherence in his film. Result everything is well as long as the story only handles about exploding body parts, but when two or more characters are having a conversation it hurts your ears. The Djinn is a fairly ingenious horror icon, only he talks too much and he shouldn't try to be funny (remember, that's what made Freddie Krueger a lot less scary as well). If Wishmaster would have been made 20 years earlier, I'm sure that Robert Englund's part was played by Peter Cushing! Englund is the rich and eccentric collector who cares more about a rare artwork than human lives and his vanity indirectly is the origin of all the horror. Englund plays a rather big role while other famous genre actors appear in smaller, insignificant roles. We have Tony Todd (Candyman), Kane Hodder (Jason Vorhees), Reggie Bannister and Angus Scrimm (both Phantasm) all making cameo-appearances, which makes this film slightly more interesting for hardcore-horror fans. This movie will definitely impress younger and enthusiast gore-fanatics whose only experiences with horror so far were flicks like Scream or Urban Legends.... I can imagine Wishmaster really looks cooler than cool for them! "},{"Title":"Wishmaster, need I say more!?","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was made of poor taste.1- When someone wishes for wonders, does that mean destroy and horrifyingly destroy the kingdom?2- The worst line in this movie was Homeless Man - AHHH!!!!/ Djinn- Run Run, and tell everyone that there is something loose, something that feeds on WISHES! How would the Homeless Man know about him feeding on wishes. Come on Djinney.3- When you see a 3-4 ton statue in a crate falling about 100 ft. above you, wouldn't you move?4- This movie sucks.out of 10 it deserves a 2.6 for creativity and Cast. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was watching Boogeymen and when this movie clip called Wishmaster poped up I thought Hey, it looks pretty good. So, I went out and rented it. Boy, do I wish I didn't. Now, it's not horrible. But it's just a way to kill a hour and a half. I'm not sure what it was that didn't impress me. I guess the characters were a little annoying. I just WISH I didn't see this film. I could've saved $3.75.5/10 "},{"Title":"Oh my god!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I cannot quite believe how bad a film this is! I'm sure in England it came out in 1998. Anyway after seeing films such as Scream 1& 2 and I know what you did last summer, I couldn't get enough of Wes Craven and horror films. I thought finally horror movies are back. Even Halloween H20 (the seventh Halloween film) was good, but this! This compares worse than Wes Craven's Final Nightmare. It was a good looking trailer, (and made me go at midnight to the cinema to watch it) but this movie was very poor.  Not too sure why he made it or how much he actually had to do with it. Robert Englund obviously starred in this inbetween picking up his 'job seekers allowance'. All he could 'wish' for now is a part in A nightmare on elm street part 8 as supposed to a  Wishmaster 2. "},{"Title":"I should have been more careful when I wished for another viewing of 'Wishmaster'...","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw Wishmaster for the first time shortly after it's release. I'd have been about thirteen at the time, and hadn't seen a great deal of horror movies, so I was pretty much this film's primary target. Impressed by the gore and special effects, I actually quite liked this film and took my good memories of it into my later years of horror fandom, i.e. now. Well, shortly before I caught this flick again anyway, as now that I've seen much more of the genre; Wishmaster is no longer the film I thought it was, and my good memories of it have now been replaced by the correct idea that this is, in fact, a rather tedious, cliché ridden, shameless attempt to cash in on younger horror audiences that haven't seen much beyond the endless waive of Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street sequels. The cameos in the film show this quite clearly, with small roles for the likes of Robert Englund ('Freddy') and Kane Hodder ('Jason'), among other credits that are clearly marked on the video box in order to draw in audiences; such as Peter Atkins, writer of the Hellraiser sequels and Pierre David, producer of Scanners and Videodrome. In fact, the only 'established' horror name that I enjoyed seeing in the film was Reggie Bannister; the poor man's cult icon and star of the Phantasm series.It's a shame that this film spoilt itself by the cash-ins and clichés, as the idea behind the story actually isn't bad. It follows an ancient Djinn ('evil genie') that is unleashed from it's prison by a gemmologist named Alex. The evil creature needs to grant three wishes to the one who awoke him in order for him to take over the world. While he's getting round to that, the Djinn amuses himself by granting wishes to other people and collecting souls in the process. This story is good because it works from an idea that hasn't been used often in horror, but it fails due to the execution. Instead of delving into it's central character, the film instead follows the all too familiar lines of the slasher and while some of the 'wishes' are nicely executed, most of them are unimaginative and very silly. The film is also much more boring than you'd expect it to be and after a while it becomes far too monotonous and predictable. The film's only real saving grace is Andrew Divoff in the role of the title monster. He's malevolent and foreboding and while he makes too much use of his gruff voice at times, which ends up making the movie rather silly, he is good on the whole. If you haven't seen many horror movies, or just the newer stuff, you'll probably like Wishmaster. I would recommend it therefore, but if you've only seen newer films; instead, I recommend you catch some of the older stuff and forget this. If you've seen a lot of the genre, just take note of the last two words of the last sentence. "}{"Title":"ewww","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is horrible. I rented it because I wanted a horror movie. It is SOOO bad, that I wish for my money back. Can the genie grant me that? No, he can't.Everything is wrong and cheap in Wishmaster. The commencement sequence, in mediaval Persia, looks so cheap that you think you're watching a tv series episode, not a feature movie.The only idea that was interesting (but not original) was how the heroin got read of the genie. But one single idea is definitely not enough to save the movie.And another thing I do not understand. How is it possible that such a bad movie is followed by a sequel? Why waste the money? "}]