[{"Title":"Son of a gun, Chicken Run is pure fun!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"56 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  After watching Chicken Run, you will become a believer of many things.You will believe that a bunch of talking hens wearing beads and bandanas can speak with British and Scottish accents, practice martial arts, escape from inside a pie machine and secretly plot their getaway from an egg farm in 1955 England. You will believe that chickens can knit, dance, wear glasses and play the harmonica.  You will believe that rats can wear bad suits and have an obsession for eggs. You will believe that roosters can fly airplanes, ride a tricycle and sing  The Wanderer.Most importantly, you will believe that the otherwise Disney-choked world of animated films has life again, and that a tiny British studio can top the big boys from Japan and the U.S. and turn out the smartest, possibly best work of this genre ever.  The one point of light in an otherwise lousy summer movie season, Chicken Run is something you'll want to watch over and over again. You could sit through it 31 times (like yours truly) and it never gets boring. The audienced applauded at the end during my first 13 viewings.Aardman Studios has concocted a recipe consisting of a wonderful (albeit portly and feathered) cast, a funny, intelligent script, a gripping score, excellent cinematography and production design, plus great voice work, all mixed with years of labor and love, and the result is what is easily the best film of 2000. When was the last time you saw a movie with a cast &#150; nearly all-female, no less &#150; so determined and believable in their mission for freedom, and whom you cared so strongly about that you were actually cheering for them to be successful?Chicken Run may be the first animated film that is an absolute joy for both children and adults. Children will be tickled by the jocularity of these hens, while adults will find pleasure in discovering homages to classic prison films &#150; The Great Escape, Stalag 17 and even The Shawshank Redemption, among others.Screenwriter Karey Kirkpatrick has come up with a sharp script, which has all but become a lost art in the movie world these days.  The dialogue is loaded with puns that work so well.  The British slang is a delight, and makes the chickens' personalities more endearing and &#150; dare I say it &#150; human.One of the best lines comes from Mrs. Tweedy talking lovingly about her soon-to-be chicken pie enterprise. When Mr. Tweedy asks why she only will be included in the brand name, her reply is Woman's touch. Makes the public feel more comfortable.  The other is Fowler's immortal Pushy Americans, always showing up late for every war. That's simply brilliant writing.The flawless (yes, flawless) voice cast is the heart of this movie. This is one of those rare films in which both the heroes and the villains are fun to watch. You'll find yourself thinking during the end credits, I liked this character the best&#133;no, wait a minute, I think I like this one more&#133;no, no, I like that one.Leading the way is Julia Sawalha, playing another character with a spicy name (from AbFab's Saffy to CR's Ginger), and providing the ideal heroine we moviegoers have yearned for so long. She's so convincing in this role; you're deeply immensed in Ginger's quest for free range living that you forget she's a Plasticine chicken.It's safe to say that 2000 has been the summer of one Melvin Gibson. He doesn't disappoint with The Patriot or with his role as Rocky, the vagabond flying rooster (listen to his hysterical rendition of Dion's The Wanderer), who easily bested his squirrel namesake at the box office. The film pokes fun at him in a good-natured way, from his opening Braveheart gag to his nationality.Rounding out the supporting cast is Lynn Ferguson as the genius Mac, she of the wild hen's comb and odd spectacles.  Jane Horrocks is a show-stopper as the innocent yet&#133;well, bubbleheaded, knitter Babs.  She doesn't have much dialogue, but definitely does the most with the least as she delivers the funniest lines in the movie with aplomb.  Perhaps the film's most famous line is when she bawls I don't want to be a pie! Why? I don't like gravy.Ben Whitrow's Fowler, the old military rooster, had me in stitches with his constant rambling about his glory days in the Royal Air Force.  Seriously, wouldn't we all want to be awakened by a rooster who hollers, Cock-a-doodle-doo, what what?Timothy Spall and Phil Daniels are a hoot as Nick and Fetcher, the Laurel & Hardy-style farm rats. Tony Haygarth and Miranda Richardson (not straying very far from her evil wife role in Sleepy Hollow) are perfect as Willard and Melisha Tweedy, the cruel owners of the prison camp&#133;er, egg farm. The loving couple is an evil version of American Gothic rendered in clay. Mrs. Tweedy is the best animated villain since Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty.But my favorite (and this was a tough choice) was Imelda Staunton as the brusque, oversized and argumentative, yet lovable, Bunty. She was the character I related to most because my personality is sometimes like hers&#133;I think I may have finally found my role model! My favorite part in the film was watching Bunty getting down to Flip Flop and Fly.The ending contains the most thrilling action sequence I've seen all year. I won't dare describe it here&#133;go and experience the magic for yourself.  What I will say is that I haven't had this much side-splitting fun with an ending since Mrs. Doubtfire.I haven't enjoyed a film like this since Sleepy Hollow was released 7 months earlier&#133;needless to say, this has been a period of movie ecstasy that is as rare as hens' teeth, so to speak.  I'm sure nobody will care, but what I found interesting about Chicken Run was that it bore a striking resemblance to SH in terms of the plot a small citizenry, kept prisoner by a villain who has a fetish for decapitation, pins their hopes of freedom on an outsider who is brash and sure of himself on the outside, yet soft and bewildered on the inside.  Both movies are in my personal top 10 of all time.After watching this, I dare anyone to find another movie that is as heartwarming, witty, suspenseful and funny as Chicken Run. To those who feel the need to criticize this film for any reason&#133;I deeply sympathize with your lack of soul. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Something for everyone","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is a wonderfully entertaining movie for EVERYONE!  Kids will love the eye-candy of chickens doing absurd things and tossing off silly one-liners.  Adults will enjoy the brilliantly funny dialogue and the sweet, engaging story.  Parents will enjoy taking their kids to a movie that does not have the Disneyesque product tie-ins and must-buy soundtrack.   Movie buffs can try to count the references to The Great Escape, Stalg 17, Star Trek and Braveheart and may be pleasantly surprised at the quality of the camera work.Nick Park, Peter Lord & Co. succeeded (where so many other have failed recently) in making an animated movie whose story, plot and dialogue are equal to the brilliant animation.  In the wordless opening minutes we are engaged and in invited to care about these silly chickens.  By the time the snappy dialogue gets rolling we've already identified with the chickens' plight.  It may be a bit slow through the middle for the younger moviegoers. But the sound of laughter, cheers and applause from the whole audience as the chickens make their final bid for freedom is well worth the wait.  The only sad part is we may have to wait another five years for another Aardman Animations to produce another picture of the quality.  "},{"Title":"Eggselant","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Hailing from the animation house that brought us such jems as Morph, the Wallace and Gromit series and Rex the Runt, Chicken Run is the first ever feature length claymation ever attempted.Set on a chicken farm in Yorkshire some time in the middle of the century, our plucky (sorry) heroines face a lifetime of hard labor laying for the farmers, and if their performance is not up to par they quite literally face the chop.  Ginger, making her way to the top of the pecking order (sorry again) attempts jailbreak after farcical jailbreak, but success is less than forthcoming.Enter Rocky The Rhode Island Red, (Rocky Rhodes for short, and you can't blame me for that one, the writers came up with it) apparently able to fly, the chickens look to him to help them bust this chicken coup, but Rocky is not what he may appear to be.That's the plot in a nut (egg?) shell, and as you can imagine the subject matter made for perfect salutes to the classic world war 2 escape movies, references to which abound throughout.  From Ginger tossing a baseball (actually a sprout) in the cooler (coal bunker), to Fowler's incessant ramblings about his old RAF days.The lead characters are deep and endearing enough for you to care about what happens to them, if a little stereotypical at times.  The interaction between them is fluid and believable, all the more amazing considering that Mel Gibson never even set foot in the same recording studio as the other actors, reading his lines in a studio in America instead.  The supporting cast provide plenty of humour and Mrs. Tweedy substitutes quite nicely for the Nazi camp commandant.The animation is lively and colourful the characters wonderfully expressive in that unmistakable style developed in the Wallace and Gromit shorts, and thanks to the fact the sets are real models there is plenty of scope for dramatic lighting effects.The only real fault I could find in the film was that it just seemed a little too... American at times.  Hollywood's involvement showed through the English setting to some degree, especially as you get to the movie's climax which seems to go a bit overboard, especially compared to the utterly hysterical ending to The Wrong Trousers.  But all in all I have to say I really enjoyed this movie.  Now all we need is a Wallace and Gromit movie. "},{"Title":"Engaging and delightful!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is all you could hope for in summer film fare.  It had action, suspense, romance and a large helping of comedy.  I was predisposed to love the movie, being a great fan of Wallace and Gromit, and the movie lived up to those other award-winning works.  The movie works on every level, and was fun for all ages viewing it.  Even my husband, who disdains children's movies, was truly enjoying himself.  Needless to say, the children loved it, despite one rather gruesome off-screen moment, but that seemed not to matter too much.  All in all, I can't recommend this movie too highly, it was incredibly entertaining and well-done. "},{"Title":"Simply delightful viewing","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  As an older gentleman with a rather refined taste in flim viewing, I was surprised by how absorbed I got in this elaborate cartoon-like feature. It's no mean trick to create rubber characters that you can really care about.  My favorites were Mr & Mrs Tweedy -- especially the latter.  Mrs Tweedy was the personification of evil (within the confines of a cartoon of course) and just a thoroughly interesting character.  The sets were well done, especially the Stalag 17 camp image (notice the 17 on the meeting hut).   Lots of British stereotype stuff which worked pretty well and kept my attention.  Fast paced without becoming just another Roger Rabbit.Recommended! "},{"Title":"Animation at its best, with outstanding characters and a clever story. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  CHICKEN RUN / (2000) ***1/2 (out of four)	Chicken Run, DreamWorks Picture's newest animation festival, is an old-fashioned fairy tale with more heart and truth than most movies can even imagine about containing. The film's animated style contains state-of-the-art clay-animation techniques, which make it worth the trip to the multiplex just for feasting your eyes on such brilliant special effects. Directors Peter Lord and Nick Park, with co-writer Karey Kirkpatrick, give the characters depth, reason, and dimension-even if the main star is a feathered farm animal that converges with his companions about political matters. 	Chicken Run details the miserable lives of a clan of chickens being withheld within a sinister dairy farm in 1950's England. Ginger (voiced by Miranda Richardson) is the central character, who, along with her acquaintances, deeply lust for the sweet smell of freedom that lies beyond the constricting boundaries of their pens. The unhappy farm owners, the smart and devious Mrs. Tweedy and the dumb and precarious Mr. Tweedy, brutally dispose of chickens who fail to produce the amount of eggs they require.  	When a overzealous circus Rooster named Rocky (voiced by Mel Gibson) stumbles onto the farm one evening, the other chickens blackmail him into teaching them how to escape. This is also when the Tweetys lurch up a devilish new plan to strike it rich by purchasing a machine that will turn innocent chickens into merchandising pot pies. 	The film's plot is steady, solid, and knowing; it portrays a series of events that gradually build tension eventually inducing an exciting climax that is both conclusive and satisfying. Chicken Run is a precise piece of filmmaking, an inoffensive family adventure that will entertain audiences of all ages. Regardless of how well crafted it is or how artful the material, the movie is about chickens escaping out of their pen in order to find genuine independence. No, the stakes are not nearly high enough, and with a plot like this, it is only natural for some audiences to expect a shallow, cheap cartoon publicity stunt. However, the filmmakers make this movie feel original, fresh, suspenseful, and involving, regardless if the main characters are chickens with patriotic instincts.   "},{"Title":"Chicken Fun","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" 'Chicken Run' is a delighted little film about...well, chickens. I've always loved the claymation of Aardman. 'Creature Comforts' and 'Wallace and Gromit' are among many of my favorites. Aardman Studios have come up with a brilliant cast, a funny and smart script, fine cinematography and production design. The inspiration of films like 'The Great Escape' shows. The female characters are so strong and yet they have their own sense of humour and Brit-wit. Aardman's claymation is splendid. The large eyes, body size and shape and movements create this a unique class of comedy. The writing is very sharp and crisp but I disliked the obvious symbolism (of British and America joining hands to save the world and fight evil) which looked a little forced. I don't see the need to make the Rocky character an American rooster (as if it's an ingredient to have an American on board). Yet, that does not take away the sheer pleasure and entertainment one derives from the film. The voice cast is suitably chosen. Gibson plays the typical hero with charisma but it's the Brit cast, which includes names like Imelda Staunton, Lynn Ferguson, Jane Horrocks and Julia Sawalha that did it for me. Their sharp witty humour and strong will just put them on a league of their own. 'Chicken Run' is a cute, heartwarming, uplifting and hilarious little film. To quote another user, it is eggcellent! "},{"Title":"The best movie of the summer!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Now, knowing what's in store for us this summer, I am probably not out on a limb saying this, but this should be the best film this summer, if not this year.Full of wit, sight gags, homage to prison escape movies, yet completely adorable and exciting to even very young children, this movie has everything you would want in a movie. I was lucky enough to catch it at a sneak preview while on vacation with my 19-year-old son while in San Francisco, and even at the price of NINE BUCKS, it was worth it.All this and voices from two Ab Fab actresses! "},{"Title":"One radical cartoon","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The great animation director Chuck Jones has often stated that his cartoons weren't made for children.  Neither were they made for adults.  They were made for me.  Jones's seven-minute shorts were made on a far lower budget than the animated features of today.  With features, much more money is at stake, as well as the livelihoods of more people.  Because of the pressure to make back the investment, animated features can give an impression of being created by committee, as though tailored to fit some committee's idea of a prefabricated audience segment.  It's remarkable, then, that Aardman Animation's Chicken Run shows off so much personality, the mark of a film made not for an imagined mass audience, but because it satisfied some need for the filmmakers-besides the need to put food on the table, that is.The story revolves around an English egg farm designed a lot like a WWII-era prison camp, with overtones of the Nazi concentration camps as well, in that chickens that don't produce end up as dinner.  While most of the chickens are resigned to their fate, one plucky hen named Ginger keeps leading escape attempts and keeps getting locked in solitary for her pains.  Her task takes on new urgency when the Tweedys (the couple who run the farm) prepare to convert their operation into a chicken-pie factory.  Hope arrives in the form of an American known (amusingly, in view of the recent Rocky & Bullwinkle film) as Rocky the Flying Rooster, whom Ginger thinks can teach the chickens how to fly.  Naturally, Rocky isn't really what he seems to be, and the revelation of his secret threatens to dash all hope of escape, because everyone knows chickens can't fly-or can they?Unlike most cartoon films, Chicken Run is animated using clay figures in stop-motion.  While this process involves much more labor than drawn animation, it also makes easier the use of many of the tools of live-action filmmaking, such as dramatic lighting and moving camera work.  Directors Peter Lord and Nick Park both have considerable experience in this field, Park with Creature Comforts and the Wallace & Gromit series (perhaps the most popular animated shorts of the 1990's) and Lord as a co-founder (with David Sproxton) of Aardman and director of such shorts as Adam, Wat's Pig, and Early Bird.The look of Chicken Run displays a harmonious blending of Park's and Lord's strengths; the character designs have the cartoony look of Park's work, while the more realistic settings and backdrops (which appear subject to grime and weathering) are typical of those in Lord's films.  All the major characters are distinctive and believable on their own terms; even the numerous chickens have their own distinct looks and voices.  The only times the illusion of believability fails are when a clay chicken collides with a metal fence; I half expect to see the clay figure sliced up on the way through.  (This may be a personal reaction, conditioned by years of exposure to Tom & Jerry and Roadrunner/Coyote cartoons.)  The story moves efficiently and contains much humor and detail that reward close attention, as well as bravura set-pieces such as Rocky and Ginger's dramatic encounter with the Tweedys' pie machine.While it has justifiably been compared with military prison-camp escape movies such as Stalag 17 and The Great Escape, as well as with the revisionist farm-animal melodrama Babe, the movie Chicken Run resembles most is Pixar's computer-animated A Bug's Life.  The resemblence lies partly in certain details of plot (such as the heroes who isn't/aren't what he/they seem to be) but mostly in the nature of the story itself. While human prisoners have a life before prison upon which to look back upon, the chickens in this movie have never known such freedom.  Thus, when Ginger talks of escape, she not only urges them to change their location but their entire way of thinking.  In chicken terms, this is a radical message, the same one put forth by all the great human radical organizers that those who are exploited have a right to expect a better life.  Though the species and the methods of exploitation are different, A Bug's Life shares this revolutionary message (with Flik playing the radical visionary part).  Both movies also stress the importance of banding together against oppressors whose power turns out to be more apparent than real.While one could quibble about such commonalities, I'm impressed that two such films exist at all, that they were funded by major Hollywood studios (Disney for A Bug's Life, Dreamworks for Chicken Run), and that kids love them and parents don't mind watching them more than once.  One wonders if the parents know exactly what it is they're watching, and letting their kids watch.  Then again, maybe they, too, believe they and their children deserve better lives, and enjoy seeing fellow victims of exploitation get such a life in the end.  "},{"Title":"Escape or Die Frying.","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I wasn't very excited about watching ''Chicken Run'' in the beginning. A friend of mine, Aluísio, told me the story was good and worthwhile, so, since I have the movie in my house I decided to watch it to see if it was really nice.It is not my favorite animation, but the movie is quite good actually!Until I saw the credits running, I would never say that Mel Gibson was Rocky's voice. And I found the characters very, very expressive,specially in their facial expressions.It was funny to see a reference to Braveheart in this movie, since I watched Mel Gibson's performance as William Wallace yesterday. (When Rocky says he's from The land of the free, the home of the brave, Mac immediately says, Scotland! This is a reference to the Mel Gibson-directed film Braveheart)The plot of the story is simple The chicken from Tweedy's farm are horrified with the idea of becoming the next meal of the day. Ginger, the leader of all chickens,with the help of Mac, is always trying to scape from the farm with her ideas and plans. One day, she met Rocky, a rooster that apparently can fly and is escaping from his circus ' owner. They make a deal and she agrees to hide him if he helps all of the chickens to escape. Their relationship starts to progress, but the art of flying doesn't. And Mrs Twwedy starts to have more and more strange ideas of what to do with the chickens and make her profits higher...aka A Fuga das Galinhas - Brazil "}{"Title":"One of the best animations I've seen","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run comes from the creators of Wallace and Gromit, that should say it all already. The animation is set at a chicken farm (yeah, or a concentration camp, I got it). Most of the chickens seem pleased with their lives - although you get your head chopped if you don't give enough eggs - but Ginger is determined to get away. When Rocky, a flying yankie rooster falls from the sky and gets his wing hurt, flight plans seem to get more realistic. In exchange of getting a hideaway from the circus Rocky comes from, he promises to teach the chicken to fly.Visually, the movie is top notch. The fact that you know you're watching a wax animation in the days of CGI graphics makes things more interesting. The characters look familiar from the first moment if you've seen any Wallace and Gromit before (and if you haven't, you should). There are lots of little details everywhere and you can say that lots of hard work was put into this flick. And those little details (like the use of human objects such as spoons) make you chuckle. There's probably a lot more to see than catches the eye on the first viewing.I laughed many times during the movie and on overall, the jokes suit the movie. Of course there are some cliched jokes and characters but that can (mostly) be forgiven because these are stupid chickens (or rats) after all! You get to laugh at the expense of yanks and britons alike, since Rocky is a big-mouthed boy from the States and the rooster of the farm is an old British officer. However, at the end you'll see that to accomplish something great you need the help of everyone involved.The movie connections are probably multiple. I'm just not good at catching these things but that Indiana Jones action scene was hilarious. The humans are not seen much and they just seem a big threat to chickens but their actions don't make enough sense. When you think of the concentration camp theme, the analogy makes their actions more sensible. Or maybe I just shouldn't think of things like this when watching an animation about talking chickens. And, when you try to look at human actions from the view point of an animal, barely anything makes any sense anyway.Anyway, Chicken Run is an entertaining movie to watch and since it's an animation, you don't have to care about the plot holes or other shortcomings. I gave this one an 8. One of the best animations I've seen. Recommended! "},{"Title":"A fowl love story.","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" This is a funny and touching comedic drama set on Mrs. Tweedy's(Miranda Richardson)chicken farm in 1950s England. Ginger(Julia Sawalha)the chicken and the other residents of the Yorkshire farm are tired of laying egg after egg with no reward or real future in sight. Mrs. Tweedy fed up with smaller and smaller profits decides to get rich with a mail order machine to put her and Mr. Tweedy(Tony Haygarth)in the chicken pot pie business.Ginger has plan after plan of escape to fail. Then dropping in to the rescue is an American Rhode Island Red, Rocky the Rooster(Mel Gibson), to help build up confidence of getting off the farm. Rocky has everyone thinking he can fly, while actually he is an escapee of the circus where he is shot out of a cannon. You will find homage to two great escape movies Stalag 17 and The Great Escape in this creation of directing writers Peter Lord and Nick Park.Other featured voices are provided by Benjamin Withrow, Lynn Ferguson, Phil Daniels and Jane Horrocks. If you have not yet seen CHICKEN RUN, shake a tail feather. Take the whole family for there is nothing foul about this fowl flick. "},{"Title":"Hysterically Funny!","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" What other movie could I take 10 relatives ranging in age from 10 to 55 in the midst of an extended family gathering weekend? So we piled into a discount matinée of Chicken Run and we all laughed hysterically. By coincidence my son had recently seen The Great Escape on cable so got that this was a satire, including of the theme song. And he had taken a course in swing music at college so got the satire of Jump, Jive and Wail too. Mel Gibson did a surprisingly good voice-over, but the star voice is Julia Sawalha, the daughter Saffron from Ab Fab.This is not just for kids only, being hugely satisfying fun.And stay through the amusing credits (hey, I want to be a puppet wrangler! Or where else would you see a credit for a beak replacement coordinator?) for the continuing debate on which came first, the chicken or the egg.(originally written 7/4/2000) "},{"Title":"Not As Good As Expected","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" The makers of the British Wallace & Gromit animated films put together this full-length movie, a takeoff on the early '60s war blockbuster, The Great Escape.In this tale, the hens try to escape the coop while the owner tries to make chicken pot pies out of them! Meanwhile, an American, voiced by Australian Mel Gibson, enters the picture and gives the hens hope that he can teach them how to fly and escape their predicament.I was disappointed with the humor, frankly. It just wasn't there, and there were not many references to The Great Escape as I was led to believe there were. The previews to this film turned out to be a lot better than the film. Maybe I expected too much.The claymation artwork is good and the colors are vivid. The sound was a disappointment and the film as a whole was, too. Sorry. "},{"Title":"A great movie for all ages","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  At first I had thought this would be another disney-like only kids movie. But I was very surprised, it entertained me! The plot is a group of chickens are planning an escape from Tweedy's farm, where it is like a prison for chickens(scenes taken from old movies, like the great escape,etc.)but after many attempts,(all untriumphant) all but one chicken is ready to give up, Ginger. Then one day Rocky the flying Chicken, drops in from the sky, with a broken wing after making a landing on the chickens water barrel. Rocky then agrees he'll teach them to fly if they hide him from the circus(who come looking for him). And they have to get out of there fast, because as they are practicing flying(at many failed attempts), Mrs. Tweedy is making a pie machine, for a bigger profit off the farm. So the chickens have to be out fast, or they're pie!    I thought this movie was funny because it wasn't all kiddy jokes the whole way through. It's kind of like the Toy Story movies,great for all ages. Don't be turned down by the story, plot, or goofy looking characters, it's great movies like these, that get into my list of great family films, and that's hard to find nowadays. Toy Story did a good job, and Shrek was pretty good(it had a couple things that were adult,esp.-swearing, and the princes equipment reference(hint hint) without that shrek would of been a perfect FAMILY movie, but it's still great as a regular movie, don't worry i'm not putting it down on being a bad movie..anyway I think if you're looking for a great family night rent out the toy story movies, chicken run, and when it comes out maybe shrek(as a family night) but if you're looking for a non-family night, just a fun night, rent out all of those! 4 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Wonderful Animation Packed with Intertexts","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Watching Peter Lord and Nick Park's glorious animation story of a group of chickens escaping from a repressive farm in 1950s Britain, one comes to understand how the script draws on a whole raft of classic war films of the period, including THE COLDITZ STORY (1955), STALAG 17 (1953), and most obviously THE GREAT ESCAPE (1963).All of the elements are there, treated with a tongue-in-cheek reverence that makes the film a memorable experience. Ginger (voiced by Julia Sawalha) is the lead chicken, desperately trying to devise escape plans from the farm policed by Mr. Tweedy (Tony Haygarth) and his shrewish spouse (Miranda Richardson). The need to escape is paramount; all the chickens have to hope for instead is a life dedicated to laying eggs and a violent death by strangulation, as the Tweedies cook yet another tasty Sunday dinner. The only problem is that Ginger's task is hampered by the well-meaning yet rather clueless inmates, led by Babs (Jane Horrocks) and Mac (Lynn Ferguson). The entire group are 'supervised' (?) by the Brigadier Fowler (Benjamin Whitrow), using the kind of Fifties Received Pronunciation accent that immediately recalls the war films of that period.Enter Rocky the Rooster (Mel Gibson), a self-assured refugee from the circus, with a cockiness (pun intended) recalling Steve McQueen in THE GREAT ESCAPE. Although eventually helping to create a successful escape, Rocky has to learn how to co-exist with a group of Brits, that requires both races to become more accommodating, and less xenophobic. The script allows for some jokes familiar to viewers acquainted with World War II history (all Americans are overpaid, oversexed, and over here.Although only just over eighty minutes long, the film is packed with incident as well as some really funny jokes. CHICKEN RUN is a joyous experience, a tribute both to the talents of animators and script-writers alike. "},{"Title":"Just hilarious!","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run is a hilarious movie, and I will apologise profusely, because there was a long time when I didn't appreciate it as much as I do now. The animation is spot on, and I advice anybody who likes this see anything else from Nick Park like Wallace and Gromit. There are some great British humour like I don't want to be in a pie- I don't like gravy! The characters like the two mice are genuinely memorable, and Mrs Tweedy is really evil, especially when voiced by the talented Miranda Richardson. (who they wasted in the animated version of King and I)The voice talents are wonderful- I know people had problems with Mel Gibson as Rocky, but he was not that bad at all. Julia Sawalha, Jane Horrocks, Phil Daniels, Tony Haygarth et al, enthusiastically bring their characters to life, with an irreverent and touching story, that cleverly sends up classics such as The Great Escape. The incidental music was lovely to hear, very dynamic. There are some truly priceless scenes, like Rocky teaching the chickens to fly, the scene with Ginger and Rocky in the pie-making machine and the scene where the chickens are dancing to the song that you hear in the end-credits. I don't have a favourite character as such, but I loved Fowler. All in all, a funny movie, and yet another triumph from Nick Park, that I have started to appreciate a lot more. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Even for someone who doesn't like Mel Gibson.","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" As I have a very low opinion of Mel Gibson, it is especially noteworthy that I liked Chicken Run. Made by the same people who make the Wallace and Gromit cartoons, it portrays a gaggle of hens trying to break out of a British farm - some scenes even spoof Stalag 17 and The Great Escape - with the help of American rooster Rocky (Gibson). With the perfect blend of humor and suspense (and in a cartoon no less!), this is one movie that's sure to please everyone. I really liked the constant holiday comments, and that end sequence was a hoot. Also starring Julia Sawalha, Miranda Richardson, Jane Horrocks, Imelda Staunton, and Timothy Spall. "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen a bad Nick Park movie? I didn't think so.","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" 'Chicken Run' probably gave Nick Park his long overdue credit as an extremely talented writer and director. And, with its extreme blockbuster success, we Yanks were finally able to find Nick Park's other films, such as the Wallace and Gromit short animated features, in regular release on the store and rental shelves.This movie puts us right in the middle of a rural English chicken coup where Ginger, the unofficial leader of the hens, has been trying rather unsuccessfully to break she and her fellow chickens out of their prison, always rebuffed by either failed techniques or babbling Mr. Tweedy and his vicious watchdogs. But, fate seems to work in their favor when, at Ginger's near breaking point, Rocky the flying rooster, a circus fugitive, lands in their chicken coup. In order to avoid his cover being blown (no one here but us chickens!), he convinces the hens that he really is a flying rooster. Of course, his little white lie has serious repercussion as, for their last resort, Ginger wants Rocky to teach the hens to fly, as they would finally be able to escape their incarceration in the coup.Of course, the hens must come up with a successful plan fast because, meanwhile, evil chicken farmer, Mrs. Tweedy, sick and tired of making minuscule profits, decides to turn her farm into a goldmine. Rather than worrying about egg production, she intends to fatten up her poultry darlings and turn them into chicken pies. Chickens go in, pies come out! I adore this movie most of all for its simplistic, but creative fashion of establishing its setting. The chicken coup is made to seem like a prison with the initial goal for the hens being a successful breakout. The Tweedys act as their wardens. And, as punishment for fugitive escapees--solitary confinement (or, to absent minded hens, holiday). Every little detail is worked into the story. Second, like all Nick Park, is the pleasure of a strange, but hilarious assortment of heroes and villains such as bubbly Babs (my favorite), braniac Mac (I swear she ain't speaking English), and the old-timer, Fowler. Nick Park has certainly nearly perfected the arrangement of all things to make such perfectly creative, absolutely hilarious feature film and short comedies in ways I have usually seen with Tim Burton's early movies (especially Edward Scissorhands and Nightmare Before Christmas). I have yet to see him make a poor film.And, after this movie, you may never again want to eat chicken. (Or, at least until you've forgotten about the movie). "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but disappointing","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I've done it again! Read too many reviews, too many articles. Basically, I've expected too much from Chicken Run. Don't get me wrong, it's an impressive film and it's thoroughly entertaining (most of the time), but the film should have been at least half an hour shorter, it seemed to move too slowly and repeat itself too many times. The pie machine set piece was brilliant though! (6/10) "}{"Title":"Watch the film. Laugh.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run. I state this first, it's not as good as Wallace & Gromit, or the Toy Story films. Yet, it is better than A Bug's Life. It's about chickens. Escaping from a prison-esque farm. It starts off alright, yet there is too much dialogue (which isn't that good) and some jokes are just not funny. The chickens are also not very 3 dimensional characters(Babs being the one exception). That's the bad points out of the way.Now onto the good points. The action packed second half is superb (especially the Raiders of the Lost Ark take) and there are some hilarious jokes. Some characters are brilliant, (Babs and the two rats)and every scene with Mr Tweedy is hilarious (So now it's gnomes had me in stiches) and there are some incredibly inventive ideas. A good film, kids'll love it for the fun. Teens (I'm one myself) will even enjoy it because of the action and jokes. Adults will enjoy the takes on Great Escape and Indiana Jones. One of the few films that the whole family will enjoy  and that I enjoyed. Cheers Aardman. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Should have made a Wallace & Gromit movie instead","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsNick Park's major hollywood movie debut proves to be nowhere near as endearing as his television counterparts.At around this time of year,we should be seeing selected episodes of the clay animated duo Wallace & Gromit appearing on our TV screens,and  a contrieved feature length tale of their's would seem more enjoyable than this strangely mellow story.It seems to be aimed more at the kiddy market,and lacks the subtle, cheerable edge that made one man and his dog such a willing success.Despite this though,it's just as clear here as on TV that in each of his animated projects,Park let's his Yorkshire English roots shine through,with scenes featuring those unmistakable jammie dodgers/cream biscuits that are renowned for coming from that part of England,plus you also see one of those distinctive '50's billboards that alerts Rocky to his old friend's impending demise.It's just strangely not as fun to watch as the aforementioned Park project.*** "},{"Title":"Great.  one of the best animated kid films in years","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is a film that has come from Aardman studios, which has made some classic (Oscar winning) shorts, including Wallace and Gromit.  Now, after a 5 year absence, they return with a actual full length feature. What's so amazing  It's entirely claymation, which means each shot had to take time to move each character and so on. The film itself is great.  The plot tells the story of Tweedy's farm, which holds some very anxious chickens, who want to escape before Tweedy (voiced by Miranda Richardson) makes them all into pies.  But, a lone rooster (voiced by Mel Gibson) comes to they're rescue in a hilarious tale of freedom and chickens.  Great fun, mainly for the kids, but parents will also like the puns that come along.  Amazing animation makes me wonder if their should be a Oscar category for best animated film (and if this is this years prize winner).  A+ "},{"Title":"No chicken escapes . . .","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" A moment comes and goes too quickly in 'Chicken Run'. A chicken named Ginger has just received a shock and looks directly into the camera in a very tight close-up. There is, in those eyes heartbreak and betrayal. Director Nick Park has figured out what George Lucas and Frank Oz figured out when creating Yoda. It isn't enough to have a character that can move and blink their eyes. It's what is behind them that counts.This kind of real gesture is on display all through 'Chicken Run' a delightful animated feature debut from the creator of Wallace & Gromit. He has created a film that works on a level that never seems written specifically for six-year-olds. The characters are chickens, yes, but underneath they are as smart as we are.The story The chickens of Tweedy's farm are in a desperate state. Their cruel owner demands results and when one chicken doesn't fill her quota of egg production, its the chopping block. To further the example of the dilemma our heroes face, we hear the whack of the ax and later see a plate of chicken bones on the kitchen table.A hen named Ginger (voiced by Julia Sawalha of 'Absolutely Fabulous') tries plan after plan to escape. She has tried tunnels, digging and a catapult all to no avail. Every time she gets close, Mr. Tweedy catches her and throws her in the box. If this sounds a bit reminiscent of 'The Great Escape', the movie has more up its sleeve. And yes she does have a moment at which she bounces the ball (or in this case cabbage) off the wall of the box.Ginger begins to realize that time is of the essence when Mrs. Tweedy turns from egg production to the more profitable business of making chicken pies.A blessing falls from the sky in the form of Rocky the Flying Chicken (no smiles please). He comes sailing out of the sky bellowing 'FREEDOM!' and if you know Mel Gibson's movies you'll understand that. Rocky has just escaped from the circus and Ginger thinks that he may know how to help fly over the fence.Nick Park and Peter Lord are professionals at Claymation. Park made Wallace and Gromit and the delightful 'Creature Comforts'. Lord made 'Adam' (you can smile at that one). They have not only managed to create great expressive eyes but give them large expressive mouths with rows of bold white teeth. The clever dialogue by screenwriter Karey Kirkpatrick (who wrote James and the Giant Peach) is no shock to anyone familiar with Park's past work. They speak, as people would, not in tired old clichés and catchphrases.In place of tired catchphrases we get clever homages to 'Braveheart', 'Indiana Jones', 'Sweeny Todd', 'Star Trek', 'Stalag 17' and the aforementioned 'The Great Escape'. The characters in 'Chicken Run' aren't all the same character multiplied. We get a ruffled old veteran, a dim-bulb constantly knitting, a pair of swindling rats and a Scottish hen. That Scottish hen gets two of the movie's best homages to Star Trek. The first line 'Captain she can't take anymore' we expect. The second we don't expect and I wouldn't dream of spoiling it.'Chicken Run' reminded me a lot of 'Antz', that great forgotten computer animated feature from two years ago. Both use state of the art animation to tell stories about characters that aren't lead around by their fast food tie-ins. These are films about perseverance and teamwork and contain characters that open their mouths and actually have something worthwhile to say.NOTE PLEASE STAY THROUGH THE CLOSING CREDITS!!! "},{"Title":"Great Family Entertainment!","Date":"22 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" A first-rate family film that will delight young and old alike. This film has all the humor, excitement, action, craziness, and something for every member of the family. Superb stop-motion animation PLUS a hilarious, exciting and heartwarming story...what more could you ask for? If you liked Toy Story, you're gonna love Chicken Run. The voice casting couldn't be better and really adds to making the (mostly chicken) characters endearing and fall-down funny. This is truly one of the best non-Disney family films ever made. Get the DVD when you get the chance!8 stars!! "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I remember see this in theaters when I was nine years old and I loved it very much. Eleven years later, I got another chance to see it and I loved it about the same because it brought back some fresh childhood memories.The plot is about a group of chickens who plan to escape the chicken compound they live in before their human owners turn them into chicken pot pies.Surprisingly, I never really knew which actors voiced each character until I saw the credits. I was kind of surprised to see Mel Gibson was here. But now that I think about it, I do recognize his voice in the movie.Overall, this was plenty of fun to watch. I don't know if this deserves a G rating though. It may be scary for young kids. I rate this film a 9/10. "},{"Title":" Your dad wouldn't  happen to have been  a Vulture, was  he? ","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" In 1963 the late Steve McQueen starred in the immortal film, The Great Escape. Anyone who has seen it, will recall with great admiration the steadfast courage it took for the allied prisoners to continue to keep trying to escape, despite so many failed attempts. This movie  Chicken Run  is a Comedic reminder that courage is often the basis for other characters to be seen in that heroic light. Mel Gibson is the easily recognized voice behind 'Rocky' the flying rooster who believed he had escaped from the rigors of a performing circus. Unfortunately, his escape brings him to a chicken farm where he discovers Ginger, a egg laying hen who's trying to find freedom for all of her friends. The problem is Mr. and Mrs. Tweedy (Tony Haygarth and Miranda Richardson) are planning to convert their egg farm into a Chicken Pot Pie producing industry. Since they plan on modernizing their place, Ginger demands that Rocky teach the chicken how to fly before the transition. A delightful film for young and old alike. Easilly recommended for anyone seeking family entertainment. **** "},{"Title":"I prefer stop motion than CGI .","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" This movie was great .Directed by Nick Park ,the creator of Wallace and Gromit  and Creature Comforts  made a funny ,clever and wonderfully animated . The technique used in this movie it's just fantastic, full of details and a rich visual style in the scenery and the characters . . But that would be nothing if the story wasn't so dynamic and entertaining , something that made this movie very enjoyable for children and adults . The story it's simplistic but the characters are very likable and interesting .The cast of voices it's pretty good ,and that helps very much to the movie . I would wish that all the movies for kids were so good as this . Sure , there are some good ,but are just a few . Meanwhile ,I liked a lot this movie as much as the movie of Wallace and Gromit , that have more heart and life than the recent 3D animated movies . "},{"Title":"Is it just me, or is this movie just brilliant?","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Perfect fun story, perfect fun characters and perfect fun jokes. How could someone not love this movie?.Best way to describe this movie is The Great Escape with chickens. It sounds silly and of course the movie also is just that. It perfectly and amusingly spoofs classic prison camp movies, most notably of course The Great Escape and Stalag 17. Yet the movie knows to become more than just a spoof and it creates its own identity, with its own humor and other strong points.The biggest power of the movie is that is intendedly ridiculously made made, with silly looking characters and lets face it, also a silly story but everything is yet made very seriously. The contrast of that makes this movie work out very amusing, hilarious and also most definitely exciting. The two big action sequences form the highlights of the movie. It are sequences any other normal serious action would be jealous of.The movie is really great looking. This was the movie that introduced claymation to the main stream audience. Quite amazing once you start thinking about how this movie is made, purely with the use of clay and stop motion effects. This movie definitely raised the bar for future claymation projects. The characters are fun animated and look really over-the-top. The look gives every characters its very own identity and personality.The characters are all great ones. Especially the villainous and human characters of the movie Mr. and Mrs. Tweedy are great. Mrs. Tweedy is an excellent deliciously over-the-top and stereotypical movie villain, perfectly voiced by Miranda Richardson. Also all of the chickens are highly amusing and originally brought to the screen, with Mel Gibson and Julia Sawalha as the voices of the two main characters.The humor is fun and understandable for kids but especially great for the adults. It's the subtitle of all of the humor that really makes this movie such an hilarious one. So yes, I can recommend this movie to the kids but I can perhaps even recommend it more to the adults who perhaps even more shall enjoy watching this movie. This movie is irresistible to watch for everyone.The story is kept simple so it always remain understandable and the movie easy and pleasant to follow. It all is done in a good quick pace with some nimble editing and good camera-work.The musical score from Harry Gregson-Williams and John Powell, who already did some great work together on the other animated movie from DreamWorks Antz, is just brilliant. It's so totally brilliant and action like spectacular and uplifting for the entire movie, that it again is in contrast with the silly aspects of the movie. It in a way makes the musical score also hilarious, just because it's so brilliant.It all makes the movie simply nothing short of brilliant as well as extremely entertaining.The movie that made me fall in love with Aardman Animations.10/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A Chicken's Quest for Freedom","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" This beautifully animated movie is both charming and hilarious. It explores an age old concept of the quest for freedom using chickens trapped in a pen as the setting for the tale, and they are all given individual personalities by the excellent voices from the likes of 'Mel Gibson, Jane Horrocks and Julia Sawalha' Their life on Tweedy's farm is heading for a huge turn for the worse when Mrs Tweedy 'Miranda Richardson' has a better idea of how to make money. Their only hope is Rocky 'Mel Gibson' a Rooster who knows the way out, if only he hadn't broken his wing.Chicken Run is fresh, clever and very very funny, and it is a must see movie for all the family.8/10 "}{"Title":"enjoyable chicken film","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" *possible spoilers*.An enjoyable easy to watch film that focuses on a group of chickens who wish to escape the claustrophobic area of their chicken farm to live in the outside world.Through animation the film conforms to the 'family' easy to watch together film genre and the effects are simply stunning. 4 years in the making Chicken run provides stunning animation through the clay characters and the makers of Wallace and Gromit really worked well over 4 years to complete this likable fun packed comedy.There are different types of chicken, all destined to be funny which I found they were. The stereotyped organised wanting chicken in Ginger, the noble and show off central character Rocky, the geek stereotype in Mac (Whom I loved!) the dopey fat chicken in Babs and the evil chicken farm owner was also a great villain. Having a variety in characters allows for audience expectations and fulfils them completely to justify a diverse choice of opinion in the chicken actions e.g. how are they going to get over the fence. The film adds excitement and suspense as it engages audiences to expect an enthralling challenge to see how the chickens will overcome the many obstacles they face.The story is fast moving for an animation to add to the excitement. As the characters all have a goal in mind there is a real drive and determination about this film.Conventional, predictable and coincidental it maybe the film is targeted towards a more child centred audience and fulfils their expectations completely. Children will love the characters as they act stupidly and look the part to. I loved the humour as well; I believe audiences of all ages can watch this film as it is one of those for enjoyment, one you don't need to get too attached to.Mel Gibson's character was interesting because he screams freedom during one scene, a line most famous from his role in Braveheart.I liked this film also because it gives hope and inspiration to the individual, through the use of Ginger mainly who never wants to give up her destiny for a happy life and to be a free chicken.Watch it if&#133;you love animated good natured inspirational films "},{"Title":"Fun, fun and more fun in Chicken Run","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" If Nick Park knew how to do anything, it was to create a fun family film with funny characters and jokes all around. After all, he is the creator of Wallace and Gromit.Chicken Run (2004) is Nick Park's latest achievement, and a parody of The Great Escape. It centers on a group of chickens lead by Ginger, who are forced to lay a certain amount of eggs every week, so the farmers may sell them. If they don't fill the quota, they become dinner for the two farmers who own the land and the chickens. When the farmers get a new idea, and decide to speed up business by making chicken pie. Of course, this means that chickens go into the machine, and pies come out. This also means bad news for the chickens. Since Ginger thinks of escaping 24/7, all the other chickens depend on her for a plan. But, since all her plans have failed so far, the chickens are near doomed. Or, it seems that way, until a rooster named Rocky comes flying into town. Rocky tries to teach the chickens how to fly, and escape from the farm- that is, if he can fly.The funny characters with a wonderful cast help and the same wonderful stop-motion animation in Wallace and Gromit are the elements that bring Chicken Run to life. They are used to express funny jokes, that won't exactly leave you howling with laughter, but will manage to exert a chuckle. No, it isn't as funny as we'd like it to be, but some jokes don't hurt anybody, do they? Overall, Chicken Run would most likely be described as lovable and delightful only because those adjectives are true. What can I say? It's just fun! But, I didn't think it lived up to Nick Park's other creation Wallace and Gromit.Good Fun, lovable, funny, good animation Bad I thought it was a bit disappointing.7/10Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"Clucking good entertainment - 83%","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" My flatmate has an obsession with chickens. Don't ask me why - she's also obsessed with sheep. I think she may be a closet farmer though she hasn't expressed similar fascination for horses, which most woman I meet do. Anyway, her strange fondness for our feathered friends has dug me out of an unexpected hole. Granted a surprise day off work, TV lets me down by only showing some trashy Danielle Steele film (which I'd happily roll across broken glass to avoid watching) and I really can't afford to go to the cinema twice in a week. So I ended up watching a prisoner of war film with a rather obvious difference. The difference being that Steve McQueen is now an English female chicken called Ginger.Chicken Run was the first feature film from the famous Aardman Animation studios, the Oscar-winning creators of Wallace & Gromit. Here, they focus on a chicken farm somewhere in Yorkshire run by the sinister Mrs Tweedy (voiced by Miranda Richardson) and her poor hen-pecked (sorry!) husband. The chickens, meanwhile, have had enough of turning their eggs over to the monstrous woman and so resident rebel Ginger (Julia Sawalha) leads a rag-tag band of poultry on a quest to escape. But a cocky American rooster (Mel Gibson) soon arrives and ruffles some feathers in the camp, inspiring Ginger to concoct a new plan. Can Ginger and the rest of the coup fly the nest or will Mrs Tweedy's scheme for producing chicken pies result in egg on their faces? Sorry about all those lame chicken gags but it's hard not to be caught up in the enthusiasm. For those who don't know, Aardman animation specialise in stop-go animation with clay models (think of Peter Gabriel's famous video for Sledgehammer - that's these guys) and the effect is amazing. Not only is the voice casting absolutely perfect but every scene is filled to the brim with sight gags and references from everything to Braveheart, The Great Escape, the Indiana Jones movies and Star Trek. It seems unafraid of anything and most of the time, the humour works. For some reason, the sight of dippy chick Babs (Jane Horrocks) knitting all the time is hilarious. The quality of the animation is unmatched - facial animations are typically brilliant, as they always are at Aardman. There are weaknesses in the technique - liquid proves a problematic area, which is awkward when there's so much mud and gravy about the place. But the characters themselves are superb - each chicken looks and sounds like an individual instead of the near-identical quality that real chicken share. Not their fault but still...For some reason, Chicken Run seems overlooked these days as a family movie and that's a shame because this should be a classic. There is more than enough to keep the kids entertained and there's also plenty of cracking one-liners for the more adult viewer. It's the British equivalent of Shrek - a perfectly good, reliable family movie that actually is for the family. OK so some of the humour is occasionally puerile but you can forgive this for lines such as Bab's brilliant I don't want to be a pie... I don't like gravy! If you've never watched it before, or you're new to the Aardman studio's output, then seek yourself a copy of this film and enjoy. It's better than a Danielle Steele TVM, that's for sure! "},{"Title":"delightfully entertaining!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run breaks new ground in family film. As the film boasts and creative and surprising storyline, coupled with delicious dialogue and intelligent and entertaining humor. The film is a trademark amongst claymation. But it remains irresistably entertaining for children and adults of all ages. As a group of chickens try to escape their coop before their turned into chicken pot pies. Everything seems pretty hopeless until a charasmatic rooster lands on the scene sending hearts and hopes aflair. No matter how it be prepared to enjoy! "},{"Title":"Amazing techniques for an overall wonderful film","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  An amazing use of claymation from the directors of Wallace & Gromit, they put a new touch on life and expand the new way of animation. Characters and their voice selections add special touches to the script itself, and the storyline is cute and fun.All this and more adds up to become an overall excellent film!  "},{"Title":"The Dreamwork's guys, really know what they doing !","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  After, amazing Shrek, this is another beautiful story. Believe me, is worth to see it, even do you not like cartoons.Anyway, it is very possible that your children, after seeing this movie, never want to go at KFC's ! ) "},{"Title":"Fowl movie about chickens","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Now I wonder who would want to watch a movie with chickens in it. But it is still a good film. I give it 9 out of 10 stars. And there are villians in this movie. Which are owners of a chicken farm in England (I guess). And the chickens make attempt after attempt to escape. Enter a dishonest rooster named Rocky (Mel Gibson). And the leader of the chickens named Ginger (Julia Sawalha) decides that he will be the ticket out of the tweedy's farm. After seeing a poster with his pitcure on it. While Mr. Tweedy (Tony Haygrath) finds the chickens trying to escape. But his wife Mrs. Tweedy (Miranda Richardson) doesn't belive him. Ginger decided that the way out is that Rocky teachs the chickens to fly. But Mrs. Tweedy decides to take Tweedy's farm out of the dark ages and make chicken pies. Is this movie funny? Why did this get a G rating when other Dreamworks movie got a PG rating like Shrek.              "},{"Title":"Poultry In Motion","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a sheer joy to watch the first time, so much so that I have watched it many times since. The magic it has, left a great impression on me. The creators of the famous &#145;Wallace and Gromit' series have made a real winner, a movie suitable for all ages, I guarantee it!While the chickens on evil Mrs Tweedy's farm dream of a better life, a clever hen named Ginger is hatching plans to fly the coop &#150; for good! The only problem is that chickens can't fly&#133; or can't they? Every escape attempt goes fowl until Rocky, a smooth talking All-American rooster, crash lands into the coop. It's hardly poultry in motion when Rocky attempts to teach Ginger and her fine feathered friends to fly&#133; but, with teamwork, determination and a little bit o' cluck, the fearless flock plots one last daring attempt in a spectacular bid for freedom!Where do you start with this wonderful movie. Undoubtedly the story is fantastic. The people who thought up the wonderful script for Chicken Run deserve a round of applause, because it was great. A story about a coop of chickens trying to escape from an evil chicken farm was superb. In addition some of the quotes that were said throughout  the film were hilarious, and make me laugh every time I watch it . This leads me to the great performances by the voiceovers in Chicken Run. My favourite character would have to be Rocky &#145;the Rhode Island Red' Rooster, and his voice was supplied by Hollywood superstar Mel Gibson. He did such a great job as Rocky, and made me laugh many times. I recently saw Gibson in What women want, and no wonder they used his voice in this film, because Rocky and Gibson have the similar personality and traits. Rocky's entrance cry of &#145;Freedommm'  is unforgettable. Yet other character such as chickens Ginger (Julia Sawalia), Fowler (Benjamin Whitrow),  Babs (Jane Horrocks),  Mac (Lynn Ferguson), The rats Nick (Timothy Spall) and Fetcher (Phil Daniels) and the Tweedy's (Miranda Richardson and Tony Haygarth) were all done to perfection. In fact, if Rocky was not in the film, then the Rats would be my favourites, with some of the silly things they say and do. Watch the credits right through, because there is an hilarious piece of dialogue between the two of them, which had me in stitches. Yet this movies also deals with some very complex ideologies. Liberals would absolutely love this film for the references to freedom, the individual and being able to do whatever a person wants, or in this case what a chicken wants. The strongest characters with these traits would have to be Rocky and Ginger. Yet Conservatism also appears heavily in Chicken Run. The character of Fowler is very much stuck in his conservative ways, always referring to how it was done in his RAF days, his medals and traditional stories. Moreover, Mr Tweedy states to Mrs Tweedy that they can not give up egg farming, because of his previous generations doing the same tradition. However, socialism also appears in this movie. Socialists believe that people should live in a classless society, with everyone working together. Chicken Run also put this into practices, when the coop attempts the big escape, by working as a team. The directors of Chicken Run, Nick Park and Peter Lord did a great job on Chicken Run, as did all the people behind the scenes. The people who made all the characters for this film did a wonderful job. Making this plasticine, into a real life character amazed me. In addition, learning that that 40 people worked individually on 2.5 seconds of frame work per day for two years, makes this film all the more of an achievement. Hopefully Lord and Park can make more movies like this one, because they did this one to perfection. The soundtrack in this film was also very impressive. The musical tunes made the right impression at the right time, along with some great songs as well. Songs such as  Flip Flop and Fly (Ellis Hall) and The Wanderer (Dion) fitted in nicely. The use of the song &#145;Flip Flop and Fly' was excellent.So overall, Chicken Run can only be given praise. All the hard work done to bring to the movie to the big screen is enough in my book. Yet the story, the humour and the great voiceovers are all superb. I have read some comments about Chicken Run, saying that it is just for kids, I disagree whole heartedly.This is the sort of animation film that anyone can enjoy. Try not to be too critical of Chicken Run, instead enjoy the experience, because if you can not enjoy this film then you have no sense of humour in my view. People with DVD access, take a look at one impressive package.Rating 10/10 or 5 Eggs (it was eggcelent!)    "},{"Title":"Fun for All Ages","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run represents the height of stop-motion animation. It's amazing stuff, and considering the amount of labor that goes into making stop-motion features, I stand in awe. And Chicken Run is not just for kids and geeks. Adults as well as kids will enjoy the story, a suspenseful account of the repeated attempts by a barnyard of chickens to escape their coops before they are processed into chicken pies. They're led by a plucky young chicken, and aided by a rooster on the lam from the circus. Not deep, but the drama as well as the humor is skillfully maintained throughout. Disney would approve. For a family-oriented Saturday night rental Chicken Run hits the mark. "},{"Title":"Suspense for ages 4-100","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  As I left the cinema right after seeing this movie, I thought who could think of doing this with chickens? Nevertheless I think it's a nice movie. It's suitable for both young and old people. If you ever get the change of seeing it, go for it, since it is more than origional. Even Mel Gibson's voice adds something extra to the plot. "}{"Title":"DELIGHTFULLY ENTERTAINING","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  My family thoroughly enjoyed Chicken Run. It was delightfully funny and surprisingly well-written.It is nice to sit down and watch something so entertaining and not be faced with blood, gore, and foul language. I would love to see more movies made in this manor. "},{"Title":"Chicken-face","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  It's really fun!  Not only the chickens themselves, but human beings in this animation picture, looks like the animated chickens!  With their noses to be the counterpart for chickens beaks.   But anyway, there is still the eternal slogan in American movies, also their national motto Freedom.  Like that in 'Brave Heart'. "},{"Title":"not only for kids","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"    There's a lot of fun in it, one thing is that the 'human beings' in this animation picture, all look like chickens!   Only Americans can make animation movies so maturely a motion picture.  Not at all a movie to teas the kids, except that the funny figures can attract them a lot.  But the chicken's crying of 'freedom' make you think what?  'Brave Heart' for me.  This is an eternal slogan for all, admit it or not.  "},{"Title":"Excellent claymation.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I was really surprised by Chicken Run. I was expecting some dumb kids movie that tried in vain to be as good as other animated classics like Toy Story, but this was a really good film. The story involves a bunch of heavily accented chickens who are trying desperately to learn how to fly so that they can escape the chicken farm where they live, and therefore escape being butchered and made into chicken pot pies. One of the best things about this movie is the great laughs that it delivers, particularly from the dialogue as this diverse group of chickens communicates with each other about their predicament (`Chickens go in, pies come out!' `Oooohh!! What kind &#145;a pies?'). Mel Gibson is great as the voice of Rocky the Rooster, who inadvertently landed himself in the pen with the other desperate chickens, therefore accidentally convincing them that he can fly. (spoilers) Rocky and the rest of the chickens work desperately to escape the evil Mrs. Tweedy and her pie-making machine, as well as Rocky's dishonesty with the other chickens, particularly Ginger, with whom he develops a heartwarming romance. The chickens' eventual escape is ridiculously unrealistic, but it doesn't matter, because it doesn't have to be realistic. The main characters of the film are talking chickens, I think that a flying machine built and flown by chickens is not going too far, given the type of film that this is. The makers of Wallace and Gromit have come up with another winner, and it's good for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Superb animation classic!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is one of those films that adults don't want to admit they enjoyed, because it's animated, and is mainly aimed at kids. In the wake of the three Wallace & Gromit shorts, NIck Park has created a painstaking recreation of life on a farm in 1940's England. Mixing slapstick humour, off-the-cuff adult content, (that 99% of kids won't understand, but will wet the pants of every viewer over 18), and the documentary realism of his earlier work Creature Comforts, this movie is simply stunning! Quirky, sharp, and even poignant, it simply begs to be watched time and time again. Ideal for young and old alike, but with a definite plus factor, for those at the senior end of the age range! Be warned however, that some relatively coarse language has been let through, and may not be entirely appropriate for the younger members of your family! Oh, and keep an eye right through the end credits, or you'll miss a fabulously sly joke! A guaranteed cracker! "},{"Title":"Superb entertainment.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is a brilliant example of figure animation, in fact the best example you will ever see. The makers Peter Lord and Nick Park deserve another oscar( they already have two!)for this because this is just superb. The story revolves around a group of chickens who are trying to escape from a farm lead by a dopy farmer and his overbearing wife. If the Chickens do not produce eggs they are for the chop! Then along comes a circus performing rooster who misleads the chickens into believing that he can fly hence raising their hopes of an escape. This is all set around the theme of the 1960's film The Great Escape.It is an adventure, a comedy and a love story all in one and the most amazing thing is they are all plasticine figures!! Mel Gibson,Jane Horrocks and Phil Daniels are just some of the stars who provide the voices. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A marvelous and entertaining clay-mation film for young and old alike.","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" For the theme of Chicken Run think Nazi prison camp and films like Great Escape and Stalag 17. The chickens are prisoners in the chicken farm, and all but one of them gives no thought to the fact that as soon as a hen quits laying eggs, she will become dinner for the owners.But Ginger is different. She sees what is going on, and is constantly trying to devise escape plans. Each time she gets caught, she gets thrown into the coal bin, solitary confinement, then back to the other chickens.Some mild SPOILERS follow. The film takes a dramatic new direction when a young rooster, voiced by Mel Gibson, flies into the chicken yard. believing he really can teach all of them how to fly, they all go into a training program. Meanwhile, the owners get tired of their meager profits from eggs, and buy a humongous machine to make chicken pies.Aside from Mel Gibson, all the voices are by accomplished British actors, and are all just perfect. The British accents, and the fine British humor in the script, make this a totally enjoyable film. The chase scene inside the pie-making machine, and the high level of action in the airplane scene are just great.I have the DVD. Aside from the expected great picture and surround sound, the extras are quite entertaining. Especially the making of which shows exactly how the clay-mation is done. Example - during character dialog, a different head is substituted for each successive frame to accomplish the correct mouth shapes. Also, an animator normally turns out 60 frames, or 2 1/2 seconds, of animation daily.I rate this 8 of 10, which is about the highest I give for an animated film which is also how I rate A Bug's Life and Toy Story 2. "},{"Title":"Run (TO the theater)!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Remember those old Christmas movies that used stop-motion animation, like The Year Without a Santa Claus (you know, the one with Heat Miser and Snow Miser). In a way, that kind of animation was more fun because it has such a personal touch. Each frame requires a human hand to make a change. Digital animators are brilliant, true, but let's face it isn't digital all about making animation easier? There is a programmer and then a computer that does the actual work. Companies like Pixar and Industrial Light and Magic have made great strides, but a film like Chicken Run shows you that the Old School still has a few tricks up its sleeve. Just consider that they've made a big, spectacular, blockbuster film--in the year 2000--with Claymation!This film was made for kids, so they keep the story simple. It opens with the chickens of Mrs. Tweedy's chicken farm trying in vain to escape. At first it looks to be a remake of Wilder's Stalag 17, only with poultry. With the fence and the rows and rows of shacks, it's really just like a POW camp. After the opening sequence, though, there are many references to other classic films, many of them Speilberg (coincidence?), but the story carves (pun?) out a life of its own. There is an outsider who has a secret, kind of like Stalag 17, but here it's an American (the film's set in England) rooster named Rocky that crash-lands inside the camp. He's one of only a few men in the camp (it's an egg farm) and becomes an instant celebrity. The organizer of the escape plans, Ginger, suggests he teach them all to fly just as soon as his wounded wing heals. Problem is, Mrs. Tweedy is building a pie-making machine designed to mass-produce chicken pot-pies and time is running out.The film is genuinely funny. I never had to laugh at anything in it out of courtesy. Not every joke flies, but you will howl more than a few times.Every once in a while, there needs to be a stop-motion or Claymation feature to remind us that you don't need a computer necessarily to bring the imagination to life. The Nightmare Before Christmas and James and the Giant Peach come to mind as other recent examples. Both stop-motion and Claymation have one important characteristic in common the need to be photographed. In my opinion, there will never be a time when the human eye can truly be fooled by the ultra-real images created by a computer. One method digital animators use to make their characters more real-looking is the use of light and shadow. If you look close enough at, say, the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park (Spielberg again), you know it's not real shadows you're seeing across the back of that T-Rex. Like everything else on its body, a computer paints those shadows. With stop-motion, the animators can really light their images, using the full spectrum of colors, light, and dark that film stock offers, not to mention panning and trucking, split focus images, and other conventional film techniques. It just looks more, well, welcoming.In closing, before I spoil the fun, be in a hurry to see Chicken Run.Grade A  "},{"Title":"My favorite summer movie!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed CHICKEN RUN. This is a hilarious movie! The animation, the characters, the story and everything else was very impressive. And this is the perfect movie I have been waiting to see. I can't wait to tell everyone to see this movie! "},{"Title":"You forget they're chickens and think of them as living, passionate people","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  very minor spoilers - I talk about it passionately and in depth but trying to tease and delight, not spoil it for anyone. But if you don't want to know anything about it before seeing, SEE IT FIRST, then come back, read and add your comments.CR has very intelligent dialogue, the BEST music in my 100+ film score collection, and the best special effects are the ones that contribute to the story instead of standing out by themselves. For all those who delight in the amazing 24 frames per second, sometimes 10 seconds per day filming (NOT to slight the filmmakers in any way!), I completely forgot about that a minute in to the film. The guy with a flashlight looked a little jerky in the first scene (intentional to remind the viewer?), but after that, Ginger especially showed powerful desperation, triumph, annoyance, anger and wistfulness. She became a real person, far more than this real world and I greatly wish I could join with her soul for a while. She's cute, she's determined, she never gave up even though numerous setbacks forced this team leader to cry, throw a fit at the fence, and hang her head.She had a dream, imagined something that didn't exist yet, and overcoming impossible odds. Luck helped, and Rocky helped for her to see she and the other chickens could have FUN and we could laugh with them while not losing sight of...the dream. -But she has a good and strong heart, to not turn mean and angry in that place.- Babs survived by not knowing and not realizing, Bunty survived because she was pessimistic and accepting of her life most of the time, Fowler lived on past glories and keeping everyone in line even though no one really accepted him.Thank you Fowler.Mac..Mac thought his way through. 'Scuse me, her way through. He survived by thinking about everything objectively, as a scientific problem rather than bucking against numerous variables and overbearing tyrants.But Ginger is the leader, the dreamer. You can see her, rolling her eyes, laying down plans, using her hands a lot..staring death in the face with a indignant Oh....great!...looking adorable when she nods her head...and then shakes it back and forth, smiling slightly.CR is a lot more for me than just a fun movie, and I didn't prove the point I set out to, that CR's also for kids. The few scoffers I see are convinced it's a Disney sing-along. The effects are great, man, but Dinosaur's story sucked, so will Chicken Run. (I like Dinosaur for what it was, loving more the score and scenery than the dialogue, so you don't have to defend it.)It seems to me that kids would get it, and all my adult friends save one who hasn't seen it, felt comfortable and awed.CR is an excellent movie. Even if you hate its guts after seeing it, it's still worth the cinema ticket price and talking with a few friends. Go see it.The chances of us getting out of here are a million to one. Then there's still a chance. Ginger(I saw 0 negative reviews and 55 positive at RottenTomatoes) "}{"Title":"I've never laughed so hard in a movie!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see Chicken run with my kids, who also love Wallace and Gromit, and we all enjoyed it. There are enough puns, jokes and sight gags at all levels to appeal to everyone. I especially liked the Indiana Jones scene. "},{"Title":"Music to a play without words","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  (no spoilers, comments on music and movie)You would never expect a movie about plasticine chickens to be moving, or exciting, or anything but a happy farce. But as one person said, Chicken Run (and its music) is as far from Disney as Pink Panther is from Pocahontas. Not to say I don't like Disney. Dinosaur is one of the best scores ever, and the orchestral Lion King is also wonderful, but listen...The tremendous variety has a lot of revisiting power. It has action and suspenseful music several times, exciting as U-571, Titan A.E. or Star Trek The Undiscovered Country. It's playful, energetic, happy _without_ being schmaltz, but has moments of intensely morose, dignified, sad music moving from military to unspeakably beautiful. There is NO boring low or LOUD AS BRASS music! It's like music to a play without words.Despite the variety of music, it's drawn together by a multitude of themes. The main CR theme is played on kazoos (so that what that instrument is!), harmonica, some whistle instrument that sounds shrilly in Chickens are not Organized(!), flute and delicate piano. Sharp-eared viewers will note the main theme replays exactly at the end, with a very different scene being played out. There's a theme for the Rats, played in their debut track, the second half of Flight Training, and the middle of Building the Crate. It's light ethnic, like French/Italian.  The sound of awe near-end of We need a miracle is like a shorter one near-end of Flight Training and a longer awe on one of the end tracks, for a very good reason. There's also a theme for the Pie Machine. A bad kind of awe sound, the Crimson Tide male chorus referred to. And there's a small female chorus brilliantly used for short sections.Anyone notice a small homage to Jaws, twice?Also what dance tune is the first part of Flight Training built from? It sounds very familiar, but I can't place it.This is over an hour of music, two-thirds of the movie, and it's easy to follow the movie or to happily guess what's happening if you haven't seen it. The tracks don't give away the plot points as easily as Star Wars Ep 1 and others.I have nearly a hundred orchestral movie scores, and this is my best, along with Dinosaur (the score, not the movie). And this has two songs sung during pivotal points in the movie (not BY the chickens, don't worry), which hail from Big Joe Turner in '55, and Dion in '61.Some country and Scottish snuck in there, too. Go! Go! Go! Go! (heard twice in CR) It's beautiful music, and should appeal to everyone. Listen to the samples, buy a copy, see the movie, which I already have thrice and write down more nuances I forgot each time. Email me if you want to talk about any aspect of the movie, especially the music!The chances of us escaping are a million to one. Then there's still a chance. Ginger "},{"Title":"Save the Chickens!!!!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  There is some fun to be had by everyone who sees this movie. It is awesome to imagine the craftsmanship that went into the making of this wonderfully refreshing feature. Please do yourself a favor and don't miss out on a pleasant experience. "},{"Title":"More of the funny same","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  As a true-blue Wallace and Gromit fan (my office workstation is named gromit and my other box is named preston), Nick Park can do no wrong. This flick is loaded with some excellent animation, tough shots and angles that take you into uncharted perspectives. More than once I found myself awed by the superb technical detail.At the same time tho, this was another one of the same... a smart chick (Gromit), dozens of dim-witted hens (Wallace), the mostly dark motif of both A Close Shave and The Wrong Trousers, and the chicken-pie mechanical foe (knit-o-matic).The adversaries were too normal- I'll take a robot-gone-wrong cur or a scheming penguin any day over a money-hungry matriarch and a hen-pecked hubby.Then there's the minor flaw pointed out elsewhere of how the heroes un-escaped back into the barracks so easily after monkey wrenching the pie-o-matic.But don't get me wrong, this is entertainment every moment and worth every buck. See it just for the well-placed allusions to pop culture (well 20 to 30 years ago pop culture 8-) that had me in tears. "},{"Title":"Great Expectations Fulfilled!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Being huge fans of Aardman Animation ('Wallace and Gromit' in particular), my wife and I had been looking forward to their first full-length feature film, with great expectations, ever since they first announced their plans in 1998.  With two years of heightened anticipation, we easily could have been disappointed with the results (shades of Star Wars Episode One).After seeing the sneak preview this past weekend, I am please to report that we were not let down in the least!  This was a crackin' good movie! Okay, maybe the story was a bit predictable.  Still, it was the most fun we have had at a movie in a very long time.  I sat there for 88 minutes just marveling at the skill and imagination it must have taken to put something like this on the big screen.Adults should definitely see this movie for the humor alone.  Your kids won't understand the bulk of it but you'll be laughing your heads off (i.e. Fowler's comment about Rocky, the American rooster, voiced by Mel Gibson I'm not entirely convinced he's an American!  Priceless.).  Very young children will definitely be disturbed by one scene where one hen meets her destiny on the chopping block (tastefully done, though).With the advent of computers taking over the bulk of the animation chores in todays movies, its good to see old-fashioned, painstaking work achieve such marvelous results.  Now the painful wait begins for the next feature 'The Tortoise and the Hare' (followed by 'The Wallace and Gromit Movie')! I'm betting it will be well worth the wait.  "},{"Title":"You'll believe a chicken can fly!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  By now you probably already know the rough synopsis for this movie (The Great Escape with chickens) so I won't dwell upon that aspect of it. What I will say is that it has been a long time since I came out of a movie feeling so joyously happy and utterly satisfied with what I had paid my five bucks for. This movie is everything you could hope for and more funny, sad, scary, tense, beautiful, fresh and vital. The chickens are all fully-fleshed (feathered?) out characters and so you care deeply for them. The surprise is how powerfully the movie conveys their plight, whilst at the same time perfectly balancing the needs of young and old audiences to be given a constant diet of humor and excitement. There is so much detail in this movie that I think I will need to see it at least a half-dozen more times to take it all in. It will make you feel like the first time you saw Toy Story or even Star Wars. Pure, undiluted cinematic joy.  "},{"Title":"Incredible Adventure flick","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is an amazing movie.  I saw a preview with my two adult friends who both loved it, and a whole bunch of children who also loved it.  if you loved Wallace and Grommit, you'll love Chicken Run!  Wonderful escape movie, with hilarious references to The Great Escape, Papillon, even Star Trek! Great jokes will keep the adults in stitches, wonderful action will keep the kids amazed.  This is my second favorite Aardman animation, after The Wrong Trousers (yes, it's even better than A Close Shave!)  "},{"Title":"Better than I ever could have hoped","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say? Nick Park is unfoulable. We just saw a sneak preview of Chicken Run because we we're big fans of his previous works, Wallace & Grommit. However, we thought that he could never do another flim as creative and funny as The Wrong Trousers. Boy, were we wrong! This movie was probably the best childrens movie we've seen since The Lion King. The actors are great, the claymation perfectly represents a wide range of emotions, and the writing is top notch. I had a smile on my face for the entire last 30 minutes of the movie. We will most definately go see this movie again!10/10 "},{"Title":"Top of the line claymation and a fun film","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is the best example of what can be done with claymation. (Even better than Wallace and Gromit - amazing since those shorts are brilliant.) The characters faces are so expressive that you quickly forget you're watching clayfigures! The artistry is something to be in awe of.The storyline is a lot of fun (my inner child was having a blast), it also expresses a very human desire to be free. Ginger is a chicken determined to live a life outside of laying eggs on demand in an egg farm. She tries to escape continually, trying to bring the others along with her, but fails as often as she tries. Her determination and persistence are to be admired. She's no dumb cluck.Into their lives comes Rocky, an American Rhode Island Red who seems to know how to fly. Ginger tries to enlist his help in escaping. He's reluctant, but quite enjoys being surrounded by giggling hens. The escape attempts that ensue are hilarious. And yet, you find yourself wrapped up in their plight as Mrs. Tweedy, the egg farmer's evil wife comes up with an even worse fate for them.Will they fly the coop? Does Rocky indeed know how to fly? Or will they fall victim to Mrs. Tweedy's latest scheme?There's a great deal of action, humor, and even endearment throughout this movie. It holds your attention from beginning to end. It's nice to see a movie that really is for everyone.I hope the Wallace and Gromit movie I've heard whisperings about will come to fruition! "},{"Title":"This is a great movie for both children and adults.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Children and adults both will enjoy this movie.  It is very funny, with a touch of chicken romance.  A group of Engish chickens try to escape from a chicken farm with the help of an American rooster.  If you have children, I highly recommend taking them to see this movie. "}{"Title":"Funniest movie of 2000?","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  One word should suffice brilliant. I confess, I had some questions as to whether Nick Park and company could pull off a feature length film, but after Saturday's sneak preview I realize my doubts were in error, and Aardman Animations are the masters of whatever length they chose to take on. Even with the showing interrupted halfway through by a lightning storm that knocked out the power, set off the fire alarm, and caused a 30 minute evacuation of the building, this was the best movie going experience I've had in a long time. Hysterical, gags timed down to the split second, and so many movie in-jokes that you need a scorecard, this is one film that's worth repeated viewings. Sheer perfection in clay.--judy renee-- "},{"Title":"Aardmann - a collection of creative, funny people","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  With Aardmann animations, the audience is virtually  guaranteed to be given a very unique filmic experience.CHICKEN RUN is no exception. CHICKEN RUN is certainly  the most standard, mainstream,  American-Hollywoodish Aardmann production to date, but  I am in no way trying to imply that it's run-of-the-mill. All I am saying is that it does not possess the subtle, at times barely perceptible humour of WALLACE AND GROMIT.  W+G episodes are only about half an hour long, whereas CR-1 is about one and a half hours long; watching an hour  and 20 minutes of WALLACE AND GROMIT might put  people to sleep, and 25 minutes of CHICKEN RUN would  probably upset a lot of people. In any case, CHICKEN RUN works extremely well. Very funny, highly inventive stuff! "},{"Title":"A lovingly created masterpiece","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I throughly enjoyed Chicken Run. I have not seen a more  detailed, humorous, dramatic and downright joyful film in a blue  moon unendingly clever, appropriately cute but not cutesy, entertaining without pandering - eventually truly moving.As I left the special showing, the management asked me if I  enjoyed the movie. As I wasn't able to condense my thoughts, I only said really good. But after time to think about it, I  believe that Chicken Run is a rare film that can be many things to many separate people. For children it is a rousing adventure,  for movie buffs it is a witty tribute to dozens of classics, for  teens and adults it is an engaging story with shameless puns and  innuendo, for lovers of animation it is the best big screen clay  animation ever released. Kudos to the cast and crew and to Dreamwork "},{"Title":"Great movie for family and kids of all ages.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run directed by Peter Lord and Rick Park was an inspiring and movingly funny movie that would catch and keep the attention of almost any cartoon loving, popcorn eating couch potato. The plot of the movie was sit in a world war two like concentration, labor camp where the majority of labor was simply laying enough eggs to stay alive. The major objective of the egg laying coup were to avoid the chopping block while trying to formulate, and execute an escape plan not for just one chicken but for all. Using everything at their disposal, collective intelligence, bargaining and team work the Chicken Run story demonstrates the importance of persistence, team work, ingenuity and a little luck to change their surroundings while simply trying to get to the other side. I really liked this move and the comedy Nick and Fletcher the mouse equivalent of Dumb and Dumber brought to this movie and of course Ginger whom at times seemed very blond.  "},{"Title":"Finger lickin' good","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" CHICKEN RUN (2000) *** (Voices Julia Sawalha, Mel Gibson, Miranda Richardson, Jane Horrocks, Timothy Spall, Phil Daniels, Tony Haygarth, Imelda Staunton, Benjamin Whitrow) Cult animated filmmakers Nick Park and Peter Lord make their first feature length spectacle in a very funny take on escape-from-prison yarns a la 'Stalag 17' and 'The Great Escape' but this time with a flock of plucky British chickens 'imprisoned' in a farm run by the bloodless Malisha Tweedy (Richardson) whose business takes a turn for their worse custom made frozen chicken pies (!) Led by the determined hen Ginger (Sawalha) and several doomed attempts to break free their (would-be) savior lands at their feet in the form of 'flying' American rooster Rocky (Gibson, gleefully having a ball) who isn't exactly what he appears to be.Wildly inventive in its Rube Golbergian execution of plotting and production design all come off seemingly effortlessly in their pain-staking stop-motion animation with their trademark of likable characters in difficult situations on a universal appeal overall.Great fun for young and old alike. "},{"Title":"Barnyard Escapees","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" A cute comedy drama film about barnyard escapees! The film *almost* has a film noir look and feel about it similar to an old black and white crime-thriller. Maybe the filmmakers did in fact make this movie a subtle film noir deliberately due the nature of this film or maybe it's just my perception.I was able to bust-a-gut laughing at times during this movie - other times the movie felt like a good animated drama playing out on the screen. It does have an air of suspense and mystery about it so it's not your typical animated comedy.This film is definitely worth watching if you liked flicks like 'Madagascar', 'Monsters, Inc.' or 'Antz' 9/10 "},{"Title":"Morbid, yet surprisingly adventurous and comedic","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Ginger is a chicken in a small egg farm, where the two owners, rather harmless, bumbling Mr. Tweedy and cruel, sadistic Mrs. Tweedy are strict and quick to butcher any hen who doesn't make the quota each day. When Mrs. Tweedy discovers an ad for a new system that makes mass-produced meat pies, the greedy couple realize that if they use the chickens for food rather than eggs, they'll pay their bills faster and can afford more. Ginger and her friends have all become very depressed, knowing that their fate is coming sooner than later... until a rooster from the Untied States who escaped from the circus lies to Ginger about being able to fly, giving the hens a small ray of hope. With the help of two rats, the well-meaning rooster tries to teach every hen to fly... will the group make it out of the Tweedy farm alive? Chicken Run may not have been intended for children. It shows in detail the slow-killing machines within a factory farming system, shows a hen being decapitated, all sorts of disturbing scenes that may be more for adults who want to know about the cruelty of factory farming. For anyone who doesn't know, factory farming is using farm animals (cows, chickens, pigs, geese, etc.) in cruel, uncomfortable and unsanitary conditions. These animals rarely, if ever, get exposed to the outdoors, and when they are killed for food it often involves processes that kill the animals slowly, leaving them suffering from anywhere between seconds to an hour or so before they pass away completely. I'm not one of those P.E.T.A. activists or anything, but killing any sentient being in a sadistic way seems wrong.The animation in Chicken Run was very different, animated by the British company that released Flushed Away and Wallace & Gromitt. The soundtrack wasn't exactly the type of music I'd listen to while driving to work but it was certainly catchy, and the voice cast was well-chosen. It has one or two crude humor jokes but is otherwise very funny without the use of them, and it's funny to watch the Tweedy Couple as the hens fight back for freedom. Still, it's hard not to feel sorry for Mr. Tweedy, who doesn't really enjoy harming the chickens, when he lets his wife get squashed to death because he was sick of her constant abuse and greed.What ever happened to movies like this? These days it's garbage like Frozen (2013) and The Hunger Games (2012), that's popular, it's incredibly annoying. If you really want to see something original, have a love for morbid comedy, animal rights, original animation or all of the above, check out this movie! "},{"Title":"I appreciate this film more now than before","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I remember when this movie first came out, I had the choice of seeing this or Gladiator but my friend kept saying he wanted to see Chicken Run so we ended up watching this. It's not as good as Gladiator but it's still a very watchable movie. What I really liked about this movie is the creative ways the hens tries to escape from the egg farm and the interactions between the characters. It really brings out the classic chemistry and dialogues that actually made me sort of care about the cause. Maybe because it subtly makes references to other classic movies. The message might come off as subtle to some, but I liked the message of breaking through the barrier and the comfort zone for something more in life. Mel Gibson as Rocky the rooster didn't really add all the much to the core of the story in my opinion. But for a stop-motion animated comedy. This might movie like a reviewer said might be slow for some kids, including me when I first saw this. But it's still a movie that the whole audiences can enjoy.7.8/10 "},{"Title":"I love this film!!!","Date":"17 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I would say this movies genre is animated and a comedy because it's animated and a comedy because it's funny.I would have to rate this 9 stars because it's really funny and i like chickens.The dialogue is really good and funny. The story is very well put together because it's about a bunch of chickens who are trying to get of off a farm. My favourite part of the movie is when all the chickend ar trying to learning how to fly. There's this evil farmer who bullies her husband because he's dumb. There is some action. Yum yum chicken pie!!!! I like chickens!I would definitely recommend this to all the family. Great fun and not boring. "},{"Title":"Prison Break chicken style","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" It's a prison escape picture Aardman style for chickens. It's done by people well versed in all those WWII prison escape movies. Movie lovers will understand all the references, but it works just as well for young kids.Ginger (Julia Sawalha) is constantly trying to escape the chicken egg farm of the Tweedys. She fails every time and yet she keeps trying. One day young Yank rooster Rocky (Mel Gibson) comes flying in. Ginger needs Rocky's help to spring all the chickens from the farm.Sure it's funny. Sure it's a crazy spoof of those prison escape movies. But it's actually quite thrilling. The movie really builds suspense as we hope that they get away. It's a fine addition to the Aardman family. "}{"Title":"Eggshellent (Sorry)","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" 'Tis amazing how much personality and charm you can imbue in a plasticine figurine. Aardman animations, the creators of Wallace And Gromit, understand this truth all too well, which is why the poultry based cast in this, their first full length theatrical feature displays so much loving attention to deal, and keep us glued with their featherbrained antics. Add to that a dry English based dose of wit, and lotsa jokes in the background only us adults will get, and you have yourself not just a treat, but a full course dinner at the Ritz. But not half as expensive (and without an irritating guy with a fiddle who won't go away ) Chicken Run came out around the time that I regard as 'The Second Golden Age Of Animation' in that classic movies were churned out like wine and life was good. Antz, A Bug's Life, Shrek, The Iron Giant, Toy Story 2 and of course, this all came out and still to this day, rank amongst my favourites of all time. Alas, this roll couldn't last and we were soon stuck with lots of substandard produce designed to make money rather than inspire the audience, a situation that continues to this day. And by the way, did I mention the war? *mumble mumble* 9/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful upbeat movie","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" What a wonderfully ridiculous, unabashedly upbeat, cutely hilarious little gem of a movie. Watch this on a Friday night after a long week. With a beer or two and some friends. It will put a smile on your face.The dialogs drip with wit. The pace is fast and never slackens. The characters are typical but the clichés play out well. I particularly liked the irony of a hen-pecked guy running a chicken farm. There is an intense positivity about the movie. However, that positivity itself becomes a source of humor and doesn't make the movie too serious.To find a reason to take away a star, the music could have been better I guess. Overall, I would recommend watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but good fun for children and adults","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I was searching around for something to watch on a vacation afternoon with my pre-teen and this was one of the few movies that we thought wouldn't bore us both (the last time we watched Madagascar 3, which was a laugh riot).Disney animation this is not - it's Wallace and Grommit style stop- motion throughout, which can lead to some hilarious effects with splattered eggs, turnips, and gravy. If you've ever watched any World War II POW movies, you'll appreciate all the references here the POW huts, the British accents, the over-bearing ex-RAF rooster, the solitary confinement, and even the Great Escape references. All good fun for the adult watching.It's not a split your sides laughing movie, but if you like Wallace and Grommit you'll enjoy this as change of pace from standard animation. "},{"Title":"Another Aardman plasticine triumph...","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" ...which, although it fails to solve the riddle of which came first, the chicken or the egg, nonetheless fits its 80-minute running time as smoothly as an egg in its shell. Nick Park and Peter Lord, the heart and soul of the illustrious Aardman Animations, deliver another superb piece of stop-motion entertainment, this one a riff on The Great Escape, only it's chickens trying to escape their rubber-booted owners and the threat of a chicken pot pie machine. It's great stuff, nicely written, and gorgeously conceived and executed, pardon the pun. The only thing I thought was sadly lacking was a chicken crossing the road joke, and it's possible I just missed it. Eminently worth a rewatch. And another...I told you they was organised. "},{"Title":"It's OK, But Don't Expect Too Much!","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Aardmans have created a lot of great movies including Wallace And Gromit over the years, their most recent production Pirates An Adventure With Scientists! made me laugh quite some bit, as well as causing some controversy. Today, I dug out an old childhood video tape to re-watch, I chose to re-watch this film. The film had impressive animation, (I don't know why these so called dumb Chickens had teeth though.) The soundtrack was very catchy, its plot was inspired by The Classic The Great Escape, it was a very smooth plot and it was not too rushed. Its voice acting was good as well. (Jane Horricks from Crapston Villas And Mel Gibson from Braveheart And Signs, etc!) Some jokes were hits and others were misses and those chickens were just insane! Mrs Tweety looks so masceline with such short hair, that I used to think she was gay! (WTF!) Due to some humor and it's theme, I don't recommend it for viewers under four years, but it is a must see for any family audience!Overall Rating 7/10! "},{"Title":"This ain't no chick flick!","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Animations really question themselves how can we make this good? How can we make this enjoyable for both children for adults? How can we set good messages and morals for the kids? How can we veer away from stuff that will be 'inappropriate' for children? How this, how that? How do we do this in order to do that? How do we edit this so that we can obtain that? How can we make this? How can we do this? How will this work? How will we make this not look like this? How, how, how. But Chicken Run does the impossible; chicken impossible. It succeeds at doing all the things above, by obtaining it's status as an above average animation...The most interesting thing Chicken Run does is completely steer away from animation itself. What are you talking about? Well.. instead of making an animation full of the overdone CGI effect, Chicken Run does it old-school style at makes it a stop-motion animation. I really loved this aspect, because it never wanted to be what others have been. And it was like watching something different from an animation.. The voice acting was really well-done. I loved the character of Rocky voiced by Mel Gibson. He gives the character his signature voice by adding his charismatic attitude and fun. The supporting cast all did an equally great job, and there was no complaints in this department.. The plot was quite different. The place where the chickens are imprisoned resembled a concentration camp used back in the Holocaust. While this may at first question the viewers, it was more of a satirical comment more than a hurtful one. I, for one, went along with this animation (key word animation) and enjoyed the hell out of it. It was fun and inventive, where have you heard that before? Then the whole escape plot (using key plot devices from other films, making this film part animation, part parody) was really funny and cool. The whole 'inside the machine' scene was genius. The whole film reflected off this scene right here... And the movie was cleverly-written! Every scene contained a cleverly done joke that may be too clever for our own good. The writers took time and patience in order to create this hilarious experience, because I took full advantage. I loved Chicken Run. It's was cleverly directed, written, and acted to a point where you will question if it's TOO clever. Warning the film may not be for everyone. For people that love and enjoy animation comedies that come out nowadays, you may not understand how great the film really is. And for ones who do, good job. Great film; recommend.9/10. "},{"Title":"A little plasticine can go a long way","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" From the team behind Wallace and Gromit comes this great kids film about Chickens that are trying to escape from their owners.While the premise is simple what is not simple is the great characters and the jokes that come thick and fast as the minds of Aardman manage to create a film that adults and children can all enjoy.The film is nearly 12 years old now but still looks great and is far better than a lot of the films that adults have to sit through with their kids these days. The comedy comes from the characters and not lots of tricks and 3D technology. Aardman in this and in all their other films make well crafted entertainment and there isn't a lot of that around these days.From parodies of other films, great jokes and characters Chicken Run will always be fondly remembered. "},{"Title":"It was interesting to say the least","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" This one will be hard to review. Why? I watched half of it two days ago, the other half last night. So the emotion and feel wasn't connected. So this won't be a fair review, haha.However, I can say that I do appreciate the hard work and determination the workers had in making the film. Clay animation is tough, especially frame by frame! I would know, as I do a bit of frame by frame editing with my videos that I do for fun, and usually they aren't more than ten minutes! The plot is okay, although I must say that it was rather cheesy and a bit redundant near the end to have the evil wife clinging into the Christmas lights and having the airplane and all of that in the air. A bit pushy wouldn't you say? But regardless, it was still not too bad of a movie, and I hope that the next time I see it, it will be more complete, haha. "},{"Title":"good film,arise the vote.7.3 it's a bad vote,arise.","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" beautiful film. it's not a radical film.As to the usual one, the usual negative comments which talk about a classical film some years 80 which everyone does not like it to the nostalgic ones are met.Sure Heros that this film had to have a judgment in this site. In fact reviewers' good part has put a high vote to the previous episodes. Because this contrast? I know the reason. Since assumptive reviewers' good part favorably sees the past and as the past is better than the present they have given several credit to the preceding episodes being still the last episode more explosive and spectacular. At this point should reject also the old episodes but there are here two weights and two measure.In fact also cinema masterpieces have been criticized and denigrated. Good part some reviewers of this site belong to the very bad reviewers. Better think separately with its head. I was sure that the god fun old episode did not like it. Who has to be withdrawn is not george lucas but the last reviewer SAMPAT GO AWAY. Cary Guffey "},{"Title":"A Great Escape for the viewer too","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" This is a film which is likely to appeal to a very wide audience, from kids to grandparents. That is why I watched it - it was the only movie on the list that my wife and I could agree on together. We both liked it and that says something very positive.I enjoyed the subtle and not-so-subtle references to some great films of the past. For me, the early scenes based on The Great Escape were the best laugh in the film. I also detected winks at Braveheart, Stalag 17, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Flight of the Phoenix, Bridge on the River Kwai, and The Shawshank Redemption.If you are looking for a film with deep social commentary or complicated plot twists, keep looking. But for an evening of light entertainment, Chicken Run delivers. "}{"Title":"Just as good as W&G.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" If you think that Wallace and Gromit were Nick Park's only good creations, you are definitely wrong. Creature Comforts is also another of his successes, and this film Chicken Run, the first Aardman feature film, ensures he pulls through with a clean track record. Not a duff project has come from him yet - even the Wallace and Gromit movie was great. This film is a simple idea - chickens trying to escape from their cruel masters - turned into a great film, with plenty of humour and fun to be found along the way. The film is also technically great - the animation we have come to expect from Aardman is top notch, as testified to by the scenes inside the pie machine and several of the escape scenes. The film manages to reach a very satisfying emotional conclusion - and there are a wide variety of characters to be found. The two gangster rats (I've forgotten their names) add a sense of corruption and cunning to the chicken coop, Mrs. Tweedy makes for quite a menacing, evil villain, unlike her rather oafish husband. Ginger is good as the main character and the person who we follow throughout the whole film. The scene at the start where the chicken was taken away and killed was about as dark and sinister as we can expect from animated films - low music and a general sense of fear really add a dark side to it. And there's real voice talent in the form of Mel Gibson as Rocky - the American chicken who isn't all he claims to be... With the way things are going after Flushed Away (which was a great film but underperformed at the box office), Aardman have yet to produce a duff film. Hopefully, that will never happen. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great animation movie!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Old fashioned entertainment, superbly crafted by the Lord & Park duo.I liked it even a bit more than their great Wallace and Gromit series. The voices are extraordinarily cast, the story never looses rhythm and music shows how much they love cinema. There are MANY movies for children which also cater for adults. Probably too many. This one is my favourite, and I like the genre without being an absolute fan.You may not know the great escape and all the other films they quote, but you do get the picture, and quite a few laughs. It has a couple of great chase sequences, and the villain being a grim and masculine woman adds a different flavour. My favourite character is Ginger the instigator chicken. What a great leader and motivator she is! When I saw this the first time, I thought it was TERRIFIC. Now, right after the 2nd time, and about 5 years later, I saw it with joy but not amazed. I don't think I'd buy it, better stick to Ice age if you had to choose one film for children for a desert island. As usual, there are many levels of analysis. You could make parallels with Nazi films, industrial society in which we're all caged even race and gender relationships. Jana L. Perskie ceruleana (New York, NY USA) from Amazon is great when she writes on the meaning of freedom and how films for children do have a meaning for us, world-weary adults. I just won't get into that this time for I rather leave this fun film unanalyzed. For some reason I feel like Distant Voyageur Nicholas Computer (Io) from Amazon at that.While not entirely moving, you'll eat chicken with a tinge of remorse next time ). "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant! A Must See!","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" If you didn't see this when it was released in theatre--now is the time to catch it as it's showing on HBO this month.This movie is sooooo good! I am not a fan of animated features, but this is truly a great movie. For those of you that have seen the brilliant Creature Comforts on the BBC--well, the same folk as do that show does this flicker.I belly laughed 'til me tummy hurt...this movie is a joy! The one liners are a scream, the sight gags hilarious--for instance, about half-way through the movie, I noticed the number on the chicken coop where all the escape plans were made. The number? 17-as in Stalag 17, the great WWII POW movie starring William Holden. Too funny...Don't miss this one--it's a winner! "},{"Title":"Chicken Run Nick Park Hatches a Classic","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" British animator Nick Park made his name with the clay-animated antics of Wallace and Gromit. In his feature film debut, Chicken Run, he shows off his winning style. The story, which is a take on The Great Escape, follows the escape plans of the chickens at the Tweedy Farm in England. Their ringleader is Ginger, a hen voiced by Julia Sawalha. When Rocky (Mel Gibson), an American circus rooster, comes flying in, the plan becomes to fly off the Tweedy Farm. The clay animation is well done in this movie, and is even more impressive without assists by computer animation. There are several great characters, including the comic rats Nick and Fetcher, and Mrs. Tweedy (Natasha Richardson), who makes the most wicked cartoon villainess since Cruella DeVil. This movie is truly up to par with Wallace and Gromit's excellence. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run is a great film, but it has i's weaknesses. The clay animation, for example, is a bit faulty. The story is great, and the voice actors/actresses put a great performance on, especially Mel Gibson, who is really the only actor of the lot that I'm familiar with. **Minor spoiler ahead** Gibson plays Rocky, a cocky American rooster who wants freedom from the circus, and crash-lands into a chicken farm,complete with 50 or so chickens. Plus, a British cock who talks likehe's still in the Army. The chickens are basically tortured into laying eggs by the Tweety's, who's farm is going downhill. Mrs. Tweety gets equipment to turn those stupid creatures into pies. Mr. Tweety is incredibly stupid, bu ends up being the smarter one of the two. Ginger is the leader of the chickens, and she helps the chickens fly for freedom. Chicken Run is a classic example of a fun movie. I would recommend it for people who love good comedy. My Score 8/10. "},{"Title":"Great fun - something for (almost) everyone!","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I never used to like animated films, but over the past five years or so; there's been more and more good ones being released, and these days I enjoy nearly all the ones I see. The majority of animated films are either in 2D, or just lately; computer generated, but there's something about clay models that's more appealing. Perhaps it's the fact that you know just how much effort must have gone into every second of film. The team of Nick Park and Peter Lord; the duo behind the immensely popular 'Wallace and Gromit' have put 'Chicken Run' together, and that's completely obvious throughout. The plot line takes in numerous film tributes, including some small ones to likes of Raiders of the Lost Ark and Easy Rider - but mainly, the whole film is a tribute to the British classic 'The Great Escape'. We follow the trials and tribulations inside of a chicken coup, as the chickens try their best to escape the iron fence that keeps them prisoner. Their efforts are unsuccessful, until one day a hip chicken named Rocky flies into the pen...could he be the answer to their prayers? Chicken Run works, chiefly, because of it's vitality, and the way that it features enough fun for children, and enough attention to detail to ensure that adults will enjoy it, too. The characters benefit from a great troop of voice actors that succeed brilliantly in bringing life to their characters. Many of the actors are lesser-known stars, but the likes of Miranda Richardson, Julia Sawalha and, of course, Mel Gibson stand out the most. The film always flows well, and even through it has a short running time (understandable, when you consider how much work goes into every frame), you really feel like you've seen a story unfold by the end of the film. The characters here are a lot more deep and detailed than in a lot of 'serious' films, that's for sure! There's a big enough range of humour on offer here to ensure that everyone watching will get a laugh, all in all making Chicken Run a very difficult film not to like. As mentioned, I'm not really into animated films; but there are exceptions, and Chicken Run is definitely one of them. "},{"Title":"very enjoyable","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run is a comical, 'The Great Escape'-like film featuring claymation chickens. The chickens need to escape their prison-like hen-house. They are led by an American rooster called Rocky and a hen with an English accent named Ginger.Chicken Run is packed with action, comedy, and likable characters. It is a film for all ages. Adults can also enjoy the other film references to 'The Great Escape', 'Braveheart', and others. The animation is also very good, and it's much better than what computers can do. (I suppose that it's so easy to complicate computer animation while this claymation technique is kept simple, not over-worked, and has a more aesthetic and not-so-perfect appeal.) Technique aside, Chicken Run is a very clever and witty film.This is a highly recommended film for any age or gender. Sit back and enjoy the humor and imaginative story that unfolds in claymation form. "},{"Title":"My all time Favorite!","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" This was one of my favorite films of 2000. After hearing it was done by the people who did Wallace and Gromit, I wanted to see it badly.It was unlike anything I've seen. introduced some British Actors I never knew existed.The story to it is very well written and has the familiar look you'd find in Wallace and Gromit too.This is suppose to be taken place like in the late 50s earlier 60s. Has to do with this Chicken Farm in the Countryside of England. These Chickens who have to lay eggs till they're unable to anymore. Once that happens they get killed by the farmers.They tried all they can to find a way to escape from this horrible place. It's like a prison to them.When all hope seemed lost this American Rooster just came by who might help them out.Chicken Run is a great and an instant classic film by Aardman Company and presented by Dreamworks. It's so great you'd want to see it again and again. All you Wallace and Gromit fans will enjoy this one allot.It's a real treat and it's perfect for the whole family to see. "},{"Title":"Great movie for family and kids of all ages.","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run directed by Peter Lord and Rick Park was an inspiring and movingly funny movie that would catch and keep the attention of almost any cartoon loving, popcorn eating couch potato. The plot of the movie was sit in a world war two like concentration, labor camp where the majority of labor was simply laying enough eggs to stay alive. The major objective of the egg laying coup were to avoid the chopping block while trying to formulate, and execute an escape plan not for just one chicken but for all. Using everything at their disposal, collective intelligence, bargaining and team work the Chicken Run story demonstrates the importance of persistence, team work, ingenuity and a little luck to change their surroundings while simply trying to get to the other side. I really liked this move and the comedy Nick and Fletcher the mouse equivalent of Dumb and Dumber brought to this movie and of course Ginger whom at times seemed very blond.  "},{"Title":"Fun Stuff","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is good clean fun.  I'm not going to comment on this one too deeply, others have done that already.  What I will say is that I enjoyed it from beginning to end, and though the ending is fairly predictable, it's getting there that's the fun part.  BTW I would not have known it was Mel Gibson as the voice of Rocky had I not seen it on the DVD jacket/poster.This movie is darker than it seems, after all, the chickens are in a forced labor camp that is being converted into a death camp, right?  Not really a theme for kids, right?  But this isn't a movie that you'd want to think too deeply about, it moves very quickly and is just fun, and that's how I watched it. "}{"Title":"the curtains open","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  the reason i have given this film such a high score is for two reasons, firstly I think it has an excellent script and story line (although they have pinched quite a bit from other films!!!), the effort and detail that has gone into making it, if you've got the dvd watch the making of documentary......the second reason i like this film is because it was the first film i put on the big screen as a projectionist....quite a nerve racking experience but all the same quite amazing....perhaps i'm just a kid...but if you're a kid too watch it, but remember all the hard work that has gone into making those little blobs of plastercine turn into stars of the silver screen "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run i think is a fantastic movie. Nick Park went to a school called Fisher more in Colne, Lancashire, England. I went to that school years and years after when he left that school in years. I give Chicken Run 10 out of 10 because it is a fantastic animated movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Kind of a pedestrian concept, but nicely executed by Aardman animation. I don't think the film would have nearly as funny in cel animation or computer animation; claymation gives the characters more, well, character.Aardman's character designs are consistently a big boost to the enjoyability of all their films, from the near-abstract characters in Rex the Runt to the sheep of Wallace and Gromit, and now these teapot-shaped chickens. Much of the physical humor wouldn't have come across nearly so well with a different chicken design.It's odd; the trivia section reports that Gibson recorded his dialogue in the U.S., while the rest of the cast recorded in the UK. It seemed to be, while watching the film, that he wasn't really part of the cast. He didn't seem to have as much depth of personality as even most of the 'supporting' chickens did, and far less than the rats. Maybe it was his voice. I heard that voice and saw Mel Gibson. When I heard the other characters speak, I saw chickens or rats or farmers. Maybe it's an argument against having one A-list star in an animated movie, when the rest of the cast is largely unknown (to American audiences; I'd be intrigued to know if UK viewers thought the same way).Still, a wonderful, funny film, well worth a rental or even adding it to the collection. "},{"Title":"CHICKEN RUN (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  From the makers of Wallace and Grommit as we all know and the story might be a typical Muppetshow-one but still the kind of movie that gives you 90 minutes splendid entertainment. Set in several languages and I am sure you must opt for your own (in Flemish it was done in several dialects). An animationmovie made for young and old! See it!!! "},{"Title":"This was supposed to be FUNNY?!?!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I was really surprised that I DIDN'T like this movie. Perhaps I was just in a particularly bad mood when I saw it. I really enjoyed Wallace and Gromit, and I love animated flicks, so I thought I would like this. I found it to be, surprisingly, dreadfully dark and depressing--certainly not something I'd care to show to children. The best bits I had already seen in the commercials. Perhaps a second run of the movie might find me in a better frame of mind to appreciate it, but I don't feel that I want to subject myself to it again. "},{"Title":"Animated version of 'The Great Escape'","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" OK, I made a mistake in an another review. For the review of 'Shrek,' I hastily claimed that it was (along with the Toy Story movies) the only worthwhile animated features of the past 10 years or so. I failed to mention two other features 'A Nightmare Before Christmas,' which I covered already&#133; and this film. As the title of this review states, the movie is a loosely-based version of 'The Great Escape.' It's Aardman and Nick Park at the wheel, the 'Wallace and Gromit' team. I love the Wallace and Gromit cartoons so much that I actually had too high of expectations to immensely enjoy this film at the time. Nevertheless, in retrospect it is a very charming film. Repeated viewings show that Aardman has done very well with this feature film, and I can't wait for the 2005 release of Wallace and Gromit's feature film. "},{"Title":"The chickens are coming!","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Rated G Runtime 84mins Release Date 2000For a group of chickens a lifetime sentence in the coop was no life at all, and when the sentence is over and death is what's next to come there's only one thing to do... make a run for it.Chicken Run tells the hilarious story of a group of chickens that are spending there lives in the coop. Run like a prison this coop comes complete with a Warden and guard dogs. These chickens spend their days pecking and laying eggs, however, when the eggs come no more it's off to the barn to become dinner. One day while watching one of their friends get marched off to the barn the chickens decide it's time to escape. With no hope and no plan, the chickens seek desperately to make it to the other side of the fence. Then along comes a cocky rooster who somehow flies over and in to the coop and the chickens' lives. In him the ladies not only see a very sexy man but also a chance to make it over the fence by getting him to teach them how to fly. After some convincing he decides to do so, and with a little work the chickens make progress. But just as things are looking up for them, along comes the worst. A machine in which puts not one but all the chickens' lives in danger by turning them in to chicken potpies.I can honestly say that Chicken Run is a hilarious movie. It's filled with a whole different variety of great characters, including a couple of scheming rats, and I mean this literally, a veteran R.A.F rooster, and an assortment of chickens, including a genius and a chicken that knits. It also has an amazing voice cast, which suits each different character perfectly. The film adds some great story elements including certain philosophies on life and imprisonment that make it a comedy for the whole family. Surprisingly it also does what a lot of live action movies haven't seem to be able to do lately, it carries itself the whole way through.The film is directed written and produced by Peter Lord and Nick Park, two men that can take animals like chickens and turn them in to people. Now ladies and gentlemen that, in my opinion, is talent. To help add to the realism of the characters, is the fantastic claymation team that worked for months on making this film work. They actually do such a good job on things such as facial expression, that this alone had created scenes that had me in a roar of laughter. I especially have to take note of the two rats who in my opinion stole every scene they had and added that much extra hilarity to the film. It also has a great little action scene inside the pie making machine' but it's really well done so I don't want to spoil anything about it. One thing I do have to say that maybe could have been left out was the musical number. I don't understand why every children's movie has to have a musical segment. Lord, Park and co-producer David Sproxton can't really be blamed for this unoriginal moment, after all it is in every one. I was just hoping that maybe it could have been left out of one or two films, this being one of the two I had hoped for.Overall the story was wonderful entertainment at any age level. It's not by any means the perfect family comedy but it does come very close. This movie has so many good things going for it that I really hope this genius team puts together a sequel and this is something I don't say very often. So in short if your family is cooped up and you want a movie you can all really enjoy, then head in to your car and go on a Chicken Run.Overall Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Definitely One for the Birds!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run tells the story about a group of chickens who desperately want to escape captivity at Mrs. Tweedy's Chicken Farm, in England.  Mrs. Tweedy (voice by Miranda Richardson) is not a nice old lady chicken farmer.  She takes her business very seriously.  When a hen does not lay an egg daily, she is condemned to the chopping block.  It is a matter of life and death for the hens to escape.  Unfortunately for them, they run through one failed escape attempt after another.  One of the more out going hens, Ginger (voice by Julia Sawalha), has tried many attempts to escape.  She has tried tunnels, catapults and disguises only to be chucked into the coal hole for a week as her punishment.  Mr. Tweedy (voice by Tony Haygarth) is positive that the chickens are scheming and planning, but can not seem to convince his wife.  Tired of making miniscule profits, Mrs. Tweedy decides to phase out the egg operation in exchange for a chicken pot pie operation. Fortunately for the chickens, Rocky the Flying Rooster (voice by Mel Gibson), an American Rhode Island Red Rooster, literally drops in on the farm -  just in time to save the chickens from becoming pot pies.  Rocky is on the run from the circus.  In the end, the birds are able to escape from Mrs. Tweedy's to a nearby bird sanctuary.Peter Lord and Nick Park directed Chicken Run.  The intention for this movie was not just to entertain, but also to demonstrate that with hard work and determination almost anything can be accomplished (no matter what species).  It also displays charm.  Even though the chickens kept failing, it kept the audience hopeful for the characters, wanting them to continue on and be successful.Chicken Run is the first feature length work done by Lord and Park in Claymation.  I loved the meticulous details they had used.  For instance, the way the mud on the ground was after it had rained to the gray in Mrs. Tweedy's hair made it look real.  Even the sound effects made it seem life like.  The way Mrs. Tweedy walked in her rubber boots and the way the doors slammed shut on the hen houses.  This is a very delightful and brilliantly made movie.  "},{"Title":"Cracking movie","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run, fantastic what can i say, i mean ok so im biased in a way as an avid fan and follower of the aardman animation studios but still, this film succeeds on all levels, some humour for kids and adults alike but what humour. Genius, inspired invention are the words i what i would like to use but as they have already been, although deservedly so, into a cliche that follows this studio after the world was introduced to Wallace & Gromit. The voice casting is spot on with Mel Gibson obviously enjoying himself thoroughly.  The animation is excellent, well we expect nothing less.  A riot, a great piece of entertainment, techniquely flawless and finally so much fun!  If youve not seen it, what you waiting for? 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"a clear message","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Being not a lover for animations, i was really surprised that i liked this film, partly because it wasn't to long, only (80 mins) but also because you could really appreciate the hard work that went into making it. It has everything in a nutshell, love, betrayal, sad and happy moments, and because its a family film we can all learn from it in different ways. There is a clear message that i picked up on, i thought was quite interesting, thinking of others in a crisis, and not just saving yourself, is the idea that we should all keep in mind, the leading character had all the means of breaking free herself, but refused to do so without the rest of the batch, it was touching, and i think alot of people can learn from it. I did. "}{"Title":"Claymation Chicken Adventure and Eggsitement For Everyone","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is a claymation full length movie by the claymation slave who brought us Wallace and Gromit on PBS here in the US.  I hear tell that Blue Sky 3D animators added a helping hand here, but purists will forgive the author, because it is loyal to the spirit if not the practice of claymation.The story revolves around the struggles of Ginger, a layer on an egg farm run by a callous and cruel owner and her servile husband.  She yearns for freedom and fears the ax that falls whenever a hen quits laying.  Sadly, her many efforts are in vain and she nearly gives up until a rooster soars into the chicken yard apparently under his own power.  Together, they hatch a plan to teach the hens to fly to escape their prison.Might actually be a little extreme for some very young or impressionable children. "},{"Title":"Nice computer animation but this comedy could've been much funnier","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  After the hilarious success of the computer animated comedies Toy Story, Antz, A Bug's Life and Toy Story 2, it seems as though the humor in computer animated films is beginning to run dry here. The animation in Chicken Run is excellent and the use of an all star cast to provide major voice roles throughout the film is also a plus but this film is usually kind of boring when it is compared to the aforementioned films. It sounds amusing at first but a severe lack of genuine laughs make it a huge letdown in the comedy and storyline departments.   "},{"Title":"A Stroke of Genius","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  On the surface, this is a simple children's movie. It has a wonderful theme. Never give up hope on your dreams. You have your typical chicken jokes and some action. Now look under the surface. This movie is a very clever homage to the World War II escape movies. I strongly recommend watching Stalag 17 and The Great Escape before viewing this movie. The jokes and sight gags coming from those two movies are too numerous to count and will keep you laughing throughout. Near the end, it even tips its hat to the original Star Trek. Between Chicken Run and Shrek, Dreamworks has certainly come up with some children's movies that will appeal to adults on entirely new level. "},{"Title":"the film appeals to all ages!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  i enjoyed this movie because of the seriousness mingled with the humour. children can enjoy this movie because of the sheer fun that is the world of animation! the part where they build the plane is magical and uplifting. the seriousness which lies behind certain scenes - the chicken edwina when given the 'chop'/ the chicken pie machine/ makes for perhaps a theme aimed at adults. yet the seriousness never overpowers the fun and laughs. this matched with humour makes for an entertaining watch for the entire family! the movie is a must for children. also a must for all you adults on a weeknight in front of your tv! put your feet up and relax and enjoy this entertaining tale which suffers from no lack of plot, humour, or romance!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but could have been so much more...","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This was a great film for kids, a visual feast from the Aardman team, but I just wished it had provided just a little more for grown-ups. I have to agree with previous writers that the script didn't stand up to the quality of the animation, with jokes that just weren't always funny. I wouldn't go so far to say that Chicken Run was 'totally forgettable' however, as this film has stayed in my head since first seeing it nearly a week ago. Where the script fell down the visual gags held it together, and indeed the impressive animation gives one enough to ponder on in technical terms. How anyone can say that this film is too scary for kids I just don't know, even with the beheading sequence. One of the best things about Aardman animation is the sense of reality it envokes in spite of the ludicrous situations, rather than being just another oversensitive piece of fluff production-line flick. If anything I would have preferred a Ginger with a little more gusto since, despite her role as the central character, the delivery of her lines sometimes seemed a bit weak and watery for such a driven leader-of-the-coop type character. If Aardman really wanted to make this film stand out (AND still be a role-model for kids) then instead of ending up in a happy-ever-after type paradise Ginger would be going on to free other hens in even worse conditions Chicken Run II The Breakout from Battery Hell. But all in all this was a good evening's light entertainment. "},{"Title":"Get set for the newest nugget of absolute film-making brilliance from the guys who brought you the claymated man and dog buddy duo of Wallace & Gromit","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The creators of Chicken Run! Also brought us, more recognizable to Americans, the Chevron talking cars.  Directed by Nick Park and Peter Lord, it stars the voices of Julia Sawalha as Ginger the oxymoronically fearless chicken leader, Mel Gibson as Rocky the Flying Rooster, Jane Horrocks as Ginger's bungling friend, Babs, and Miranda Richardson as the diabolical Mrs. Tweedy, owner of the chicken farm. When Mrs. Tweedy hatches a plan to turn her under-achieving egg-layers into pot pies (complete with gravy and... MIXED VEGETABLES!), Ginger must muster the hens into escape mode. Unfortunately, it turns out to be a plumper task than she had anticipated, and it's up to Rocky -- straight out of the traveling circus -- to further inspire the break-out from the seemingly in-egg-scapable Tweedy's Farm!To fly right out of the coop, you're in for sheer entertainment! Combining elements of painfully meticulous clay animation (some 24 moved poses in one SECOND of film!), dynamite voicing by the ensemble cast, and one of the most hysterically well-written screenplays you'll experience this summer, Chicken Run will surely go down as a 2000 movie to remember. What's more, it's Rated G -- making this a joyride for the entire family. Not a whole lot of films that year could make that claim. So you're worried that it's rated G huh? You don't have to worry! In fact, adults could conceivably find it even more entertaining than kids. Think Aladdin; think The Lion King; think Beauty and the Beast; then think of all the fun YOU had while watching each of these. And though all of these films I mentioned are Disney, Dreamworks could very well be an integral part in the next evolutionary step in family entertainment. Though the Steven Spielberg/Jeffrey Katzenberg/David Geffen producing conglomerate has sponsored animated features before (The Prince of Egypt and Antz both in 1998, and last year's The Road to El Dorado), Chicken Run is so much more accessible, palatable, and just unadulterated fun than its predecessors.Is there anything not to like about Chicken Run? There is so little, I have trouble even mentioning it. But then again, it is my job to be thorough. With that said, the story did tend to lull around the middle, but only somewhat. If you start feeling bored in places, do me a favor Take a look at it from a different angle and admire the technical work that went into those characters. If you're not amazed by that, then very little will thrill you.And for you movie buffs out there, let me add to your entertainment dollar if I may -- play the How Many Movie References Can I Spot? game. First off, since the film is essentially about breaking out of captivity, expect to see homages/references to just about every great prison escape movie out there. Scenes are staged and shot with an uncanny sense of detail to make you sit up and say, OH! That's from, that's from....  But the allusions don't stop with prison movies. If you somehow manage to hear most of the dialogue through the laughter, you may catch a few things that even the most seasoned film buff will miss, and you'll pat yourself on the back for it without feeling the least bit of conceit!It's the multi-tiered grade A quality that makes the movie one of the most well-rounded films out there right now -- a rarity coming from a major studio these days. Run out and enjoy the chickens! "},{"Title":"LOVELY!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This was good stuff! A lovely animated feature from the creators of Wallace and Gromit.This is way more charming than many of Disneys and Dreamworks animations.Great story and characters; and very entertaining! It is very funny;I`ve just bought it on DVD.It`s a must have.Rank this with Shrek and Monsters INC.Yes! Time to watch it again...  "},{"Title":"funny and engaging but nothing original","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  chicken run was yet another funny and engaging little animated movie in a long series of such movies ever since pixar's toy story became a runaway hit. chicken run though fails to come up with an original and gripping plot. despite an interesting premise of a prison escape from the point of view of chickens, the plot fails to hold one's interest for long. having said that, the rest of the movie is engaging and very funny. forget the cliches relax, dont expect anything original and you will love this cute comedy.chicken run has terrific production values and is extremely slick and smartly made. the script is fast and funny, naturally mel gibson does a capable job but so does julia sawalha as ginger and the 2 rats are hilarious too )watch the movie with kids, or just by yourself too ... not as good as the toy story series, but pretty good in itself.a cute and funny 7! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers for this film, I thought, Oh God, not another Gumby clone! But when I started watching it, I couldn't stop laughing. I especially liked all of the inside joke references to famous war movies such Stalag 17, The Great Escape, and many others. This ranks of the ultimate Tour de Farce's of all time. I can't imagine anyone not liking this one.  "},{"Title":"lots of fun","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Delightful claymation feature centers around a group of chickens who live on an English farm and dream of freedom on the outside world. Their farm is run by a sinister husband and wife, and the chickens are horrified to learn that they're destined to be made into pies. With the help of a rambunctious American rooster, they decide that they need to learn how to fly so they can escape from their dreadful fate. Engaging story has an efficiently varied cast of voices, some impressive, eye-popping animation effects, and more than enough moments of warm, spry humor. Not as imaginative or moving as past animated features, but good fun for children as well as adults. *** "}{"Title":"Cute, wholesome comedy for children and adults alike","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Although the movie has been designed for children, I found it entertaining and enjoyable for us adults also. The only reason I watched it was because Mel Gibson is one of my favorites. But the movie turned out to be more enjoyable than I had anticipated, and being a graphic artist, I enjoy all animated movies too. "},{"Title":"Very good but not for children under 17","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Saw Chicken Run. It is funny, I can't deny that, but very morbid in an existential, pit-of-your-stomach way. Parodies POW films, particularly Great Escape, but is more like a Nazi death camp situation a la Arthur Miller's Playing For Time. Death is everywhere, and seemingly inevitable. I came in late, after one of the chicken characters has already been slaughtered; I didn't stay afterward to catch what I'd missed! There is a scene early in the film, however, where the victim's picked-over skeleton is displayed at the center of the human characters' table. I did, admittedly, order Szechuan chicken afterward without thinking about it. Some kids at the late showing, and they were heard laughing, but I wouldn't be surprised if they have nightmares tonight. It is a good movie, but for what audience?  "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Brilliant. I chuckled regularly throughout this. TI Fowler has to be one of the best characters in anything ever. Absolutely hilarious. The story just couldn't quite engross the viewer like Toy Story or Wallace & Gromit, but I wouldn't have swapped watching it for anything. A pleasure.A high 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent! But a G rating? More like a PG.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This was a GREAT piece by claymation-animator Nick Park, creator of the award winning Wallace and Gromit shorts. Park's feature length movie debut chronicles a group of chickens who scheme to escape from their cage after discovering that the farmer has purchased a chicken pot pie machine. I must be the first to admit, however, that the G rating should have been a PG - not to be prudent, but there are many elements in the film - language, themes, etc. - that would have raised it to a PG. (Creature Comforts, although accessible, is clearly not an all-ages film either.)Hilarious, amusing, the animals/people never sung (which was good), a splendid cast of voices including Mel Gibson, Julia Sawalha (Absolutely Fabulous) Timothy Spall (Mike Leigh films) and Natasha Richardson as Mrs. Tweedy, the villainous farmer. "},{"Title":"harmless fun","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Enjoyable and cute comedy about a group of chickens who live on a farm, then must band together and escape before they become chicken pies. Delivers exactly what you would expect and more. Predictability is made up for by a terrific voice ensemble. 3/4 "},{"Title":"Animation, good; music, good; film, overrated...","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I know I should have loved this, but the scene where the crate was unveiled cemented it for me... this was a plasticine take on A Bug's Life by way of The Great Escape, and not a patch on either.Aardman's animation is great, of course; and like the subsequent (and also (though less) overrated) Shrek it has a terrific score by John Powell and Harry Gregson-Williams that played a big part in getting me through this film. Unfortunately, maybe it was too big a part - some Luddites object strenously to sitting through the Disney/Pixar movies because they're CGI animated instead of being done by hand (and they don't know what they're missing...), but John Lasseter and Co. devote as much time to the story and characters as they do to the animation. Here we're served up an ex-RAF rooster called Fowler who's an intentional stiff-upper-lip British stereotype - but everyone else is a stereotype as well (from the fellow chickens to the human villain Mrs. Tweedy). I should have been laughing and I should have been cheering them on as they try and try again to escape, and to be fair it does have an entertaining finale; but for the most part Chicken Run just doesn't really engage the emotions the way it should. What with this and A Close Shave (which everyone other than me seems to have found a masterpiece), it's beginning to look as if Nick Park peaked with the truly classic The Wrong Trousers. Or maybe this should have been a half-hour project. I'll stick with Buzz Lightyear and The Red And The Blue, thanks. For you, the review is over.PS For those wondering what the crate is... sorry, you'll need to see the movie. Or A Bug's Life, which is where we came in. "},{"Title":"Top of the pecking order","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Rarely does a children's movie slice through moral ambiguity to empower our young ones with real values. Standing up for what is right takes courage. Failure is wholly acceptable, giving up is not. Caring for one another shows character. The fight for freedom is an honourable and worthy pursuit. All this and more makes Chicken Run, an 84-minute kiddies chronicle of comedic shenanigans, a modern classic.Ginger is a chicken who is not happy with the established order of things. After a succession of failed attempts to better her own - and those of her friends - lot in life, the fortuitous arrival of Rocky the rooster may provide the solution they have desperately been seeking. But the evil Mrs. Tweedy has plans of her own. Beyond the profitless subsistence of egg farming lays the boundless financial gain of chicken pie production! Time has run out as the chickens make one last, frantic bid for freedom.As an amateur clay animator I have some idea of the technical issues faced by the creators of Chicken Run. Believe me when I say it's a time consuming process - even with the instant feedback provided by computers. I started learning the process some 12 years ago with nothing more than an 8mm film camera and a desire to understand the magic. Though technology has improved the production process of &#145;claymation' the methods have, more or less, remained the same. Aardman Animations (Wallace and Gromit, Creature Comforts, Rex The Runt, and others) lead the field by applying knowledge, skill, patience and innovation to all their projects. From humble beginnings with Morph from Vision On (a programme specifically for hearing impaired children) they have - slowly - produced an outstanding body of work. Chicken Run is currently the pinnacle of their efforts and deserves its place as cock of the walk (and I almost made it to the end of this review without cracking a pun&#133; almost). "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie to be refreshingly funny. A rooster (voiced by Mel Gibson) flies into a barn, and the chickens there want him to teach them how to fly so they can escape the farm. It seems that the farmers want to turn them into chicken pot pies! The rooster agrees, and mayhem results.This was a terrific film, using its type of animation well and developing good dialogue.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  As a big Wallace and Grommit fan, I eagerly awaited this chick flick.  And the technique is exquisite.  It starts off very well and ends in a burst of excitement.  The only problem is that it may sag a little too much in the middle for young children (or old people like me).  While the running time may be a little long (it would be worth paying full ticket price if it had been only an hour in length), causing it to drag at times, it nevertheless is a remarkable achievement whose pluses will invariably outweigh its piddling minuses.A word about some of the namby-pamby reviewers.  We coddle our children too much.  We're afraid they'll have nightmares.  We shelter them from the idea that there's pain in the world.  How many people remember the horror of Disney's Snow White?  I was scared to death, seeing it as a kid, yet I'm perfectly normal.  Sure, there's a chicken beheading, but it's necessary to make the threat of the Tweedys clear. Otherwise the obsession with escape doesn't make a lot of sense to the modern liberal mind, where sitting around, being fed by the owners (or government), even without freedom, is the goal.  After all, the hens, for the most part, didn't know they weren't free;  only one dreamer (Ginger) suspected there was more to life than what she'd always known.  The same people who object to even the hint that one of the hens died a violent death probably don't object to exposing their kids to bad language and sexual stuff, blatant or innuendo.  The execution is what makes the movie works, and children of all ages should see it.  Besides, it happens early on and they'll get over it.  So get over it. "},{"Title":"The Future of Film Animation","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The animated film industry has been instantly revolutionized with the first full-length feature film, Chicken Run.  From the makers of the nifty little Wallace and Gromit shorts, Chicken Run is a splendid adventure film that is well made in every way.  Chicken Run is, in a way, a prison film.  The prisoners are the chickens on a small farm dominated by a sadistic Mrs. Tweedle, who becomes obsessed with making chicken pies for more money.Unlike Disney productions, Chicken Run is not manipulative, and it's characters aren't one-dimensional.  Every line is well written, and the score is excellent.  Although most of the chickens are physically hard to tell apart, the voices are diverse enough for the viewer to tell who's who.  This is simply a terrific film, and it is the history of film animation.O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O "}{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie while being a technological masterpiece is just plain fun.  I loved the story-line, the acting, and of course the way it was made.  It is also a story that anybody can watch from the smallest kid to the biggest grown-up.  It has laughs enough for all ages.  It is most certainly worth the rental. "},{"Title":"finger-lickin' good","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chickens.  Lots and lots of chickens.  Chickens from England, walking, running, and knitting.  There's something really funny about British claymation characters, something that the creators of `Wallace and Grommit' have known for quite some time.  `Chicken Run', their first full-length animated feature, brings together elements of `The Great Escape', `101 Dalmatians', and even some `Star Trek' to create a hilarious, smart, vegetarian conscious movie.The crisis the chickens are prisoners at a farm where unproductive hens are turned into dinner and even the prolific ones are treated like egg-laying slaves.  The farm's evil owner then has a moment of fiendish clarity and realizes that gathering and selling eggs is boring.  Making chicken pot pies would be much more profitable and probably a heck of a lot more fun, so she buys a pie machine.  Well, you can't make pot pies without breakin' a few chickens, but since they're so cute--well, as cute as British chickens can be--we don't want them to die!  We want them to run and fly outta there!  Wait--chickens can't fly&#133; or can they?They answer is - no, of course chickens can't fly, sorry to disappoint you.  But they can sure try, and try they do.  This becomes one of the most entertaining parts of the whole film, as most training montages tend to be.  With the help of a flying rooster (voice of Mel Gibson), and the leadership of funky chicken Ginger (the daughter from TV show `Absolutely Fabulous'), the ladies try everything from leaping off rooftops to being flung in giant slingshots, all with hilariously unsuccessful results.  Meanwhile, the evil farmer becomes all that much closer to completing her pot pie contraption, and the chickens still don't know how to fly.Before they can escape they'll have to face the facts and realize that to get out they'll have to use their brains instead of their funny-looking wings.  Each chicken has a special skill, from knitting (the fat, naive chicken) to engineering (the Scottish one with bad vision) that will have to work together to get them out.       Boy, the theme sounds corny, but it definitely works in this film.`Chicken Run' teaches that although we can't fly, we have the right to say `Buwaaauck!' and eat corn off the ground as free fowl, without worry of laying eggs or becoming pot pies.  Besides that, those little faces are enough to keep you entertained and wondering just how much patience someone must have to animate a film like this.My grade for `Chicken Run' A     "},{"Title":"A great film whatever your age","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't plan to watch this but my children got hold of it on video when we were on holiday and played it at least twice a day for a week. They absolutely loved it. What surprised me was that when I eventually gave in and watched it I loved it too. It is VERY clever and superbly well made, with, despite a few nods to the colonials over the pond, a very British sense of humour. Thoroughly recommended. "},{"Title":" Extremely eggcelent movie!!!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I have truthfully watched this movie 105 times and am still going to watch it again! I reccomend this movie to everyone becuase I think it can inspire people to look at chickens in a much different aspect. I Did! And now I own pet chickens. I reallyyyy hope there will be a Chicken Run 2 in the near future!! ~Chicka~ "},{"Title":"surprised me","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I went because Ralph's Supermarket gave me free tickets.  I had not even heard of the movie.Before the opening credits finished, I had already laughed so hard that tears were dripping off my chin!  And I never stopped.  I think my friends sitting with me found my reaction funnier than the movie, though.  Everyone doesn't find the same things amusing - this movie hit my funny bone until it was sore.You didn't get me, though, PETA - I still and always love a good Chicken Pot Pie.One thing about the end - SPOILER ALERT!!!! -  (BEGIN SPOILER) There was only one rooster, right, and all those hens, and they made a whole population of chickens...  Sort of gives me the creeps in the same way as the story of Adam and Eve populating the world, if you know what I mean.  Talk about inbreeding!  I would have taken out the last couple of minutes. "},{"Title":"Excellent! A Masterpiece!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is one of the best movies I have ever seen. The animation is excellent.  So is the story, and the humor of the overall film.   A sequel would be the most prevalent and prudent thing to do with this franchise.  Chicken Run is a masterpiece.! "},{"Title":"Gorgeous.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  And this was all done with CLAY. Not computers, real clay andthen people move it a little bit, then film it again. How they do it,though, is less important than the humour and the life of this littlegem. An allegory? A metaphor? You decide, but along the wayyou'll have a rollicking good time. Kids love it, adults love it, I onlywish that I could recommend it more because I would.           "},{"Title":"(Insert an egg pun of your choice here.)","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is great and most of the reviews have already established that so you don't need me to tell you again. The only reason I wrote this was to say how funny the theatrical trailer was. The won that showed in front of Mission Impossible 2 (Such an awful movie it gives me stomach pains to remember it.) But The Trailer was so great CR-1! This trailer alone would have made ANY movie besides MI-2 worth seeing. But don't think about MI-2. Just go rent chicken run, immediately. "},{"Title":"very Funny","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I usually stay far away from movies like this, but for some kind of reason, once in a wile, I feel the need urging to watch movies like this. And like 'the nightmare before X-mas', I liked this one (I still do). The animations are great, but they get even better when you know how they're made.I also like the story; it's very simple, but mature enough to be compelling for everyone above the 'pokemon-age'.  The voice-casting is typically. Mel Gibson has a really 'American' voice between all those Britains, and for everyone who has ever seen an episode of 'Absolutely Fabulous' I don't think I have to mention Julia Sawhalla's part (or whatever her name is, it was something like that...) "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This animated movie was funny, intelligent and beautifully done. I was just enchanted by the story and by the way it was tell. I was also quite fascinated by the influence the movie had on some kids. Some of them literally stop eating chicken after viewing this movie. The animal rights activists must be cheering for this movie!8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"**** 1/2  Simply amazing!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious claymation film from the creator of the always wonderful Wallace and Gromit series, Nick Park. In his first feature film (which took seven years to develop), Park takes us into the world of a chicken coop, where pensive hens lay in wait until they can escape the harsh reality that surrounds them their farmer owners are planning to be bake them into pies. Julia Sawalha is excellent as the voice of Ginger, the lead chicken who decides to lead the exodus. Mel Gibson lends a bit of American marketing help as the voice of the handsome Rocky, a rooster who supposedly can fly. The best animated film of the year.  "},{"Title":"Aardman's first feature length film is a blast","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Call this the best movie of 2000 ignored by Oscar.  Come on, not even one nomination?  This film is not just an outstanding achievement in hand animation, it's also up to Aardman's high standards of excellent writing, artwork, craft and skill, all in a fresh and original way.Chicken Run continues, in a feature-length film, Aardman's outlandishly funny stop-motion clay animation of Wallace and Grommit and other Oscar-winning shorts, but in the totally unexpected setting of a British chicken farm.  The story is somewhat of an homage to the Great Escape, Stalag 17, Escape of the Birdmen, and other WWII prisoner of war escape movies, but with the ludicrous twist that the heros are, well... birds. Movie fans will enjoy seeing how many other movie references they can spot.The characters and story here are as engrossing as ever, and the direction, vocal talent and foley sound effects are brilliant.  Mel Gibson gives a great performance as Rocky, and the other vocal artists are excellent as well.  Lighting, set decoration and photography are sharp as usual.  Most amazing is the range and subtlety of facial expressions emanating from a few artfully moved eyebrows, eyelids, head shapes, etc.  (It's even more amazing since they don't actually have eyebrows, etc.)  This together with the vocal direction gives the characters real life and feeling.This is great entertainment for all ages, well suited for family viewing.  Some may have a little trouble with the British accents unless they've seen a few BBC shows.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Delightfully funny tale ...","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  1st watched 1/26/2001 - 8 out of 10(Dir-Nick Park and Peter Lord) Delightfully funny tale of chickens' attempted escape from a farm before the farmer sets up a chicken pie machine that would destroy them all. Unique animation and good story add to this gem of claymation.  "},{"Title":"let's rock 'n' roll!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I don't care much for chickens, but I thought this was a cute and funny movie.  Mel Gibson did an excellent job voicing the character Rocky and the claymation was superb.  I know claymation films take a VERY long time to make because each movement needs to be filmed.  I am very impressed with this movie. "},{"Title":"A feather in their caps","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  From the creators of Wallace & Grommit, comes Chicken Run Basically, Chicken Run is The Great Escape, only with chickens. What could be more simple (or hilarious), than that? Like the Aardman series, Wallace & Grommit, Chicken Run is full of the kind of sly humour the English are so good at creating. What more can one say? It's a feather (sorry), in the caps of the folk at Dreamworks, who gave Nick Park and his team to not only make the first claymation feature film, but to make one of the funniest films I've seen in a long time  "},{"Title":"Good, but more for children than adults","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I love Nick Park's Wallace and Gromit shorts, so I couldn't wait to see Chicken Run.  Unfortunately, animated movies are considered kids' fare, so Chicken Run is forced to focus on the kids more than the adults (although one has to wonder why a comment about over-sexed Americans made its way into the script), as opposed to the sly silliness and unpredictability of Park's W&G stories.  That's not to say I didn't enjoy the movie, but it seems like Park betrayed his fans to make a successful family film.Strangely enough, some moments--some KEY moments--seem destined to fly over kids' heads.  For example, when the revelation is made about Rocky's flying ability, what has been obvious to most viewers for some time is finally made know to the rest.  But the explanation consists of a brief glimpse at a poster and a semi-scientific quip about thrust.  So if we're going to get a vague explanation for such an obvious secret, why make it a secret at all?  If this is meant to build suspense, it should not have been so predictable.  (It works in that it makes kids feel smart when they can say they figured it out before they were told, but that just demonstrates how adults are ignored in this movie.)Overall though, the movie has enough humor and just plain fun to make it enjoyable.  I just hope that this does not mark the end of Nick Park's adult-friendly fare.  He has too much satirical humor inside him to limit himself to the 12 and under crowd. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films, I've ever seen!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The makers of Wallace and Grommit have done it again, and this time it's more funny, beautiful and hilarious than ever. The plot is genius. Go see it, and then you will probably buy it, because this you must see several times to get the full experience.. "},{"Title":"Not just a chick flick","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  CHICKEN RUN (2000) ***½ Directed by Peter Lord and Nick Park. Voices Julia Sawalha, Mel Gibson, Miranda Richardson, Jane Horrocks.The first image you have shows a... Well, it looks like a concentration camp in the Auschwitz style. Many identical small houses, huge wire fences, and it's dark, very dark. But then you see... Well, a chicken trying to escape from the place... but she fails. These failed tries of escaping are shown several times in the hilarious first minutes of CHICKEN RUN, the new stop-motion animation by Peter Lord and Nick Park, the creators of the awarded and worldwide famous cartoons of WALLACE & GROMIT. The unlucky chicken who always ends up in the solitaire (I mean, garbage) is Ginger. And the concentration camp is an English farm in the '50s, owned by Mrs. Tweedy, a mean and ambitious women who mistreats her husband and only thinks about making money with the chicken. Ginger wants to escape at all costs, but there's no way... till heaven sends her the solution Rocky, a flying rooster from the US who will teach them how to fly. Of course things won't be all right, especially after Mrs. Tweedy buys a new machine for making chicken pies.Wonderfully written, CHICKEN RUN's greatest virtue is its clever concept. It borrows many elements from real life and action flicks in general and puts it into the chickens' day-by-day life. It works in many levels as a family movie (children are loving it!) but also pleases teenagers and adults- we can have fun with the references to prison/escape and action movies in general. But don't make confusion- this isn't only a satire and the references aren't so obvious as in Mel Brooks' and Leslie Nielsen's parodies. The links are mostly slight, as the farm/concentration camp/repressed chicken/prisoner link I've already mentioned and, for example, a small spoof of the AIR FORCE ONE scene, in which Harrison Ford flies outside a helicopter holding a wire or something close to that.The stop-motion technic deserves much credit. The WALLACE & GROMIT cartoons were short-feature films, while CHICKEN RUN is an 80 minutes long-feature film. It's not suffice to say that the work was hard- each tiny movement was filmed separately, and then edited- but it was worthy. It's one of those things that you can only see on the big screen of a theater.The characters are all well defined Ginger and Rocky are the heroes, Mrs. Tweedy is the villain and Mr. Tweedy is her poor husband, convinced by her that he has hallucinations with the chickens. Rocky has the most famous of the voices Hollywood star Mel Gibson. Ginger is dubbed by Julia Sawalha and Mrs. Tweedy has the voice of Miranda Richardson.There are plenty of memorable characters (the two mice, the dumb chicken, the RAF rooster) and delightful scenes (Ginger and Rocky inside the pie machine, the climax) in CHICKEN RUN, that will make this a small classic of animation. Even if we know what is going to happen in the end, we have great fun during the whole film. This colorful story about quest for freedom and liberty is for sure one of the best, funniest, most intelligent and most invigorating animation movies to be released in the past years. "},{"Title":"OK, but not great.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Fun and rather enjoyable, but I may have expected too much after Wallace & Grommit.  There is really little of the originality, subtlety and depth of the W&G films.  The Wallace look of most of the characters (never mind whether or not this was the right portrayal)leaves me pondering the evolution of genius into stereotype.   "},{"Title":"Now I know what Nick Parks has been workin' on!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I have been a fan of Nick Parks since I saw Wallace and Gromit in The Wrong Trousers.  I was watching Road to El Dorado, when I though out loud to my friend, I wonder what Nick Parks has been doing, I haven't seen a new Wallace and Gromit in a while.Then, lo and behold, the Chicken Run Trailer came on!Personally, I love this movie.  I think it really show what a hand animator can do without the use of a lot of CG effects.The story isn't timeless, but it's a fun romp.  I love the scenes that borrow from some of the old movies, like The Great Escape, Stalag 17, and even Raiders of the Lost ArkI've always loved animaton of all kinds, be it claymation or Japanese Animation.  Chicken Run is possisbly one of the best, funniest, and well though out movies in animation history.It's a definite must-see for animation, and Wallace and Gromit Fans alike.Now... I wonder when the Wallace and Gromit movie will be out? ) "}{"Title":"The coolest chickens on earth","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  One of the best animation movies ever. Walles and gromit where great to but the makers, did a even better job whit chicken run. The voices are great to, and the humor is really great to. Only it had to be a longer movie its a little short. thats the only thing bad at the movie. further everything is just GREAT. "},{"Title":"Not that impressed","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I'm in awe of Nick Park. Creature Comforts, Wallace and Gromit, those are masterpieces. So I had high hopes for this movie. But when I saw how hard Dreamworks was selling this movie (Ralphs tie-ins, etc), I began to have my doubts. And they were well justified. Chicken Run is the longer, duller, less clever version of A Close Shave. Sorry, but this movie is a yawner.  Still, it's worth watching for the plasticene artistry. "},{"Title":"The DVD release of this film adds a significant dimension your total chicken experience, featuring","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  -a full length commentary by the co-directors-documentaries on the making of the film-interviews with key players and film makers-shorts takes from previous films-short animations from the early careers of the film makers-a game (if your computer has a DVD drive) "},{"Title":"Wonderful fun no matter how old you are.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best movies of 2000. Original, visually stunning, and hysterical. I love Wallace and Gromit, and Chicken Run lives up to its predescessor. Sure, I love to eat chicken, and the way we treat chickens is bad, but it's just like the message in Toy Story treat your toys good. The writers develop the characters properly, and we get to know all of the chickens. Babs was my favorite, and Mel Gibson is funny as Rocky the Rhode Island Red Rooster. A fun movie for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Enjoyed the movie.  Very fast-paced and well made. Villains believable as were the heroes. The references to other films kept me laughing and looking for more. My 5 year old niece loved it, too. We both want to see it again. "},{"Title":"Have you PETA chicken today?","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Though entertaining and well-crafted, I was disturbed by this movie's reckless subliminal message to kids  chicken farming is evil, eating eggs is evil, and eating chickens is evil (plus, more obviously, chickens should be set free).  PETA's zealous fingerprints are all over this movie!  (PETA being People for the Ethical treatment of Animals.)  Like most zealots, whose basic premise may be sound -- yes, animals of course should be treated with respect -- over the course of time the zeal for the cause often overwhelms reason and common sense.If everyone indeed stopped farming chickens and eating them and their eggs, the species would quickly perish.  Why?  They have no other place in nature.  Since before recorded history, chickens have always been bred and raised for their eggs and meat.  Anyone ever seen a wild chicken fending for itself out there?  Release them all tomorrow into the woods and forests and fields and just see how long they last. Which the filmmakers seem to recognize at the end, by showing the escaped chickens living happily ever after, not amongst the other creatures of the wild, but in the protection of a former bird sanctuary.  "},{"Title":"A Dark Horse (Chicken?) Triumph","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  While many movies like The Perfect Storm floundered as solid entertainment vehicles, Chicken Run provided safe harbor as a candid, non-assuming, original, and often hilarious film hatched out of Aardman Studios.  Using elements from POW movies like The Great Escape and Stalag 17, with Hitchcockian accents thrown here and there, this movie focuses on a group of chickens seeking escape before their goose is cooked (or to be more accurate, turned into a pie).  The excruciatingly-worked animation rivals the magic spun by computer-generated images, with many keen details worked into the sets and nuances of each character's expression.  There's humor, suspense, love, and triumph for movie-goers of every age, and I'm plucked dry to think of any comparable work that offers so much for admission.Performances are excellently matched from voice to animated character Mel Gibson gives a tongue-in-beak performance as Rocky, the American rooster , and Miranda Richardson is diabolically charming as the ill-spirited Mrs. Tweedy.  Kudos also to Julia Sawalha as Ginger, the leader of the chicken squad, and Benjamin Whitrow as Fowler, the stodgy RAF rooster who presides - with questionable authority - over the chicken farm.An incredibly fun, inventive, and charming movie from start to finish. "},{"Title":"This Movie rocks!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is such a funny movie! It's definetly one of my favorites! And the thing is, I really *cared* about the characters. With most movies, you say Oh, ha ha, that's funny, but you don't care whether they live or not. I did with this movie. "},{"Title":"Clever, warm, and, despite the involvement of Dreamworks, Yorkshirish","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit, my heart sank for a few seconds when Rocky opened his mouth and punctured the North English atmosphere with his American accent.  Was it true, after all?  Had Aardman traded its soul for an American audience?No, it hadn't.  The film got better, not worse, after Rocky's entrance (neither because nor in spite of him, I think); it became more, not less, true to itself.  It's probably the best Aardman work so far; better even than A Close Shave, which it somewhat resembles - it's better because it's longer and more ambitious, yet scarcely puts a foot wrong.  The understated, lovably daft characters are similar to those of the Wallace-and-Gromit world, but they're more than mere copies.  The rat duo was an inspired creation; and Ginger is an endearing chicken indeed.Every aspect of the art direction is excellent.  If you've made allowances for the story's perfect construction, and the wit, and you still think the film is more exhilarating than it ought to be, you've probably forgotten the cumulative effect of such flawless visual world-spinning.  Why does anyone bother making computer-animated films, when this kind of thing is possible?  Taken together, Chicken Run and The Nightmare Before Christmas - very different in style - form a decisive refutation of computer animation.  The world of Toy Story, to which the computer style is ideally suited, doesn't have half the richness or solidity of Chicken Run or Nightmare; and one can't help thinking how much better A Bug's Life would have been if it had been made in stop-motion.  -It couldn't have been as good as this, though. "},{"Title":"Funny and Cute!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the cutest movie I've ever seen in my life! It reminds me of Wallace And Gromit, the UK claymation TV show. The characters were well-created and the story wasn't too bad. It was very original and I had a lot of laughs watching it. "}{"Title":"Eggstrodinary (excuse the pun)","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run ****Chicken Run is a witty, smart, intelligent movie that appeals to adults and well as children. It is about Ginger, the chicken, who tries to get her and the rest of the chickens out of Tweedy's farm. The Tweedy's are mean, lean (at least the wife is), chicken killing machines. They run an egg farm, but when Mrs. Tweedy gets fed up of making small profits, they buy a pie machine, a CHICKEN pie machine. Meanwhile, Rocky the Rooster crashes, by flying, into the coop and tells the chickens he can teach them to fly over the fence to escape. It's a British film from the makers of the famous Wallace and Gromit. Chicken Run is easily on of the best movies of 2000. When I went to see it, there were many children in the theater. Throughout the movie I heard laughter, but it was the laughter of adults. That proves how smart and witty the movie is. Mel Gibson provides the voice of Rocky the Rooster. He's the star of the movie, but he is not the best character. The best character is Babs. Babs is voiced by Jane Horicks from Little Voice. She is so brainless and dumb, that she is hilarious. She knits constantly. The funny thing is that she makes jokes for adults. Of course, it has the slap stick humor for the kids, but mostly adults jokes as I have said before. Chicken Run was the best reviewed movie of 2000 and I can agree with every critic who loved the movie. It is so intelligent and hilarious and just cute that audiences around the country loved it! Perfect for adults. Perfect for kids. "},{"Title":"The way, we treat Chicken's is not nice, but the way they deal with it is fun and exciting to watch","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Well the great amount of chicks in this movie definitely was not the reason I watched this movie (as it would be when Coyote Ugly comes to our town cinema (which I doubt)) and neither was the great commercial, for the commercial pretty much sucked. There were actually 3 other reasons I watched this, first of all because Mel Gibson provided the film with a voice and I think he's got a good taste of movies; second the average vote here on IMDB and third of all the box &#150; office result and I must say I was not disappointed, for this movie was good. It was funny, exciting and in a way I really felt for those chicks, I mean look at the way we hold them, that farm looked like a concentration camp for chickens. Anyway, this really is a good film for young and old and I must say I am pretty happy about the way things are going with Dreamworks, for they finally give some resistance to the oh so mighty Disney kiddy films. Not that I do not like Disney's films, on the contrary I love most of them, but I like a bit variation too man. I mean Dreamworks' Antz was much better than Disney's A Bug's Life, whereas Buena Vista's (sort of Disney's) Armageddon was much better than Dreamworks' Deep Impact. I just love a bit of competition, cause it makes everyone struggle to make the best product and that benefits who in the end? US! So watch this and enjoy7,5 (smallish 8) out of 10 "},{"Title":"who cares about the fate of a bunch of chickens?","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  the plot of this movie was not very original. I found the fake bird scene very reminiscent of A BUG'S LIFE, which is better than this one. CHICKEN RUN was quite boring, and sometimes you couldn't understand what they were saying. I did appreciate all the effort put into this movie. The claymation is fantastic!  "},{"Title":"fun animated tale","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Though not on a level with `Toy Story 2,' DreamWorks' animated hit `Chicken Run' provides enough originality of concept and expertise of execution to score as fun, high-spirited entertainment for the whole family.  Borrowing heavily from the 1963 classic `The Great Escape,' `Chicken Run' cleverly envisions a British poultry farm as a barbed-wired camp in which a group of animated hens and one retired RAF rooster are trapped in a life of hopeless, egg-producing servitude.  When the owners of the farm decide to up their profits by converting their operation to a chicken pie manufacturing plant, Ginger, the feisty, levelheaded hen who harbors visions of a glorious life beyond the confines of this hellish prison, decides it is time for the ladies to band together and find a way to escape once and for all.  Meanwhile, into their lives drops Rocky the Flying Rooster, a wisecracking American circus performer whose head is easily turned by the attention such a singular stud naturally receives from a coop full of love-starved females.  Together, these unlikely heroes and heroines plan and scheme their big break, encountering various setbacks and thwarting multitudinous dangers along the way.As a piece of animation, `Chicken Run' is truly outstanding.  Opting for traditional animated puppetry rather than drawn cel animation or even computer-generated graphics, the creators of `Wallace and Gromit' (Peter Lord and Nick Park) do a remarkable job of creating an assortment of characters whose movements are fluid and whose appearance borders on the surrealistic.  In short, these are not `realistic' looking chickens - all the better to enhance the otherworldly quality of the film's setting.  The carefully crafted sets and backgrounds represent a similar triumph in the areas of attention to detail and establishment of mood.  The movie is, quite simply, a joy to look at from beginning to end, and it is gratifying to know that filmmakers can buck the recent trend towards full scale computer animation and still produce a film that looks this impressive.Just as important, Karey Kirkpatrick has provided a script filled with clever one-liners, finding just the right balance of acerbic wit and heartwarming sentiment.  In addition, every single voice, including Mel Gibson's as Rocky, sounds perfectly right in the context of the character assigned to it.  If there is a bit of a flaw in `Chicken Run,' it probably lies in the fact that the story itself is not quite as fresh or original as the technological accoutrements used to put it across.  In terms of sophistication, the tale itself sometimes seems to be lagging behind the eye-popping visuals and the ear-tickling dialogue.  Still, this is a minor quibble about a film that works so well on so many levels.  `Chicken Run' may not be one of the great works of animation, but it certainly stands as one of the best such films of recent times.  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the Year","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, by all means this is the best movie of the year unless something really good comes out by the end of the year.  It had comedy, a suspenseful plot and a few emotional parts.  This was great.  It is about a bunch of chickens on a chicken farm who want to get out.  Then their owner mrs. tweedy decides she is sick of making small miniscule profits and pies a chicken pie making machine.  The chickens meanwhile have been distracted by a chicken who has flown in to the farm.  He says he can teach the chickens how to fly out of their farm.  And of course chickens can't fly!  Well any way the pie machine is back up and running and Mr. tweedy (I don't know if thats the right name) comes for the chickens and...  You will have to rent the movie! I don't want to ruin it for you! "},{"Title":"Technical tour de force, hilarious and a good storyline","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Well, it's been a few years since A Close Shave, but the wait HAS BEEN WORTH IT!  Chicken Run bursts at the seams with inventiveness, in-jokes, puns and technical brilliance.  Movie cliches are deftly and affectionately satirised, especially in the love story subplot.  Julia Sawahla is a suitably plucky (sorry -) heroine, and Mel Gibson is wonderfully brash as Rocky.I will certainly be going back to catch all the things I missed the first time, and I really hope all the people who paid multiply for the empty whizz-bang of Phantom Menace come to see this, to find out what a special effects movie _WITH_ a storyline is like. "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I bought this video for my nephew and could not resist watching it before I gave it to him. I found this movie to be one of the funniest things I've seen in a long long time. The animation (claymation) is flawless and the dialog is brilliant. I'm so glad I did not see this in the theater; I was laughing so much I would have been asked to leave. Chicken Run - its not just for kids! "},{"Title":"This shouldn't be funny","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is, but shouldn't be, funny. It's a dead-ringer for a Nazi concentration camp in WWII, with executions, mass murders, cruelty and hope. It is funny because the creators tried very (sometimes too) hard to make this a light comedy. But it is not one. I wouldn't take my children to watch this movie; too many questions would arise that needn't be answered at a young age.It's a good movie; the thing is, it is great for adults. Entertaining enough. But for all of you who rave about the animation, I am surprised you have ignored the real masterpiece in plasticine stop motion The Nightmare Before Christmas. That one is a movie with a heart and a soul of gold. This one is merely good; I think I will forget it in about a week. It doesn't raise enough questions (about life in a concentration camp -er, I mean, a chicken farm) and it fails to answer most of them (why did Rocky return to the farm? Why and how did he escape?). Read the plot outline, and you will guess every part of the movie in sequence.Not bad, definitely. But it could (and should have) been so much better. "},{"Title":"The film had an original concept and a 'blah' execution.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Basic plot outline A 'claymation' adventure from the creator of Wallace and Gromit, featuring chickens as the main characters. Ginger is the 'head chick', and she deviously plots to free all the chickens on the farm, preventing an otherwise certain 'Death By Chicken Pie'. After many failed attempts, she meets Rocky, the 'flying rooster', and decides that he holds the key to their freedom. Review This film was very disappointing. The animation was superb, and the characters were quite cute and funny and stuff. But thats pretty much all there was to it. It wasn't as entertaining as it could have been. The film had an original concept and a 'blah' execution. WAAaaaaAAAy over rated. "},{"Title":"Inventive Tale of Poultry Freedom","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Call it Braveheart for poultry, Chicken run is a sweet, goodnatured, nicely-crafted family film about a group of chickens on a Yorkshire farm in the 1950s who dream of freedom beyond the fences.  They are headed by spirited hen Ginger, who organizes and rallies her fellow fowl in various failed attempts to escape.  Then one night, Rocky Rhodes, a flying rooster, ends up hiding in a chicken coop and promising to teach them how to fly out of the farm.While the entire thing may sound like a film driven purely at kids, it's surprisingly charming and intelligent, using its English setting to its advantage, creating a group of disarmingly funny and cute, memorable characters that adults can also enjoy.  The voiceovers are off-beat and often hilarious, except for Mel Gibson, whose harsh, gratingly annoying voice seems totally out-of-place as the asinine American rooster.  Perhaps if a different actor would have been used, the character would see much more likeable.The claymation in the film is flawless, and the enlarged eyes and overall pudgy look of the hens is very adorable, and a thrilling ride inspired by Indiana Jones through a chicken pot pie machine.  All the characters look as if they were delicately, lovingly created and are treated as such.A truly imaginative animation movie, Chicken Run is fun fare that both kids and families can enjoy.8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, when I saw the trailer in the theater for this movie I thought it would be beyond stupid.  I ended up buying the DVD anyway because it was on sale and I collect DVD's. (Yes, I have a few DVD's that I don't like because of this).  However, Chicken Run is not one of them.  I was pleasantly surprised with this film and will most likely watch it  again sometime soon.  Don't let the name steer you away from seeing this film.  I thought it was a dumb title and thought it'd be a dumb movie. It's great, lots of good laughs.  Mel Gibson made a surprisingly funny chicken.  Trust me, take a chance with this one.  "},{"Title":"Like a Hollywood movie","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  What film must it be, that can make you laughing and amazing in one and the same way? Chicken run is a perfect parody on Hollywood´s popcorn movies and old war dramas, but it has got the same suspense and excitement as them. The best scene is when Ginger and Rocky are inside the pie machine. This sequence has an unbelievable thrill that even a 100$-movie couldn´t give you... The animators did a great job! It´s  good to know, that you don´t always need computers and expensive high tech stuff to make good FX - just use plasticine! (9.5/10) "},{"Title":"Hardly Anything To Dislike!","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run was a total must-see for me because I love the Wallace and Gromit films, which were done by the same people, and filmed in the same way. Chicken Run impressed me just as much as W&G did!Ginger (Julia Sawalha) is the leader of a gang of chickens who are trying to break out of a Yorkshire chicken farm set in the 1950's. As the group of chicks continuously try to break out of their hatching-hell, more chickens are been taken into a machine to be made into chicken pies. Ginger and her gang are about to give up, but then an inspiring and decidedly sexy chicken named Rocky comes along and announces that he is able to fly. In a matter of time, Ginger realises Rocky is actually a runaway circus chicken. Ginger then demands to Rocky that he must teach them how to fly out of the Yorkshire farm or else Ginger's group will give his secret away.There is basically nothing to dislike here, the voice-over performances are naturally astounding, the cinematography is breathtaking, the direction effort from Nick Park is some of the best I have seen all year and the screenplay is simply lovely. The way the film all strings itself together is just beautiful, and parents, teenagers or adults better think again if they think that Chicken Run is just a kids flick. No-siree. This film will impressive everyone who goes to see it, and if you do take an hour-and-a-half off your busy schedule to see Chicken Run, you won't regret doing so.Cute, cuddly and amazingly inventive, Chicken Run is one of the best films I have seen all year!I rate Chicken Run 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Everything you could want, and a little bit more.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing commercials for Chicken Run I thought I came up with the pre-conception that watching clay models moving around wouldn't be that entertaining, more menial. Man, was a wrong! After watching Chicken Run I don't think I will ever look at the Children's Genre, or in this case Everyone's Genre the same again! The character development is extremely well done, not only for the two main characters but a fair amount of the supporting cast. It is great to see characters change completely from what they were like in the beginning, to what they're like at the end. The story is basically about a bunch of Chickens, doomed to death until Rocky the flying Rooster (voiced by Mel Gibson) flies into the yard one day hiding from his Circus prison. The story evolves to the Chickens' many humorous methods of trying to escape, with lots of takes from movies such as The Great Escape in-between. This movie is one of the extremely rare movies that I want to watch again, and again and I plead with you to see it yourself, as then you'll know what I'm raving about! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I took my kids to see Chicken Run at a cut price Sunday morning screening a few weeks back, and it is simply the best film I have seen in ages, (including American Beauty). The puppets are totally believable, the talking hens are totally believable. I loved it. My (seven and eight year old) kids loved it. Usually  I never see a film twice, but I think that I will go back and see this one ( full price if necessary) at the next possible opportunity. "},{"Title":"Inspiring chick flick","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Very worthwhile! Makes funny references to everything from Hogan's Heroes to Star Wars.  Animation and voices all great, except for Rocky the Flying Rooster, who somehow wound up sounding annoyingly like Buzz Lightyear - but I still can't fault the film.  The pathos of the early scenes was uncanny. The pie machine sequence was stunning and the final escape, breath-taking.  "},{"Title":"this movie has THRRRRRUST!!!","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  wow! the things you can do with CLAY these days!! Hogan's Heroes meets Wallace & Gromit meets The Birds! The references to other movies/TV shows are too many to count! I seem to catch a few more with every viewing! I'm not even gonna GUESS how long this movie would have taken to film!  "},{"Title":"Charming but nothing innovative after the clay.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Determined Ginger plans on rescuing her chicken friends a gradual execution. Failing constantly to escape, her hopes of freedom for all are once again refreshed with the appearance of Rocky the Flying Rooster. Now it's his job to train the chickens to fly or else face the same fate he had before his 'stop.' Cute charming film definitely appeals to kids and movie fans but that is just about it. Rather dull except noting the familiar movie parts of THE GREAT ESCAPE or RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, CHICKEN RUN feels like one movie tie in to another, offering nothing fresh and enjoying besides the clay which spawns our heroes and villains. The light hearted humor is enough for everyone to enjoy and cute jokes by the crooked rats save the movie from being an utter bore. The cute charm saves CHICKEN RUN from a beheading. "},{"Title":"Don't get dragged into this.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is just my person opinion of this film, so take it for what is. And if you got any complaints about this review, you can direct them to that brick wall right over there *points to brick wall*I got dragged to this movie by my parents and did NOT want to go.. But, being the avid movie watcher that I am.. I thought to myself How bad can this really be? well my question was answered.. One of the worst movies EVER. Mel Gibson totally embarasses himself in this film.. And I don't even know who the other people are in it. If you are looking to waste 2 hours, then by all means, go see this movie.. But if you'd like to see a movie of a better calibur, and the world's greatest actor, go see Major League 2, with Tom Beringer! "},{"Title":"Hey, I enjoyed it!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I can't add much here, but everytime I think of this movie, I have to sing The Wanderer, Mel Gibson singing a drunken duet w/ Dion(the radio)on this song is tooooooooo cool! (although there is no actual drinking involved.) Hey, it might not be your bag, but the longer reviews should give you all the curiousity to get this film in front of your eyes. A 10!! "}{"Title":"Absolute, Complete, Total, perfection...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  From the creator of 'Wallace and Gromit' comes Chicken Run, a claymation movie about chickens trying to literaly fly the coop!  Ginger is a chicken who keeps getting caught, trying to escape from a chicken farm where the chickens get the axe if they stop laying eggs.  After several failed escapes, Ginger spots a rooster flying overhead, and it lands in their coop. His name is Rocky, a real 'Rhode Island red' as he puts it.  The site of Rocky in England has all the other chickens excited, they never have had anyone from America before in their coop.  But Ginger sees Rocky as the chickens ticket to freedom.  Ginger thinks they can escape by getting Rocky to teach everyone to fly (of course he can't, he's just an awol rooster escaping from the circus who is routinely shot out of a cannon).  But time is short, and the farmers wife has plans for a new machine where you insert chickens in one end, and out the other end comes out instant chicken pies!!This movie is hilarious, touching and absolutely perfect.  The film contains, Mac a scottish inventor, 2 vicious guard dogs, a clueless chicken named Bab, 2 shady mice (one sneaky the other dumb) who steal stuff and provide all the tools for the escape attempts from the farmers house, and Fowler an old English rooster who dis-trusts the 'American' as a Yank who knows nothing about discipline.  Fowler is probably the best character and my favourite in the film who waxes poeticaly about his days in the RAF, and is literaly the English version of Sam the Eagle on the Muppet Show. 'Always late to the war you Americans' he keeps saying.  This movie is also filled with lots of British and American bashing which is very funny, and it contains lots of parodies of other films such as 'Stalag 17', 'Raiders of the Lost Ark', and 'Star Trek'.A perfect film for kids, and adults will love it.  Also the animation is INCREDIBLE.  It seems like this claymation movie could have taken 5+ years just to make!!.  This is absolutely one of the best films of the year.. and the only one so far that I have seen to come out this year to receive this rating..Rating 10 out of 10.If you did not like this film there is something SERIOUSLY wrong with you! "},{"Title":"Laugh, laugh, oh, and laugh some more!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Funny, innovitave escape comedy created with the same passion & ideals that wallace & grommit were, no hollywood sellout here. There's some excellent film jokes here, and some slightly more older ones too. This is a film for, and I hate to say such a cliche, kids of all ages. With some inspirational choices in characters and voices, you'll be whipped along for a laughing, entertaining ride. It's hard to believe that these little chickens aren't real, and behind that fast moving camera there really isn't a crew, even if they are plasticene too! Fantastic stuff. "},{"Title":"Cute, smart, but a little boring.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is a very cute movie and a very smart movie for a kids flick. Only this really isn't a kids flick. There is more of a serious outline than comical one. The subject matter is a fairly serious one. About trying to escape from a chicken farm, before being turned into a chicken pot pie. I know it sounds childish, but it's handled in a serious manner. There is some comic relief, but not as much as we're used to from the avg. kid's movie. I thought this movie moved a little slow at parts and I did get a little bored (Yes, I know it wasn't made for me). Overall it's a really good movie for all ages groups. Most jokes only the parents will get. And I've seen mixed reactions from kid viewers of my family. But I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great First Film For Park","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is great. It's a Really funny film which gave Nick Park a chance to show off his Movie Talent by Co. Directing it. Mel Gibson (Lethal Weapon and The Patriot) plays rocky, an American Rooster who one day lands accidentally on Mr. and Mrs. Tweedys Chicken farm.  Ginger A chicken played by Julia Sawalha (Venus and Mars) is bent on escaping and when Rocky lands, they all think they can fly out. But Soon it all go's pear shaped and when the chickens find out Mrs. Tweedy is going to turn them into pies, and Rocky leaves, They loose hope. But they discover Fowler, a British chicken was in the RAF, Then they have a new idea. Perhaps they can fly after all........  "},{"Title":"better than Chicken!!! = )","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  hey, this was an excellent movie, it was so all around well done, that i was amazed!  my only little bit of sorrow was the shape of the characters themselves seemed a little stiff.but the animation was spectacular, the way the sun touched the roof tops and the  over all movement of the characters. the script was great too! "},{"Title":"Wow!  This movie is great.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"    Chicken Run is a wildly great animated tale of a boasting rooster named Rocky (Mel Gibson) who flies right into a chicken camp that has the resembelence of prison for war prisoners.  Rocky is asked by Ginger (Julia Swahulia), a courageous hen who is determined to get out of the camp before the owners, hen-pecked Mr. Tweedy (Tony Haygarth) and devilish Mrs. Tweedy (Miranda Richardson) turn the whole camp of hens into pot pies.    Nick Park and Peter Lord, who had great success with the Wallace and Gromit series, wrote and directed the film with a solid touches of humor and intelligence.    This film also makes a great reference to several old WW2 prison movies, notably Stalag 17 and The Great Escape.    Besides the kids, adults should enjoy and cherish this film.      "},{"Title":"Could be the best comedy I've ever seen","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I have now seen Chicken Run twice, and I truly believe I may still have missed some of the hilarious, punch-by-punch gags.  I find it difficult to recommend movies to people whose tastes I don't know, but any person I can think of would be doubled over in their chair with laughter at this absolutely excellent, fast-paced, witty, and charming creation. "},{"Title":"The Creators of Wallace and Gromit have done it again!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Whoever thought that chickens would try to escape from a farm? The creators of Wallace and Gromit prove that chickens are not we see them as. The main character, Ginger, is the most courageous female that I have ever known. She knows what she wants and will never give up. Chicken Run is the funniest movie for kids that I have seen in a long time. There is nothing like seeing a bunch of chickens trying to escape and fail. There's always a chance. "},{"Title":"Sheer fun !!!!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Being a Wallace & Gromit-adept I just couldn't wait for CR to arrive at our Dutch theaters. And it was, I'm happy to say, well worth the wait.The only problem is the way they treat this gem over here. Why do they always seem to think Animation is for kids only ?They had the film dubbed by some lousy dutch soap-actors, coz 4-year olds can't read subtitles. OK, fair enough. But why do they show this version in the Big theatres and the original one only in the small ones ?? And why is it, that the promotion is almost entirely focused on kids ??To give you another example I recently watched the morning cartoons on a local TV-station which had a Ren & Stimpy-episode featuring Stimpy producing a large amount of hairballs and eventually he's throwing up his own guts. Now that's what I call quite heavy stuff you don't show kids at 930 AM !!! But it's animation, so it's kids stuff.Anyway,If you're an adult and not prejudiced regarding animation-films, go see The Chicken Run !!! The original version, that is. "},{"Title":"You won't be disappointed...","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see this movie while in the theaters while on vacation in Nashville. I took my 10-year-old brother along, because we are both big fans on Nick Park and his company Aardman Animations. I was downright BLOWN AWAY by the quality of animation, along with the comedic aspects, most of which I didn't understand, since I haven't been lucky enough to see the other movies referenced in this film.If you are fortunate enough to see this movie, I can guarantee that you won't be disappointed. It's DEFINITELY worth the time. "}{"Title":"Chicken Run ain't no Chicken Fun!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  What is it about this film that, apparently, has everyone cheering and giggling. I don't see it. I just don't. I mean, having watched over and over again the superior Wallace & Gromit trilogy one's entitled to expect a certain level of quality. However, Nick Park and Peter Lord fall terribly short with Chicken Run. It seems to me that the Hollywood influence (Jeffrey Katzenberg/Dreamworks) has been counterproductive in terms of the originality of the script and the depth of the storytelling.The animation, though, is splendid!IMDb rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Worth the price of admission for these alone!","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Excellent movie!  It was worth the price of admission for the retelling of just these two old jokes.  I paraphrase severelyDarn Americans, always arriving late for a war!In the probable event of an emergency, passengers should put their heads between their legs and--kiss their butts goodbye!And this movie has a lot more to offer.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"clay has never looked so good","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  it is your mission, as a chicken run lover, to find at least one person short sighted enough to think this is a kids movie and force him or her to watch it.  they will thank you, and you'll get to see it again. "},{"Title":"Charming, witty, funny, original. . .","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Aw heck. I could go on forever about what this movie is. Think of anything positive you could say about a film. You name it, this movie is that and more. While Disney kept on reusing their old formula, I was surprised to find something actually original. Go on. I dare you to find an animated movie like this. While some of the humor was a bit dry, most of it was priceless. This movie is the best animated movie of 2000. It's better than Road to El Dorado. It's better than Titan A.E. It's better than Dinosaur. It's certainly better than Tarzan, which came out the year before. As amazing as Prince of Egypt was, this is Dreamworks' most successful feature. And this is their only rated G film. No big surprise there. Get this movie when it comes out on DVD or video. It's fantastic. "},{"Title":"witty, humorous","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  A group of desperate chickens on a brutal farm enlist the aid of a visiting rooster to escape.  Claymation movie sends up 50's and 60's escape films but has plenty of original material.  Clever script and plot, non-stop action and remarkable cinematography.  Similar to Toy Story, both adults and kids can enjoy the fun. (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"Disney has got a serious rival","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday with its original dialogue, and I must say that I was stunned.  The creators who made the Wallace & Gromtit-shorties have gone and delivered what has got to be one of the best movies of this year and one of the best animated-films ever. This film looks fantastic, the voices are perfect, the setting is brilliantly created and the atmosphere of the chicken-farm in the 1950`s England is perfect. This is an animated film, that will be loved by kids and adults alike.  It is also a good and interesting story that is excellently told, and this keeps you glued until the end. Dump Disney`s latest effort Tarzan(6/10) out the window, and get Chicken Run right now!10/10 "},{"Title":"Nick Park and Peter Lord defy their detractors","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is, without question, the best movie of the summer. Nick Park and Peter Lord have proven to the world at large that a Claymation film can run longer than a short subject and still be a success. This film's evocation of the great prisoner of war movies (The Great Escape, Stalag 17) is at once stunning and hilarious. The amount of detail given in paying homage to these films gives Chicken Run its edge and its very British tone. I attended the film with my 3 year old son, who laughed hysterically in all the right places and has now officially proclaimed Chicken Run his favourite film. I was rolling in the aisles myself. Like The Iron Giant, this film disproves the Disney ethos that an animated film needs to be a musical to be a success; the only difference is that Chicken Run has the box office to show for it. Great voice-over work from all involved, an amazing amount of detail everywhere (this film screams out for repeat viewings) , and a solid script combine to create one of the most pleasurable filmgoing experiences I have ever had. Those of you who disliked the film can go on with you heads in the sand; the rest of us won't miss you. "},{"Title":"Well crafted ingenuity","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Some voices here have taken on the art critic nasal voice and are trying to downgrade the hard work and great result of this film. Fancy words don't apply here, snobs.The fantastic engineering of the movie is absolutely beyond all praise - the details, the scenery, the characters. I couldn't care less about the formulaic plot; Chicken Run is and is supposed to be, a feast for the eyes.A great film, and a truly remarkable work. "},{"Title":"Run to this movie on the Big Screen - 8.5/10!!!!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Nothin' but Fun!  If you just want to sit down and be completely entertained, see this movie while it is still on the big screen.  I'm sure you'll want to rent it or even buy it on DVD when it is released.  Lots of fun.  Well thought out.  Highly enjoyable for all family members and even just adults!  Really, don't walk, run to the theatre..... "},{"Title":"Perfection in Plasticine","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is a first rate movie, entertaining kids and adults equally on many levels, a rarity. This was the first movie I've seen since Babe where the kids in the theater (and there were many) laughed hysterically at all the right moments and yet were silent and involved even during somber scenes. Not a single frivolous peep. But laugh they did, many times.Adults laughed even more then the kids. The screenplay is wickedly funny, and fast paced. Sharp witted barbs at English culture (esp. post WWII) and subtle pokes at many Hollywood movies abound. They fly off the screen with terrific voicework by the actors (no slouches here). This is a treat to find combined with Nick Park's trademark inventive direction and his mentor Peter Lord's production design. Park's action scenes are more electrifying then most Hollywood blockbusters. Park and Lord's shelf of Oscar's for animated shorts are well earned and they've created a singular debut feature film. "}{"Title":"So-so.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Good things about 'Chicken Run' genuinely feminist; even more genuinely socialist (in an Old Labour, let's-all-help-each-other-out kind of way).  It magnificently mocks hollow American bluster, and its animated style is refreshingly different, if stilted, in a world of Hollywood conformity.Less good things formulaic plot.  Dearth of interesting characters.  Insularity of vision.  Average, rarely hilarious dialogue.  Gleeful luddism.  Island mentality, unironically referred to as reward.  Hackneyed aping of Alan Bennett sans humour or pathos.  Very British. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fabulous","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Absolutely fabulous movie with incredible and very british sense of humor. The german synchonization could be better. I suggest to view the non-translated original english version. Get familiar with the chicken and think twice before you buy some chicken pie when you are on shopping next time. "},{"Title":"Not as it could have been.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  As someone who loves the work of Aardman animation this is a real disappointment. Yes the animation is excellent but the story is not as intricate or as clever as The wrong trousers. What went wrong? "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The Basic Plot An ambitious chicken called Ginger tries repeatedly to escape a British chicken farm, but fails repeatedly , and then a wisecracking American Rooster called Rocky, who supposedly can fly comes , and Ginger has him try to teach them to fly so they can escape , with failed  results. and then when they learn that they'll be turned to chicken pies, their will strengthens ......The praiseGreat fun. Funny. It combines the dry,satiric,absurd,best of British humor married to a parody of  the gag-filled brand of humor personified in Rocky the flying rooster. Hilarious. You're kept in an exciting rivet of suspense up until the great climax. The claymation is great, and so is the cinematography.Very worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Standard animation which is cute and funny but lacks depth","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run, from the Wallace and Gromit guys, it must be said is an entertaining comedy, although as with the Wallace and Gromit movies, it lacks any depth or different approaches. As well as that the standard 50's style machinery, good vs evil (main character being good) and love interest as a side-story is all a little predictable and unimaginative. The TV series 'The Simpsons' is a prime example of excellent imagination and clever scripting and one-liners, which in my opinion is clearly missing from a film such as C.R in order to take it up the pecking order (pun intended).On the positive side found much of escape attempts, animation and the nods to great films of the past. Notably 'The Great Escape' (underground tunnel with sliders + chicken bounces ball against side of small solidartry confinement eg Steve McQueen). Also the over used Indiana Jones, slide under a closing door from roof to floor and dropping there hat, to then reach back inside to get it. Although I thought the biggest take-off appeared to miss most critics, that of Flight of the Phoenix, eg deciding to build a plane with the guidance of what they think is an expert, but they misunderstood him.In summary, this is a pretty standard predictable comedy, although still worth watching, although its a far reach from some of the great films surrounding it in the IMDB 250 list.     "},{"Title":"Wonderful piece of filmmaking","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  In the tradition of all great British comedies, Chicken Run is a great British comedy. There wasn't a bad thing about it. The claymation is an interesting change from boring animation. The characters have a wonderful uniqueness about them, (they are very cute too) and there is a definate story here (unlike most movies now a days)If I had children, this would be the first movie I would take them to see. It has great references for film buffs (the great escape) and adults alike, yet children can still relate to the situations.Great stuff from the guys who brought us other Great Stuff~ "},{"Title":"Best comedy in a long time","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Before the opening credits are done, this movie has already delivered more wit and humour than a dozen standard comedies put together.  A film that will amuse everyone, from young children to discerning adults.Rating  See it more than once - you didn't catch everything the first time! "},{"Title":"Coop D'Etat","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Eyes, popularly, are considered windows to the soul. But in the anatomy book of genius-tinged animator Nick Park and his cohorts at Aardman, teeth really tell the story. Beginning with the Academy Award-winning 1989 short Creature Comforts and through his epic Wallace and Gromit mini-adventures, Park has filled the mouths of his saunchly English, valiantly middle-class players (clay animated penguins and sheep as well as ladies and gents) with soulful choppers In good times and bad, the set of an Aardman jaw speaks volumes as said penguin, sheep, dog, woman or man adapts with tea-and-toast-loving civility to unpredictable (and usually daunting) fate.In their first full-length feature, the care Park and co-director Peter Lord lavish on the dental work of poultry (who it can now be proven, do have lips) pays off.Chicken Run is a delightful, perceptive, funny, detail-barbed wire, which looks as gloomy as POW barracks; indeed, the command-center hut in which the fearless Ginger plots her flock's great escape bears the same number as that of Stalag 17.Just when Ginger has run out of idea - she gets a little help from the farm's more timid clucker's including Pollyanna-daft Babs, worrying Mac, and overbearing Bunty - a possible savior falls of the sky sky, like a Yank on a parachute mission. According to the circus poster that floats down with him Rocky is The Flying Rooster. Surely he can teach his admiring audience of grounded ladies to do the same?Chicken Run is a can-do comedy built of small, confident gestures. It's a piece with other Aardman projects, not a breakthrough in form or content. But the cosy, period-piece story is sharpened by Karey Kirkpatrick's bright script. The wit is droll, heightened by the whistle-through-danger musical score. The throw-away references to other movies, plays and transatlantic cultural attitudes are a tickle. And the technique is remarkably fluid as ever. (One cackle an excellent clay-animation spit take.)The vocal talents are uniformly superior, from Mel Gibson playing the vain celebrity, to Miranda Richardson as the classically pinched villainess, Mrs. Tweedy. This excellence is the work of human actors who never feel the need to outshine their characters. It's also the work of Nick Park and his team, Englishmen who in the defiance of their national image, pay careful attention to the teeth of the matter.  "},{"Title":"A great family film!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I have been talking about Chicken Run since before it came out, making comments about it and how I want to see it so badly. My friends and family thought that I was crazy because I wanted to see a kiddie film - and when I saw it with my family - they liked it just as much as me!Chicken Run was comical, entertaining, and dramatic. At some parts I felt I was the only one laughing with my toddler cousin sitting next to me. The animation was totally different, like Gumby. I think it was clay.Mel Gibson, Imelda Stauton (Shakespeare In Love) and Miranda Richardson (The Crying Game) were just some of the stars in this delightful movie. Go see it. It's for everyone! "},{"Title":"Top animated film!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park's first full length film is definitely worth seeing.  The characters are really well developed, the animation excellent - but most of all the storyline is brilliant.The concentration camp references are well managed and used satirically, the introduction of Rocky Mel Gibson's voice character adds a lot to the film, and there's even an excellently done (if a little contrived!) Star Trek reference in there.Of course they didn't let me fly in the RAF, I'm a chicken! "}{"Title":"positive","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I found this film really funny and enjoyable. I saw it in English but I think it wouldn't have been so good in French, like a lot of films. Also, I think adults can enjoy just as well  as young children. All in all  a great film                   "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for both adults and children","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Wow! As a fan of the Wallace and Gromit animations, I had high expectations for this film.   I was not disappointed.  Nick Park and Peter Lord have created an ideal film for both adults and children.  This film has both dramatic and comedic elements clearly intended to be appreciated by adults, along with plenty of references to classic POW films such as The Great Escape and Stalag 17 (and even some Star Trek references toward the end.) For the children, there are the talking chickens and rats, and plenty of slapstick comedy and action sequences to keep them glued to their seats (this I know for certain, as I took my 4-year-old nephew Evan and eight-year-old niece Lauren, and even my normally-squirming nephew sat mesmerized during the final escape sequence.)  Even the one bit likely to scare small children (one of the chickens is taken to the chopping block) takes place mostly off-camera, and neither my niece nor my nephew seemed bothered by it.If you're not familiar with Nick Park's other work, see this movie and then go find his Wallace and Gromit animations. If you're at all squeamish about seeing a 'G' rated film, borrow some kids and take them to see it.  But by all means see this film -- we need to encourage the development of more quality films for children (as well as adults) such as this one!Rating 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"First-rate addition to the Nick Park legacy!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I was thrilled when I heard Nick Park was coming out with a full length feature film.  But then I learned it was NOT about Wallace and Gromit, it was about.... CHICKENS?!  Well, we just got back from the theater, and it's unanimous  my husband, myself, and all of our kids (the 12 year old right on down to the 3 1/2 year old) LOVED IT! "},{"Title":"Living, breathing, singing, dancing clay chickens","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Aardman had previously managed a stupendous feat in creating characters an audience would care about, just from little pieces of clay. Now, following on from the success of Wallace and Gromit they have done it again with a whole new, also inanimate, cast, which is pretty impressive. Aardman's triumph is in the sheer appeal of the chicken 'people' with their individual foibles and interactions. Okay, some of the jokes may be a bit clunky, the plot is fairly predictable and there is a little too much gazing at the stars, but they have conjured expressive and sympathetic characters that absorb the attention - unlike many current Hollywood liveaction pics. Added to this, the three great action set pieces are breathtaking and hilarious - and replacing Steve McQueen with a Yorkshire chicken must be an act of mad genius. Well done Aardman. Afterthought - if the chickens have lived all their lives on the farm, how come they all have different accents???      "},{"Title":"Sporadicly funny but mostly kids-stuff.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  It's too bad this movie can't be really enjoyable for both children and adults. Disney pulls it off all the time. Sure, it started off with the Great Escape-spoofs and that was pretty funny, but after that the story fell flat. And it takes more than a couple of funny looking clay chickens to keep people interested for an hour and a half. The climax was ok though. "},{"Title":"Purely Delightful","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the pure entertainment that you expect from its creators. There is not a single reason that you would not take a small child to see this movie (a rare treat these days), yet its endearing characters and silly comedy (not to mention the amazing animation) are delightful for adults as well.  "},{"Title":"Really funny movie but make sure to see the Great Escape first","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This was a hilarious movies but in order to get exactly how funny this movie is you have to see The Great Escape with Steve McQueen first.  Most of the movie comes directly from this movie, especially the first few scenes. There was not one thing i did not like about this movie.  "},{"Title":"Funny, funny funny stuff!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Being a Wallace and Gromit fan, I knew the animation for this flick would be great.  The script was great, the voices were perfect, and it was a super movie.PikachutruPika, pika! "},{"Title":"Finger Lickin' Good!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie with a bunch of friends the other night and it is by far the best summer movie I've seen this year.  Don't be fooled into thinking this one is just for the kiddies... it's filled with great British humour for all ages. You'll have to watch it again to see all the quirks you missed the first time around.  Go see it, you'll love it. I promise! "},{"Title":"buckle up to chuckle","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  this genre animation, new to American theaters will serve to widen the scope of animation and hopefully open the eyes of audiences to what can be done with this wonderful medium. I cannot recommend this film enough. Just thinking of the mad devotion that the film makers had to have in order to bring us this story should be good enough reason to appreciate it... instead we are also treated with an original storyline and very well-developed characters. Cheers to DreamWorks.  "}{"Title":"Hilarious Fun The Great Escape revisited","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Plot In a chicken farm of the brutal Tweedy's, all but one chicken would be quite content with their lives, laying eggs. Except Ginger who drives them through escape trial after escape trial (end regularly ends up in solitary confinement). Until one day an American rooster enters camp, causing hearts falling in love, American-British bilateral friction and a new drive to new ways to escape. But Rocky turns out to be a no-good rambling rooster, giving no big help to the escape trials. Things got sped up when chicken are endangered by new pie-making machine. Then the happy-end turns in Rocky returns just in time to help all the chickens escape, becomes a pair with Ginger and all end up happily in a chicken sanctuary.Comment If you like or know at least 'The Great Escape' then you'll have some hilarious moments, as some plots and scenes are almost perfectly replayed (the baseball in solitary confinement, the removing of planks in bunk beds, the tunnel railway, the British-American misunderstandings, etc.). Just this makes the movie worth watching. Add the inescapable kindness of clay pigeons (of Wallace and Gromit-fame) and the ever-present temptation of comparing Rocky with some Mel Gibson-characters, and you're up to a much-too-short lovely movie. Definitely worth watching (even if you're not a kid). "},{"Title":"Great Animation, but Not a Great Children's Film","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Claymation is ImpressiveI'm giving Chicken Run a mild recommendation.  I loved the use of animation that was not computer generated or traditional.  It is nice to see more variety from Disney and Dreamworks as animation seems to be booming once again.  The fact that they had to film this movie one frame at a time while moving clay objects amazes me.  I can almost forgive some of the other problems with this movie. The problems center around the screenplay, by Karey Kirkpatrick, which uses too many subtle references to movies that kids would not recognize.  The Great Escape and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom are not films that six years old children will be familiar with.  I personally enjoyed the allusions, but I did not think they were necessary. The writing also lacks the wit of the Toy Story movies or the charm of Babe, which was an obvious inspiration to the filmmakers.  The jokes were much too British for its target audience.  I laughed occasionally, but there were times where the filmmakers were trying for laughs and not getting them. I hope the next claymation production takes as much time with its writing as it did with its amazing animation. Still, as a film lover I have to recommend a movie that is trying to do something unique.  It is worth a matinee admission. 3 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Delightfully entertaining fun for all the family.  My parents went to see it (by themselves) and loved it.  The stop-motion animation a la Wallace & Gromit is cute.  The movie has, refreshingly, a female protagonist, although the role of the male protagonist (voiced by Mel Gibson) is somewhat muddled, leaving the audience wondering whether we should treat him as comic relief.  "},{"Title":"Really cute, also a spoof of many other films","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The creators of Chicken Run must be film buffs in their own rights, since they tip their film-making hats to so many other films, classic and contemporary, by spoofing them.  I particularly appreciated the many references to The Great Escape, especially since its theme was echoed by Chicken Run's plot.Most children will enjoy it, though adults will get more of the subtle jokes.  If your child is very sensitive to animals, you may want to use caution, as at least one minor character chicken is killed by the villainess.Still, lots of fun for all. "},{"Title":"Cute kids' movie","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and thought it was one of the better ones so far this summer (however, that is not saying a lot!!).It was more of a kids' flick than I expected, though.  Even though it had some adult-type references and the humor was good for all ages, it seemed more geared for a younger audience. I didn't think this film was quite as good as last years' Iron Giant which really did appeal to all ages.It was a cute film and I'm glad I saw it.  It didn't quite meet the expectations I had based on both users and critics reviews but it beats Gone in 60 Seconds any day. "},{"Title":"Whats all the fuss about?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Here in the US they are marketing this movie as a kids movie.  Burger King has all the cool toys etc. and I was expecting a comedy similar to Toy Story.  The special computer effects are quite good and perhaps the best I've seen for this type of film.  But there really is no way this is a kids movie.  For example - there are sight gags left and right lifted right out of movies from my childhood such as Great Escape & Stalag 17 with a bit of Flight of the Phoenix thrown in for good measure.  What pre-teen is going to GET these references?  How many have even seen these classics?  Sure - the adults get it, and perhaps thats why they are in the movie.  But it goes right over the head of kids.  And as for humor - sure, there are some funny bits.  But I watched this with a packed house last Sunday and for the majority of the time no one was laughing.  I'm really amazed to see that this movie has a score over 8.0 just now as I give it a 7.  Worth seeing but don't get your expectations too high or you may get disappointed.  And don't expect a laugh a minute from the kids (or yourself) as the humor takes a bit of time to sink in or to be understood in some cases. "},{"Title":"Utterly charming.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is probably the most original, most refreshing and delightful movies this season.   Nick Park, the genius behind Wallace & Gromit, tells the story of a group of hens who are bound  and determined to escape from Tweedy's Farm.  Led by the ever resourseful, and persevering  Ginger, the hens try tunneling, making runs for the gate and just about everything else you could  imagine.  When all hope is lost, along comes Rocky Rhodes, who might just be the answer to their  prayers.  The film benefits from being animated with clay.  If it was done with traditional  animation or computers, the feel of the film would be off.  The chickens with their large  behinds and teeth look less like chickens, and more like a strange sort of doppleganger to the  actors that give them voices.  A very British sensibility runs through the film.  From Ginger's  never give up attitude, to Col. Fowler's tirades about doing things in the R.A.F.  and his feelings  towards Rocky's involvement.  As he says about Yanks, Always late for a war, over sexed and  over here.  Chicken Run is a wonderful film for all ages.  The older kids (namely adults) will have  fun with the jokes and references to other films, while the younger kids will enjoy the animation  and the rousing story.  Very witty, very charming and utterly irresistable.             "},{"Title":"You know it's good when you nearly throw up from laughing","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Well, let's face it, chickens made out of plasticine are far more interesting than Tom Cruise climbing a rock any day, and with Chicken Run, I certainly got even more than I'd bargained for.I have seen 2 very, very funny movies this year - Maybe Baby is one of them, and this is the other. At times I was laughing so hard that I felt sick! OK, so it was a weeny bit cheesy, but it still came off as hilarious because that was the whole idea. I felt that the film was a little slow to begin with, but by the end of the first half an hour things had really picked up and I could not stop laughing.I think the animation really contributed to the humour - Park & Lord are absolute heroes, the visual gags were hilarious and simply the way the chickens moved had you giggling. All credit to Aardman - this sort of animation, when you know how much work has gone into it, is far more spectacular than any computer generated stuff.A great film. Go see it. You'll laugh your socks off. "},{"Title":"What Kind of Pies?","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"       A Looney Tunes short from Warners golden era stretched out to feature length.  Not quite as good as it has been made out to be, but still funny, involving, and smart.   Intelligent silliness for kids as well as adults.  The painstaking claymation makes for some fascinating visuals.  At times Chicken Run Resembles a three dimensional cartoon.  The clay gives characters and sets a solid, real look that is almost never achieved by traditional cel animation or CGI.  I've never had the slightest interest in any of theWallace and Gromit shorts, but now I'm thinking I may have missed out.     "},{"Title":"Coo!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Clever writing, which makes it as fun for adults as kids.  Lots of subtle things, making it a great video to watch over and over again.  And what a joy to see masters at the prime of their craft!I also like most how un-hollywood the movie was.  Unlike the 'Bean' movie, it clearly represented the vision of its British creators, uncorrupted by American marketing directors (I'm not British; I'm an American). Otherwise, we'd have little 'kid' chickens that know more than the adults chickens, and a big tall awkward loser chicken named 'Jar Jar'. "}{"Title":"Animation eye-candy with a real plot everyone can enjoy.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  One of the best full length animation films I've ever seen.  Not only is the animation fluid, impressive, and pretty to look at, but there is a compelling plot behind it.  It's thrilling, yet suitable for kids, and not cheesy like most Disney films.  The writers of Titan AE should take a lesson on script writing from these guys. Chicken run gets a 10. "},{"Title":"If you like Babe, Chicken Run would be delectably enjoyable","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  'Tis really chicken-fun and tastily delightful. More than two years in the making, the attention to detail is remarkable -- down to each eyeball and eyelid! Apart from the lighting and photography, costumes and modelmaking, music and sound were very much contributing factors to the success of this chickens pursuing their freedom dream movie. Storyline feels real and the dialogs are tight and definitely full of British humour, puns and jokes. It's indeed entertaining. You can tell director/claymation team Peter Lord and Nick Park must have a terrific time creating and producing this feature length chick flick -- such passionate fun! This DreamWorks project, executive produced by Jeffrey Katzenberg, may be an animation feature, yet it contains thrills and suspense comparable to Hollywood action drama and easily surpasses them. It's more fun than Antz. It's down to earth chicken sense will find you cheering for the whole lot as they gave their all in fulfilling the freedom dream. Don't hesitate to see this 'cos it's animation -- it's actually more entertaining and satisfying than Disney's The Kid 2000 (which turned out to be your usual Disney family fare, slightly slow and good for kids; 'tis really Bruce Willis character times three generations with the kid version portrayed by the lively Spencer Breslin). Drama, action and entertainment-wise, Chicken Run is the movie for you.  "},{"Title":"Quick take the kids... we're going to Dreamworks","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Want a good laugh, that isn't offensive and a total family treat.Go to this movie.  It's a total delight.  The total premise being of course to escape the hen house.  I loved it.  I came into the theater expecting nothing and at that not too many people to show up and when I left I was happy and it was packed...  and I hadn't bothered to notice..  What interests me is that in the imdb statistics supposedly the vast majority who voted are in the 18-29 range.  Perhaps it's a quirk because the kids don't vote much here or something else, but I'm glad to see it. ;) "},{"Title":"Views on the Chicken Run.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is an excellent film and has so much happening that you'll need to see in a number of times to pick up on all of the references to other films. Although it's loosely based on The Great Escape it's different enough to make it well worth seeing and I'm sure it'll leave you wanting to see it again. "},{"Title":"Chickens of the henhouse, unite!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Let me say at the outset that 1. I am not a vegetarian, and 2. I usually prefer films with human actors to animation. Having made these two caveats, let me say without equivocation that Chicken Run is a very funny, quite touching film.Ginger may be the greatest cinematic heroine since Bess in Breaking The Waves. She has pluck(clever pun), grit, and determination. In fact, this chicken sure isn't . OK, now that I've recovered from my little attack of shalitis ,( An obsessive compulsive punning disorderwhich often afflicts would-be clever critics )I will say that I have nothing bad to say about this film. A true Movie buff will appreciate the dozens of references, both subtle and obvious, to past films. Not just the Great Escape or Stalag17, but Braveheart, Flight of The Phoenix, and Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom, are delightfully parodied-and thats just the beginning.In short, I loved this movie..despite its rather obvious Marxism..just kidding. "},{"Title":"I feel like (watching) chicken(s) tonight...","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  In a word - Brill.  Animation of the highest order.  I felt it was very creative and lived up to the standards set by Wallace and Gromitt. However, the film was let down by some of it's slow moments, as Chicken Run worked best when on-the-edge-of-the-seat stuff came along.Go and watch it now, but avoid any poultry related puns, if you can. "},{"Title":"More suspense than humor","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I was rather disappointed in Chicken Run, hoping for a film as funny as Park's The Wrong Trousers.  I actually think it worked better in its dramatic and suspenseful scenes than in it's rather mild humourous ones. It's the kind of movie one describes as cute. "},{"Title":"Workmanship shows","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  It's so refreshing to see an animated movie where wit, style and craftsmanship take center stage.  I'm so tired of the computerized cartoons -- I'd much rather see the fingerprints of human beings on clay any day. And Chicken Run shows the quality that the production company thrives on.It's truly a feast for the eyes.  And the script is intellegent, the voices generally excellent.  I wish Wallace and Gromit had made a cameo, but I'll settle for seeing them in their next movie (or so I hear).BRAVO!!! "},{"Title":"This movie is (as much as I hate puns) egg-sellent.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, this movie did indeed kick ass! I went and saw it with my little cousin (I wouldn't go see it by myself! Especially at my age!). I think I enjoyed it more than he did, it is funny, sad, and very amusing to watch. The gags and everything make  you die of laughter, especially the rats, they steal the show.This movie is the best movie of the summer, so far... SO GO SEE IT!  "},{"Title":"The razor-sharp wit was what did it for me.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The main surprise for me was just how cleverly-done all the jokes were.  Many American producers have really lost any appreciation of subtlety that they ever had - no matter whether it's a kids' movie or an adult comedy, they never give the audience any credit to intelligence.Chicken Run's main strength is that they don't feel that they always have to use obvious jokes or sight gags most of the time to make you laugh; they're not even afraid to put in references that few people below their teens will be able to pick up on.  Just wait until you catch at least one or two nods towards one of the more well-known Mel Gibson movies of the past few years.  )Some of the characterizations are fairly expected (the evil Mrs. Tweedy, for example), but they don't really go over the top and certainly help liven things up.  Most everyone will have a favourite character by the time the credits begin to roll.One last thing to touch on is Chicken Run's unyielding Britishness.  Despite attracting American interest, it's clear that Aardman wasn't pushed into producing something contrary to their vision.  Rocky may be a major character, but that doesn't save him from being torn down as the stereotypical American hotshot.  The other chickens are all wonderfully British; they're not afraid to use different accents and mannerisms, and so in addition to the laughs you get a distinct charm that you'd never get outside of a British production.All in all quite a surprise - go see this if you're looking for something well outside of the usual summer blockbuster spectrum.  This is especially true if you just have to catch a Mel Gibson movie this summer; Chicken Run is on the whole much less pretentious than The Patriot (although that's not due to Gibson) and more universally appealing. "}{"Title":"Almost a 10","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I couldn't bring myself to give it a 10 since I've never seen a perfect 10 movie except Terry Gilliam's Brazil, but this is as close to a 10 as I've come since. Absoutely brilliant in every aspect. If only the lighting had been a little bit brighter as some of the details were lost in the darkness. Yes, the setting was supposed to be dark, but not too dark as to obscure some of the visuals. "},{"Title":"Shocking in its effectiveness.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  It took what seemed to be a simple story and turned it into a complex tale about rebellion, survival, love, and the desire to be free.  Peter Lord and Nick Park, the same chaps who brought us the wonderfully imaginative Wallace and Gromit series, have once again used claymation as an effective tool in telling a great story.  Although it's very kid-friendly, it seems at times to be aimed at an adult audience.  As far as I can tell, I think adult movie-goers will appreciate this film a lot more than the kids will.Out of 10 possible stars, I gave it a 9.  So far the best film of the Summer. "},{"Title":"Good, but...","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it was good but I came away a little disappointed.  I thought the voice of Mel Gibson was a little miscast; more of a Tom Hanks would have been better.  Yes, there were some clever visual gags - but think how many years this took to put together - I expected more (The Wrong Trousers for example was bursting with originality).  Maybe this was the fault of the full-length format.  Maybe a bit more 'veggie' irony also (for example in Babe). I also found I didn't care whether the chickens went into the mincer or not!! All in all, I'll give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Clay figures become objects of heroism on a chicken farm!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  In case you feel this film is just for children, think again.  Adults may well enjoy it more and appreciate the symbolism  more than their children. An excellent effort all around, CHICKEN RUN held me from start to finish. The chickens are so cute and imaginatively formed that you want to play with them.  Mel Gibson is great as the voice of Rocky the Rooster as is the British  actress who plays  Ginger, the leader of the rebellious chickens.The analogy of the chicken farm as concentration camp may seem a little much, but it works here.  And the inspiring ending doesn't lay an egg. "},{"Title":"Very funny.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie. It's actually a family movie that will entertain both the kids and the adults. There are a few disturbing elements The chicken pen look like a concentration camp and a chicken is killed (not on screen) for not laying. But these are more disturbing for the adult views, the kids probably won't get the references. Overall the movie is good fun. The action moves along smoothly and the sight of chickens trying to fly is great. And in this age of computer generated everything, you will be impressed at how great the Claymation looks. Just be prepared for you kids to swear off chicken for a long time.  "},{"Title":"Should be called Chicken Fun","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Who could resist this? Play Doe chickens and a  British comedy with only one American character who has difficulty comprehending their British lifestyle? If you cannot resist, see Chicken Run.This movie is cheerful, and has hardly any  moments which will not leave you smiling. My rating ***1/2 (out of 5 *'s) "},{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Witty, clever film, but not quite as good as the IMDB voters would suggest. Basically the plot is pretty standard outsider-who-is-not-what-he-seems-inspires-townspeople-to-do-great-things kind of thing, with lots of chicken jokes thrown in.And while I appreciate the subtext of the satire of the factory farm methods, I'm not sure this was really an intentional goal of the film, nor does it go far enough. England's small farmers are not nearly as heinous as American practices. Cal it an anti-meat tale for kids. "},{"Title":"Best movie this summer","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I spent the first 5 minutes looking at how the chickens were done.  After that, the story was so interesting and the character development so well done that I was drawn into the story line and didn't care if they were chickens, clay or human actors.  Nothing succeeds like good writing and tight directing. "},{"Title":"Stunning....just stunning....","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I had reservations with this film, but when I was forced to watch it, I was glad to have been coerced. I would go back and watch it again and again and again!The script has been written to be appealing to both children of all ages and adults. References to things like Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom and Star Trek I cannae give yae any moor pooer, cap'n quotes are just fantastic!The animation itself is just unbelievable and I think that Nick Park is likely to find himself with another statuette to add to his ever-growing collection! "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  There's a truly great movie in here one that would let me leave the theatre uplifted, laughing, inspired. Only one thing stands in its way Mel Gibson.Now don't get me wrong, I like Mel Gibson. He's a perfectly good actor. He even does a fine job with Rocky the Rhode Island Red. But I have to wonder aside from padding, what is this character doing here at all?There's a short film here about heroic chickens escaping from the farm. They try burrowing under the fence, jumping over it, various means of walking through it. They form plan after plan after plan. And if the film had stuck to that simple plot, it could have been truly worthy of the creator of Wallace and Gromit.But sadly that wasn't enough. We had to have Mel, the obligatory American insert. In this film he dilutes the humour, defuses the horror, distracts the plot and reduces the whole. Why? To make the film long enough for a general theatre release, and to make American kids go and see it. A case of talent lacking the confidence to do what it does best.8/10. Could be 10, without Rocky.  "}{"Title":"Not Quite Brilliant","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is a charming and enjoyable movie, but reviewers defying Nick Park have gone a bit too far.Of course the animation is excellent, and I loved the characters. The homages to other films (not just POW flicks, there is a hilarious Star Trek line) will fly be over the heads of the youngsters, but the adults will enjoy them. There is also a truly great moment of self-awareness (listen to Fowler's reason why he can't fly a plane).My one criticism is that the story dragged in the middle. I would have preferred that they shaved five to ten minutes from the movie and showed one of Nick Park's short films (such as Creature Comforts) before the feature. "},{"Title":"THE GREAT ESCAPE, with chickens","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  In what feels like the thousandth working-through of his Holocaust anxieties, DreamWorks' cofounder Steven Spielberg must have felt pretty odd in the scene in which two birds escape from...a giant oven? As a rundown of POW-movie cliches a l'oiseau, CHICKEN RUN is more intelligent and craftsmanly than its peers; fans of WALLACE AND GROMIT's dry wit will be amused. As a relative outsider, I found it a little poky and bland, if unobjectionable. As brainier-than-most animated fare goes, I preferred DreamWorks' more American, and more neurotic, ANTZ. "},{"Title":"I didn't know they still made claymations","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I've never seen the Wallace and Gromit show (movies? I don't know, it's a guy and his dog, right?). I hear Chicken Run is from the creators so I'll have to give it a try (odd, I'm usually so good at keeping up with pop culture T.V. and cartoons. I'm getting old). This film entertained me enough that I'd like to see more from these guys.Wow, another animated film both you and your kids can enjoy. Gotta hand it to Hollywood, they have thier thinking caps on. Must have been all the blank stares and expressionless faces on the crowd of parents coming out of Pokemon last summer (it made money, but you can make a lot more if you can convince them to come back a second time).I got excited during the rescue scene, and during the escape scene at the end, the movie held my interest and I laughed many times, though not as much as I had hoped. That's really my only complaint, that the film needed more laughs. 8/10 stars. G'night!  "},{"Title":"Childish humor?.......I think NOT!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  For all who have not yet witnessed this masterpiece yet, what are you waiting for?  I viewed the movie with two 17 year olds who went in assuming the worst.  They assumed it would be childish, and immature.  But, weren't they pleasantly surprised to come out with bright smiles on there faces.This film is astonishing in all aspects.  Nick Park (Wallace & Gromit) has done it again, and this time with a full length feature film.  The humor is both for children and adults alike, and the animation is amazing for all ages.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"CLASSIC ANIMATION","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run, is one of those movies that is hard to forget. The claymation is fantastic and it really is a funny movie.Its hard to imagine but you sometimes forget your watching a kids movie because it has so much humor and great expressions, its so entertaining.I would say that this and ToyStory (especially part 2) have the best story and characters in animation history.-A Classic- "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing, no matter what age you think you are","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I went with my daughter and grandson (6) and we all enjoyed it very much. The takeoff on The Great Escape made it for me. Mel Gibson and British actress playing Ginger were terrific. A truly funny picture that shouldn't disappoint anyone. Beats the pants off those special effect monstrosities the studios bring out during the summer.  "},{"Title":"Clucking brilliant!The ultimate chick flick...and other puns!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"            This is a truly, superbly crafted animated film. I had a permenant grin on my face, and featuring some of the world's most brilliant dialogue, ( I don't want to be in a pie. I don't even like gravy to name but one terrific line.)    Great characters, great moments and an almost non-existent lag in the middle. Chicken Run is not as good as I expected. It's better! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Something is missing.....","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I expected to enjoy this film, everyone said I would enjoy this film, the TV and Newspaper hype said I would enjoy it, but I didn't! The animation was excellent, but I was disappointed by the final product. It lacked the humour and inventiveness of Wallace and Grommet, and seemed lifeless to me. There were a few amusing scenes, as opposed to funny, and a few good one liners, but really this is not enough.At least they don't sing all the time.... "},{"Title":"Fantastic, very funny","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this expecting an amusing film, I was delighted by what I saw.It was funny and even slightly scary at times what with the pie machine and all.I thought the cast was excellent with Richardson giving Mrs. Tweedy a wonderful edge.The wit was also well placed, being typically Yorkshire in places.A thouroughly excellent movie, well worth seeing... "},{"Title":"It'll make you look at your chicken pie differently.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I've always loved the Nick Park animation shorts in the past, so this was a must-see.  The action centres around a chicken farm in England and takes the lines of some of the great prison escape movies of all time.Ginger the hen isn't happy with life in the pen and dreams of making it out in to the big wide world.  After numerous failed attempts all looks lost. Enter Rocky, a 'flying' rooster, the possible means of escape.What follows on from this is an hilarious escape, slapstick comedy brilliantly animated by Park's team, with the help of the boys' at DreamWorks.  The humour is non-stop with many knowing references to classic PoW camp movies of the past, as well as some other well known films.The characters are well voiced, although Jane Horrocks as Babs steals the show for me.  Gibson as Rocky is good but Sawalha seems lost at times.  The rest of the (mainly British) cast are uniformly excellent.Although not jaw droppingly good, it's still one of the funniest pieces of animation I've seen recently.  Go and see it. "}{"Title":"Strange accents....","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  As the film is about Yorkshire in the 50's, why did Mel Gibson have to have a fake US accent? Surely they could have let him use his native Australian one for a change? I expect that the new Thomas Tank engine film will have Yankees in as well! Next they'll be making a film about US Navy folk stealing German cypher machines.Lovely puns, in-jokes and references throughout - can't wait for the DVD release! "},{"Title":"He's Been Funnier","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Sorry... most of you out there will probably disagree with me vehemently!  Don't get me wrong, I LOVE animation and most particularly the stuff Nick Parks has done.  And technically, this was truly amazing, his best to date, with astounding lighting that made me truly believe in the characters.  I suppose reading the other comments and ratings beforehand in IMDB here set me up with expectations for a hilarious movie, which in my opinion it was not.  On the basis of comedy alone, I much preferred The Wrong Trousers.  This letdown is the main reason I gave Chicken Run a 7/10.  Sure I'm a Yank and maybe the comedy was beyond my background or lack of it... ie chockies.  But go see it; support animation, claymation and the huge commitment these artists give to their work.  Form your own opinion. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is the best movie of the year, and will be hard to beat! I saw it last night, and really enjoyed it. The humor is excellent, and will have everybody laughing, and Mel Gibson does well with the voice of Rocky the Flying Rooster. The final escape scene is superb, and the film is well worth buying when it comes out on video! It gets 10/10 from me "},{"Title":"One of the most fun films I've seen!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps I'm biased.  I lived in Yorkshire for some years, so perhaps that may give me a little better understanding of the humor than most Americans will have (not to mention a slightly better grasp on the accents, though they were pretty clear).  And I have been a fan of the Wallace and Grommit work for some time - I think EVERYONE should see A Close Shave unless they've had their sense of humor surgically removed.Perhaps I'm biased, but I don't think so, as the entire theater was laughing as hard as I was.  This film is just tremendous, and I have a feeling that Mel Gibson's _The Patriot_ is going to have some of the hardest competition in his other film, _Chicken Run_.Whether you have kids or not, see this film!  Of course the slapstick and animation will appeal to them, but there is enough sophisticated comedy and appeal to this film that anyone can enjoy it.  And to the perceptive who have watched all the serious great escape films, (and to the perceptive who just love Brit comedy) there are many subtle stabs.This is the best film for everyone that I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Eggcellent Summer Movie!","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  If you don't laugh at all during this movie, then you're probably dead from the neck up.Too many puns and jokes to count.  Steals from quite a few different movies, and even a few TV shows.  Nick Park - who has brought us all of those wonderful Wallace & Gromit movies - turns his hand to American film making, with an American star... and is very successful.  You won't stop laughing from beginning to end... even the names of some of the characters are funny.A wonderful job of claymation, you'll have to see this one more than once just to get all the jokes, and to concentrate on all the details.Incredible fun for all ages. "},{"Title":"The perfect summer movie for the entire family.","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Wallace & Gromit and this time Aardman animations really did push the envelope and the result is nothing short of astonishing. You forget instantly you're looking at claymation characters and are plunged in the coolest, funniest, great escape ever !!. The reference of Steve Mc Queen as a chicken is probably the most unforgettable sequence of the whole show but there are so many others as well. I just loved it and will see it again !!. There are lots of disappointing movies this summer, well this one surely isn't one of them !!!. "},{"Title":"Nick Park is god!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park is god. This is most definitely one of the best 10 films I have ever seen.  The use of stop-motion claymation was great and fitted with the story, and in no way made the movie seem stilted.The story, was amazing, managing to parody and homage to almost every prison flick around (They even got a few Star Trek references in too!) yet still having the originality and humor as to not be too dark.The characters where very well designed, Ginger and Rocky's romance was foreseen but still enjoyable. The chicken gags where brilliant.The direction of this movie by both Peter Lloyd and Nick was fabulous, considering that they had a two year shooting schedule with each directing capturing around 4 seconds of animation a day...it makes you wonder how they did it.There was one little disappointment...there was no walk on by Parks (and Aardman's) most famous clay duo, Wallace and Gromit...even a reference would have been a nice little nod, but still the movie was great and thankfully not too short, while Toy Story was also the first of its kind (for pure CG animation) I felt at just over an hour it felt too short, thankfully Chicken Run came in at just the right length even considering its the first claymation movie to be made.The best movie of the summer? Oh yeah...it rocks. "},{"Title":"A positive commentary","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie greatly!  Having followed the animation work of Aardman Studios, I was excited to see this feature-length production.Full of both slapstick and subtly humor, it is appropriate and entertaining for all ages.  By all means, see it! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken's are funny....Gibson was good.Wow....fun and funny.8/10 for that one chicken....cause he was funny.Go check this fun chicken movie out. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't seen animation this great since Gumby! It looked so real, except for the chickens of course. I laughed throughout the whole movie because they were so funny lookin'. I even noticed that Babs is one of the characters in 'Absolutely Fabulous'Even my mom enjoyed this movie, I think. Coincidently, after the movie she bought some baked chicken for dinner...10/10 "}{"Title":"Bug's Life in claymation","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those cutesy We're gonna make it! We Aren't Gonna make it! We Made It! type of movies. If you're looking for the Gromet and his new pair of pants, find it elsewhere. the claymation is superb, but I don't suggest you see it just for the animation. If you're looking for a funny movie, see me, myself and Irene. If you're looking for one to see with your 10 and under kids, see this one. "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't laugh out loud at many parts in this movie, but I did chuckle and smile a lot. Like a previous reviewer mentioned, this is the Toy Story 2 of this year. The claymation is outstanding, the voice-over work is first rate (especially Mel Gibson in a tailor made role!) and the script is funny. As a bonus, the film is fairly short and glides by short and sweet. One of the best movies of the year! "},{"Title":"Beautiful--Simply Beautiful!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is a visually beautiful animated (clay stop motion) film.  The detail the artists used in both the characters and the miniature sets is unbelievable.  It is impossible to imagine the number of skilled man-hours that went into it's making.But, more than being visually stunning, the story speaks to children with humorous eloquence, while simultaneously hooking adults with it's sophistication.  I thoroughly enjoyed and recommend this film. "},{"Title":"This is a family movie adults will enjoy more than the kids.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is an escape movie. Ideas are borrowed from  - The Great Escape - One of the chickens digs a tunnel ala Charles Bronson and yet another mimics Steve McQueen bouncing a ball off the wall in solitary confinement.  - Stalag 17 - Much of the action happens in coop 17.  - Von Ryan's Express - The chickens capture their warden and make him their prisoner.  - The Birdmen - Mimicing the escape of pilots from an Alpine POW camp during WW II, the chickens build their own aircraft.  - The Brigde on the River Kwai - The hero escapes and then comes back to help those left behind.The movie gets off to a bang up start and has a rousing end. In the middle it drags a lot, in part because it gets away from the sight gags that evoke so many well known escape films that have gone on before.The root cause of much of the drag-in-the-middle is the time invested in building a relationship between Rocky (Mel Gibson) and Ginger (Julia Sawalha). The relationship building audience) is never really convincing and becomes too talky.All things considered, Chichen Run is a hoot and one you should see, regardless of whether you have a wagon load of children. "},{"Title":"Chicken Impossible","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Wow!!!  What a great movie, I really enjoyed Chicken Run.  I've seen a few of the Wallace and Gromit shot films, but this was even better.  The comedy was great, I'm sure that people of all ages can appreciate this movie.  I won't go as far as to say that this is one of the funniest movies, I've ever seen, but I definitely found myself cracking up at certain points.  There is a lot of comedy that you just have to think about and it becomes even funnier.  Anyway, if you are at all interested by the previews, you'll most likely like this, but if the previews don't entertain you, I doubt the movie will.  Enjoy,-Cortex "},{"Title":"Fast-paced and delightful","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is an excellent comedy, and easily one of the finest animated films to come along in some time.  Mel Gibson and Julia Sawalha's voice work is masterful, giving more personality to clay chickens than one will find in many human actors.  What's more, this movie is suitable for viewers of any age, and truly warrants the name family film.  Heartily recommended. "},{"Title":"Genuinely cute...","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Without being sappy or cloying; this is a wonderful movie. The voice characterizations are perfect, the animation is brilliant and the references hilarious. Great for everybody, although I imagine the accents could get a little thorny for Yankee tykes to follow.Personal favorite Mac the egghead Scottish chicken. "},{"Title":"Pure poultry in motion.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  How appropriate that the distribution company is Pathe -- a company that pretty much does not exist in the United States anymore -- whose logo is a rooster.One of the first clues that there are going to be a lot in-jokes and humour that not everyone will quite 'get' is right at the beginning it is a shot of a rather miserable hut with the number `17' painted on the front; a quiet reference to the film `Stalag 17.'Quite a bit of the film is very British-oriented and American audiences may not understand the humour.  As an example  `chocks' or `chockies' is British slang for chocolates.  When Fowler yells to `Remove the chocks.' it is the well-recognized triangular box of Toblerone chocolates that the hens remove that are used to block the wheels.Sight and word puns and gags abound -- far too many to remember let alone enumerate.One of the nicest surprises is Jane Horrocks, who essentially reprises her role as &#145;Bubble' from `Absolutely Fabulous' -- only as a scatter-brained chicken with a knitting addiction instead of a scatter-brained secretary.Julia Sawalha, also from `Absolutely Fabulous' fame, does a wonderful job voicing  &#145;Ginger' the motivating force and heroine -- or is that `henoine' -- of the film?This `Poultry in Paradise' film has something for everyone. the soundtrack is good, though not outstanding; but the animation is flawless.It is one of the few films I have been to where the (small matinee) audience cheered when the villains got what they deserved and most of the audience stayed through the end of the credits.It is a must see movie that is touching, funny and magnificently executed. "},{"Title":"Good animation and good movie!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best of the season so far. It is not quite as good as Wallace & Gromit, Nick Park's other animated series about a british man and his dog. This movie does seem like it would be kiddy, but there is much humor that adults will laugh at. I strongly reccomend Chicken Run and also Wallace & Gromit, especially if you like british humor. "},{"Title":"A for effort, but 6 to 7 for rating","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is a refreshing change of pace visually. And it doesn't take long to get past the clay-mation-like figures and see them as characters, not special effects. Where Chicken Run fell short was character development. While a few of the chickens had some personality, all of them (with the exception of Ginger) were so one-dimensional that really, if they didn't escape from the farm, it would have been OK with me.Now, I realize how ridiculous it is to discuss character development for clay chickens. To be honest, I'm having trouble choosing the right words here. But when I left Chicken Run I felt right off that the movie had missed a chance to be an instant classic, and I have been pondering why.It certainly isn't the special effects. They were interesting, almost endearing in their three-dimensional reality vs. the pathetic ( in my opinion) Pokeman-level animation that seems to be in vogue today.It isn't the plot, which was cute and serious (deadly serious) at the same time. The chickens must escape or die. And the always dreaming Ginger keeps things moving with her constant attempts to escape and find someplace better for not just herself, but for the other chickens. So what felt empty? To me, it was the character of the chickens themselves. Now, chickens don't have much depth, I know. But these were movie characters! They should pop out, make you identify with them even if they are clay chickens! But only Ginger (and the effectively profit-hungry and evil Mrs. Tweedle) created a presence. The other chickens has a one-dimensional personality that quickly grew predictable and tiresome.For example, take the stupid chicken (I can't believe I am writing this). I forget her name ... Henrietta? She is always knitting and completely missing the point of anything. She never changed. Or take the old war veteran rooster. He is pompous and a bit lost and never changes, either. Even Rocky the rooster changed only in the most cliched of all ways ... coming back from his freedom to help Ginger and her pals escape. If any of these characters had shown some growth, it would have made for a better movie. It also could have used some funnier lines, though the general lack of pop culture jokes (oh sure, there were a few Star Trek lines) was a relief.One other thing stuck out rather jarringly at the end. Without giving the plot away, Ginger seems surprised that the retired war veteran rooster can't fly a plane. Uh, he is a rooster. Ginger seems perfectly aware that human society is a bird of a different feather (a-hem) and has never seen a rooster or chicken fly anything. She's too smart to be blind as to believe that roosters flew human planes. That seemed weird to me.Still, despite the predictable ending, Chicken Run was fun (well, the second half was much more lively than the first half; about 30 minutes into a 110 p.m. show my wife fell asleep) and so different than anything now out there. It also had a noble message about dreaming and improving ones life. Best of all, it wasn't Disney. For that reason alone, go see it. "}{"Title":"This year's Toy Story 2","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Last year, Toy Story 2 was robbed of a Best Picture nomination because it was a so called children's film. What Toy Story 2 was, was the best written, and one of the most entertaining movie of the year, who cares if it also happened to be rated G? The same goes for Chicken Run, sure it may be an animated (claymation) film, but it's just plain entertaining and fun. And sure they're hoping a lot of kids will go see it, but you can bet those references to The Great Escape, Stalag 17, and even Die Hard weren't put in there for the kids! All in all, I can only hope that Chicken Run is destined for Toy Story-like box office and respect, instead of Iron Giant-like hollow victory. "},{"Title":"A Delight for Movie Trivia Buffs!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  If you've seen more than 10 movies in your life, you're sure to notice at least one of them cleverly referenced in the wonderfully textured script of this movie!  A lot of talent went into this treat writing, claymation, scenic design, direction, music, and especially, acting (great, GREAT jobs on the voices -- Sawalha, Gibson and Richardson are terrific), but the sneaky (and not-so-sneaky) little references to a bunch of classic movies makes this an even bigger treat for the non-kids in the audience.   "},{"Title":"The Best Family Movie for Summer 2000","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The plot is complex enough to entertain adults, but simple enough for kids to follow.  The animation is a welcome break from the stilted computer animation that has been recently over-used to death.  Most kids haven't seen The Great Escape but adults will see a lot of tongue-in-cheek connections. This will definitely be a video cassette purchase when it comes out probably around Christmas "},{"Title":"Sober when I saw it, sober when I left","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I was speechless (with laughter) after The Wrong Trousers and I loved Nick Park's other shorts, especially the languid leopard from Creature Comforts.So, I'm upset that Chicken Run didn't work for me, though it had lots of fun moments and a good ending. A few things bugged me1. The camerawork jokes on various movies drew attention to the clay medium, without allowing the characters to play around with being unreal. It broke my identification with the characters.2. Emotional scenes were played very straight. Giving Ginger the hiccups when she gets feeling lovey would have been a great bit. Or SOMETHING.3. Look, chickens doing ... is maybe too old a joke. I laughed when the rabbit leans on the hunter's gun and says, What's up, Doc? After that ... even Gromit's joke was never how's Gromit going to do this undogly thing, but EEEK Gromit-the-dog is doing this completely ludicrously impossible thing!4. There's a big difference, masked by tricky animation technique, between the holy s---! moments of The Wrong Trousers and the yeah, and, what? moments of Chicken Run.5. Too long. The slower pacing drew too much attention to the medium, see #1.I think the good lessons of the Wallace and Gromit films and of Babe (where pigs can't be sheepdogs! was a serious ideological problem) were not properly applied in Chicken Run. I'd like Aardman Animations to stay away from feature films until they've maybe done some cheap live action movies and feel comfortable satirizing feature films, from start to finish. "},{"Title":"A family film in the truest sense of the word","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  A family film in the truest sense of the word.  This is a movie the entire family will enjoy, not just the 5 and under set.  Winking its eye at cultural diversity, and the animosity that oftentimes goes along with it, was a clever move, and makes for some of the best jokes in the film.  The English covering up feelings of inferiority by denouncing the Yanks and the Yanks' cockiness (pardon the pun) and naivety of other cultures are both put on vivid display here, all for the sake of a few good laughs.  Then there's the romance, the sexuality (yes, sexuality - with chickens!) and the violence.  Throw in a good dash of action, an inspired scene straight out of Indiana Jones' 101, in particular, and you have the ingredients for one of the most entertaining animated movies in years.  An over-abundance of failed escape scenes drag the film down a bit.  Watching a few dozen chickens trying to escape from their prison is only amusing so many times, before it starts seeming like filler-material.  This petty complaint aside, Nick Park, the claymation genius behind short-films such as Wallace & Gromit and Creature Comforts, is off to a great start with his first full-length animated movie. "},{"Title":"A Glowing, Shining, Golden Egg of a Movie!!!!!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Every once in a while a movie comes along and changes the perception of what movies can do.  I NEVER thought that a feature-length claymation movie about chickens would work as well as it does here.  Laughter composed of little children and adults punctuated this movie's soundtrack throughout the screening I went to.  This movie is one of those few ones that seems to be written for both children and adults (like a TOY STORY) and boy does it work!  And the nice thank you's to earlier films such as RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK and THE GREAT ESCAPE were extremely welcome. "},{"Title":"Pure imagination","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is an excellent transfer of the brilliance of the Wallace and Gromit shorts to a feature length film.  The technique is incredible; the faces of the clay chickens are more expressive than 90% of all actors. The vocal work is also expressive, and the chickens develop distinct personalities (it's a little distracting that they have lips and teeth, but who cares?).  The writing should appeal to adults, with references to Indiana Jones, Stalag 17 and The Great Escape, among others; kids should love the intricate visuals and pure imagination of the screenplay.  This is truly a film for all ages. "},{"Title":"Charming, clever, but does it MEAN anything? It's cute but vapid.","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  No doubt at all that this is a masterpiece of animation. or at least a sub-species of animation. Clay and computers blend here for some smooth, convincing action. Some funny spots, even some mildly interesting ones-- but except for a few isolated highlights, the whole thing was a bit vapid. Kind of empty. I thought of it a bit like Jello (gelatin desert) It's colorful, it jiggles, it can have nice shapes, but after all of that, it's not much.Contrast this movie with the recent family & kids' movie, My Dog Skip. Even with its occasional contrivances, My Dog Skip was a real story about real people in real situations. Think of it as eating fresh strawberries. Chicken Run, on the other hand, was like strawberry flavored Jello. Not a bad thing-- hey, I eat it!-- but not actually real, either. And therefore not actually satisfying.For those who wonder if animation can be made into an engaging movie-- go and see Titan A.E., or either of the Toy Story movies or any number of other animated movies from Japan, Disney Studios, Warner Bros, and others-- there's lots of good stuff out there. In summary, Chicken Run was VERY well done technically, and it's moderately entertaining, but it left me craving more dramatic/comedic nourishment, too. For its technological skill, and semi-risky chances, I gave this a very generous 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great film that builds to an exciting, suspense-filled conclusion","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Wallace and Gromit shorts, and while I would love to see a feature length film on them, I thoroughly enjoyed this wonderful film. I appreciated all of the work that went into this production without all the computer graphics that are so prevalent today.  It was good, old fashioned stop motion animation and it was perfect!  The ending is the best part.  Don't miss this movie; it's absolutely for anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"An amazing feat for young and old alike","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  If you love Wallace and Gromit, this movie is for you. If you love good, clean fun, this movie is for you (and your family). If you love endless good and bad puns, this movie is for you. If you love homages to other movies woven into the movie you're watching, this movie is for you.It is just a fun movie from beginning to end. Watching the kids in the audience get a lot of the jokes, then hearing the adults respond to the ones aimed at them was great.The only disconcerting moment is when one of the chickens meets an untimely fate.And how often do you hear spontaneous applause at the end of a movie? You will at the end of this one as you root for the chickens to make their escape. Just a great movie. "}{"Title":"The most Bawkable film of the year !!!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect when I went to see this film.  However, once the film began to roll, I knew that I was in for an animated treat unlike any I had ever experienced.  Funny, intelligent, and beautifully done - Chicken Run has it all!!  Not only is this movie a masterpiece of animation, it is also a true work of genius when considering the story line and audience identification with the characters.  This movie is DEFINITELY not just for kids, I personally feel that adults will get more out of this film than most children.  In a word - absolutely FANTASTIC movie. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I could see this film over and over and never get tired of it! Excellent animation mixed with a good dose of humor creates, in my opinion, one of the best films of the year, so far (honestly, it has been a pretty crappy year for movies, with the exception of this movie, High Fidelity, Pitch Black and Gladiator). These past few years of animated films have been nothing less than superb. 10 out of 10, four stars, you know the deal. "},{"Title":"Quality that will probably be ignored.....","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Fantastic is about the best word I can use to describe Chicken Run.  As a long time Wallace and Gromit fan I was a little worried that Nick Park et. al. may have lost some of their magic in coming over to the world of big budgets and big stars.  Happily this has not happened as CR-1 easily meets the high standards of story and characterization that W&G set.  Of course the animation and set design is outstanding but I had little fear in this area - with more money to work with it seemed only natural that the visuals could only improve.  The only problem I can see is that kids may not think chickens are 'cool' and would rather see the latest Pokemon feature.  This would be a tragic waste as, like Iron Giant of last year, CR-1 is the quality children's movie that I hear so many parents complaining that Hollywood doesn't produce!  Well here it is folks!  High quality story, characters & visuals....everything you say you want!  Show the big movie companies that they can actually make money producing quality and maybe we'll be seeing Chicken Run 2 next year instead of the latest cookie-cutter Pokemon crapfest. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  In the spirit of Toy Story 2 (as well as the first Toy Story to some extent), Chicken Run runs on two great levels, one of younger humor and one of extreme cleverness. This is a great escape movie - the absurdity of the film is maintained at a high level with a self-unawareness that allows the fun to continue innocently. This is going to become a animation comedy classic. "},{"Title":"If you've got dancing chickens, you've got entertainment.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie on all levels, but especially for its amazing clamation. Even people unfamiliar with Wallace and Gromit (Nick Park's other plasticine stars and Oscar winners) will enjoy this. It starts a little slow, but just sit back, relax and wait for it to kick in to high gear. By the last half-hour you will be slumping over in your chair busting a gut. It's just so sweet, so well-written and so simply amazing to watch these animated creatures do their work. The humor slides from light to slapstick and, as with all good actors, these creations hit their marks. Their timing is perfect. What a delightful adventure to watch unfold on the screen. "},{"Title":"Incredible...","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This was just so full of humour, that you'll be hard pressed to choose a favourite scene The Great Escape parodies; the Braveheart ripoffs; the inevitable Star Trek spoof when faced with a Scottish engineer; as well as just general hoots, it's a great movie. Julia Sawalha rocks as Ginger, and Miranda Richardson and Jane Horrocks are great as always. Not sure if so much of the humour translated, but being a misplaced Scot in the States, I laughed my arse off. Particularly when Mac was on screen. I'd go see it again. And again.I'm not sure quite how kiddie-friendly it is, but for adults, it can't be beat. I just hope KFC and Chik-fil-A are ready for the slump. Like Babe did for pork, this will do for chicken!! Enjoy ) "},{"Title":"A Great Work!!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I admit, I didn't know what to expect when I first saw this movie.  I heard of Wallace and Grommit but I didn't know if these kind of movies were just for kids.  They aren't.  The humor in Chicken Run is based around young children but contains many references mostly older kids and parents will enjoy.  Such as the elaborate references to Star Trek and Indiana Jones. The animation is spectacular.  They managed to show more emotions and depth will claymation characters than most movies.  The jokes, while simple and silly physical humor most of the time, were delivered just right so that you had to laugh. The creativity with the camera-work shows that the animators really put their hearts into this. Personally, this has been a bad year for movies; especially comedies where I've yet to see anything remotely original or unique. This is everything I've been looking for; and that probably goes for most others. "},{"Title":"The Great Escape -- with chickens","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  That's how the creators of this film described it when pitching the idea to the production company. And there are some references to the classic movie, most of them in the first ten minutes or so.But they don't keep that up for the whole movie, fortunately.  For one thing, this is a much funnier movie.  And,even though you see Ginger in doing some stuff like Steve McQueen did in the original, she doesn't ride a motorcycle.The stakes are higher in this one, too.  The worst the prisoners in TGE could expect if they stuck around was really bad food.  But when Mrs. Tweedy found that there was more money to be made in chicken pot pies than eggs, Ginger knows that they have to get out. She's told that it's a million-to-one shot.  Then we've still got a chance, she replies.When Rocky the Rooster (Mel Gibson) drops in on them, Ginger feels that they have a chance.  If Rocky can just teach them to fly, they might have a chance.To reveal anymore would be spoiling the fun.  This is indeed fun for the whole family, with funny characters and scenes from beginning to end.  My favorite characters were the two packrats, but the dim-witted chicken was a hoot as well.Two clucks up. Uncle Steve says check it out. And take the kids. "},{"Title":"Funny throughout, thrilling at times, heartwarming at others -- a delight for children of all ages!","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  You can't help imagining the pitch meeting for this movie -- a full-length feature film, done in claymation (animated characters made with latex and photographed), set on an English chicken farm in the 1950s but inspired by Stalag 17.  Talk about high concept -- plucky chicken meets cocky rooster, and together they lead the imprisoned flock to the Promised Land. Younger kids will love its endearingly goofy-looking, wide-eyed characters and its action sequences (just don't serve them chicken pot pie for a few days after!), and older kids will get a kick out of the non-stop stream of pop culture references.   "},{"Title":"I was so happy to see this film I wore my chicken costume to the movie!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Bawk! I, a chicken, loved this film! Everyone in the theatre cheered madly during the final escape sequence.  The man sitting in front of me told his wife that they ought to at least eat turkey instead of chicken for dinner that evening.  All the little kids loved my costume.I rented The Great Escape two days ago, just to get ready for this movie, and re-watched all the Wallace and Gromits. Chicken Run. Nick Park and Peter Lord claimed in their recent NPR/Fresh Air interview that there was no Steve McQueen character in Chicken Run, but Ginger certainly has a lot of his characteristics -- she's just as spunky, plucky (excuse the pun), and unstoppable as his character was in the Great Escape.This movie was so good I am going to make my parents go see it, my parents who never go to the movies.  I took four co-workers, and they really loved it.Bawk! The Big Chicken has spoken. Chickens Rule!-carolep.s. As a resident of Rhode Island, I was quite happy to learn that Rocky is a Rhode Island Red! "}{"Title":"Overrated, unfortunately.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  No cheese, just overrated gravy.  A simple premise, a lot of filler, and a so-so resolution.  Largely copied from A Close Shave, with chickens instead of sheep, but including a weird airplane, a nasty machine, and even the same looming truck shot, but no Wallace & Gromit.  The Wrong Trousers packed more plot, warmth and originality into less time.  Park will have to go some to top that one.  Maybe next time. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film for every one. Take your toddler, your Mother & your Grandmother.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I do not normally go out of my way to see a film on its opening day.  I made an exception with CHICKEN RUN.  This is a film for everyone - Mothers, Fathers, kids of all ages, grandparents,  movie buffs, incorrigible punsters, and those who rather like Mel Gibson.  This film is superb. There are so many bad puns both visually and verbally, that you don't have time to laugh because you'll be afraid that you'll miss the next one.  And if you know your W.W.II film classics, you'll just laugh too much.  This is the kind of film that Hollywood doesn't make anymore - which is why it came from the UK.It is good, clean, romantic fun.  At the very least, you will be amused. And stay through to the very end of the credits - there is a little snippet at the end.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant film for every one. Take your toddler, your Mother & your Grandmother.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I do not normally go out of my way to see a film on its opening day.  I made an exception with CHICKEN RUN.  This is a film for everyone - Mothers, Fathers, kids of all ages, grandparents,  movie buffs, incorrigible punsters, and those who rather like Mel Gibson.  This film is superb. There are so many bad puns both visually and verbally, that you don't have time to laugh because you'll be afraid that you'll miss the next one.  And if you know your W.W.II film classics, you'll just laugh too much.  This is the kind of film that Hollywood doesn't make anymore - which is why it came from the UK.It is good, clean, romantic fun.  At the very least, you will be amused. And stay through to the very end of the credits - there is a little snippet at the end.  "},{"Title":"A Classic Movie, animated or not.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I take it as proof that we are in the midst of an animation rennaisance that a claymation movie about barnyard fowl not only gets released by a major studio, but in the midst of the summer movie season, no less.Sadly, mainstream moviegoers will more than likely ignore this movie.  It's their loss, because it's one of the best, most entertaining movies I've seen in a long, long time.  The artistry and skill that went into this movie creates something more visually spectacular than any stunt or special effect in most summer movies.The story is geniunely exciting and the characters are engaging.  I suppose most people would feel foolish getting emotionally involved in the struggles of lumps of clay...but again, it's their loss.The truly sad thing is that this is, above all, a great family movie that will get lost in the summer shuffle.  A couple of moments might be unnerving for younger kids, but nothing worse than the infamous Bambi's Mother scene or about 75% of last summer's Tarzan.Chicken Run deserves a spot on the list of animated classics, up there with Toy Story and the Disney masterpieces (those that have earned the title rather than having it slapped on the video cover by the marketing department, that is). "},{"Title":"A brilliant masterpiece for the 21st Century!","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"       Nick Park, the director of the award winning WALLACE & GROMIT shorts has finally released his first major film titled CHICKEN RUN.  And I personally rank Nick Park on the same level of family entertainment as other such entertainers as John Lasseter, Jim Henson, and Walt Disney.  Each of these men take a different form of style to tell a fascinating story in a fantasy world.  Though computer animation, to puppets, to animation, to claymation, all of these forms of entertainment will both amaze and wow children of all ages.      CHICKEN RUN is to THE GREAT ESCAPE, what A BUG'S LIFE was to SEVEN SAMUARI or MAGNIFICANT SEVEN.  CHICKEN has a group of chickens who live on Tweedy's farm.  The chickens are to produce at least five eggs a day, and if they don't they become supper for the Tweedy's.  The chicken farm is run by the sadistic Mrs. Tweedy (voiced by Miranda Richardson), and her not to bright husband, Mr. Tweedy (Tony Haygarth).  The profits for the egg business are running low so Mrs. Tweedy comes across a offer to make chicken pot pies.  Which spells doom for the chickens on the farm.  Ginger (Julia Sawalha) has been leading the chickens on many various escapes, but they all fail.  Then hope arises in the form of a rooster, Rocky the Rooster (Mel Gibson).  Rocky just escaped from the circus, and is a feature attraction.  So to cut a deal, Ginger will keep her mouth shut, if Rocky helps teach the chickens on how to fly.        CHICKEN RUN is very similar to the brillance of both TOY STORY movies and BABE.  The animals and animation are cute and funny, while the jokes are very witty and funny.  Such lines as my egg shell was bigger than that place, and you're a 20 minute egg, aren't you? are some of the cleaver dialogue featured in the film.        The voices from the actors are also well done.  Gibson, Sawalha, and Richardson are all good doing the vocal talents for their characters.  And I also enjoyed Imelda Staunton as the not too bright Bunty.      And the animation is among Nick Park's best.  It's just as enjoyable and funny as any of the Wallace and Gromit adventures, and what makes the film spectacular is that Park uses different camera angles for the claymation.  I have to give high credit to that originality.      CHICKEN RUN is among not only the best film of the year, but also one of the best family films of all time.  I just hope that Americans will see the creativty that is coming over from Great Britian with this film.  If you loved the enjoyable TOY STORY films and A BUG'S LIFE, and even if you love Wallace & Gromit, then CHICKEN RUN is one of the few films this year that is worth the price of admission.  And it's a film that is just as enjoyable to see the second time around as it is the first time!  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Grade A Film","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  As a Nick Park fan, I eagerly awaited the opening of this film.  The Great Escape is one of my favorite films of all time and the first five minutes of Chicken Run is a complete riff on it.  However, they did not depend on that venerable film much after that, to my relief.  The plot is not complicated, but is kept fresh with hilarious dialogue (full of puns) and characterizations.  The voices were one of the most wonderful elements in the film.  The other was references to other movies, including Braveheart, Star Trek, Indiana Jones and I'm sure many more that I missed the first time round.A half-step below Toy Story 2 (which had a slightly more original plot and characters) this is one movie I will definitely be buying on video or dvd. It begs repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if a little disappointing","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Being a fan of Wallace and Grommit, I saw Chicken Run at a sneak preview showing.  I had high hopes for Chicken Run to live up to the quality and entertainment value of Wallace and Grommit.  I was a little disappointed.The plot centers around a group of chickens trying to escape from a farm and live free away from the threat of being slaughtered by the Farmer's wife. It seems like a good premise for a movie--and it was entertaining.  If you're expecting something as delightful as Wallace and Grommit you will be a little disappointed, for a few reasons.The plotting seems a little worn in the middle sections of the movie in which the chickens are stiiiill trying to figure out how to escape after spending an hour of the movie on the problem already.  At the showing I went to, I actually heard someone around me snoring as they nodded off to sleep during the middle of the movie.  Most of the children in the audience also seemed bored and restless by the middle.  I think the makers were trying to stretch a not-quite-feature-length script into a feature length script and didn't know quite how to write a longer-form story.Fortunately, the last 10 minutes of the movie picked up and ended in energetic, entertaining and clever Wallace and Grommit style.Don't get me wrong, this is still a fun movie to watch--just don't expect the same standard as Wallace and Grommit where there are many clever details, turns and twists to keep you interested the whole way through.It also misses some of the charm of the incredibly strong charactarization and detail work(such as the Penguin) from Wallace and Grommit.  The characters are fairly cookie-cutter children's movie, cliche, Disney-like characters.  You don't get the unexpected and entertaining that Nick Park has delivered in the past.If you don't even know who Wallace and Grommit are, go see Chicken Run since it's at least as good as most recent Disney cartoon movies.If you're a Wallace and Grommit fan, you'll probably want to see it also, just don't expect quite as high a standard as Nick Park's previous work has lead you to expect.I give it a 7 out of 10--which is a moderately good review for me since I don't generally give most movies much over a 6 unless I like them reasonably well. "},{"Title":"My thoughts on this masterpiece...","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect when I caught Chicken Run at the sneak preview on the 17th.  I'd seen all the commercials for it, but none of them really caught my eye, with the exception of the Gladiator parody, which I felt was brilliant.After viewing the film, I can honestly say that this is my favorite movie of the year, in a dead tie with Gladiator.  From the opening sequence to the end credits, this film just doesn't let up.  References to everything from The Great Escape to Bridge on the River Kwai to Indiana Jones make the viewers feel like they're part of an inside joke.Before Chicken Run, I'd never been to a movie where the audience just started clapping spontaneously at certain parts of the film.  You'll understand why when you see the movie.If you liked Toy Story 2, you'll love Chicken Run. "},{"Title":"Made for Kids, but Fun for Adults","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Although kids are clearly targeted for Chicken Run, fans of Nick Park's Wallace and Gromit movies will enjoy this film too.  Although predictable, I didn't care because the claymation was excellent, the characters had character and the story moved along. "},{"Title":"Whoo hooo!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Three years in the making, and worth every second. I only saw three fingerprints. -) The film was a little dark and grey, but probably supposed to be that way, to show contrast btw beginning and end. Mr. Tweedy's face was PERFECT (kinda looked like Rob Reiner in younger days), and the escape from the chicken pie machine bit was brilliant. "}{"Title":"Run to see this movie!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run The poultry population of Tweedy's farm has grown tired of being slaves to production and is determined to escape.  Unfortunately every attempt has either failed or been foiled.  They're given renewed hope with the arrival of Rocky, a swaggering American rooster who agrees to teach them how to fly in exchange for shelter.In a climate where computer animation has become the standard, it is refreshing to see what can be done with simple clay figures.  Produced by the team that created the Oscar winning Wallace and Gromit series, Chicken Run uses stop motion photography, a craft generally relegated to realm of animation festivals.  This is the first time this technique has been used in a full feature big budget movie and I was amazed at the versatility of the medium the range of expressions and actions is amazing.  I can only imagine how much effort it took to create this picture but I'm glad they did.It is very difficult to try to categorize this movie as it s so different from the standard Hollywood fare.  For example, the marketing campaign has been brilliant - rather than simply showing trailers with snippets of the movie, they have crafted hilarious parodies of both MI2 (people were screaming in delight when this trailer was shown before MI2) and Gladiator. And unlike so many instances where the trailers are better than the movie, Chicken Run delivers.The story, which pays homage to such classic films as The Great Escape, Stalag 17 and Star Trek, is well written, engaging and has elements that will appeal to both young and old alike.  The characters have more depth than many I've seen in live action films whether you're drawn to Rocky, the cocky upstart with a secret, Ginger, the driven saviour of the group who yearns for freedom, or the crotchety old Colonel, you will find someone you can relate to.   The humor runs the gamut from subtle, to the absurd and it comes fast and furious  - the audience rarely stopped laughing.   Finally, the pacing is excellent - there are few lulls in the action and they don't rely on unnecessary filler to bridge the scenes.I don't know that this movie will be a blockbuster (read $200 million) but it is already on my top ten list for this year, and I think it will prove to be the Iron Giant for 2000.   If you're looking for a well-rounded family movie, look no further.  "},{"Title":"not for the kids (altho they'll love it too)","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I've just seen it at a screening and all I can say is that Chicken Run really is just a beautiful peice of cinema. BUT it will suffer.....why? because its not a kids film. Not like Pokemon is. Kids won't want to see it - it has nothing to grab them immediately. Once they do see it, they will love it of course, as it has all that is good in kids cinema. But kids want marketing and consumer products - not actually great films. This is a great film - so treat yourself to a baby sitter and go and see it! "},{"Title":"New Aardman flick over easy","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Fans who wonder if Aardman can sustain the quality of Wallace and Grommet over 90 minutes will not be disappointed. Plenty of brilliant puns, solid plot and outstanding character animation.  The references to The Great Escape are genius.  However, this movie doesn't break any new ground and covers the same general themes as Close Shave - triumph of innocents over evil mechanical scheme. Don't expect to be blown away but you'd be pecking yourself if you miss this one. "},{"Title":"One of the best Animated Films EVER","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Better than Wallace and Gromit, better than the Toy Stories, and more involving than even Iron Giant. This is a movie that works on every level and involves the level in a multitude of emotional levels. You will fall in love with these characters and care about their struggles, you will thrill as they attempt an escape, you will laugh and laugh hard at the jokes. YOU WILL LOVE CHICKEN RUN!!!!!!!!! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The Great Escape set in a chicken coop.  My kids (5,9,12) loved it.  So did my wife and I.  Miranda Richardson is hysterical as the farmer's wife. She reminds me of her role as Queen Elizabeth I in Black Adder.  This movie is great fun for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Delightful!!!","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  A first-rate family film that will delight young and old alike.  This film deserves to capture a HUGE audience this Summer and word-of-mouth should help it to do so.  Superb stop-motion animation PLUS a hilarious, exciting and heartwarming story...what more could you ask for?  If you liked Toy Story, you're gonna love Chicken Run.  The voice casting couldn't be better and really adds to making the (mostly chicken) characters endearing and fall-down funny.  This is truly one of the best non-Disney family films ever made.  Grab your kids and RUN, don't walk, to see Chicken Run!! ****4 stars "},{"Title":"Totally hilarious from start to finish","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is Aardman Animations first full length feature, and it is by far the funniest film I have seen in a very long time.  At the preview theatre I saw it at, there was barely a second went by when someone in the audience wasn't laughing.The animated plasticine chickens have a surprising large range of facial expressions and emotions that you just can't stop sniggering at.  Combined with comical voices, and a fast paced comedy script, this film is a total winner.  The Oscars have to be a distinct possibility.I especially liked the behaviour of the thieving rats who steal the scenes which they are in.This is not a kids film.  It's a hilarious comedy for everyone of all ages. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Even better than Wallace & Gromit!","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Who could have believed that Nick Park (director of The Wrong Trousers and A Close Shave) and the crew at Aardman animation would better Wallace & Gromit's originality with Chicken Run. Okay, Park and co-director Peter Lord had more time, more money, some big name star voices (Mel Gibson, Miranda Richardson) but this works on every level. It really draws the audience in, the preview audience I saw it with were cheering, applauding, gasping. While it takes a little time to find its pace as it sets the scene and introduces the key characters and their motivation is soon roars ahead full steam, to the finale. Providing hilarious joke after hilarious joke and some inspired set pieces. Whatever else you see this summer, don't miss this! "},{"Title":"It's an ingenious little adventure","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" The creators of the British animated classic `Wallace and Gromit' bring their magic to a full length feature. It's an ingenious little adventure that follows the hopes and dreams of a chicken named Ginger (Julia Sawalha). Her dream is to escape Mrs. Tweedy's chicken farm. She claims she can do it on her own but what bewilders her is that she is afraid for all her fellow fowl within the coop. So their plan focuses upon all of them in one huge jail-break. Ginger's prayers seem to be answered when a `flying' rooster named Rocky (Mel Gibson) drops into the coop after escaping a traveling circus. Meanwhile Mrs. Tweedy (Miranda Richardson) develops a plan to turn her little farm into a massive `chicken pot pie' factory forcing Ginger and Rocky to teach all the others to fly before they become pies. What makes `Chicken Run' so ingenious was how the animators made us want to be apart of the chicken world. We fall head over heals involved with these chickens and their daily lives. Coupled with that involvement, `Chicken Run' also cleverly delivers us into a `prison breakout' movie filled with humor, and excitement. `Chicken Run' is a pure delight. For many people this will be their first experimentation with a full length animated feature involving clay. The clay for me helps reflect the tones and dimensions of the characters. In some ways I think it aids a lot in the audience's involvement in the chicken world. Placing aside the claymation and those magnificent machines, `Chicken Run' also brings back a lot of classic Hollywood moments in the films setting. There are scenes which remind us a lot of the classic World War 2 prison movies. Films like the `Great Escape', `Stalag 17' and even the misadventures of `Hogan's Heroes'. What I liked about those film references here is that they weren't here to poke fun at the films but to play homage. The references also aid the audience in diving deeper into the film and its delight. If you remember `Wallace and Gromit' then you may recall all their huge machines which helped enchant their everyday lives. From the rocket-ship to the sheep shearing machine, `Chicken Run' has these kinds of machines which have always amazed me in their transformation and assembly. How do they dream up these wondrous machines? (4.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer. (Opens June 23rd)  "},{"Title":"You'll believe chicken can fly, once you watch Chicken Run! Chicken Run is awesome!","Date":"17 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Being a huge fan of Wallace & Gromit film series & old school WWII Prison films like 1963's Great Escape & 1953's 'Stalag 17, I was really looking forward to this movie, when it came out. It had a unique look to it, with its stop motion clay animation style. Directed by Nick Park & Peter Lord, and animated by Aardman Animations as the studio's first feature-length film; Chicken Run tells the story of a band of chickens lead by Ginger (Voiced by Julia Sawalha) trying to escape from certain death, when the owners of their farm, Mr. & Mrs. Tweedy (Voiced by Tony Haygarth & Miranda Richardson) decide to move from selling eggs to selling chicken pot pies. Can the smooth-talking Rhode Island Red named Rocky (Voiced by Mel Gibson) teach them to fly or will they end up, being the main course when Mrs. Tweedy get her hands on them? Watch the movie to find out! Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, this movie was amazing that it even got finished. After all, Aardman weren't really sure at first, if they could pull off making clay figure of chickens moving in a set, because how awkward, they might had look, but somehow, they were able to make them look enchantingly believable. For a stop-motion animation film, this is some of the best work, I have saw. It was poultry in motion. The exceptional British voice-acting from the cast add to the unique characters in this film. The chickens are highly individual, completely believable, and wildly funny side characters. My favorite character in the film had to be Babs (Voiced by Jane Horrocks). Her posh-like speaking voice, matches so well with her character, very air-headed and spacy, jumping to strange conclusions and not fully grasping what's going on, behavior. Lots of laughs from her. However, there was a little language barrier with some of the Cockney and Scottish accents from other supporting characters like Mac (Voiced by Lynn Ferguson) & Nick (Voiced by Timothy Spall), that made me, scratching my head, due to them, being hard to understand. For the leads, Mel Gibson really stood out as the cocky American playboy here with the tone of his voice. He was really literally a chick magnet, back then. I also like, how his Australian accent wasn't showing at all. He really did sound like, he was from show business with his Hollywood-like attitude. Still, there was one thing that bug me, about his portrayal. I really, didn't like, that he didn't sound like he was from Rhode Island, in which his character is supposedly from. You would think, the movie would hint at that, a little more. Anyways, while the trailers, make it might seem like Mel Gibson is the main hero, it's Julia Sawalia as Ginger, who really stands out in this film. She really sounds like a woman with a plan. You really sense, the urgency within the tone of her voice. The villains were also well-played by Tony Haygarth & Miranda Richardson. They really do stand out, with their over-paranoia and axe-crazy personality. The humor is a mixed bag for me. There were a lot of moments that really did hit my funny bone, mostly in the British style of slapstick humor; yet some of the dry humor needed some more work. Then, there are some U.K pop-culture references that clearly went over my head, like the spoof sequence from 1951's Ace in the Hole or 1971's And Now for Something Completely Different. It didn't make a lick of sense, to us, Americans, but for the most part, I understood, most of the jokes. Some of the jokes could be a little too complex for children, but for the most part, it works within its means. Despite, being stuck in one-location, the movie is full of action and adventure. I love every minute of it, from escaping pie-making machines to the climatic airplane chase. The music score from Harry Gregson-Williams and John Powell really add to the epic scope of these scenes. One scene, that really bug me, was any of the scenes with the rats. I really thought, they would had been cut out. The whole scene where they're debating on, what came first, the chicken or the egg was somewhat annoying and drawn out. It was the only problem, within what might seem, like a very well-paced film. Still, the story was mostly 'alright' category for me. Mainly because the story wasn't really anything new and often full of clichés. The whole third act, liar revealed cliché wasn't really needed with its gloom. Regardless, I'm still glad, that Nick Park and Peter Ford cut some of the darker sequences from the film such as like; Fowler (Voiced by Benjamin Whitrow) being an abusive alcoholic & a chicken eaten by the watchdogs in an escape attempt. That would be way too grim for a children film. Overall I like this, incredibly creative, highly detailed, animated film. Memorable characters and a cool prison escape plot, made this, a must-watch. So don't be a chicken, go run and see this movie. "}{"Title":"A good film for the family...but not Oscar-winning like Happy Feet","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Slightly based on the 1963 film The Great Escape comes the egg of that chicken and the child appropriation, Chicken Run , starring Julia Sawalha and Mel Gibson as the two main characters. The movie is not a chick flick, but the directors and writers Peter Lord and Nick Park make it eggcellent.The claymation/stop-motion movie is set in Britain in the 1950's and is about a group of chickens in a coop who are being raised and will be killed when they stop laying their eggs. However, the main chicken, Ginger (Julia Sawalha) leads the optimism of the group and believes they can escape. The chooks have attempted to escape their pen a multiple of times, but have always failed. But then Rocky (Mel Gibson), a rooster who accidentally flies into their pen, is forced to help all the chickens to escape the pen because he can fly. It turns out he is actually escaping himself from the circus.The voice-over performances of the chickens were average. They were not the best, I believe. However I think that's not really the point of a movie like this. Films like Wallace & Gromit, Harvie Krumpet and the famous Russian short, Peter and the Wolf, are not supposed to demonstrate the voice-over talents of the actors, but more importantly, they are meant to show off the clay art and the skillful editing (Robert Francis, Tamsin Parry, Mark Solomon).The main thing about this movie that made me crack up like an egg was Craig Atkinson's modelling of the chickens. All the way through the movie, I could not help but laugh at the chooks' mouths. They are so funny and absolutely ridiculous and to hear a funny female British accent with words like Is she going' on a holiday?, just make it a lot more hilarious. The cinematography is great, especially the lighting (in my opinion) and so I say Well done! to Andy MacCormack and Paul Smith.I think it's clever that a movie that's a true story revolving around a concentration camp in the Second World War was transformed into a children's' movie about...well...chickens!! Originally, in The Great Escape, the Jews were being controlled by Nazis and in Chicken Run, the chickens are being controlled and killed by a nasty pommy couple. Which is worse, we might ask! I think if you want a great family animation film with a great story, entertaining animation and a good moral, then definitely watch Chicken Run.Overall, this movie is decent. The story was well adapted, the modelling and animation was funny and very effective. I thought the style was hilarious (especially the mouths). The actors were not especially good, but the female British accents were enjoyable to watch. However, my complaint is clearly contradicted by the film's Golden Globe nomination for best animation/musical.In conclusion I would say that this movie should be watched by everyone who wants a good laugh. "},{"Title":"The Scariest Movie I have Ever Seen","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" For some reason, probably the woman with the axe who executes the chickens and abuses her husband, Chicken Run is in my opinion the scariest movie I have ever seen. The animation helps make the movie very scary, but that woman, just something about her gave me nightmares for two weeks. I have yet to watch the movie again, due to the severe fright it gave me last time. Over all its a good movie, because i enjoy the horror genre. If you are a fan of decent horror movies, then i suggest Chicken Run to you any day. The plot is very good, and the movie is put together nicely, Kids could be scared though, When I went to see it with my friends, there were many little kids there. MAny children were crying because the movie was hard to watch( beheading, extremely scary villains). If you can bear an unexpected surprise of fright, then Chicken Run is the movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, beautifully crafted visuals, and a good script.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run is a parody of The Great Escape, only set in a hencoop. It is highly imaginative and uses good animation techniques. The putty-style animation is very well done, but not quite as popular as computer animation. But still, the three-dimensional landscapes and characters are very impressive and a good change from flat 2D.The majority of the vocal cast isn't as well known as those in other similarly themed 3D movies such as Antz and Shrek, but the characters are very likeable, and Mel Gibson does a good job at being an arrogant rooster.While never exactly hilarious, Chicken Run is consistently witty and very entertaining. It compares well against other animated movies and is effortlessly rewatchable. An excellent movie, 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not as funny as you'd want for adults but very enjoyable","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  In England a chicken farm appears normal on the outside but inside is a different story.  Inside the chickens plan for escape, led by the fearless Ginger.  However despite her best efforts she is continuously caught by the farmer.  This changes when an American rooster flies into the compound and Ginger realises that he can teach them to fly out of the farm.From the makers of Wallace and Gromit came this first feature which I was greatly looking forward to.  W&G manage to be imaginative and hilarious without resorting to smutty humour to please the adults, they really did transcend ages.  Chicken run takes the same approach but expands to 80 minutes or so.  The plot is very clever &#150; imagine The Great Escape set on a poultry farm and you've got it.  The film isn't afraid to show the dark side of this life and it is quite obvious considering it's a kids film.  It's moves nicely along with the energy covering the plot sagging a bit in the middle, however in terms of humour it is a little of a let down.The jokes are mostly very good, whether it be funny movie references or the chickens falling around or being silly.  However at 80 minutes the stretch marks do so and it isn't as consistent as I'd hoped it would be.  That's not to say it's not funny (it is!) but minute for minute it doesn't match other Ardman films.  The movie references are all good &#150; from the Colditz Story, The Great Escape, Indiana Jones and a wonderful Braveheart joke that heralds Rocky's arrival.The cast are good and really bring life to the animals.  Sawalha is well cast as Ginger and Horrocks brings a lot of laughs as Babs.  Gibson is pretty good as Rocky and sends himself up well despite wandering off in the middle for a bit.  Daniels and Spall are good rats but I felt their jokes were weak and more could have been done with their characters.  Richardson and Haygarth both hold well as the Tweedy's.Overall this isn't as hilarious as I'd hoped but it was still very funny indeed.  It is stronger for not being afraid to show it's dark side a little and the movie references only help to hold adult interest when the humour does slightly drop. "},{"Title":"Clever But Creepy","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The claymation technique is creepy enough to begin with- to add on top of it a storyline centering on decapitation and the threat of it makes for one depressing little barnyard tale. The odd way that Mel Gibson has of jerking his head around on THE TONIGHT SHOW may have made him seem the ideal choice to play a rooster, but his voice is too deep and suave to suggest a bird. The basic chickenworld reality just doesn't come off as convincing or charming.  But I still gave it a 6 because of the cleverness of the physical production, the endearing character of Babs, and a scene at the end which actually made me laugh harder than I've laughed at a movie since SPINAL TAP one which pokes fun at the absurdity of the whole conceit of anthropomorphic chickens.    "},{"Title":"Definitely NOT one of the Top 250 movies of all time...","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing Chicken Run, I can't fathom how people are naming this as one of the best movies they've ever seen.  I will give it credit for it's technical merits (innovative animation work and exceptional voice acting), but the rest of the movie was incredibly unoriginal.  As I watched the movie, I couldn't help but recall every family-oriented movie I've ever seen.  Now, having said that, before I saw the movie, I never once regarded it as a family movie, but after seeing the rehashed theme and uninspired love story, that's all I could think of it as.  There was only one line in the movie that made me laugh, with most of the other jokes being bad puns and unfunny references.  I'd say go see this if you're REALLY bored and have seen everything else out there...  "},{"Title":"Chicken Run was too hyped for what it was","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Rating 5/10Several chickens are set in a chicken farm in Yorks, Britain.  Their leader Ginger (Julia Sawalha) early in the movie devises plans and risks herself to help the chickens escape.  The plans continue to fail and she is punished by being placed in a coal bin for a duration of time.  The chickens become a bit depressed and hopeless until one day when Rocky the Rooster (Mel Gibson) comes crashing down from the sky into the chicken coop.  After a while the hens decide that besides finding him very attractive, he could teach them to fly and help them all escape.Chicken Run is, of course, an English comedy springing from the clever and entertaining Wallace and Gromit, directed by Nick Park.  The only difference, Chicken Run is not, as clever or entertaining.  I was not too impressed with Chicken Run.  I thought that several elements of the movie and scripting could have been vastly improved.  I smiled through most of the movie, but rarely really laughed.  The plot started out with a lot of energy that, through the movie began to dissipate.  I did however like the claymation and some of the concepts of the movie were very funny and well presented.  Many people hail Chicken Run as The best movie of the summer! Where did they come up with that?The chickens are up to something, and she is their leader.For the Ryan Review, Adam RyanLet me know any feedback any of you have about the movie!  Thanks. "},{"Title":"Visual Technology Wars?","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't anything to add about the story proper. It is competent enough, though I suppose you need to know `The Great Escape.' The British loss of WWII is now complete, as we transform German prison guards into Welsh chicken farmers.More interesting to me is what this film may mean for stop-action films. Not so long ago, filmmaker had two choices, something had to be real, or it had to be drawn. But the drawing was real too. Now, the advanced of computer-generated techniques is so great that soon it will be cheaper to make a computer-generated film than by any other technique. We'll still have the others, but only because of nostalgia. There'll be a demand for old-fashioned Disney-type films because we remember that world fondly. Will there be a demand for claymation (or something that looks like it)?This film and what theses guys make next will probably determine that future. "},{"Title":"It was heartbreaking","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" My son and I watched this, he was so upset because the chicken was killed in the beginning of the movie, he cried the entire length of the movie, I wasn't sure what to say or do, but I wondered if other children were bothered by it. I encouraged him to watch the rest of the movie to see that the other chickens did get away. I know that it's life for farm animals but could not get him to understand this. For this reason the movie was not a smash hit with me or my son.I just wanted to express my thoughts,which is just mine. I know most kids really enjoyed the movie, however, it really bothered my child. Thanks "},{"Title":"Feminists rejoice!","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run (2000) is a good film for kids.  A female figure, a hen named Ginger, is the heroine.  She organizes the hens in order to escape their prison.  The two male chickens are fibbers and not as helpful as they at first appear to be.  Ginger, however, manages to encourage them enough to make them useful.  The roosters do their part to help save the day, along with all the hens, but they don't take over the operation.  There are no princesses in this story, no helpless females awaiting a man's rescuing arms.  There is some romance, but it is egalitarian and modern.  No Victorian values here (George Lucas must hate this movie; in his version, the rooster would come in and single-handedly save the day).  This film boasts great stop-motion animation by Wallace and Gromit creator Nick Parks.  It is extremely funny and might just teach kids not only compassion for animals, but also that women can save the day.  Loosely based on The Great Escape (1963), this film is not a mish-mash of clichés and poorly written dialogue.  It is clever enough to entertain kids and their parents or babysitters. "}{"Title":"A real fun family movie","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run does everything to make it a fun family motion picture. So there is a good chance you and your whole family will enjoy it.What makes this movie special that it is stop motion. Stop Motion Animation is hardly use these days and it is very good to see a full motion picture with stop motion.The stop motion is very well done and you can see in this film that they took the time to detail every motion of the characters and the sets help make it convincing that is what I like the best about the film is the stop motion it deserves a lot of respect for how the animation was done. The music in the film tells the story pretty well for each scene. The writing in this film does have pretty well and some good reference to famous films and Television shows which is another winner because the writers made each reference work.The voice acting is very well done as well with a cast you never thought would do animation films but they did.The only downside to the film is that some characters will leave you scratching your head and some of the writing can be out there.But overall Chicken Run is a fun film for the whole family and shouldn't be miss I give Chicken Run an 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Barn Yard War Film.","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run (2000) Dir Peter Lord, Nick Park / Voices Mel Gibson, Julia Sawalha, Miranda Richardson, Tony Haygarth, Timothy Spall A family film that exploits prison movie clichés. It introduces a hen named Ginger who has made every attempt to escape her barb wire surroundings but her attempts are faltered by farmer Tweedy and his ruthless wife. Just when all seems hopeless a rooster named Rocky drops in seeking refuge from circus life. Ginger will conceal him in favour of flying lessons but unfortunately he cannot actually fly. They must work fast before they are subject to Tweedy's pie making machine. Surprising and innovative claymation flawed only with a silly conclusion where a chicken lugs implausible weight. Directed by Peter Lord and Nick Park with voices by Mel Gibson as Rocky who sees the confinement as an escape whereas the chickens await a dire fate. Julia Sawalha voices Ginger whom remains strong and hopeful despite the gloom of the situation. Miranda Richardson and tony Haygarth voice Mr and Mrs Tweedy who will meet defeat but not without a good dose of humour thrown in. Timothy Spall provides the voice of a rat who may remind viewers of the rat in Charlotte's Web who shares similar personality. While children may not grasp the prison film references, it is still wonderful family viewing where claymation take flight faster than the chickens. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Nick Park and His Chicken Story","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run is a comedy escape drama with a touch of passion set on a sinister Yorkshire chicken farm in 1950s England.Taking a page from Braveheart, Nick Park weaves a tale of chickens who long to be free. There is even mention of free range, though this term might be an anachronism. Either way, it is the similar style we have come to expect from the man, now with chickens. For many people, this might be awesome. Personally, I am not a huge fan of the style.More interestingly, is how the film changed the Academy Awards. Allegedly, there was push to get this film a Best Picture nomination (which seems unlikely), and that push failed. But the Academy recognized the growing number of animated films and opened the door for them to have their own category. This has completely changed the way we look at animation each year. "},{"Title":"A delight","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" While this is not the best product Aardman Pictures has ever made, even a film that comes very close to the fun and creativity of the Wallace & Gromit films is a delight.The film stars all new characters and is quite a departure for the animators, as this is a full-length film, not a short. But, you'd never know that these film makers hadn't made such a picture before, as the product is exceptional from start to finish.It all takes place on a bizarre chicken farm. That's because the sets and action in the film more approximates the film THE GREAT ESCAPE than anything else--and this is deliberate. On this odd chicken farm, there are some determined chickens--determined to escape because some of them realize what their fate will be if they stay. All doubts about this are removed when Mr. & Mrs. Tweety invest in a horrid chicken pie producing machine. You just drop in a chicken, and out drops pies!! Unfortunately, the chickens have no idea how to escape. Aside from a slightly loony old male chicken who acts like a WWII vet, the rest of the chickens are all layers and have no idea what the real world outside is like. Then, out of the blue, a performing chicken (more precisely, one who is shot out of a cannon) arrives in the farm and the ladies all know that he will lead them to safety. If only they knew that he hasn't the foggiest idea how to help.The film features the usual plastic figures that are pose-able, along with very detailed and realistic miniature sets. It's actually quite amazing how far these characters are from the original clay Wallace & Gromit figures. They don't look quite as crude and they seem to have tons of personality--so much so that you soon forget that you are rooting on a whole bunch of dolls! The effect is further enhanced by excellent writing throughout--with a healthy dose of humor for the parents.Overall, a wonderful picture...though my favorite was their next feature, WALLACE & GROMIT AND THE CURSE OF THE WERE-RABBIT. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"Not the best from Aardman Animations, but still a likable cartoon, not just for kids","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Released in 2000, this feature-length Aardman Animations effort came about half way in between the last Wallace & Gromit short and the stop-motion animated pair's first feature-length outing. I didn't see Chicken Run until 2005, not long before Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit came into theatres. At that point, I had never seen anything else from Aardman Animations. Three years and a few months later, I've finally watched this film again, after seeing Wallace & Gromit's full-length movie three times, as well as some Wallace & Gromit shorts, and much of the Angry Kid series. Comparing the two full-length movies, I would say the 2005 Wallace & Gromit one is the superior of the two, but Chicken Run is still a fine accomplishment.Ginger is a chicken who lives on a chicken farm in England. The farm is owned by Mr. and Mrs. Tweedy, a dysfunctional couple, and the chickens know that if they don't produce any eggs in a week, they will literally lose their heads! Ginger knows that the only way to save herself and the others on the farm from this fate is to escape, so she leads the rest of them in many attempts to do so, but never succeeds. It eventually looks hopeless, until an American rooster named Rocky comes flying over and crashing down on the farm! The chickens are convinced he can actually fly, and can help them escape by teaching them how to do so. It turns out that he is from the circus, so Ginger makes a deal with him. If he gives the chickens flight lessons, she will hide him whenever the circus people come looking for him. Unfortunately, Rocky may not be very reliable, and he and Ginger have trouble getting along. Another problem is that an elder rooster on the farm named Fowler isn't too fond of Rocky. Meanwhile, Mrs. Tweedy now has a chicken pie-making machine and intends to make pies out of every chicken on the farm, so they are now in even more danger! The humour in this film may not be as consistent as it could have been, but without a doubt, it's still there. For example, the relationship between Mr. and Mrs. Tweedy is good for some laughs. Basically, Mr. Tweedy is a dimwitted farmer, married to a selfish, greedy, nasty woman, who sometimes insults him or gets a bit violent. Certain chickens can also be amusing at times, such as the airheaded Babs, with some of her lines (such as I don't want to be a pie. I don't like gravy.), and so can Rocky. For the laughs, the film features a combination funny dialogue and slapstick. Not usually hilarious, but often amusing. To add to the entertainment value, not only is there humour, there's also some suspense, especially later on in the film, such as the pie machine sequence. There may be some dull moments in the film, but for the most part, it remains intriguing, sometimes with humour, sometimes with suspense, and sometimes both.I haven't seen everything from Aardman Animations, but unlike the first time I saw this particular effort of theirs, I'm now familiar with some of their other work, and can't think of a time they've failed to impress me with their fine stop-motion animation, humour, adventure, etc. I think my second viewing of Chicken Run was pretty much like the first - not absolutely stunning, but pretty good nonetheless. Now that I'm familiar with Wallace & Gromit, two excellent, unforgettable, and very funny characters, I can say that maybe none of the characters in Chicken Run can quite match them, but some of them may come close. So, overall, this is an entertaining piece of animation which can appeal to many viewers, both kids and adults. It pretty much has everything that makes Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit so entertaining; the animation, the humour, the adventure, and likable characters, except to a smaller degree. "},{"Title":"Eggcellent!","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" What a good movie from the creators of Wallace and Gromit. I tell you Pixar's main competition as being the greatest animators are these guys. The voices are eggcellent. The story is great and witty and I can't understand why this did not get nominated for best animated feature. The movie was eggactly what I wanted. It was silly and it was good entertainment even though it is aimed at younger viewers than me I still love it. I think this is why it is so good. It can entertain anyone even though it is designated at five year olds. My parents still enjoy it and they are getting on. I recommend this movie to anyone who is looking for an eggcellent time! "},{"Title":"The Great Eggscape?The yolk goes on too long for me....","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Foghorn Leghorn...now there was a chicken;feisty,cocky,funny and with a great voice.Compared to him,Nick Park's collection of milquetoasts are a Mild Bunch indeed.I thoroughly enjoyed Aardman Animation's anthropomorphic commercials,but a good proportion of their appeal was based on the premise that they were voiced by real people unaware as they spoke that their words would later be sampled.Wallace and Grommit had a certain Northern charm,mainly provided by Peter Sallis,but Chicken Run is too self - consciously cute and takes a one - joke concept too far.Bigger is not necessarily better nor indeed funnier.The great Silent comedians knew a thing or two about brevity being the soul of wit;if the Mona Lisa was twice the size it wouldn't be twice as good. I found the movie a great disappointment.It quickly runs out of chicken jokes and the references to various PoW films start wearing thin early on.This is a good 15 minute short dragged on far beyond its welcome. "},{"Title":"It's clucking MAD FUN!","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Chicken Run (2000, Dir. Peter Lord, Nick Park) Story Aardman's first full theatrical stop motion film shows Ginger, Bunty, Babs and Fowler are chickens who are trapped on their farm and desperately want to escape. If they don't produce any eggs for the week, Mr and Mrs Tweedy will have their heads. After every attempt, they fail and their time is running out. When it seems like all their attempts have failed, an American rooster called Rocky falls into the farm. Seeing Rocky flying, Ginger now realises that the only way out now, is by flying. The chickens must learn the trade of flying before time runs outs.Actors The problem with movies using stop motion animation is that you don't actually see the actors, and instead must hear their voices. The cast chosen to provide the voices in this film have been chosen carefully in order for them to all suit their character. Benjamin Whitrow provides the perfect voice for Fowler. Timothy Spall and Phil Daniels make a wonderful comic team with the voices matching to the characters of Nick and Fetcher. Mel Gibson is also a nice addition as Rocky. The character really does feel as if he's a rooster from America. Mel is not a complete unknown actor and isn't too famous to distract you from the character. The only problem with the voices I have is Julia Sawalha. To me her voice just sounds awkward when blended in with the other characters. You could possibly say it is too English. This is only my opinion and may someone else might feel different about her 'thick' accent.Music The score in this film is actually very good. Harry Gregson-Williams and John Powell give you a soundtrack which isn't a blatant rip-off of 'The Great Escape' but also has the same feeling to it. There are some good tunes hears and really fits in well with what is happening on screen. An animation film is harder to build up excitement than a live action film, and 'Chicken Run' is able to accomplish this by the use of the music. The music really builds up tension, especially in the scene, when the chicken are trying to fly off in their 'home-made' plane.Special Effects The only special effects I can really refer to is the animation techniques. Like all other popular Aardman material, the characters in the film are made with a kind of plasticine kind of material. Even today, there characters still look wonderful to watch and enjoy. It never puts the viewer off by what they are. It seems as anything is possible with these characters, as they move&#133;and fly just like real people. All the buildings look amazing. So many different camera angles are used, that they do actually look as if they are real full-size sets.Conclusion Chicken Run, like all other Aardman movies, is a remarkable film. Not as memorable as the Wallace & Gromit series, but still a fun 'chick' flick. It's suitable for the whole family and contains jokes for the whole family to understand. It's not too short and not too long, and includes a story easily understandable by younger viewers. This is a perfect film to watch together on a wet weekend.I don't want to be a pie. I don't like gravy. &#150; Babs (Jane Horrocks) "},{"Title":"Really funny!!! Better than Wallace and gromit","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I was looking forward to watching this and this is really funny. There were 2 things i didn't like in the film but its still a good film. 1. It had Mel Gibson init and everybody knows that he is a racist person who hates Jews. What did the Jews do to Mel Gibson! 2. I love animals and that is brutal how they kill the poor chicken.Story great Characters great Baddies cool Ending best Funny really Dumb no Escapes average Music 9/10Lots of parts are sad like the part where they knew that Rockey was not flying because he was in the circus. The funny parts is when there trying to escape but they get kicked back in but the girl chicken gets back to the bin. Those mice. I didn't know why they were there but they were funny too, i think they just wanted eggs or something. The baddies were gay but cool. "},{"Title":"The Sad Life Of the common Chicken.......","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Let's face it, the average life of your typical chicken, is not at all glamorous is it ? well not on the Tweedy's farm. This film to me, reminds me very much of The great Escape. Ginger is the chicken equivalent of Steve Mccqueen, She spent more time, at the beginning of the film going into the coal bunker. In The great Escape, Steve mccqueen was escorted to the cooler. I liked it when mr's Tweedy says They're Chickens you dote! they don't scheme, and they are not organised! but we know that they are. the film to me, is a load of fun! I also liked Mac the Scottish hen, mr tweedy is an oafish pot bellied man with two rot-willer dogs and I also liked the two rats Nick and Flectcher and I also liked rocky. I have the DVD and it brings me great Pleasure watching it. I am going to give this film 10/10 "}{"Title":"okay","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I expected Chicken Run to be chicken (four letter word here), but it was a decent movie. Chicken Run was a good story overall, the clay-mation was decent, and the voice work was superb. I don't know if this annoyed you, but the chickens always gritting their teeth was the only thing I found annoying. Well, overall I enjoyed this and you will also, the 7 rating maybe a little high, but its still a solid movie.  "},{"Title":"This fan of animation didn't like it at all!","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I loved Monsters, Inc. Toy Story 1 and 2, Beauty and the Beast, Lilo & Stitch; but hated this movie.  I actually gave up after about an hour.  The animation is great; it's neat that the characters are British.  I thought it was overdone to make the chicken farm into a prison camp.  I did expect this to be a good film.  I just didn't enjoy it.  The appearance of Mel Gibson's rooster character made Chicken Run more interesting.  There were some funny parts.  But overall I just didn't care if all the chickens got slaughtered.  I seem to be in the minority here though.   "},{"Title":"Chickens plot a daring escape.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Surprisingly interesting. This is one I passed up at the theaters, but caught on cable. Very fun to watch on a Sunday afternoon --  although I would not let small kids watch it without guidance, thanks to the domestic violence and sexual innuendos. "},{"Title":"Definitely for kids with adult accompaniment.","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a big disappointment. While the animation, now not as spectacular as before is good this movie never reaches great. It pretty much is just an extension of a Wallace and Grommit style show.While some of the gags are mature this does not transcend beyond the kid age range. Some jokes are old, some are just dumb, many are corny and none are subtle, they very obviously had a forum and plonked in all the chicken puns they could. Some things are a little too harsh to appeal to all ages, mainly decapitating a terrified duck. The prison camp idea is not really explored well, though it has a million nods to 'The Great Race'. It also explores all trodden territory, like choosing to make an effort to get free, learning to cooperate with people you dont like, and going back on a profession that you dont care about someone, the kids love that stuff but older people yawn at it. Braveheart comes into it, the jokes based on it come off the funniest. The vocals don't credit Mel very much, nor the rest of the cast. The most likeable character in it is not Mel but the major who is the organised military presence.Basically if you liked Wallace and Grommit or child jokes and ethics in a disney cartoon time length then this is your flick, if you are looking for a Toy Story 2 quality appeal fest dont bother, for what it is I suppose, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Did NOT enjoy it....","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" As stop action animation goes, Chicken Run was something of a letdown. The characters needed more development, the story line was somewhat predictable, and it did not flow very smoothly. I watched it during a marathon viewing of old VHS tapes I ran across, and it pales in comparison to the classic Disney works, Don Bluth, and others. Plus, it had traces of Animal Farm scattered throughout the story and, indeed, in the final frames, there are characters who make mention of starting a chicken farm. I did not find it very entertaining or even engaging. It was a difficult watch...and, after only one viewing, I easily determined I would NOT want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Chicken Run","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" This is a very good first feature length film from the makers of the Oscar winning Creature Comforts and Wallace and Gromit, Aardman Animations. Nick Park and Peter Lord have created a great story similar to The Great Escape, but with chickens. Ginger (Absolutely Fabulous's Julia Sawalha) has been trying for ages to get herself and all other chickens out of Tweedy's Farm. One day after discussing ideas of escape, a loud bang sounds and then comes Rocky Roads (Mel Gibson) from America. He came in appearing to fly, and Ginger is determined that he could teach them how to fly to escape. Mrs. Tweedy (Miranda Richardson) meanwhile are planning to start a chicken pie business with her thick husband (Tony Haygarth). Also starring Little Voice's Jane Horrocks as Babs, Shakespeare in Love's Imelda Staunton as Bunty, EastEnders' and Blur's Parklife voice Phil Daniels as Fetcher the mouse, Timothy Spall as Nick the mouse, Lynn Ferguson as Mac and Benjamin Whitrow as Fowler. A hilarious film with outstanding Plastercine animation. It was number 93 on The Ultimate Film, it was number 59 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons, and it was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Battle Field Chicken Coop . . . So who wants PIE?","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  There's nothing worse than dry Chicken, and this is really dry.  This is a remake of the Great Escape told from the P. O. V. of chickens. See the original instead. The problem is they're CHICKENS!, so who cares if they escape or not.  All this movie did for me is make me hungry for chicken pot pie.  The creators of this Show should stick to shorts that have one or two chuckles, instead of a full length movie with one or two chuckle.  I guess brain dead children (The only kids that could sit through this whole thing) and people with a thing for clay (Which by the votes is a lot) will like this movie. The only reason I gave it a 5 was there was nothing offensive in it, and it was cute(whoopty do!)    "},{"Title":"Fairly standard, with the added creepiness of chickens kissing.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Undoubtedly, I feel mean critisizing this movie, being a fan of W&G, and seeing the amazing amount of work that was put into getting it made. However, I couldnt help but find it, well, dull.The plot was fairly predictable, with a few too many similarities with A Bugs Life (Rocky inspiring the chickens, while hiding a secret circus past, their escape, the final shot). Practically all the humour was derived from an infinate amount of puns, which were laid down a bit too thick. They even resorted to pointing out some which we may of missed (D'oh! Get it? Dough...). ergh! Talk about overkill. And the worst thing is that you can't stop saying them yourself! Just try describing Rocky without using the work 'cocky'.And the characters, unfortunately, were also fairly bland. There was no one who you actually cared about, and I found Ginger was a bit too uptight and whiney, with Julia Sawalha just being Saffy all over again  (who else cheered in Ab Fab when she was sold as a Morrocan slave?). And there's something about chicken's kissing that unnerves me and creeps me out.I must sound like I absolutely hated it. It was alright, and it had it's moments. It just suffered from a standard plot, with many conventional things thrown in that just didnt fit. Not to mention bad lead characters, a boring villain, a few too many puns, and kissing chickens. Good for the kids. Otherwise dissappointing and forgettable. "},{"Title":"Chicken Run flies short of a good fare","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run is a Burger King kids' meal. But the movie is not family fare. In the Pie Machine scene, mothers were removing their hysterical 6-year-olds. Children old enough to understand that this an animated farce, along with adults, would be too old for a Burger King kids' meal.The animation, as good as it is, has not the story as clever as creators' hit series, Wallace and Gromit, a witty commentary on contemporary life. Chicken Run croaks with the silly American rooster.  He makes the black British humor too banal.As a sophisticated dark picture, Chicken Run flies onto the chop block. Make that a deluxe chicken sandwich with fries. "},{"Title":"So, was it as good as you expected?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  No... it's worse. I have the unfortunate distinction of sitting next to a woman at work so obsessed with all animal kind that she spends her evenings baking jacket potatoes for her bird table. With grated cheese for topping. No joke. In fact, so near is she to the welcoming arms of insanity that she claims keeping fish in tanks is captivity and campaigns for the rights of maggots. And so it was that I went to see Chicken Run, not because I wanted to, but to shut up an eccentric colleague who asks me if I've seen it on a twice-daily basis.On the positive side, thrice-Oscar winner Nick Park might be working with an American company for the first time but he doesn't sell out. Animation's first-rate and the humour is still as English as Wallace and Gromit. The inclusion of Mel Gibson as Rocky the Rooster also fits. Amusingly, Gibson's Rocky fails to understand a chicken with a Scottish accent, which may come to explain his own attempt in Braveheart. Most of the better jokes &#150; such as multiple references to The Great Escape, The Weather Girls and a weak Star Trek spoof &#150; got laughs from the adults but were lost on the child demographic. They're treated to a predictable series of self-conscious blinks, double takes and pratt falls, which over-egg (geddit?) the joke a little. As for the child audience, despite some comic violence, it does warrant it's U certificate. The only odd point is, in a film devoid of bad language, the sole usage of the word bugger. A mild English expletive, bearing in mind its actual meaning, it should be more offensive to right-wing middleclass audiences than the f word. The fact that it is patently isn't is an interesting lesson in the misplaced priorities of linguistic experts.There's always the nagging feeling that the plot isn't long enough for it's 90m duration, or that the jokes aren't funny enough. Pipe smokers may urge an Orwellian perspective on the class divide, but it's really just a so-so see it if you really like that sort of thing kid's film about plasticine chickens. But at least my deranged co-worker can now finally be silenced.  "}{"Title":"Okay, but nothing special.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Chicken Run has some great claymation and other affects.  However, there seemed to be something missing.  It just did not inspire much care from me about the characters.  I am a little surprised this one rated so well on IMDB.  I guess this time I am in the minority.  The plot was solid but it was predictable.  A group of chickens wanting to escape but are unable.  Then along comes comes a stranger who uses his entrance to his advantage but is really unable to live up to his new friends expectations.  He later leaves out of fear of rejection and guilt of his deception, but then returns to help save the day.  This was very predictable and I had this one figured out about twenty minutes into the movie.  I could also tell they had borrowed from several other movies like Escape from Alcatraz and the classic The Great Escape.  This would have been forgivable if the story had been original.Overall, good for the kids, (5 out of 10).  "},{"Title":"Nice, but about 60 minutes too long","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Although I appreciate the effort that goes into claymation and have thoroughly enjoyed the adventures of WALLACE & GROMIT, this story would have been better presented as a 30-minute TV episode instead of a full-length movie. Nice try, but it just misses the mark. "},{"Title":"Great claymation only makes for an average movie","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Although the quality and attention to detail the animators paid to the claymation is amazing, the characters themselves are not that interesting. Only the first few minutes gives the playful parody of The Great Escape. Otherwise I didn't feel the story warranted the rave reviews. "},{"Title":"I thought Chicken Run was a complete load of tripe...","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Its always a pleasure to see an animated, clay rendered movie, that has a hero, antagonist and a romantic story-line, with some humour along the way. 'Chicken Run' has all that however fails to capture and acquire viewers attention.'Chicken Run' discredits its Academy Award winning predecessor Wallace and Grommet and creators Nick Park and Peter Lord.Chicken Run won the Best-Animated Film in 2000 as well as being nominated for the best visual effects, and if anything it has that. The phenomenal amount of detail, right down to the when Ginger leaves the charcoal bin covered in soot highlights the directors attention to intricacy. However the slow-paced and implausible storyline fails to ensnare adults and older children's attention.The whimsical and monotonous storyline features the unsuccessful frequent escape attempts from the prison-like Tweedy farm lead by altruist, Ginger. Ginger's irritating determination is illustrated in the beginning of the film, shortly before the tyrannical, influential Mrs Tweedy is introduced. Mrs Tweedy is sick of making miniscule profits and with that decides to leave the business of egg farming, to chicken pies. It soon becomes a matter of life and death for the chickens to escape, and Gingers prayers are soon answered by the cocky and very arrogant Rocky, who has escaped from the circus.References to Stalag 17 and The Great Escape are crammed into scenes making no impact on the audience, from the movies being so long-standing. These conceptual spoofs are mediocre to Shrek, one of the latest and greatest animations, also produced by Jeffrey Katzenberg.  "},{"Title":"Nice technique, but I was bored to death","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  When you look at the techniques used in Chicken Run, you can only be amazed it's a wonderful piece of work -and patience- done by the animators.When you look at the jokes used in the movie, you will be a little less positive I guess. The humour is not really high-level humour, but well... if that's the only thing that's not that good at all in this movie...Alas, it isn't. Really, the story itself was boring; and the attempts to bring some suspense into the plot were... err, let's say good tries.So the only thing I did during the movie, was observing the techniques used. That's interesting, but not worth a 5$ ticket. Nice try, boys and girls. Next time do it better!5 out of 10; only worth watching if you are younger than 12 or if you are interested in the wonderful techniques used. "},{"Title":"The latest dazzling animation to support a weak story","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Being a fan of animated features, I went to Chicken Run full of anticipation, what with all the positive reviews and the high esteem bestowed upon the film's creators (whose Wallace and Gromit shorts I've never seen).But instead of a charming, witty, light-hearted fable, I got a leaden, trite, obvious trifle.  It doesn't take 10 seconds of heavy-booted footsteps to figure out a character is evil, but that's how this story is told.  And someone should advise the scriptwriters that a joke you can guess in advance (beautiful chicks) is not funny.Sure, the animation is amazing.  A lot of animated features these days are visually amazing.  But a good animated film needs a good story with characters you care about to make all that painstaking effort worthwhile.  Sadly, Chicken Run doesn't have one. "},{"Title":"Not the least bit funny","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Three of us went to the movie, expecting great things. We all have a very good sense of humor, and to say that we were disappointed is an understatement. I am sure the quality of the claymation was good, but we didn't laugh out loud once. Nor did anyone else in the theater. One small child called out I no like this movie and three other people left. We all wanted to walk out, but kept thinking that it might get better. I liked the rats a tiny bit, but I can hardly believe the reviews this movie is getting. I always thought I enjoyed British humor, so I cannot believe this is why I didnt like Chicken Run. There were a few clever puns, but big deal.  Give me Toy Story any day, show me Babe, but geesh,don't make me suffer through this one again.  "},{"Title":"FOWL PLAY","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This film has it's moments, and despite the Dreamworks cash is still very much a British affair. Sawalha doesn't have the clout to carry a movie, and makes for a limp uninspiring heroine. She was surrounded by better actresses, who were wasted in smaller roles.    Whilst some of the movie reference gags are amusing, this format has been done to death now. How about an original, fresh gag?  "},{"Title":"A Must See Film","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  It's so rare to see a film that is intelligent, witty and fun all at the same time. The lovable characters and slapstick humour will appeal to children, while adults can enjoy the snappy dialogue and allusions to other great films. The movie opens with Ginger hatching up a series of clever escape plans that would surely work, if she wasn't so determined to help her friends escape.  Brooding over yet another scheme, the desperate Ginger prays for a miracle and Rocky the rooster comes flying into her life.  Rocky agrees to teach the chickens how to fly and the race against time and the Tweedys begins.  Viewers of all ages will laugh at the antics that ensue.  Adults will appreciate the brilliantly subtle relationship that develops between Rocky and Ginger.  Mrs Tweedy is one of the most menacing villains ever. The rest of characters provide non-stop comic relief and are very endearing. Nick Park and company did a great job of balancing the action and dialogue to give this movie a broad appeal across all age groups.  The claymation was excellent and stood up to close up shots. This movie has it all.  A good plot, great characters (and I mean characters), plenty of eye candy and lots of running gags.  I give it five stars.  "},{"Title":"Half hour cartoons should never be stretched to full length","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The Wallace and Gromit series were fantastic, this is dull and turgid.  The sending up of old war movies is a great idea but it could have been done so much better. I think my biggest argument with this film is that somebody decided to make it a feminist propaganda piece - that's certainly what it feels like. "}{"Title":"Humor does not survive Holocaust overtones","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Wallace & Gromit are two of the greatest characters in the history of animated film, and Nick Park is unquestionably a genius. I've seen Park's three short films, one better than the other, and I've just seen The Curse of the Were-Rabbit, which is hilarious and filled with adult humor. I'm circling back to comment on Chicken Run, which seems to me to undermine the humor by cutting too close to the bone in its reliance on the Holocaust as a theme. The Producers and The Great Dictator exhausted whatever humor might be found in the doings of the Nazis, and Chicken Run falls decidedly short. Nick Park is neither Mel Brooks nor Charlie Chaplin, and Chicken Run is far darker than the Brooks and Chaplin films. The tragedy of the Holocaust has also been done exceptionally well -- most of all, to my taste, in The Pawnbroker, though Schlindler's List was also excellent and the film about Hungarian Jews -- Sonnenschine or Sunshine (I've forgotten the exact title) featuring Ralph Fiennes as a defiant officer who is murdered by his Nazi tormentors in one of the grisliest scenes ever --all treat the subject with great effectiveness and emotional weight. Park's otherwise impeccable taste failed him in this movie. "},{"Title":"Wallace & Gromit fan gets disappointed","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  The film was a miss. The plot didn't show any imagination and the set of Chickens were poor characters missed that warmth, sensitivity and BIG personality we have seen in Wallace & Gromit films. Big bucks don't always result to a good movie.The dubbing made by Mel Gibson was poor. I almost began to see him as an Real Actor, but after this movie I'll have to take that back. His acting gave an impression that there weren't taken many re-shots...From everything you could see that the film makers didn't have fun while doing this film and that's not the way to do animated films because the same feeling is reflected to the audience Nobody was laughing at the cinema and the expression on the face of the children was more than disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not for young children","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was unimaginative in general. The dialogue and range of acting was just too familiar to the Pixar films. What's really bad about the movie is that although it is rated G for general audiences, there is a fairly potent scene where a anthropomorphized chicken gets murdered. This is too scary, and could actually damage a 4 year old mind.  "},{"Title":"Totally over-rated","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  You know how people love kids' movies that are also funny on another level for adults?  Ever seen a Wallace and Grommit short?  You'd probably have high expectations for this movie, as did I.  You'd also probably be disappointed, as was I.I don't know who this movie was targeted for.  The animation and the accents seem to intend an adult audience, but only a small child who hadn't seen many movies could have been surprised or entertained by the lame story.4 was kind of a high rating for me, as I did laugh a few times, so I gave the film a higher number than I think it really deserves.  Basically, I believe this movie is getting a bit of a halo-effect pass from critics because the W&G shorts were so good.  This movie, however, is not. "},{"Title":"I Beg to Differ","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This was one of the most boring, inane and cliched presentations I've ever seen. How pathetic is this plot A bunch of (ugly) egg-hens are housed behind barbed-wire in WWII pow-camp conditions under the jackboot control of a sinister farm owner, her hapless assistant and their vicious rottweiler guard dogs. The hens, under the guidance and plodding of their activist, feminisit ringleader, Ginger, establish plot after plot to escape which includes an ill fated attempt at learning to fly, until they are finally successful at gaining liberation. Imagine watching overfed hens plummetting one after another from a barn roof as they attempt to take flight. Sounds like a real side-splitter right? Guess again.Ginger, meanwhile, falls for a disingenuous American rooster, Rhode Island Red. To say that it's a silly and unlikely love interest would be generous, and does nothing whatsoever to buoy the tedious plot. A decidedly anti-american sentiment finds expression in the character of RI Red, a puffed-up and egocentric buffoon of a character. Red, like all of the other characters are mere caricatures in a film that relies tiresomely on rehashed pro-British bootstrap wartime propaganda and other likewise familiar tropes, diabolical villains, foiled escapes, and settings that might have come right out of Hogan's Heroes (been there, done that, only a hundred times better and infinitely more funny...). Astounding in it's lack of originality and the sheer idiocy of concept (chickens as POWs??), the popularity of this film is incredible. That such depictions of wartime resistance were popular in the years following World War 2 is unsurprising; that this has found it's way to production now, in its current form, is unreal. "},{"Title":"If you laugh at Roadrunner cartoons, this is for you!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I fell asleep (sitting up in a chair) in the middle of it.  It's cute, I suppose, but there weren't any laughs as far as I could tell (maybe 2 or 3 mild chuckles).  And yes, I did get the in-jokes.  There's one hatchet scene were a hen who didn't produce any eggs is executed (they actually only show the axe rising, not falling).  It's no There's Something About Mary, let's put it that way.  If you like kiddie cartoons like Tom & Jerry and laugh at them, you'll like Chicken Run.  By the way, someone here posted a protest against the anti-American sentiment expressed in one character's observation,  Americans overpaid, over-sexed and over HERE!  Well, that comment was made over  50 years ago in Britain during World War II when Americans were stationed there.  Another in-joke, see? "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Honestly the worst film I have ever seen. At least, the first three quarters are. This is the only film I have fallen asleep in. Really really dreadful. Incredibly predictable, jokes are laboured and the references to the Great Escape aren't even funny. Even Babe 2 was better than this. "},{"Title":"Can you spell the word Ripoff?","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a total ripoff of the Disney/Pixar movie A Bug's Life, if anyone has seen Bug's Life then you can certainly tell that there were so many things stolen from the movie, to make Chicken Run.1. the protagonist is a screw up, just like Flick 2. the protagonist looks for help from someone, just like Flick 3. what the protagonist finds is a fraud, sounds just like those circus bugs huh? 3.everyone discovers the truth, then the fraud leaves. just like from Bug's Life 4.You can compare the chickens' egg giving, to the ants offering to Hopper and his crickets.too many things to point out that this movie was a complete ripoff in every way to a previously made movie "}]