[{"Title":"the best movie I've seen in sometime","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"38 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Walk on the Moon was Tony Goldwyn's directorial debut,and all I can say is MORE!  This is an excellently  constructed film.  The script was written by Pamela Gray isfantastic.  If you like a film with characters who could easily be real in believable situations that you come to care about, then you will love this film.  Set in upstate New York in the summer of '69 the movie focuses on the choices and the resulting consequences made by a young woman who feels trapped in her role as wife and mother.  That setting with the Vietnam War, social unrest, Woodstock, and the manned moon landing is arguably one of the most interesting times of the 20th Century and woven seamlessly into the film.  The soundtrack with songs from the era fits perfectly and is great.  The casting and performances were flawless.  After seeing the film, I can't imagine anyone else in the roles.  This was the first time I had seen Liev Schreiber who plays Marty, the husband, and Viggo Mortensen, the carefree lover.  Both were terrific.  Tovah Feldshuh, the perceptive earthy mother-in-law, and Anna Paquin, the rebellious daughter, were perfectly cast as well.  And Diana Lane as Pearl, the lead, plays her multifaceted role well.  I believe this film to be worthy of Academy consideration.  The category that comes to mind (and there are others) is best supporting actor for Liev Schreiber. This film is a must see for the baby boom generation.  Four stars!!!!      "},{"Title":"Glad I finally had the courage to watch this film","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Warning Spoilers ahead!Sometimes I just wish I was a whole different person, Pearl Kantrowitz (Diane Lane) tells her friend in an unguarded moment of A Walk On The Moon.  The friend's reaction?  Yuck.Exactly.Long review coming -- so sit, already!When this movie's trailers came out in 1999, I cringed, avoided the film, walked past its posters with my eyes averted.  I had divorced the year before, within the years of my marriage had unfortunately been a deceived wife, and had no desire to re-visit that pain.  Fast-forward to 2003 Having grown a great deal, I decided to rent what I had avoided.  I'm so glad I did.  A Walk on the Moon is a lovely, authentic film with a light-seeming yet solid screenplay, great direction, and fabulous acting by a talented cast.  (Watch the expressions of Diane Lane and Viggo Mortensen, which subtly change to portray rainbows of emotions within a few seconds.)The Kantrowitzes (culturally though not particularly religiously Jewish) have rented for the umpteenth summer one of many tiny lakeside cottages owned by a Dr. Fogler in the Catskills.  Friends they've met over the years there also rent near them.  Their children (Alison, 14 -- Anna Paquin in a totally believable performance -- and Danny, 6) stay there during the week while their father Marty (Liev Schreiber) drives back and forth from NYC and his job as a TV repairman.  Caring for the children is their paternal grandmother, Lilian (Tovah Feldshuh -- wonderful!), and their mother Pearl (Diane Lane).  Pearl is 32, we learn, and Marty perhaps a year or two older. It is the summer of 1969 -- culture, music, mores are changing, and the whole family is caught up in a loss of innocence.Into their enclave of mah-jongg and Sinatra comes hippie-ish Walker Jerome (Viggo Mortensen), the new Blouse Man -- a relaxed-attitude businessman, he's bought the bus from the former blouse-man, and drives a circuit, making unscheduled stops at Dr. Fogler's to sell blouses and scarves, and later, at Pearl's suggestion (clearly she knows something about retailing, perhaps from her family-of-origin), sunglasses and jewelry.  We learn very little about Walker -- who possesses the mannerly, shy diffidence and that's cool attitude which characterized some people of the late-1960s but was often used to disguise inner struggle and pain -- although he lives alone nearby, has a vegetable garden, and reads the book A Place in the Woods (still in print, this 1969 account by Helen Hoover details how she and her husband left their jobs in Chicago to pioneer back-to-the-land in northwoods Minnesota).  We also learn that Walker's soldier-or-spook kid brother has been missing in Southeast Asia for four years.Some reviewers below mention that Pearl leads a content, middle- (or even upper-middle-) class life.  Not true.  The Kantrowitzes do not have much money (why else would Pearl's mother-in-law live with them in what, judging from the neighborhood -- first minutes of the movie -- is an apartment? And did you see the car's interior on the drive up to Fogler's?  The reason Pearl walks quite a way to the kosher butcher, getting caught in rain, is that Marty's taken their one car back to NYC.).  Marty repairs TVs, but doesn't even own the business.The back story, mentioned in passing by the grandmother and Pearl, is that one summer as a teen, Pearl visited one of the posh Catskills resorts with her family (recall the lakeside resort of Dirty Dancing or the even posher Grossinger's).  Marty worked there that summer as a waiter, earning salary and tips to attend college, then perhaps med school.  Marty spotted Pearl, was enthralled, they began to see each other over the weeks, she'd never had a boyfriend before, they made love, she got pregnant the first time.  At 17. In getting pregnant then (remember how illegal and dangerous abortion was in the summer of 1954 -- when Alison would have been conceived, if she's now 14 in the summer of 1969), in deciding to marry a young man at whom her parents were probably appalled, given their hopes for the lovely young Pearl, in becoming a wife and mother so very early, Pearl has missed out on a great deal of life.  (As has, of course, Marty, who gave up his educational plans to support wife and daughter.)Now, this summer, Pearl's daughter has her first period.  This is a major moment for a mom, as well.  Put anthropologically, Pearl is no longer the only female of reproductive age in the house.  Therefore, as happy as she is about her daughter's growth, she also feels older.  (At a mere 32, an age when many women nowadays are just marrying.)Having personally experienced what infidelity does to a family and to the betrayed spouse from a vantage point similar to Marty's, I'll say right now that the decision to be unfaithful is a poor one.  (Cliche but true  You can't solve problems within a marriage by going outside it.)  It's clear, however, that Pearl has been trying to let Marty know that there IS a problem.  It's just that she doesn't know how to bang him over the head with it, and, like most wives, wants to preserve peace.  (What's the price of peace?  Oh, yes, eternal vigilance.)Several reviewers below (male, I think) sound puzzled what makes Walker seem so attractive to Pearl?  Okay, guys, here's a partial list Walker Jerome is  handsome and Aryan-looking (in the 1960s, Jewish girls were still taught that sex was the only thing Christian boys wanted); blond, long-haired and semi-bearded, therefore exotic to Pearl; soft-spoken; polite; gracious; good-humored and smiles easily; listens to Pearl; clearly admires her physically; takes her suggestions and thanks her for them; more relaxed than Marty; a man who seems to genuinely like women; courtly; sensual (watch his hands, and his intensity when he and Pearl finally make love); kind to others (e.g., his resolution of the blouse argument between Lilian and Selma), including kids; helpful (as with Danny's wasp stings -- the irony here! since Walker Jerome is an incredibly WASPy name, and he's certainly stung Pearl).  Even Lilian, Marty's mother, displays a certain amount of respect and gratitude toward Walker when his wasp-sting techniques turn out to be better than hers.  In fact, Walker really does embody many Boy Scout virtues.  (No one in this film is obviously given to evil -- though good people can certainly do unhealthy things.)Walker wants Pearl, but she has to make the first move.  As he gets to know her, his feelings for her grow -- they're mainly visible through his eyes and mouth.  He can't offer her marriage, nor children -- she has the one, and would clearly prefer not to have more kids.  He does offer something new making love outside, sleeping under the stars, a bodily connection and sensuality she's never known.  But he knows it's Pearl's decision.  Will she remain in her marriage, or not?  If she does, will it be from love -- or from obligation?  If she doesn't, will she come with him out West?  (When he suggests that they take her kids, too, she looks close to melting.)Although Pearl feels attracted to Walker from the first time their eyes meet, she does not act on that by phoning to meet him until AFTER--  She asks her husband Marty to request more time off from his boss, so she can be with Marty more this summer at the lake, but Marty refuses even to ask;--  She suggests to Marty that they experiment a little in their lovemaking, but instead of rejoicing in a sexually-interested wife, he asks what's wrong with the way we've been doing it, and then, childlike, dresses up in their son Danny's cowboy hat and pistols;--  Alison reveals that her first menstrual period has begun, and then that she has her first date;--  Marty calls from New York to say that he can't come up this weekend, he'll be fixing TVs for people who want to watch the Apollo moon walk;--  Pearl experiences the really yucky part of being a mom (Alison, told she's not permitted to camp out at Woodstock, screams, I hate you!), and naturally wants to be perceived as lovable.As Marty asks later, was Pearl thinking when she began with Walker?  Was she thinking of anyone but herself?  Probably not.  Yet for her, infidelity is so big, so cataclysmic, that it's the accumulation of little hurts that finally turns her toward Walker.Marty finds out from his mother, and the earlier confrontation between Pearl and her mother-in-law is fascinating.  Picking blueberries together, Lilian says to Pearl, You're shtupping someone....the blouse man.  Yet she doesn't try to dissuade Pearl so much on the simple basis of betrayal, her son Marty's prospective hurt feelings, how could you do this to us?. Instead, she challenges her to act ethically, to be a mensch.  Lilian tells Pearl about Marty's dreams, too, so that Pearl will know she hasn't been alone in setting aside her own desires for Alison and Danny.  It's a wonderful scene, very mature.Whether you prefer typical American film conclusions (up) or typical European endings (down), this ending is so bittersweet that, really, you can have it both ways.  Pearl and Marty have passed the crossroads.  Perhaps they're on a new footing, perhaps they'll learn to be more open with each other.  Perhaps not.  But they've begun to recognize the truth of their marriage, and how staying stuck in each of their roles has meant the marriage hasn't grown for a while.Ten years from now, in 1979, perhaps they'll regard this summer as a terribly painful time -- that led them to rekindle their love and attention to each other.Love doesn't just sit there like a stone; it has to be made like bread, re-made all the time, made new. -- Ursula LeGuin. "},{"Title":"Realistic, well-acted, character-centered drama and romance","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I like movies with a good character-centered plot and this certainly qualifies.  So many Hollywood movies have a distinctly evil antagonist and a pure protagonist.  There is no bad guy in this movie.  All of the people have a side that I could relate to, but they make mistakes along the way.In all a very good film "},{"Title":"Unfulfilled expectations&#133;?","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A touching look at life, human weaknesses, missed dreams, and opportunities.  Having read all of the posted reviews, what I find most interesting is the overall male consensus that the film portrays the husband as the guilty party for his wife's dissatisfaction.  Being male, I find it hard to believe that so many of my gender feel so weak and betrayed.  Pearl, doesn't blame her husband and only learns to value and understand him better as also having missed out on some of life's potential.  Also, I find it hard to accept the moralizing in the reviews.  The film is not condoning the illicit relationship, the idyllic couplings and temporary `escape', are photographed as what we dream we've missed.  Are acted out fantasies, to be moralized?  Pearl knows,  the fantasy can't last and a price will be paid.Haven't we all missed out from time to time?  How many men have fantasized (and acted out) Pearl's actions and expected to be forgiven.  Why because they're men???  A well acted, beautifully filmed, and nicely scored remembrance, of the period of self exploration and human frailty.  "},{"Title":"A Tasty 'Period Piece' from the 1960s!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A WALK ON THE MOON as written by Pamela Gray (Music of the Heart) and directed by actor Tony Goldman conjures up more atmosphere for the year 1969 than any film to date. Remember Woodstock, the Jewish summer retreats in the Catskills, hippies, face and body painting, threats from the Vietnam era and promises of space habitation by the famous first walk on the moon? It is all faithfully created here as the background for a lovely little sentimental tale about family and fidelity.The Kantrowitz family - Pearl (Diane Lane), Marty (Liev Schreiber), Alison (Anna Paquin), Daniel (Bobby Boriello) and Marty's mother Lilian (Tovah Feldshuh) - are spending their usual summer away form New York in a Catskill settlement bungalow along with other Jewish families of the same ilk. All seems swell, except that Marty must spend the weekdays returning to his job as a TV repairman, leaving the family under Pearl's and Lilian's care until his weekend visits. A hippie blouse salesman Walker Jerome (Viggo Mortensen) peddles his wares to the settlement and casually but inevitably Pearl feels an attraction to Walker, the man of adventure who represents all the lost dreams of becoming a mother and wife at the too early age of 17. Life has slipped her by but feels salvageable in Walker's advances.Woodstock is close by and Pearl and Walker spend a day of hippie love-in in the crowd, not knowing that teenage Alison is also there observing their free love antics. This crisis event affects the family's unity and the way Pearl faces her moment of indiscretion with Marty and her children builds to a terrific climax.Diane Lane, Viggo Mortenson, Liev Schreiber and Tovah Feldshuh completely inhabit these simple characters and pull us into accepting all aspects of the predicament of this family crisis. The confrontation among Lane, Schreiber and Mortenson is a trio of acting not to be forgotten. Tony Goldwyn has paced his film beautifully and proves that he has as great skill as a director as well as an actor. The cinematography by Anthony B. Richmond is as recreative of a special time on our history as has been captured. This little film will stay with you long after the credits are over. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"A Walk on the Moon","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I think the soundtrack is amazing and appropriate although Helplessly Hoping is a cover of the CSNY classic. Still, we have Jefferson Airplane, Jesse Colin Young, Joni Mitchell, Judy Collins, and Richie Havens to drop a few names. Listen to the lyrics in this movie...apply them to how Pearl, Diane Lane's character is feeling... Diane Lane does a wonderful job of portraying a 60's housewife who, like so many other women of the time, found herself in a life she fell into. She meets a man who reminds her of who she wanted to be...of feelings she forgot she had. Movies aren't obligated to be lessons on morality, rather they are slices of the lives we all lead or dream of leading or hope to never lead. Some of the scenes in this movie are so powerful-they really rattle the soul. The love scene at the waterfall is wonderfully scored with the amazing Cactus Tree by Joni Mitchell. One can feel Pearl's guilt and confusion coupled with an excitement and verve for life she truly deserves. We see Pearl come of age metaphorically as she searches her heart to find out who she truly is. I recommend checking this one out and watching with an open heart and an open mind...the music alone is worth it. "},{"Title":"This movie is bull$#%&!!!","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Minor spoilers ahead) I just love it. Another movie that tries to justify infidelity, AND not only that, but tries to pin it on the responsible spouse. He's depicted as square, but responsible, caring and hard working (he's forced to spend the whole week from dawn to dusk working uptown to support them). And the wife isn't exactly abandoned she's got relatives and friends all over the place! From the beginning the movie does nothing but to try to tell us all she missed for marrying at 17 (ever care to mention what the husband missed? He's not exactly bad looking, get my drift?), like she had done it at gun point. So when the hippie wanders into town, we all understand the obvious she getting it on with him. And the best the husband is shown as the one responsible, the one who provoked this and the one who has to adjust in order ro repair the marriage!!! If he had been one of Joe Pesci's characters (Goodfellas, Casino), I would understand, but boy, is only crime is to be square and not to look and think like the hippie!!I can't stand the people who like this and justify it all her yearnings unfulfilled, the lost freedom, and stuff like that. I mean, there are worse things than that. Want to see a wife for whom cheating and abandon home is really justified? Beth Heke in Once Were Warriors. Now that's a troubled life!! (what wouldn't she do to switch places with the wife in this story!!).I wonder how the audience would react if the roles were reversed (the husband running off with a hippie girl and the movie trying to justify it and blaming it on the faithful wife). Just a thought. "},{"Title":"The way we were","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The sixties were a time of great transition.  At their beginning was the Peace Corps a way to help those in need of a better life.  At their end it was the me generation how high can I get or how can I satiate my senses to the fullest.  This movie is one of the best encapsulations of those events that I've seen.  The moral overtones of the movie are overwhelming.  Wrongs occur.  Do we run away from them?  Do we trash our lives because of them?  This movie attempts to address these questions.  It does it well.Finally, what brings it all together?  In two words Diane Lane.  She possesses a deep but quiet beauty that makes it work.  Her character asks, I'm approaching middle age.  I have children and a good but somewhat boring husband.  Is this all there is?  All ask this question as youth begins to fade.  The answer this movie purports makes it exceptional and even classic.  A hundred years from our descendants will look at this movie and appreciate its incite in human existence. "},{"Title":"First impression was positive, now I'm not so sure","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie, I think I was just captivated by the excellent performances.  Viggo Mortenson, like William H. Macy and James Caviezel, is one of those whose roles are understated but so well executed and you anticipate their next work.  Diane Lane is gorgeous, and I think that somehow is supposed to drive a pitiful feeling from us that a woman of so much beauty is shackled down to a normal existence.  Liev Schreiber's role was the most successful of the principles.  The real sympathy in this movie DOES go to him for spending the duration of it separated from his family, and his philandering wife, simply keeping his tv-repair job.Rule #1 about this movie, don't see it with your significant other.  The passionate scenes of a cheating spouse copulating with a free-spirited, self-centered vagrant under a waterfall will make both of you uncomfortable. The scene that bothered me most was the actual moon-landing, where while he's quarantined to the shop repairing TVs so everyone can watch the event she's making it with the blouse-man on the bus.  As others have said in this forum, the main point at the end of the movie is that she was misunderstood by a caring husband, her needs weren't satisfied (we never mention his), and ulimately he'll have to forsake his matured take on life if he's ever going to have his wife back.It was the equivalent of watching Dharma and Greg with explicit adultery, where once again the responsible spouse has to pick up the pieces and try to understand their act-before-thinking partner.  This isn't a statement of gender specifics, I'm well aware that plenty of men are unfaithful and self-centered as well.  I'm just tired of people in this country deciding we can be married and never compromise on anything.  It simply won't work that way.  Marriage is a give and take, and in order to function right we need movies that emphasize communication.  A movie that tries to justify infidelity isn't going to enhance anyone.  I love my wife dearly, and I don't need to see a movie like this one as a cautionary tale of what could be if her needs are left ungratified.  See it if you like, but I could mention PLENTY more chick flicks which will leave you with a warm or sorrowful feeling at the end worth seeing, rather than an akward feeling that neither of you want to discuss. "},{"Title":"Billions spent just so 2 guys could take a walk on the moon....","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...But forget about the moon thing for a moment and let's get back to the late 60's Earth.Summary Pearl and her husband Marty take their family on a vacation in the summer of 1969 near Woodstock where all their friends are too, but Marty can only stay on the weekends because he has a job repairing TV sets, which takes up most of his time, especially because people want to see the walk on the moon. Pearl yearns for some excitement in her life. Her daughter is almost grown up, her son is still young, but something seems missing from her life, something she can't even experience with her husband. Enter excitement in the form of the extremely charming blouse man Walker Jerome, who spends his time travelling on a bus loaded with blouses that he sells at places such as the cabins. He and Pearl meet and there is an attraction, but after she sleeps with him on the night of the moon landing, everything changes for her...especially when Marty's mother realizes what Pearl is up to.No one can be sure of what will happen later in life and as for Pearl I felt sorry for her in a way that she was trapped in the life that she was leading that was slowly dying anyways. I also felt sorry for Marty, who was subjected to his wife's affair, and for the both of them I thought it was sad to see how 2 people's lives were destroyed over a mistake of not using protection which lead to the kids and their dreams left shattered, but I do think that both of them were lucky to get that sort of a wake up call in their lives and yet they still found a way to work things out.I rate this 8/10. Nice movie, Viggo Mortensen looked great in this movie as the bong loving hippie Blouse man.  "}{"Title":"What it was like","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was 20 in 1969. I wasn't at Woodstock. I was on a Road Trip from New York to Denver and then SF - finding myself - selfishly, just like the people in this movie. The movie encapsulated many experiences in that one summer. Looking back, it took me several years to experience what was covered in this movie. For me, that occurred between 1967 and 1972 -- between Sgt Pepper and Jackson Browne -- between Chicago and Berkeley -- from college, through marriage and divorce, to California freedom. I remember being the guy whose wife needed and found someone else. I remember being the young free spirit dating the divorcée -- or the almost divorcée. Yes, these could have happened to anyone else at any other time. And generational conflicts that marked 1969 - rebellion, loose morals, iconoclasm, etc - did occur at other times in history. But this movie accurately portrayed what I did experience listening to those songs, attending those kinds of concerts, dating those kinds of girls, just being young, free and ... yes ... selfish. I learned a lot from those experiences. And this movie did an excellent job presenting many of those conflicts, moral choices and learning experiences. "},{"Title":"A movie set in a time where only a subject like this could work...","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When a family spends the summer of '69 in the Catskills, both mother and daughter find new love interests. Diane Lane stars as a wife and mother who turns to the blouse man for affection when her husband can't get out of the city and spend any time with his family. Anna Paquin plays her teenage daughter who comes into her own during this time and needs her mother's emotional stability, which isn't there.The first thing I ask myself is the reality behind this film. Could this really happen? Yes. Could I believe something like this could happen in Lane's character? Not with her mother-in-law living in the bungalow, as well. It's a nice film based on a time when things were a little simpler, but I don't think the director gave very much opportunity for any of the stars to give it their all, especially co-star Viggo Mortensen. Bottom line good plot, great actors, bad fit.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Incredibly REAL","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, so I'm surfing the 63 movie channels on my new digital cable......and I hear a voice... It's the loudspeaker of the Catskills bungalows project announcing some esoteric occurrence... You simply had to be there...And I WAS... Forget the glamour of that upscale Catskills resort on Dirty Dancing... This was REAL LIFE circa the 1960s...as I, and I'm sure many others remember it from our childhood... (I won't go much into the plot here...that's been covered...it's the FEELING of the movie--the LIFE--that hit me...) Now, I am certain this whole atmosphere will seem bizarre, fairly off kilter to most...But as a Jewish kid born in NYC in 1953, this movie was SO REAL, it was incredible... I swear I was there...no, not in the movie...but in one of those bungalow colonies somewhere in the Catskills in the Summer of '69...close enough to Woodstock to breathe it... And I have never seen a film completely capture the setting as well as this one... Trust me, folks, this is a snapshot in REAL TIME...The characters are right out of my family, my friends...the resort is what real life was like for most working class NYC families who could squeeze out just enough cash to escape the sweltering NYC summer... There was a point in the mountains where my Zayde used to announce This is as far as the car goes...He never in his life drove farther from the Bronx than those bungalows... I've watched the movie through twice now and it's just as real every time. "},{"Title":"Beyond Good...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been waiting to see this movie for some time. I was not disappointed. As a woman, from a woman's perspective, I found this to be uncomfortably accurate. I was floored by Diane Lane's performance as a bored yet not, not in love with her husband woman who was willing to find new love, to fully be loved by the blouse man. The love scenes were incredibly truthful and believable, and I just thought this movie was absolutely flawless in it's portrayal of what would have really happened between Marty and Pearl. I thought Diane Lane was awesome, as well as the understated acting feel of the beautiful and beyond sexy, Viggo Mortensen. I cannot say enough how authentic and beautiful I thought this movie was. I give it a 10+. I thought it was a masterpiece, perfect and breathtakingly beautiful, it was human imperfection at its best. It truly made me feel love for each man, I felt sorrow for her decision.  "},{"Title":"what 1969 would be like, if it was actually 1999","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Why do people who do not know what a particular time in the past was like feel the need to try to define that time for others? Replace Woodstock with the Civil War and the Apollo moon-landing with the Titanic sinking and you've got as realistic a flick as this formulaic soap opera populated entirely by low-life trash. Is this what kids who were too young to be allowed to go to Woodstock and who failed grade school composition do? I'll show those old meanies, I'll put out my own movie and prove that you don't have to know nuttin about your topic to still make money! Yeah, we already know that. The one thing watching this film did for me was to give me a little insight into underclass thinking. The next time I see a slut in a bar who looks like Diane Lane, I'm running the other way. It's child abuse to let parents that worthless raise kids. It's audience abuse to simply stick Woodstock and the moonlanding into a flick as if that ipso facto means the film portrays 1969. "},{"Title":"Who`s This Movie Supposed To Attract ?","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seeing as the world snooker championship final finished in a premature and disappointing manner with Ronnie O`Sullivan defeating Greame Dott by 18 frames to 8 BBC 2 found a gap in their schedule and so decided to broadcast A WALK ON THE MOON a movie I had absolutely no knowledge offI missed a few seconds of the title credits so had no idea Viggo Mortensen starred in it and thought possibly it might be a cheap TVM , certainly the opening with the mawkish Pearl and Marty taking their kids to a Summer camp has that sort of made for TV feel though the brightly lit ( Too brightly lit ) cinematography seemed to suggest this was a cinematic film and it wasn`t until the appearence of Viggo Mortensen as hippy guy Walker that I realised this was a cinema release , after all someone of Mortensen`s stature wouldn`t star in a TVM , I mean that`s like a legend like Robert DeNiro appearing in a straight to video film . Wait a minute , didn`t Bob .... ?Some people on this site have mentioned that Pearl and Marty are an unconvincing on-screen couple and I agree . I can understand why Pearl would be attracted to exciting hippy guy but have no idea why Walker would be attracted to plain house wife Pearl . The sixties was before my time but surely if you`ve got the choice between hippy chicks and bored house wives it`s not really a choice at all . Mind you a lot of people took LSD in those days so I guess that explains itI feel the major problem of A WALK ON THE MOON comes down to the fact it`s a romantic drama at heart ( Just like you`d expect in a TVM ) with several cloying coming of age scenes so why include a fairly explicit sex scene ? It jars with the rest of the movie and is possibly off putting to the menopuasal women who were 20 something in 1969 .  I say possibly because the movie also seems to aim at a teeenage market with the coming of age scenes and those teenagers will probably be bored with the historical and social context of man walking on the moon and Woodstock . In other words A WALK ON THE MOON tries to attract many types of audience but will probably appeal to none of them      "},{"Title":"Houston, We Have A Problem...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	The universal theme of coming to terms with the loss of youth and accepting a life of unfulfilled hopes and dreams is explored in `A Walk On the Moon,' directed by Tony Goldwyn.  Diane Lane stars as Pearl Kantrowitz, a thirty-one year old mother of two, the oldest of whom, Alison (Anna Paquin), is fourteen; her husband, Marty (Liev Schreiber), is a square shooter who loves his wife and family and provides for them by working long hours in a shop repairing television sets.  It's the summer of &#145;69, and while on the family's extended vacation-- during which Marty must return to work for the week-- Pearl falls into discontent, and with Woodstock about to happen a mere stone's throw from the campground/resort at which they are staying, she soon succumbs to the siren's song of the &#145;60s  The inhibition, freedom and free love-- all of which have been denied her since giving birth to her daughter at age seventeen. 	There's an honesty to Goldwyn's film, and though he captures the sense of the times in which the story is set fairly well, he nevertheless fails to elicit much sympathy for his leading lady, Lane.  Perhaps it's because, though there is much about Pearl with which to identify, her story is just too familiar; her situation is far from being unique, and she has a decent, upper middle-class life, with a loving husband and two great kids.  The fact that she started young and that her dreams were never realized is a shame, but it's not like she's the only one to whom such a fate has befallen.  And her futile attempt at regaining her lost years comes across as somewhat shallow and decidedly unsympathetic; and without that sympathy the film sputters and finally stalls, even as Neil Armstrong is beginning his historic walk on the Moon. 	There's no question that Lane is attractive, and physically she fits the role of Pearl perfectly.  But she simply doesn't possess the wherewithal to sell her character in this film.  The emotional turmoil of what Pearl is experiencing seems restricted to the surface, and she never manages that depth of feeling that would've made the necessary connection with the audience.  It's not that Lane is bad in this role, it's just that she's not that good.  There are just too many gaps in credibility and too many false moments to be overlooked.  It's as if the character throughout remained just beyond her grasp.  Liev Schreiber, on the other hand, is outstanding as Marty.  You have no trouble believing he is exactly who and what he is supposed to be.  This is a character to whom most people will be able to relate, and if only Lane had been able to evoke the same kind or response as Schreiber, it would've made a tremendous difference in the overall aspect of the film.  Anna Paquin gives a noteworthy performance as well, successfully capturing the angst of puberty while coping with an ever-changing world. 	The supporting cast includes Viggo Mortensen as Walker Jerome, the traveling salesman with whom Pearl attempts to reconcile her lost youth; Tovah Feldshuh (Lilian Kantrowitz); Bobby Boriello (Daniel); Stewart Bick (Neil); Jess Platt (Herb); Star Jasper (Rhoda) and Julie Kavner (Voice of the Social Director).  There are some poignant moments in Goldwyn's film, and it does generate a certain sense of loss and longing;  but overall, `A Walk On the Moon' is at best a momentary diversion that comes across like a finger painting on an impressionist's canvas.  That is stays afloat at all is due mainly to Schreiber and Paquin's performances.  Other than that, this is-- unfortunately-- a rather forgettable film that never quite attains the level of drama to which it aspires.  I rate this one 5/10.    "},{"Title":"very nicely done...captures the times","Date":"10 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is the basic story of 1969, Marty and Pearl Kantrowitz a couple who married young and have two children, on vacation in upstate NY. Anything north of the city is upstate and they take vacation near the well known Nevele and Concord Hotels, only at a more down at heel bungalow campground.The atmosphere of the Catskills bungalow and the rather tacky but fun atmosphere is realistic. Tovah Feldshuh as Lillian is excellent, she realizes something is amiss with Pearl and lets her son know, calling him in Brooklyn.The Moon walk itself is secondary to the actual story of America in the turbulent 1960's, Woodstock, and social unrest, but the story is not heavy handed.Nor is it a complete miss like the faint hearted 1969 film with Robert Downey Jr., which attempts to address the same time period in America, and misses the point. Entirely.Pearl Kantrowitz, well portrayed by Diane Lane feels something is missing, she has married too young, and subsequently meets Walker Jerome, a hippie who is known as the Blouse man (announced over the intercom by Julie Kavner's unmistakable voice ), when he brings his bus of clothing and jewelry to the camp site. Viggo Mortensen as Walker Jerome, is believable as a young man who eventually gets involved with Pearl, hoping for more.The story rings true because it is simple, but believable and even sad. The affair with him, the ultimate fact that she realizes her life is passing by, but she does love her husband and children as well. and its time to say good bye to lofty dreams. There is a decent soundtrack including Joni Mitchell, and many other gems from that era. Liev Schreiber as Marty Kantrowitz is sympathetic and funny, attempting to dance to Jimi Hendrix at the end of the film.The story is memorable without cheap sentiment, and a rare thing we see from Hollywood deserves praise. It is not a cheap romantic comedy with over the top actors, just a believable vignette which will touch you as the audience.During the credits I noticed it was produced by Dustin Hoffman as well as Tony Goldwyn. Well done. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Tony Goldwyn is a promising director, but he needs to learn two things pull back on his camera lenses, and have the courage to order a rewrite","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The posters for A Walk on the Moon show Diane Lane and Viggo Mortensen, two attractively talented people working in the movies today, lying in a grassy field, arms around each other, hinting at a deep romance and longing for each other. That is something we get next to nothing of in the movie. But false advertising and misleading setups are a common thing in Hollywood and the media today, and always have been. The largest problem of this picture is the level of its tedious schmaltz. It is trying to paint a story that talks about marital (and extra-marital) relationships and how they can affect the lives of others, but it nevertheless comes across as absolutely insincere. That is whenever it's not just simply boring.Lane is an unhappy mother of two. Unhappy because she essentially threw away her young adult life becoming pregnant at age seventeen, only three years older than her eldest daughter, and unhappy because her husband is seldom around to spend time with them. His excuse is that he has to work to pay for all of them, for their becoming pregnant early on ruined his chances at a better education and profession. So even when they visit a summer camp for families, he continually has to return home to fix TVs; there is a high demand for them because Neil Armstrong will soon walk on the moon. Lane is going through the motions of her up-down life, when she starts an affair with a local blouse salesman (Mortensen) and, as you would expect, things start to come crashing down.The movie has good intentions; to deny that would be foolish. For the picture tries to touch on how extra-martial relationships can cripple family dynamics. For instance, Lane's daughter (well-played by Anna Paquin) learns of her mother's affairs at the same time she is becoming intimately involved with one of the local boys. It's a little refreshing to see the teenage girl, not boy, be the lascivious one for a change. It's also nice to see the unmarried individual in the affair (the blouse man) not become a sexual predator, stalking and hunting down Lane and her family. We've seen Fatal Attraction. What kills the picture is the screenplay by Pamela Gray. Her background lies in the realm of television, and unfortunately it does show. For A Walk on the Moon does not make any motions toward an emotional or dynamic climax; it just drones on and on like a really long pilot episode to a television series best not picked up by a network. Scenes that are meant to deliver an impact cut off before they can register any emotion. So a scene where Lane and Mortensen visit the 1969 Woodstock event, and go nuts, comes across as just disturbingly out-of-place, not disturbing in the context of what they are doing. And although Lane and Paquin pour their hearts and souls into their performances, a key moment where they have a mother-daughter discussion about sex seems forced, not passionate. Again, like a television movie.The same can be said of the directing by Tony Goldwyn, but only to an extent. Goldwyn has a good sense of montage. He's a good director. But before he can become a great director, he needs to learn to do two things have the confidence to order a rewrite, and pull back on his camera lenses. Almost every shot in the picture is nauseating claustrophobic, like it was meant for a screen shaped like a square instead of a rectangle. The only time he uses his wide-angle lenses effectively is in a not-romantic scene where Lane and Mortensen go swimming in the nude (what else do movie-couples do these days?) and they jump off a cliff to get into the water. Lane and Mortensen have no special chemistry together; it also seems forced and insincere. And talented and good-looking as both of them are, they do fail to steam up the screen because the screenplay is so limp and the characters so dull. They have two sex scenes together, the second one more ludicrous than the first, and just as lacking in eroticism.The best performance in the movie is by the underrated Liev Schreiber, as Lane's husband. But he is given nothing to do but stand around and look morose. And as I was watching him act in this picture, I wasn't thinking about his character or what he must have been thinking during the inevitable discovery-of-betrayal scene (I don't think anybody walking in will not see this from a mile away) but instead of what a great actor like him was doing in a picture this limp. The rest of the cast is very good as well. Paquin, in particular, is also very good. But the story surrounding them, and the material they are given to work with, is so dull and contrived that it really boggles me how this picture managed to get placed on a big screen. It looks like something HBO would put on during a random weekend. "},{"Title":"A really outstanding evocation of the late 60's/early 70's","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Contains Spoiler This film is a powerfully evocative portrayal of the later stages of the flower power years. The period detail is excellent and the director uses hit music of the time to increase its nostalgic feel - especially Judy Collins and Joni Mitchell. The love affair between a bored, sexually frustrated housewife and a charming travelling salesman who takes her on her own walk on the  moon is moving and always believable.I was sad at the end for the character portrayed by Diane Lane (who is outstanding in the part) - but left hopeful too that things could change even in the most unlikely situation. I felt Viggo Mortensen as the salesman perfectly captured the role, and was greatly underrated for his acting of this part. He has the gift of hanging about saying very little, and yet conveying so much! "}{"Title":"One of the best films of 1999!","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film combining moving story, authentic accents, characters, and plot, along with a true feeling for the people involved and their situation.  As a Jewish housewife on vacation with her family in the Catskills in 1969, Diane Lane gives the best performance of her career.  Ditto, her husband Liev Schrieber.  These excellent performances are complemented by an outstanding ensemble cast consisting of the mother-in-law, the two children and Pearl's lover,What could have been a syrupy, predictable situation involving the stereotyped bored housewife is beautifully rendered with Neil Armstrong's walk on the moon in 1969 as a backdrop for Pearl's(Lane)emotional and spiritual crisis.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Be careful what your wife wishes for, she might get it","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS.It's a little hard to figure out why this story was filmed.  There's nothing particularly wrong with it.  It's just that it strikes me as the sort of romantic drama one might find on afternoon TV.  I don't mean to sell it short.  Diane Lane is no longer an adolescent cutie pie, and passes well for Rose Kantrowitz spending a summer with the kids at a camp in the Catskills.  Lane's role is so thoroughly sketched out that we can easily visualize it in the treatment.  No-longer-quite-young wife is vaguely bored with husband and domestic life, is beginning to experience a rise is blood testosterone levels, seeks out adventures with Mellors the gardener -- I mean Walker the traveling salesman.  Schreiber, as her square but good-humored husband, is suitably crew-cut and satisfied with his domestic life.  Their young girl, Anna Paquin, who was the even younger daughter in The Good-Bye Girl, is winsome and nice, and not a bad actress.  Tovah Feldshuh as Bubba is bang on but, when you come to think of it, should keep her nose out of her son's business.  Viggo Mortenson I can't quite understand.  In both films that I've seen him in, he's woodenly handsome, quietly self confident, and masculine.  (Actually, in both films, he's schtupping somebody else's wife.)  Here he walks around with fashionably long -- this is 1969 -- fashionably long hair, Gary Cooperishly strong and self contained, his shirt always open down the front so we can see his well-tanned plaque-like pectorals, something I imagine is designed to brighten the eyes and quicken the breath of the women in the audience although it doesn't do a thing for me.Of course everyone experiments with the forbidden, even the more mature among us, and Diane Lane's character shouldn't necessarily be condemned on that account.  In fact, looking at the entire deal pragmatically, if only Feldschuh had kept her mouth shut after finding out, instead of calling her son and blabbing to him, only Lane might have been hurt, and it would have been a pain she could have dealt with later by talking this over with her understanding hubby, maybe a year later, after things had quieted down and the marriage was more or less back on track.  (The alternative, a middle-class Jewish wife leaving her family to live with a Shagetz on some California commune, is unthinkable.)  I found myself putting myself in the husband's place too often.  I worked for a guy like him once.  The poor guy has been unable to go to college and spends his days, weekened often included, fixing TV sets in New York to support his family.  He wanted to become a scientist or something but had too many responsibilities.  Meanwhile, here is his wife, up there at the lake, getting suntanned until she acquires the hue of an alligator bag, playing Mah Jong with her friends around the card table, drooling over this brawny ithyphallic guy who sells blouses and shades to the itchy housewives.  And we're supposed to feel sorry for HER?  For those who remember the 60s fondly, they get to hear lots of Joni Mitchell, Bob Dylan, Janis Joplin, and others.  Not too much is made of those tumultuous times, though, thank Bog.  We do get glimpses of a restaged Woodstock -- in the bright sunshine, not in the rain and mud. I can see why someone might enjoy this more than I did.     "},{"Title":"A terrible movie all the way through . . .","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In what could have been an otherwise run of the mill, mediocre film about infidelity in the sixties (the subtle free-love period), the creators of this film pile on ridiculous scenario after ridiculous scenario and top it all off with a trite little cherry on top, happily ever after ending.  At no time did I ever feel sympathy for Diane Lane or Anna Paquin in their troublesome middle-class care free life, nor did I feel for the emasculated Liev Shrieber.  The story line plods along slowly to its predictable, pathetic conclusion and the only thing interesting and watchable about this film is the stunning Diane Lane topless.  Here's a hint, it occurs about 30 minutes into the film.  Fast forward to that part and skip the rest. "},{"Title":"..was good up to a point.. then lost reality","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You can she why she gets selected to do infidelity.. she just nails (no PI) that kind of storyline each time. And she does not write the scripts, so she cannot be blamed for the weak 'Hollywood' ending in this one. In the movie, every time the husband leaves, she sneaks off to have a full blown steamy roll-around with the new hot guy in her life, guilty-knowing (but not much caring) what she's doing to her family. In reality it would have been much more believable were she to run off and give the new lover a go-round for awhile. Then him or her getting bored with each other, she could attempt a return, only to discover she's been replaced by the hapless hubby. It'd be one thing if she were just having a fling, but she falls addictively in love with the hunk. You totally see this at the end, only saying farewell because of the kids. Body language revealing, and her loins still aching.. evidencing who she really longs to be with. And with that scene, the film should actually have ended... her quickly turning and reluctantly forcing herself away from him. And just curious, but what happens next season when the irresistible force once again rolls into town... are all those 'shopping' days truly over? ...and of course would have been the story-killer.. but all granny had to do was go home during the week...or plain and simple, she don't end it, just threaten to squeal her out. "},{"Title":"Staid, not Vibrant","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd like to give this movie a 7, instead of a 6, but I was severely distracted by one question Why is everyone Jewish? If I found myself watching a movie of a summer camp full of people who were all, say, Catholics, I would be compelled to wonder what the reason the screenwriter had in mind This question is never answered in A Walk On The Moon. Otherwise, this is a very pedestrian, very typically Hollywood out-of-touch treatment of what could have been vital, transforming scenes and dynamic dialogue.I suppose my main complaint with A Walk On The Moon is that we never get to fully meet the characters, so that when they experience inter-personal conflict and pain, it is hard to gather empathy. Neither the characters, nor the relationships there-of, are adequately illustrated. Also, Julie Kavner's voice is bad enough when she talks face-to-face. Over a megaphone, it is pure hell. "},{"Title":"Great actors need better director","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's the summer of 1969. The Kantrowitz Jewish family is vacationing in a holiday camp not far from Woodstock. The father Marty (Liev Schreiber) has to go back to repair TVs in time for the broadcast of the moon landing. Mother Pearl (Diane Lane) feels stymied by a static life. Daughter Alison (Anna Paquin) is a rebellious teen making a new friend with Myra Naidell (Lisa Jakub). Walker Jerome (Viggo Mortensen) is a traveling salesman selling clothes. Pearl falls for the mysterious salesman and starts an affair. Marty's mother (Tovah Feldshuh) notices.Diane Lane is a slightly better cheating wife in 'Unfaithful'. This one doesn't quite have the style. It's first time directing for actor Tony Goldwyn. He doesn't really have the eye for it. The story is too ambitious for him. The actors are all doing a good job. There are some great actors here. It's just missing a real vision from the leader in the director's chair. This is more of an actors movie and a romance novel. Also a movie with Woodstock should have more music in it. The sense of place isn't fully achieved. I would have preferred to move away from Woodstock and not have the grand expectations. The smaller family drama is so much more superior anyways. "},{"Title":"Super relevant to today's society","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is about a woman who has second thoughts about her married life when she meets a handsome t-shirt salesman. A Walk on the Moon is a great movie which touches a lot of morality subjects that are super relevant to our society today.Today there are too many adult people acting like teenagers and letting themselves get sucked in to the vortex of the irresponsible and untied life. A part of maturing is realizing that you can't do whatever you want whenever you feel like it, you have to consider the people around you when you're making important decisions and you must not be reckless.I think this movie teaches some great lessons about immaturity and loyalty. It teaches about responsibilities and what happens if you abuse the responsibility you have. I love Liev Schreiber and Viggo Mortensen, and they're really bringing the best to this movie. "},{"Title":"great movie for Viggo fans","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not the greatest movie to make you think and ponder about the meaning of life but for anyone who is a Viggo fan this is a movie to see him naked and having sex and that is worth a 10 out of 10. Diane Lane is good in these kind of roles but she plays them over and over again - Perfect Storm/Unfaithful/Under the Tuscan Sun etc etc. It seems she has one kind of range; sexy older woman having a torrid affair or looking for love. She is sexy and a good role model for an older actress. I like her family in this film - they were all kooky and yet I could understand why she wanted sex with Walker - he was a free spirit and awakened in her all the yearnings deeply buried. However, her mother-in law was a claustrophobic character - great to help out with the kids but having your mother in law so close wouldn't be good for sex life. I can see this movie was a product of 1960's mentality - bit stuck in a rut of your own making. Nowadays people would go to college in their 30's or even older. Women would got out to work and the extended family would not live together. I liked the way the movie made the mentality of that time alive. But as i said, the best part was seeing Viggo butt naked. Whew! "},{"Title":"Timeline facts","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well after having watched this, and heard some great Janis Joplin and Woodstock tunes, I checked up dates on the Moonlanding (1967) and Woodstock (1969) and I also checked up Janis Joplins death date for good measure (1970), but it just seems to me that the event of the landing and the summer of love Concert (Woodstock) did not happen in the same summer as it seems to be depicted here, with the Pearl character leaving the camp and joining the blouse man at Woodstock, and isn't that Anna Paquin playing her daughter, a good bit of casting she is excellent. Also the man playing the husband who's name I can never remember is a good actor, and the Bubbe who is the tarot card reader who has premonition's was an excellent lady in the part she played, all of this film and many on the sixties reall interest me i was born in '65 and pretty much raised in the Wonder Years and Brady Bunch era so a good movie can be very entertaining to say the least Like Now and Later was with Rosie Odonnel "},{"Title":"fidelity vs. infidelity","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i saw the film quite some time ago, but i'd like to see it again now, to see how i feel about it. it was a very thought evoking film for a woman over 40. diane lane is a fabulous actress. what an effect the movie had on me. i was so sorry to see her have the affair with someone she didn't know or understand, at all. her husband was a nice, hardworking man. the children were good kids. even the mother-in-law was not bad, and seemed to care about all of them as a family. we should never throw away someone good for someone evil. i found it hard to believe that the husband could forgive her, and take her back. what was once his wife, became something unforgivable. just the way the pubescent daughter wanted, immediately, to sleep with some boy -- any boy at all. i'm not sure of the reason that men cheat, because i'm a female. but i do think that women cheat for other and different reasons. i'm not so sure of those reasons, either. possibly boredom. possibly a lack of attention, or not-so-good sex. i don't know. "}{"Title":"A steamy story of betrayal and deceit in the sixties.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ****SPOILER**** First of all, I love Diane Lane. She is probably the prettiest, most talented and sexiest actress on the screen today. Here she is cast as a bored thirty two year old wife and mother who decides that the solution to her problems is to begin having sex with other men while her faithful husband is working in the city to support her and the kids. She enters into a week long orgy of sex, drugs and abandoned behavior and seriously considers becoming a thirty-two year old hippie, taking her children with her, to sleep under the stars with an unkempt, unwashed and unshaven salesman of womens blouses.All that having been said, I loved the movie and will give it 9/10. It was well acted and directed and there were just enough love scenes and nudity to keep it interesting through the more staid and boring sections. The most unbelievable parts were the Woodstock scenes and the ending which I will not reveal in case there is anyone out there who has not seen it. I own the DVD as I do of most Diane Lane films and will watch it many more times. "},{"Title":"Not an original plot, but beautifully done","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that my first reason for watching this film was the presence of the gorgeous Viggo Mortensen, but I thoroughly enjoyed all the performances, especially (as many others have noted) Anna Paquin, who was flawless at playing that difficult age. The script was beautifully written, and the director managed to take us through the ambiguities and uncertainties of a real-life situation with a lot of hints as to where our symapthies should lie, but without telling us what to think. I go with the reviewers who describe the main characters as 'understated' rather than 'shallow', and I found the evocation of place and time totally convincing. And no, whoever you were who talked about a middle-class lifestyle, a small-town TV repairman whose family can only barely afford to vacation in a rented cabin 3 hours drive from home is not comfortably middle class. This is actually a more important point than it sounds, because it emphasizes the aching sense of lost opportunity which becomes so unbearable for his wife. I loved the ending, which I thought was by far the most realistic of the three possible scenarios.   "},{"Title":"DIANE LANE is amazing in this poignant and touching film","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  DIANE LANE (Unfaithful, The Perfect Storm) proves that she is one of Hollywoods most talented and beautiful actresses in this beautifully made poignant film. DIANE LANE plays Pearl a woman who has missed out on her young adulthood. She is somewhat neglected by her good-natured but somewhat boring husband. She has a chance at some excitement when she meets a handsome travelling blouse salesman (played by Lord of the Rings star VIGGO MORTENSEN). But what is the cost to her and her family...A well made, lovingly crafted and sexy film with great period details and exceptional performances, especially DIANE LANE who was to tread similar ground in the sexy infidelity thriller Unfaithful.  "},{"Title":"Takes you back to the Sixties!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First, the music is what made this movie for me.  Second, the performances by the main actors are so believable and touching.  I think the story's a little far fetched, but within bounds because it has a good ending. (ALTHOUGH..., the blouse man IS very tempting. Viggo Mortensen's sexy performance of the blouse man is worthy alone of watching!  Also see Viggo as Aragorn in The Fellowship of the Ring movie and its sequels.  Excellent!!)  "},{"Title":"Actors Relish in A Walk On The Moon","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie shows why Anna Paquin is already on of the best actresses in the busuiness today. She played an oustandingly convincing part. Dynamic.And Viggo Mortensen continues to personify versitality!Diane Lane, of course as always, is brilliant. I am not sure this film would have been as good without these actors in it. I think they helped the movie become better than it really is. Its a good film, don't get me wrong, but I feel you should see the film more because of the superb acting more than original story. "},{"Title":"Excellent film on a mother and daughter's awakenings in the 1969Woodstock Era.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film shows what life was really like in 1969 for men and women trying to conform to their stereotypical roles, and what happens when those roles become ill defined and boundaries are crossed. Tovah Feldshuh does a  tremendous job in her supporting role as the grandmother, and the cast is so true-to-life you feel as if you are a part of the story yourself. A wonderful tribute to a very special time in U.S. history, with lots of understated humor (make sure you listen to the public intercom announcements at the summer camp) with an excellent story, cast and plot make for a wonderful movie !  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Charming, subtle and true, this moving story is a flimsy story held together by outstanding performances by every cast member. Liev Schreiber just gets better and better,  Viggo Mortensen chooses a 'less is more' posture that works great and Diane Lane, always spectacular, just shines in every scene.  "},{"Title":"Well done but not spectacular","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was impressed by the fact that this movie was set in the late 1960's yet doesn't overwhelm you with this fact. The story tells itself well against an elegantly-done period background. I was continually amused by the constant interruptions by the loudspeaker (The knish man is now on the premises!,) in a hilarious vocal cameo by Julie Kavner. As good as the story was, I found some of the plot devices a little too convenient...there were HOW many people at Woodstock, and the daughter just happens to 'pop in' and see her mother there? Overall, though, this was an enjoyable movie that didn't use brute force to tell its tale, but relied instead on a solidly-constructed script. "},{"Title":"Well-crafted on all counts, but that's about it","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a well-crafted, enjoyable film -- well-acted, well-written, well-directed. In terms of substance, however, it's just a cut or two above your average TV movie of the week. Characters are interesting, and there are crises a-plenty, but with 10 minutes or so to go in the film, everything is neatly wrapped up in a bow and placed at our feet, just so. No muss, no fuss. The film's great saving grace, however, is sharp performances throughout from Liev Schreiber, Diane Lane, Tovah Feldshuh, Viggo Mortenson, and Anna Pacquin.  "},{"Title":"Immensely entertaining","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful film!! The acting, casting, and writing are top notch. This movie is thought provoking, funny, sad and emotionally intense. I highly recommend it!! "}{"Title":"Best Movies About the 1960's Ever","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was 16 years old in 1969. This movie caused a lot of memories to come rushing back. I want to thank the director Tony Goldwyn and writer Pamela Gray for recreating some of the vibrations of the time so beautifully. The movie is really about the cultural clash when a young couple trying to live out the 1950's ideal realize that time has passed and they adopt to the new world of personal growth, peace, Moon landings and Woodstock Festivals. Some people are complaining that the lead character, Pearl, was a bad role model, being unfaithful or indecisive, not knowing what to do; however, that was the way things were back then. To me the film was incredibly believable and faithful to the times and setting.My only complaint is the scene where Ross rejects Alison's request to go all the way. Being 16 at the time, I had only one desire, to go all the way with every teenage girl who would let me. I spent nearly every moment I could trying to convince them and I did find three or four who said yes. If anyone who looked like Anna Paquin had said to me when I was 16, that she wanted to go all the way, I would have been out of my clothes in 10 seconds flat. The only other thing perhaps that the movie missed were all the crazy, repulsive, hateful, violent conservatives who were around then threatening and terrorizing progressive, loving, peaceful people. That actually hasn't changed much since 1969. They're still doing the same thing. This movie also has a terrific soundtrack and uses popular music from the time better than any movie since Easy Rider. For those who grew up in the 60's, see it to remember, for those who grew up after the 60's, see it to learn. "},{"Title":"Diane Lane is the reason to see this movie.","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   The movie is set during the summer of 1969, and gets its title from the anticipated first walk on the moon by the USA astronauts, an event which all vacationers were anticipating, and then watched on TV. Diane Lane plays a mother of a teen (anna Paquin) just reaching puberty. While hubby is back home working, she meets the sexy 'blouse man' and has to battle her two sides, since she had never really had a normal teen dating experience, getting pregnant and marrying young. Her role strongly parallels her more recent in Unfaithful, where she was apparently happily married (hubby Richard Gere) but gives in to temptation when she meets a young French used book dealer. The critic Ebert has a complete review of the movie.  SPOILERS follow ... Lane's character seems to give in too easliy to the temptation, and seems a bit too irresponsible for a mother of a teen daughter and a young son, especially while sharing a vacation cabin with her husband's mother. Seems all the vacationers know about her and the blouse man, and she has to be gone for long periods (e.g. trip to Woodstock) so the grandmother will obviously know too. Those actions don't seem consistent with the character we see the first part of the movie. Still, she does have the torrid affair, when her husband finds out and asks what are your plans with the blouse man, her answer of I don't know naturally throws him into the mode of As far as I am concerned, you don't exist anymore. I don't know if I could have started up a relationship again, had I been him, but in this movie we see them beginning to try. Almost as if to say that he was partly responsible for her infidelity, because he wasn't exciting enough. I don't buy that. I rate it 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"...as seen from below.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A realism film about a Jewish family on vacation at a Jewish summer camp in the summer of 1969, near where the famous (infamous?) Woodstock festival took place, and including that event as one of its many sub-plots. These include their young daughter's emerging sexuality, how the father's workaholic absenteeism contributes to his wife having an affair with a goyisher traveling salesman, incidently related to the historic even of Man's first walk on the moon, which becomes a kind of metaphor on the theme of realizing the impossible dream.  While no doubt with a different ambition, the Woodstock mentality is presented in all its banality, hedonism, tribalism, abandonment and irrationality, as unintentionally observed through the experience of both mother and daughter.  Otherwise it's about relationship issues, with an excellent cast and a well written story. "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had fairly high expectations for this film, but I found the movie to be somewhat disappointing.  The acting is certainly not to blame, for the whole cast did a fine job, especially Schreiber and Paquin.  The story is fine, too, even though it has some flaws and is not particularly absorbing.  I suppose that my biggest problem with this movie was that I did not care for the main character, Pearl (played by Lane).  I had no sympathy for her character, only sympathy towards her family.  Also, there were a few scenes in the film that seriously strained credibility.  Occasionally, someone would do something that seemed totally out of character, and there was a scene at Woodstock that made me shake my head in disbelief.  For me, these flaws were just too big to ignore, and so I found the film to be disappointing overall. "},{"Title":"Cheeky Chick Cinema","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This chick movie that put the Woodstock Generation on a bad light and just because of that, I hated it.  Hey, if the woman in the movie got a seven-year itch, then so be it, but not on the backdrop of Woodstock. Woodstock is spontaneous, and dynamic, it lives in the heart and the mind of the generation of which I am bound.  What about the 1969 Republican Convention, that is a good backdrop for this movie.  "},{"Title":"Unnatural depiction of betrayal","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am writing this review as a non-American. I have watched other movies about wives betraying their husbands and have liked them. For example I liked Unfaithful also featuring Diane Lane. This particular movie however, I felt was depicting the process of betrayal in very unnatural way. Main character Pearl decides to have an extra marital affair and even when caught does not show the emotions that I would expect from a character like hers. She decides to leave at night while her mother-in- law is asking her not to go. Mother-in-law finds out that she is having an affair but does very little about it. Daughter finds out that her mother is sleeping with another man and she shows her anger for mere two minutes. Husband finds out that wife is screwing another man and he just throws the milk and drives car fast. At the end all are fine. I personally feel that even in American family in 1969 this is not what happens after an extra marital affair. This movie almost seemed like the director was telling the audience that this is how you should behave after having an affair. Very unconvincing story-line. "},{"Title":"Made Me Want to Walk Around","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's sad to revert to a cliche but this is a chick flick and sadly, not a very good one.Maybe the intent was to create a metaphor of the late 1960's - the tumultuous collision of the old ways and the coming youthquake all in the guise of a family's problems on their summer retreat - if that was the intent, it fails. The story is too small and riddled with cliches.And if was merely a story about marriage, love, fidelity, etc ... well, it's not a particularly compelling story and while the actors seem to be in a heartfelt drama, the director thinks he's doing a nostalgia movie - there is a disconnect between the story and the visual story. Ultimately, we're the ones cheated because we're completely confused by the motivations of the characters. If this was the first movie where a woman felt trapped by her times (allegedly) and decides to explore what else is out there, we might forgive the director/writer for skimping on some details - but if you're telling the 2-millionth version of this cliche, please let us understand why she decided to make this decision.Especially when you decide to make the husband a good guy who has to work long hours to support his family (on screen - when he's not with them, he's shown working) - we don't gain much sympathy for the woman. And the cause is not helped when the other guy is a doofus looking hippy guy who could use a shower. Maybe that why's this is chick flick - when guys can't figure out anything remotely appealing about the character of the other guy.This is pretty much a one-sided movie - so if you don't mind that the guys are cardboard, you don't really understand the motivation of the main characters, and the metaphors are too ambitious for the story & director - then you might enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Walk on the Moon Is Not Worth Your $7.00!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Walk on the Moon is a slow, predictable, unlikely story of a housewife's unhappiness with not having her husband during a camping trip with her two children and mother-in-law. The camp is visited daily by a women's clothing truck owned and driven by a young stud hippy. Of course, the woman immediately begins to eye him and begins to make sure she is there every time he arrives. One scene has her walking in the rain in the middle of nowhere and, even I , having never seen the film, wondered when that stupid looking  passenger bus would round the bend and save Pearl from the drenching rain. Hmmm. Give me a break. The camp announcements will drive you crazy. If you think the M.A.S.H. is bad, you ain't heard nothing yet. Folks, save your hard earned money and go see October Sky or Tea With Mussolini. In those great films, you will care about and love the characters. This film had none of that! "},{"Title":"Didn't Diane Lane make a movie like this with Richard Gere?","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" She must like these movies! Or does she relate to this all too well? Diane Lane has made two films where she plays an adulteress. And the characters she portrays are so similar (mothers of children that are married for at least a decade +), and the character's husbands are decent, hard-working men who are both completely unaware of the infidelity until much later in the film. She's making a killing making these kind of movies, yet her range doesn't seem real broad. Isn't that ironic- don't you think? And she doesn't seem to make a lot of films on that note. I saw this movie on cable the other night (more like, I listened to it since I was putting together something for my wife). And right there, I totally sided with Liev Schreiber- because I was acting like the hard-working good husband like he was. I kept watching hoping that Lane would have an epiphany or something, realizing what she had done and focus on her daughter or something. Didn't happen. I wanted to like her. Didn't happen, though. Then I waited for something to happen between Viggo and the husband. Again- didn't happen. My parents divorced not too many years after this film took place because of infidelity. This film hit too close to home, and I wonder why people get sucked into these films. It's probably why some get sucked into having affairs boredom and complacency.Anna Paquin was possibly the most outstanding part to this film, especially the poignant scene in the bathroom where she tells her mother that she saw she and her lover shtupping. It's one thing to cheat, but if I were to have my own kid watch me make love to a stranger, that would just devastate me more than if my spouse found out. (But that would be up there in the percentages, too).I guess this is a movie that would be really good if you were home sick and there was nothing to watch (like there hardly is during the daytime). To me if the nudity and the language were cut, this would be a great TV movie. Not Lifetime- they'd never air something were the WOMAN was the philanderer ! But I couldn't see this on Spike, either. Maybe this film would be better off forgotten, like it already is! "},{"Title":"Unfaithful redux","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tony Goldwyn is a good actor who evidently is trying his hand at directing. A Walk on the Moon appears to have borrowed from other, better made films. The present story takes place in the late sixties at a summer resort for working class Jews not far from Woodstock. The screen treatment by Pamela Gray doesn't have much going for it, so it's a puzzle why Mr. Goldwyn decided to tackle this film as his first attempt at direction.The Kantrowitz family is spending some time at the resort. We see them arrive at the small bungalow that is going to be their temporary home. Marty, the father, comes only for the week-end; he works in what appears to be a family small appliance business repairing television sets, mostly. In a few days the first man will walk in space, so the excitement is evident.The Kantrowitz women are left behind. Pearl, Marty's wife and her mother-in-law, Lilian, spend idle days in the place until the blouse salesman arrives. Pearl goes browsing and she finds much more than a shmatte; she gets the salesman as well. It appears that Pearl and Marty have no sexual life at all. After two children, Pearl, who appears to be sexy and with a high libido is ready for some extra marital fun.That is the basic premise for the film, which becomes a soap opera when the young daughter, Alison, decides to play hooky and go to the Woodstock festival nearby where, horror of horrors, she witnesses her own mom making out with the blouse salesman! What's a girl to do? Well, stay tuned for the grand finale when all the parties are happily reunited by the little son's bedside when he is stung by wasps and the salesman comes to apply some home remedy, and daddy is called from the city, after knowing about Pearl's betrayal with the younger stud.Poor Diane Lane, she went to make Unfaithful later on, which is the upscale version of this dud. Viggo Mortensen is the salesman who caters to his lonely female customers whispering little somethings in their ears! Liev Schreiber as Marty, the cuckolded husband, doesn't have much to do. Anna Paquin plays the rebellious Alison and Tovah Feldshuh is the unhappy Nana, who would like to have stayed in the city watching her soap operas instead of witnessing first hand one that is playing in her own backyard!Watch it at your risk, or pop the DVD in the telly when you have a fun crowd at home and you really want to have a laugh, or two dishing the film. "}{"Title":"Working print screened Feb. 17, 1999, this film once carried working title Blouse Man and should have been left on the rack.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Recently, I had opportunity to view a working print in Kansas City (Olathe, KS.) of this title.  It is difficult for me, being a lover of the art as I am, to report the following, but, the truth sometimes hurts, and quite frankly after sitting through this tripe (I'm using the slang definition here - worthless statements or writing) for an hour and a half, I feel obligated to share (WARN) any interested parties.  Let's begin at the beginning, a good place to start as always. The first 15 minutes are not really that bad, a couple of laughs, and decent development, but then it is downhill from there. This is the story of a woman, in her mid thirties, that (as the writer would like for you to believe) is dissatisfied with her life and unfulfilled. The first major difficulty occurs when if you don't know that fact going into the movie, you won't know it when she suddenly risks it all for, in my opinion, a very unkempt and unlikely fling with a local salesman. There is little development (drastically insufficient development) to justify her actions for the affair she has, and when it occurs, one feels, as I did, that she is just of low moral character.  The word slut comes to mind, hopefully, they'll let that pass the review and post the comment. This, in my opinion, is the first fatal flaw of the film. If you're married or have ever been in love, irregardless of whether you are male or female, its going to turn you off. Quite frankly, I feel that it would have made a much better blue movie - that's the level in my opinion of which the screenplay is deserving.  The second fatal flaw is the casting, Diane Lane just didn't work for me here, and Viggo Mortensen is not the right man for the job, believe me. The only saving grace to the entire film is Anna Paquin, the depth of her ability as a fine actress shines in places, conveying a subtle yet very blunt (I apologize for the dichotomy but it is accurate) portrayal of an emerging teen. Bravo, well done. I'm not going to give the ending away, but I was disappointed, being billed as a slice of life romance is one thing... but an ending like that.... Well, if that teased you enough to see this picture, don't say I didn't warn you, but you better look fast - if this celluloid is released, I doubt it goes four weeks before bursting into flames. I'd say wait for the video, but the free sex education tapes at most video rental outlets have more entertainment value. Hmmm, Dustin Hoffman produced this, you think he'd learn after Ishtar. This film once carried the working title Blouse Man and should have been left on the rack. If you've never in your life wanted to walk out on a film, give this one 35-40 minutes, the only thing worth staying for is Anna Paquin, if you can stomach the fact that you'll find your mind drifting to whether or not you took out the garbage before you left home, which is probably where you should have stayed in the first place if you're off to the movies to see this one. That's my two cents, for what it is worth. "},{"Title":"Stay away!  Another Hollywood propaganda film.","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Any movie that portrays the hard-working responsible husband as the person who has to change because of bored, cheating wife is an obvious result of 8 years of the Clinton era.It's little wonder that this movie was written by a woman. "},{"Title":"Liev Schreiber plays Marty as THE IDEAL man to marry !","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marty, in my opinion, is one of the cutest characters I've EVER seen ...and I create them for a living! Although Liev Schreiver is approximately eight years younger, to me, he hasn't changed a bit ! Liev's voice remains the same, with an accent that not only some can relate, but fall in love with. His voice is sexy regardless of the character he plays ! Well...excuse me, I haven't seem him play Chris the transvestite yet in Janek The Silent Betrayal. Regardless, to me, he makes the entire movie! You go on a journey following this dedicated working television repairman, providing father, and loving husband. The film takes place in 1969, a time where many, including his character wife, Pearl, played by Diane Lane, had a child at a young age. She decides to have an affair with a loathly hippie creating devastating effects on their family. Upon admittance of the affair, Marty goes through the motions of any hurt and honest man. Leaving his home enraged, sitting alone with sadness shown through his eyes, and the irrational behavior of unsuccessfully trying to take his son. However, once his son becomes sick, he rushes home (over an hour away) to care for his cowboy. That night was the fastest time that he had clocked, due to the fact that he traveled a long way in order to work each week. Despite Marty's wife's behavior, he also decides to forgive, forget, and loosen up. No, Marty does not light a joint or play Jimmy Hendrix to appease Pearl ! He simply realizes that he needs to recognize his wife's needs. Rewind the final scene over and over again! He dances with her on their porch. So romantic.If I were Pearl, my needs would have fulfilled after the scene of the two lying in bed together ! "},{"Title":"Fireworks, but no sound","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film of understandment of each other, thats how i see this film.When we enter the lives of a Jewish middle class family in the summer of 1969, we see a semi happy family. The mother, Pearl, is a content housewife, convince that she should be happy with what she has. The daughter, Alison, a teenager who is convince she knows whats good for her. The father, Marty, believing that what he gave up in his youth was worth it.Pearl, who discovers that she can make her husband any other then what he is, get caught up in an affair with the blouse man, Walker. During the affair, Pearl constantly seeks her old feelings that she use to have with her husband, that she now shares with Walker. Alison, also tries to grasps life for all she get out of it, boys, concerts, rebelling against the man. But soon she sees that her mother is also trying to seeks all of life riches, again.Without a doubt, My fave scene. Marty confronts Pearl, struggling to believe that she would do that after all he gave up. Like any man when this happens, rage takes over and a want to make the other person feel like they do.Alison finally grows up and sees her birth as almost a reason why this all happened. Her birth was the result of a uncontrollable attraction between her mother and father in their teens. Her father convinced her that what happened between them was love at first sight, and he would not have had it any other way. Alison accepts this, but still shows how young she is by not seeing why they can't make their marriage work.In the end, you sense that although Marty will never fully forgive Pearl for what she did, that they love each other, and Marty was willing to do anything to stay with her, even if it means dancing to her beat.Everyone can connect with someone in this movie, Pearl, Marty, Alison, even Daniel the little brother. Every parent only wants there children to have what they didn't, even if it's as simple as a childhood. Everyone wants a bit more then what they have. Everyone questions what they must of done in their to end up where they are now.And Everyone never really lets go of their child/teen-hood. "},{"Title":"Best Movie I have seen in years Loved it.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think the scene in the van where Walker makes love to Pearl for the first time is the sexiest scene I have seen.It puts Dianas Unfaithful performance to shame. Viggio is absolutely breathtaking. I never noticed how sexy he is. The music Today Jefferson Airplane fits the scene to a TEE. I loved the movie. Can really identify with it as I am a child of the sixties and worked in the entertainment business when I was young. It brought back so many wonderful memories. The scenes were so believable and honestly made me remember how much fun we had during that time. The innocence, the wonder, the idea that we were part of a very special time has proved itself to me more and more with each passing year that it was (and will forever remain in my heart) a very special time indeed. Thanks to the entire staff for making a movie that moved me with such passion that I felt compelled to send my son out to buy the movie (first I've ever owned) and also to figure out how to register with imb so I could write this note. Thanks!!!! "},{"Title":"A decent movie with quality acting","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have come across this movie several times on TV, and the first time I watched it with absolutely no preconceptions, and I enjoyed it. I do agree with the other reviewer who said that Diane Lane's character is not entirely sympathetic, and other than Viggo Mortensen's character being incredibly hot, you don't buy much true motivation for her actions. But it is a great cast, and the story is good, and I really enjoyed it. Acting is great, particularly by Liev Schreiber, who rarely seems to get the recognition he deserves. The story lines and relationships among all members of the family are alternately sweet and sad, so it is a shame that the character who sees the least development seems to be the main character. That being said, Diane Lane's character is not entirely unsympathetic, and you certainly get what her motivations are supposed to be -- it's just a little hard to believe that they'd push her to the points she goes. Aside from being at his physical best, Viggo Mortensen's character doesn't really offer much that seems attractive -- other than being the exact opposite of what her husband is in many ways. "},{"Title":"tender","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love coming of age films and this is like that for all of the characters. The scenes between Allison, her friend, her boyfriend Ross, and her family are too sweet to be true. The acting was superb, my father, mother, and I loved it. Diane Lane and Viggo Mortensen have done movies lately, but I believe that Anna Pacquin, Liev Shrieber and especially Joe Perrino are extremely underrated. This movie, and many others that they don't necessarily star in, wouldn't be the same without them. I agree with one of the people on the message board that Tovah Feldshuh really stole the show. The subtle jokes about east coast Jewish communities like, The knish maaaaaaaaaan, is on the premises!!! and the stupid tradition performed when a girl becomes a woman are very funny and sweet. My two favorite scenes are when Allison tells her friend shyly about her first date, and when she has to tell her grandmother that she got her period. It's all so cute! "},{"Title":"A beautifully artistic film that meticulously recreates the look and feel of the summer of 1969.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A WALK ON THE MOON is a beautifully artistic film that meticulously recreates the look and feel of the summer of 1969. If you are old enough to remember that historic summer, I think you'll identify with the societal mood and personal conflicts presented. This film recreates an important moment in time for American society and helps us remember how we grew up as individuals and as a culture.  The film is well acted and directed although I thought Tovah Feldshuh was miscast as the grandmother because she was too young.  The art direction and set decoration is superb and you can practically smell the air in the Catskills! "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot. I really related to how Marty felt after finding out his wife had been getting it on with another guy. I could imagine how I'd feel.The movie was well acted, well scripted and gave me what I believe to be a realistic view of the location and vibe of 1969. Viggo did a great job, as he always does. Diane Lane is one of my favorites...liked her in Unfaithful as well.....hmmmmmmmm...starting to see a pattern in the roles she plays... "},{"Title":"T H U D Viggo Mortensen is the essence of 60's sexy ease in this very disturbing drama","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thoughly enjoyed drama, there were no weak performances in this film. Having been personally familiar with the Catskills and the older camps for families of the Jewish faith, I found this rich in texture, and rich in reality.  NO, not that every blouse man will look, sound and seduce like Mortensen who is almost a diety physically and mentally at the art of seduction in this film, but that a housewife who married very young could be easily seduced to test the waters.Pearl's performance hit un-nervingly close to home, as did the nice-guy husband.  Could a woman whose world is limited find an escape in the arms of a man like Viggo Mortensen, you betcha, in the 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, or the 2000's, you betcha.  He's the stuff dreams are made of and my only problem with the outcome is that although the ending is morally sound, when you look at what she gives up, it's not at all logical.  See this great movie and check out the ending!  Worth the viewing and a brilliant life crisis drama. "}{"Title":"Great Movie- Job Well Done!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Diane Lane did a wonderful job in this movie. Her accent was great too. The plot was great along with the characters. Their were a lot of in depth conversations, but the movie moved right along. I wasn't going to rate it a 9 out of 10 when I first watched it, but after I watched the whole movie. I changed my mind. The conversations wasn't dragging the time so the movie would just waste time. It really moved. The movie is about Diane Lane whom with her family including her husband and his mom. Take a yearly camping trip. When Diane meets 'the blouse guy'. He seduces her and they start a sexy relationship between each other behind her husbands back. I was surprised during the ending of the movie when he started finding out that Diane was having an affair, that he took it pretty calmly. Check out the movie. I wasn't disappointed! "},{"Title":"A fulfilling movie experience.......","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hi,nothing much to add to Tom's endorsement,only that this is the perfect movie of it's type.A simple tale well played,scripted and paced, with a delightful soundtrack. Not your average movie,thankfully! "},{"Title":"realistic adaptation of 60s life","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was truely beautiful. Wonderful acting and a very pleasing screenplay.Diane Lane did however, loose her touch towards the end of the film. Viggo Mortensen (as usual) was excellent and very sexy as the man of which she has an affair with.The story evolves around Pearl, a married woman with two children who embarks on a passionate fling with the blouse man(Mortensen). I'm sure whoever is reading this probably knows the plot, so i wont go on about it. Just know that this is a very impressive film. "},{"Title":"What can I say?","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film leaves you confused.  It was an overall good movie, but there are just too many conflicting emotions to decide whether you liked it in the end.  It's a story about a young mother (Diane Lane), and her family in the late 60's Woodstock era.  She somehow feels unfulfilled and starts having an affair with the hippy blouse-man (even though the decision to have the affair made the viewer think she was all kinds of easy, Viggo Mortensen would certainly entice any restless woman).  So, as the story goes along, you don't know really what to feel towards Lane's character, Pearl.  In a way, you think she should just wait til what she sent around comes back her way, but there's something about her character that makes you at least understand why she did it.  But then, you realize the turmoil her husband has to go through, and you realize that it's not fair, moral, right, or anything, and then the film makes you think it's all his fault for being square and just boring or something.  When you think about the ending to this movie, which I will not say, you wonder why it ended the way it did. If you like this movie a whole whole bunch while you're watching it...when the ending comes, you won't expect it, and you won't agree with it.  It may not affect the way you feel about this film, but it certainly will make you think.  Overall, still a good movie despite its obvious flaws.  Great acting from all the cast, and a good feel for the free love environment of the 60's.  And some very nicely done love scenes that more or less reduce the screen to a slow simmer.  I would not recommend this to couples who want a romantic movie to watch together, because it will just make you feel all kinds of weird by the time it's over.   "},{"Title":"This film reminds me of my father's family!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never seen a film before that was so familiar to me.  I see my Aunts and Uncles and my Bubby and myself as I must have been as a teen.  The only difference is location...they went to Lake Geneva, Wisc. from Chicago.The time in which this film takes place is also familiar.  I was living in Wash. D.C. in the 60's and was just a bit too old for the hippy movement, but many of my friends actually went to Woodstock!The cast is wonderful and the film is made with care and affection for all these people.The story is one of discovery and growth on the part of all the players.  A young wife who had her first child when she was still a teen-ager, now feels trapped by her domestic life.  Her daughter is just becoming a woman. Her husband is a workaholic who slaves to provide for his family and has little time for enjoyment himself.  The son worships his father.  The father's mother, the Bubby knows why he did not go to college but keeps that and other things to herself, until the proper time. Then the wife meets the free-spirited Blouse Man and, for a few days she samples what it's like to be free.The consequences of her action affect the entire community and life lessons are learned.I highly recommend this film.  It is quite erotic in places, but that fits so well with the story line that I do not find it offensive. The nicest thing about this film is that you like everyone, and at the end, the Bubby, husband, son and daughter all come to understand the attraction of The Blouse Man. "},{"Title":"An actual flashback to the summer of love","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is great! The summer of love ambiance is perfect, Diane Lane, Viggo Mortensen and Liev Schreiber act naturally and in perfect harmony, the kids' acting is also good (itself a hard task to accomplish) and the character portrayal is accurate and real. The plot is simple Lane is young, she is married with two kids, bored and worried about how the rest of her life is going to be, Schreiber is her husband, descent, hardworking, loving, caring but square and Mortensen is the spirit of the '60s -young, beautiful, carefree and rebellious without actually doing something radical. Lane's choice is not one of people -it is one of lifestyles. And it is hard to make a lifestyle choice in the summer of love, without being affected from the Woodstock vibe. Especially if the place of action is a little summer camp in walking distance from Bethel, where the festival took place.Of course I am not going to tell what she chose -it would be a major spoiler. But, the film's point is not in the actual choice but in the contradiction between the two lifestyles and the war going on Lane's head. It was beautifully portrayed and I hope director Goldwyn's next opus.Last -but not least If -like me- you have a special affinity for the summer of love, the film is a 100% must. If, on the other hand, you think it was overhyped, you might find it a bit corny. In any case, it is one of the best character based films I have seen.  "},{"Title":"A Walk On The Moon One Groovy Space Walk","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found the story  well written because that  particular year 1969   had various events as the first walk on the moon and Woodstock.  The movie made you understand what life was like back then  especially family values and the difficulties of  growing up in that  era plus keeping traditional relations with your spouses. It wasn't easy but people challenged the unknown because all was so new to them as outer space and Woodstock.It showed you that changes were coming to the world in every aspect as marriage, life, technology and family. this movie illustrated that and gave the viewer the inside story of this through the eyes of  Pearl and her family.If you want to go back in time and visit a decade of  peace, love,  unity and  see the obstacles of  life that this generation  confronted this movie is for you and much much more.  "},{"Title":"Diane Lane drew me to this one, but...","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I returned to watch it again in a theater, told a friend about this wonderful gem, we then saw it together and she agrees with me, it's the best movie we've seen in DECADES. Thank you, Diane Lane, for being the exquisite cinematic performer you are. Had it not been for you, two people would never had enjoyed this wonderful piece of work. We now have our own copies. Sincerely Don and Ginny  "},{"Title":"A really well-acted, worthwhile film with a schmaltzy ending","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wish the ending was worthy of the rest of the film. I appreciated the acting, the characterizations and the plot up to the scenes before the end. It got too schmaltzy and didn't live up to the potential of the rest of the film. To say I didn't enjoy the film would be untrue because it had believable and likeable characters played to the hilt by some very talented actors. Still with its one fault I would rate it an 8 out of 10 which is a lot better than most films being released these days. "},{"Title":"I ask of you to see this picture.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was so terrific. It was very touching, and poignant. I absolutely loved Anna Paquin, and Diane Lane as the housewife. I am a guy, a young male. And I would take one hundred Walk on the Moons than Urban LegendsFinal Cut This movie was well directed by Tony Goldwyn. The photography by Anthony Richmond, B.S.C. is very lush and nice to look at. I therefore, recommend this to everyone. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Otherwise known as Attack of the Killer Woodstock","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful movie about a jewish community in the summerof 1969 that is nearly destroyed when a renegade hippyblouseman rides in with his van spreading free love andtie-die shirts at a discount.  Pretty soon everything goes tohell (a.k.a. Woodstock) in a handbasket.But seriously, this is a likeable movie about themes  common to most every relationship.  What do we give upwhen we choose to have sex, have a child, get married,etc?  Do we have a choice?  Can we resist the temptationto jump the fence for greener pastures?  What does thishave to do with Neal Armstrong?  "},{"Title":"Satisfying and smart despite a few cliches","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Walk on the Moon is an excellent movie, very enjoyable and emotionally involving. Diane Ladd plays Pearl, a housewife whose choices were taken away from her too young, and as she begins to notice the hippies around her in 1969, she feels more and more trapped.The world she lives in is the 1969 untouched by the changes in the wind. Vacationing at a Catskills family resort, they play mah-johngg and listen to Sinatra in polyester slacks and teased hair. Somewhere on the outskirts is an anti-war movement and rock and roll, but it hasn't yet touched the lives of these people. Pearl feels trapped, and as her daughter Alison (Anna Paquin) begins her adolescent rebellion, Pearl's own feelings of rebellion are heightened.Along comes the blouse man to give Pearl a way out. Viggo Mortenson plays a one-dimensional character one-dimensionally, but this is Pearl & Alison's story and both actresses are superb. Both women open slowly, like the flower buds, and each subtle moment is clear on their faces and in their bodies.I suspect the setting was the first part of, and the inspiration for the script. Summer of '69 in the Catskills puts you 3-5 miles from the legendary Woodstock festival, and the contrast between the two lifestyles must have been irresistable. However, this is the part of the story that works least. Woodstock is idyllic and sunny (what happened to the rain and mud?) -- a paradise of freedom with no attempt to make it real. I guess that's how it seemed to Pearl & Alison, but it was too gussied-up pretty for a movie that showed everything else as is.Tovah Feldshuh as the mother-in-law is strong and startling. Liev Schrieber as the cuckolded husband is good in a role that doesn't give him much room.See it. "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Film!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just happened upon this movie on the STARZ! channel, and after watching it the first time, I was compelled to watch it again. Wow! All of the characters were believable in their roles....their stories fleshed out and their character interactions unfolding seamlessly. Diane Lane and Anna Pacquin were incredible. Diane Lane can absolutely speak volumes without saying a word! Her expressions and demeanor convey volumes. This actress deserves an Oscar.If you like family dramas, then this is undoubtedly a Must See movie for you.  "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this was an incredible movie.  Diane Lane eagerly and convincingly played Pearle, a woman who you ended up feeling sorry for despite her infidelity.  I thought the conversation between her and liev schrieber(sp?) in the kitchen of their bungalow was excellent. You could really feel the tension between the two. The ending kinda made me wish she would've gone off with the one who set her free and not the one she felt (as i saw it) obligated to stand by because they had both made so many sacrifices. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent movie.  I first wanted to see it because it  is directed by one of my favorite actors, Tony Goldwyn.  When I did watch it, I was totally hooked.  All the actors did a great job, esp. Viggo Mortensen. I highly recommend watching and supporting this movie!!! "},{"Title":"A wonderful film and a great depiction on the events of '69","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  having not heard much about this movie I was hesitant to rent it.  I knew that it was going to be one of two things, either a real stinker or an authentic diamond in the rough.  This film is the diamond.  I rented it and watched it.  after the first ten minutes I knew that this film was going to be one that captured my attention and, as I expected, the film had me wrapped around its little finger by the end.  I laughed and I cried! I felt like I had known Marty and Pearl my entire life.  Since my first viewing of this movie I hae rented it several more times and watched it with the same interest as the first, every time a new detail catches my eye. I would suggest this film to everyone who loves great movies and especially to those of you who like to laugh through tears it is a truely wonderful film that deserves to be recognized as such "},{"Title":"Sweet, but so predictable","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Strong performances from the cast, particularly Diane Lane and Liev Schreiber as two people whose individuality have become victims to the daily toil of life. Nonetheless there was something missing to make this one truly memorable. The film had nothing new to offer in its familiar premise unfulfilled woman wanting more than just family life, and her wish is granted by a handsome stranger, although its setting in the 1960s is refreshing. The plot didn't do much to rejuvenate the same old, same old feel of this film either, as the characters drifted along to the (predictable) happy ending.Still, watch it to see a very convincing Diane Lane as the torn housewife who wants more out of life - her outstanding performance made her dilemma tangible and every emotion palpable. And Liev Schreiber, who was just a fleeting memory from Scream, was a surprise with his ability to bring empathy to his acting.  "},{"Title":"A truly touching film. Great performances","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I Thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I absolutely LOVE Liev Schreiber. He is one of the most charismatic, talented and may I add, handsome actors I have had the pleasure of watching in a very long time.  Diane Lane is beautiful as always and gives a very moving performance. I highly recommend this film!  "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed and acted. A wonderful movie.","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Walk on the Moon was a pleasant surprise. I was walking through the video store and spotted the movie. When it was in the theaters I was always interested in seeing it but it dissapeared so quickly. As I watched it, I was amazed it did not get more recognition. It was a beautiful film. Well-acted by Diane Lane and Anna Paquin. Paquin reminds me of a younger Claire Danes. The film was marvealous. Usually when a film deals with a housewife comtemplating an affair, the husband is shown as a awful person. Not in this case, the husband is great, a real sweet man which makes her affair all the more interesting. Please rent the movie if you can. It is a delight, and worth every penny. "},{"Title":"Terrific movie!","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This sweet, true and touching movie recreated the summer of 1969 for me. I loved the attention to detail clothing, dialect, and the music! Diane Lane was great as a woman searching for herself. No heroes or villains, nor violence - just a little film about a family during a chaotic period. "}{"Title":"A coming of age film that takes place in 1969.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Walk on the Moon is about the sexual revolution of the 60's  that has a tapestry of metaphors that include Neil Armstrong's  moon walk, Woodstock, Judaism, and more. The film is probably more powerful if you were alive during the 60's and experienced  some of the decade's anxiety first hand "},{"Title":"THIS is a GREAT film","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a very good example of freedom, life, and consequences that come with both.  The script isn't afraid of the characters changing, because that's what we want.  The characters work like clockwork to make the film shine that much more.  Produced by the 60's man himself, Dustin Hoffman, we can see how a woman can free herself in a way that makes us feel free as well.  Definitely Diane Lane/Liev Shriebers' best performances ever.  For the generation, it gives us a flashback to what we felt back then; and for the generation of X, they can picture in their minds what it felt like to live that way (like me) One of the best pictures of the year. A+ "},{"Title":"A big theme, but a disappointing film","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's 1969 in a bungalow colony near Woodstock where husbands come up weekends to visit their wives and kids. Pearl Kantrowitz,  at 32 is the mother of a 14 year old daughter and a 5 year old son.  When a hippie salesman comes to the bungalow colony to sell blouses, she's drawn into an affair with him.Diane Lane, cast as the mother, with her confusion and mixed loyalties, played her part well.  So did the hippie lover, Viggo Mortensen, who has the kind of good looks that are sketched on the covers of romance novels. Anna Paquen is superb as the 14 year old daughter, coming of age herself, who goes to Woodstock and sees her mother there with the hippie.  And the husband, played by Liev Shreiber is wonderful as he tries to cope with his wife's changes and his love for his family.  Cast as Pearl's Jewish mother-in-law, Tovah Feldshuh should have been better.  The role is a good one, but the Yiddish words as written in the script were awkward.One of the reasons I hesitate to recommend this movie is that the setting was artificial.  For example, in the few Woodstock scenes, the sun was always shining and it seemed to last just one short afternoon.  The real Woodstock lasted 3 days and it rained constantly.I also thought the Jewishness and silliness of the bungalow colony was overdone.  Every single cliche and Yiddish expression were thrown in. I found this distracting from the central human story of a family trying to cope with a changing world.The scenes were much too long and the story moved too slowly.  Too many scenes that were just talking and no action.  The plot was predictable and there were no surprises.  And I kept looking at my watch every ten minutes.The title refers to the moon walk by the astronauts,  watched on flickering black and white television sets that summer.  It's a big theme reflecting a changing world.  But in spite of good acting and interesting story, this film tried hard, but just didn't make it. "},{"Title":"Spoke to the heart","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that I feel you can only truly love if you have in someway felt the feelings of the characters.  This is probably one of the best casted and directed film of the year.  Diane, Liev and Viggo are perfect for thier roles.  I work in a theater and have had a chance to see this movie over and over. I still am moved to tears by the depth of emotion the actors are able to show. The facial expressions used by Diane Lane make her charecter come alive and lets the viewer see into Pearls soul. If you are married see this movie, then listen to your spouse. Because anyone can be swayed, when living in the day to day life. "},{"Title":"Truth with Consequences","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Slow and deliberate might best describe this offering regarding the coming of age of both mother and daughter during those wonder years of the late 1960s. While those who lived through those days might find moments of nostalgic memory, I doubt that the younger set will find those moments appealing. The film does, however, acknowledge the consequence of action, i.e. there are prices to be paid for the pleasures of passion. Not a bad flick if there isn't much else going on. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Film","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story reminded me of Bridges of Madison County (only better). Well acted and Diane Lane is wonderful to watch. She is a beauty! "},{"Title":"appealing depiction of life in 1969","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie I like very much  it shows a very particular experience in a way that draws in the viewer.  The main character is a 30 something Jewish housewife from New York who takes her children on their annual summer stay at a lodge in the Adirondacks.  Both she and her daughter are changed by their romantic experiences and their exposure to hippies and Woodstock (I remember leaning out of the car window to stare at hitchhiking hippies in the late 1960's, as the children do in the movie.)  Obviously, this family's experiences are different from many people's, but the emotions are real, and the people very likeable. "},{"Title":"An old story but well told","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The period atmosphere is fine and the acting -- particularly by Tovah Feldshuh -- is commendable. The story-line, however, seems a bit trite and predictable, and using the 1969 moon-walk as a motif seems unnecessary since some of the characters visit the Woodstock Festival -- a much stronger symbol of the turmoil of the times.   "},{"Title":"Can we say Oscar 2000?","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I measure how good a movie is by the number of holes or leaps of faith that the plot may have. This sensitive and wonderful drama, about a Jewish family in the late 60's on their annual summer vacation to the Catskills region of upstate New York, had none. It is quite believable freeing the viewer to focus on the touching plot rather than on why isn't he doing anything at this moment or how the heck didn't they notice and such and such.Comes highly recommended to bored housewives, overworked husbands, day dreamers and all fellow human spirits in this world. "},{"Title":"More of a small step than a giant leap","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was fine, nothing special.  A bit contrived in the plot department (e.g., the daughter spotting the mother through binocs at Woodstock) and with some particularly precious dialogue. The main problem with it was that all the characters were TOO nice, TOO understanding.Good performances all around, and anyone who can take his eyes off Diane Lane likely needs some kind of laser surgery. "}{"Title":"A perfectly realized movie.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a small movie in its theme - it's about personal and family relationships -  but a perfectly realized one.  The writing was utterly believable - it hit all the right notes.  The acting was terrific.  I cried profusely.  This will undoubtedly be on my top 10 list for 1999.  A very impressive directorial debut for Tony Goldwyn.     "},{"Title":"Well worth the price of admission","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Give it thumbs up. The film is well directed and well acted.The message is about middle age crazes but from a female's point of view.She realizes life is slipping by and she yearns for a taste of the forbidden apple.Audiences from 35 to 65 will relate. Go see it. "},{"Title":"An excellent slice of life picture","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a well done movie about a woman who feels trapped by her life and her fling with a carefree guy.  The consequences of which will affect her marriage and family.  Well, written and acted. "},{"Title":"I beg to differ with the other reviewer of this movie","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, I will admit that my initial interest in this movie stemmed from a Viggo-is-God mentality. He was so great in LOTR, I wanted to see him in other movies. I don't think it's fair to label Diane Lane's character as a slut. You have to be from another century to think that a person is bad because of a single moral indiscretion.It was pretty obvious to me that she was lonely and depressed because her husband ditched her in this lame Catskills resort for weeks on end, with nothing but the kids and old ladies for entertainment. Oh, and The Blouse Man (Mortensen's character). I mean, who would you pick to hang out with? The love scenes are gloriously shot, but that's all I'll say because this site has a strict spoiler rule. All fans of Mortensen and Lane (and romance) will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all...","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Goldwyn, with platinum Hollywood credentials courtesy of being the grandson of Samuel Goldwyn (as in Metro-*Goldwyn*-Mayer), is relatively new to the directing business &#150; this is his debut, and he's directed two others since. He is better known as an actor for his roles in *Ghost*, *The Pelican Brief* and *Nixon. In the HBO miniseries From the Earth to the Moon,  Goldwyn played astronaut Neil Armstrong, first man to walk on the moon, and perhaps was inspired to base this film, called *A Walk on the Moon*, on unrelated events that occur on that famous night. Goldwyn also seemed to take a good long look at *Dirty Dancing* before he made this film &#150; unarguably a dangerous proposition &#150; but he seemed to be able to determine what parts of it were charming and which parts were schlock. He, thankfully, left most of the schlock on the cutting room floor. Like *Dirty Dancing*, it is the story of a Jewish family spending the summer at a resort in upstate New York. Where *Dirty Dancing* took place in 1963 as the world was just beginning to notice the changes, *Moon* is set in the summer of 1969 and the world's already on fire, but these people don't know it. Diane Lane and Liev Schreiber play Pearl and Marty Kantrowitz, a young blue-collar couple who began having children at a very young age, missing out on their own youth. As their daughter, Alison (Paquin), comes of age, she faces the inevitable gulf that separates her from her parents &#150; it was a requirement that children felt estranged from their parents in 1969 &#150; but her parents simply aren't that much older than she is. Life is pretty dull at the resort, with the highlights being visits from the Knish Man, the Ice Cream Man and the Blouse Man. Pearl, who finds herself alone during the week while Marty goes back into the city to work, falls hard for the Blouse Man, a hippie who lives life on his own terms (the movie had the regrettable working title of *Blouse Man*). The entire resort is excited about the impending moonwalk, but Marty won't be able to make it back in time to see it with Pearl. Pearl spends the night in her own world of celestial bodies and shooting stars as she gives herself to the hippie blouse man. Meanwhile, not far away, is this event happening &#150; no one really knows what it's about &#150; it's called Woodstock. Daughter Alison wants to go, but is forbidden to. She runs away and goes anyway, running into &#150; who else? &#150; her mother who has been taken there by the Blouse Man. Mom inadvertently gets dosed with acid and trips out, and daughter comes unglued over it, screaming, I'm the teenager! Not you! You're my mom! The story gets a little messy here and there, as daughter comes to terms with the fact that she may not be quite so different from her parents, and the parents come to terms with the fact that modern life has just about left them in the dust. It is a touching ending as the parents are trying to work it out between them, which seemed somehow unusual &#150; it the Sixties most parents would have split up to find themselves. It is a refreshing film, nonetheless, with a very good performance from Lane and a number a good performances from lesser-known cast members. "},{"Title":"Worth watching, but don't expect too much.","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (There may be SPOILERS within.)I thought this movie was a rather touching story at times, and it was not dull and boring. It was very well acted on behalf of all the actors. The problems that I have with this movie is that I feel they didn't give us a better idea of the relationships between the characters, like, why would Walker want to go off west with Pearl and her children? Was there something more between them than just sex that was not written in the script, or possibly ended up on the cutting room floor? And why did I get the feeling most of the time that Pearl didn't really love her husband all that much? They didn't give us details on their relationship, they inform us that they were married very young when she got pregnant, but do they love each other? I think they should have cut all the pointless scenes with Pearl's daughter and her boyfriend and explained to us more what was going on between Pearl/Marty and Pearl/Walker.Besides the plot holes that I thought the script had, this movie was okay. It keeps one entertained (Or at least it kept me entertained,) and it was touching at the end. But I do not think I can really get over the unexplained relationships, I think the relationships between characters are very important in a movie, and this one failed to deliver.All in all, I think I would rate this movie 7/10. Maybe I am giving it more than I should, but it was well acted. "},{"Title":"Hollywood returns to some *real* story telling","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  See this movie -- especially if you love a good story! There are no special effects, no violence (minus maybe an encounter with bees), no gratuitous sex (the sex scenes are somewhat explicit, but they are beautifully shot). This is just a vivid snap shot into the life of a wonderfully real Jewish family and their annual vacation experience during the summer of love.Excellent story telling here, and if that's your gig you will love this movie. If you want the mindless fluff Hollywood typically puts out, you'll probably be bored by all this character development.Side note; I sure wouldn't mind seeing more of Liev Schreiber... what a hottie!   "},{"Title":"Nice little flick","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Walk On The Moon was very well written and acted. Great performances all around. Lisa Jakub and Anna Paquin are as talented as they are cute.  Also a stand out performance by the boom mike, that makes numerous cameo appearances.  "},{"Title":"Freedom or Family?","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An honest, sometimes humorous, sometimes agonizing rendering of a 50's marriage reaching a renew or bail crisis in the Woodstock summer of '69. Well observed, sensitively directed and acted, featuring a standout cast. You'll be hard pressed to say who turns in the star performance here; Feldshuh, Lane, Mortensen, Schrieber or Paquin. They all deliver. Each scene is written with great economy and elegance, and Diane Lane plays her character's central ambivalence masterfully and with a vulnerable sexuality that is utterly convincing. Feldshuh has strong scenes as Lane's mother in law, and plays them with a clear Joanne Woodward-like presence and wisdom. Blocking, shooting and cutting are all unpretentious throughout but never fail to maximize the meaning of each scene.Fifteen years ago the ideal cast for this story would have been Dustin Hoffman, Barbara Hersey and Sam Shepard. This lesser known cast, remarkably, produces magic of the same caliber.Well done. Very well done.  "},{"Title":"No layers to this movie!!!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What was the point of this movie?  I hoped that there would be more. What I saw was a long version of the previews.  Sorry, this movie gets a C grade for average - little emotion for such an emotional topic.   "}{"Title":"Unexceptional, except for having some of the WASPiest Jews in movie history.","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie made in the 1990s about the 1960s with the moral obtuseness of the 1970s and the cookie-cutter, generic storytelling of the 1980s.The Kantrowitzes are a working class Jewish family spending their summer at a Catskills resort during the time of the first Moon landing. They don't have much money, so Marty (Liev Schreiber) has to go back to work during the week while his wife, children and his mother spend their days in a tiny bungalow in a lakeside campsite. His wife Pearl (Diane Lane) is bored, unsatisfied and feels like life has passed her by. We know this because Pearl repeatedly tells people that. Then she meets Walker Jerome (Viggo Mortensen), a handsome man in a bus who stops by the resort to sell blouses to all the Jewish ladies. Pearl begins a torrid affair with the free-spirited Walker, which culminates in some sort of weird emotional breakdown at the Woodstock concert. But when her family discovers Pearl's secret, she is faced with losing a life that Pearl realizes she really loves. There's also some stuff about young Alison Kantrowitz (Anna Paquin) becoming a woman that summer, but it doesn't seem to have much of a point other than giving Anna Paquin something to do.This story isn't exactly original, but the actors all do a good job and there was certainly the potential for something worthwhile here. It never really amounts to anything, though, for two reasons.Firstly, for a story that is fundamentally about betrayal, none of the folks who are betrayed ever get that upset. When Pearl's mother-in-law (Tovah Feldshuh) finds out about the affair, she's angry with Pearl for about 15 seconds. When Alison finds out, she's angry with her mother for almost a minute. When Marty finds outs, he's angry for maybe 5 minutes at most. When the film gets to the part about adultery tearing Kantrowitzes apart, it studiously avoids letting any of the characters feel pained for any significant length of time. Earlier on, when the movie is supposed to be about the illicit romance of the affair, Pearl doesn't seem like a desperately unhappy woman reaching out for something to fill the void in her heart. She seems like an apathetically disinterested woman who gets bored easily. So, we're presented with a woman who doesn't seem to have a good reason to commit adultery and a family that doesn't seem to mind that much when she does.A Walk On The Moon refuses to let any of these characters be the bad guy. Pearl isn't the bad guy, Marty isn't, the mother-in-law isn't, even Walker Jerome isn't allowed to be a bad person. Not making people out to be the bad guy might be a wonderful way to go through life, but it's a terrible way to tell a story. When you're watching this film you should either want Pearl to stay with her family or run away with Walker, but the movie refuses to let you feel that strongly either way. I think it's an attempt to reflect the moral and social confusion of the 60s, but an ethically and thematically confusing movie is usually not that entertaining.The other problem with A Walk On The Moon is that it is probably the WASPiest film about Jews you'll ever watch. There's a few scattered moments of ethnic sentiment and culture, but this story could have been about Catholics, Protestants, Muslims, Atheists or what have you. These filmmakers may have been trying to say something about the universality of this situation, but why give it a distinctly ethnic background in the first place? It feels a little bit like The Cosby Show, where these characters are Jews but there's nothing particularly Jewish about them.If you rent this film, you will get some brief glimpses at Diane Lane's rack and Viggo Mortensen's butt. I'm pretty sure you can find those things in better movies than this. "},{"Title":"A Touching Slice of Life of the Summer of Woodstock and the Moon Walk","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Walk on the Moon has a teen in it, but it's definitely a grown-up movie. It helps to remember 1969 though one does wince at some of the inaccuracies as too much cultural symbolism is thrown into that summer. Hey, where's the rain at Woodstock? - it was only nice weather on the Friday. Some of the music was inaccurate - what were the odds of turning on the radio in 1969 and hearing Sally Go Round the Roses from 1962? Why would someone from NYC claim they couldn't afford college and not consider what's now CUNY?This is Liev Schreiber's first grown-up movie I think; he was quite good in Shakespeare in the Park last summer. Some reviewers bashed the movie because Schreiber is so good (especially as he discovers the power of Dylan and Jimi Hendrix) that one sympathizes with both the adulterer and the cuckold - gee but ain't life complicated, as what comes across is the importance of family. Too bad the Blouse Man (very appealing Viggo Mortensen) is just basically a hippie and he's not a real person, but everyone else is. Anna Paquin as a teen discovering that her parents are people too was wonderful. Diane Lane's NY accent does waver quite a bit.I lost my objectivity whenever Tovah Feldshuh spoke. As the grandmother she sounded so much like my grandma, who of course was alive in 1969, that I practically cried every time she was on the screen, though mine had a thicker Yiddish accent. All in all, a very touching movie.(Originally written 4/11/1999) "},{"Title":"An emotional step back in time","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The term women's picture is often used to derogatorily describe melodramas about adultery in which the principal protagonist is the wife.  Today 'chick-flicks' have become the new women's pictures in which the heroine rather than the hero is to the fore and rather than commit adultery is doing all she can to establish her relationships.Of course, women's pictures were finally made respectable by the great Douglas Sirk who used the genre to explore the mores of a specific time and place in American culture, and the best women's pictures, such as Michael Curtiz' Mildred Pierce are as much about class, status and politics with a small p as they are about relationships.  Though not quite in the Douglas Sirk class Tony Goldwyn's A Walk on the Moon is a very superior example of the genre, dealing as it does with issues in a wider social and historical context than a mere perfunctory summer romance.For a start, the film is set in the past (1969, to be exact; the title referring to Niel Armstrong's moon walk and is set, literally, just down the road from Woodstock).  And it's pleasures are very much in the detail, not just in the summing up of the seismic changes happening in American society at the time but in the smaller day-to-day things that affect the nuclear family at the centre.Here it benefits considerably from a quartet of superb performances from Diane Lane and Liev Schreiber as the couple whose marriage (in haste and with regrets on both sides) could so easily end on the rocks, from Anna Paquin as their daughter in the throes of growing up and from Tovah Feldshuh as the Jewish mother-in-law with a gift for observation bordering on second sight.  Tony Goldwyn handles the interchanges between these people beautifully so that when the wife finally abandons common-sense as well as her clothes for some steamy business with 'the blouse man' underneath a convenient waterfall, the film transcends cliche and becomes both genuinely erotic and moving.     "},{"Title":"I don't believe I am the target demographic for this film.","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was not for me. There were some good things but for every thing that I like there was something I didn't like at all. This movie glorifies a cheating wife at times and other times redeems itself with her showing remorse or other characters stepping in to tell her that she is not doing something that is okay. By the end there is a touching scene between Diane Lane and Liev Schreiber. He is great in this movie. There was also a pretty good to running joke about Chuck that struck a chord with me. That's a cute thing that gives the characters an inside joke throughout the film. Unfortunately, the payoff at the end has a child dropping the F bomb. Again, not something that is my cup of tea. I think Diane Lane is excellent but this just didn't have legs and wasn't my cup of tea. Better luck next time! "},{"Title":"This Film Does Not Get Enough Credit!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cried a little. Not totally unexpected, but still...I was amazed how much I was engrossed with Diane Lane. What a treat she is!Viggo Mortensen proves what a chameleon actor he is.  I hope he doesn't get Lord of the Rings typecast.  He is awesome.Liev Schreiber was really great, too.  He captured the emotions just perfectly.I do believe Pearl made the right decision in the end. It's such a bittersweet movie. So poignant and beautiful. I still got shivers when Pearl and Walker are in the bus and the moon landing is on the tv. I also genuinely felt the emotion after Daniel got stung by wasps and Marty said thanks to Walker for helping with the stings.This movie doesn't get enough credit. Really. ALL of the actors are phenomenal. Even young Anna Paquin and her new, fumbling attempts at love and experimentation. (It's especially cool to see her in this after watching X-Men and X2 back-to-back last weekend!)  "},{"Title":"GIVE ME MORE VIGGO!!!!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before purchasing this film, I read a lot of reviews, most of which gave it pretty good reviews. After finally watching it I have to say that I was disappointed. I expected it to be more....interesting maybe. The cast was full of talented actors but it seemed to drag a bit. I fully admit that the reason why i didn't switch it off was because of the ever so sexy Viggo Mortensen who put in a great performance. However, i felt his character was undeveloped and he should have had more screen time. Maybe the director didn't do this because he takes the attention away from Diane Lane! Another disappointment was the love scenes. From what I had heard they were very steamy and passionate but once I saw them I was...well disappointed! All in all, a talented cast (especially Viggo and Anna Paquin who was fantastic) that just couldn't save a rather drab film. "},{"Title":"Superb performance by Anna Paquin","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I recently bought this movie and decided to sit down and watch it, since I'm a huge Anna Paquin fan. She doesn't disappoint in her role. She has two wonderfully written scenes, one between her and Diane Lane and the other with the excellent Liev Schrieber. It's a great performance in a good, but not great, film--she's finally living up to her Oscar. I'm surprised the Academy forgot her performance here. The movie itself is good, but nothing to write home about. It follows a fairly predictable path. Still, director Tony Goldwyn (who impressed me with his villainous turn in Ghost) works well with his group of actors. Paquin and Schreiber are the best, Diane Lane is good, while Viggo Mortensen is good looking but shallow as the blouse man.Grade B "},{"Title":"A Walk of Confusion","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the main problems with A WALK ON THE MOON is that Liev Schreiber looks far too young to be married to Diane Lane.  As for Diane's affair with the hippy salesman (played by Viggo), it's plausible in a sort of Joni Mitchell/Byrds type of way. Nonetheless, you think a family that has survived so much at this point; well, you think she'd be able to resist the temptation. Furthermore, mom appears a little old to be taking off for one of the most epic rock festivals of all time, no matter how entrancing the starry eyed Viggo may be. I would also like to mention (POSSIBLE SPOILER!) she happens to be seen by her 14 year old daughter who happens to be at the event.  A 14 year old went to this gig? Really?  How was Richie Havens?Come on, it has to make you laugh. I mean, the wife literally walks in the door and her husband asks Where have you been? and she responds, Woodstock. In addition, their freshman in high school daughter is probably up the road, waiting for Hendrix to go on.  In other words, director Tony Goldwyn's obsession with placing his characters in actual historical events makes the story that more unreal and impossible to take seriously.  "},{"Title":"Nixon Wins","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a huge failure as a movie, but an interesting one in a way. At least for someone my age who lived through the period appropriated here.Here's the basic challenge in showing a love story how do you cinematically show the pulls on the heart? The usual solution is to fold it into larger events that CAN be cinematically and richly shown. Then as one shines, the other is illuminated.Here we have two metaphors. One sorta works hippies, sexual release from unfair constraints, idealism, rebellion. With this comes a bonus, period music that has more cinematic hooks than any other. (I hope Richie Havens does well from what he gave us.)The second metaphor is a bit forced, mapping the moonwalk as the voyage from the known to the unknown and risky. The mapping here is reinforced by having our tested family actually travel to their resort. (This resort is similar in tone to the one in Dirty Dancing, Jewish, constrained.) We have our first forbidden sex as the moonwalk appears on the TeeVee. And the cuckolded husband is a TeeVee repairman. Whew!Things like this do work. They can work.But I think this one didn't because it had no phrasing. Phrasing is something more than rhythm and forward movement; it is the music of the thing. In the written word, you have granularities of syllable, word, phrase, thought (often a paragraph or more if dialog is involved), scenarios and then something larger which are often called acts.Film has a different set of objects at the fine granularity but the same ones starting with scenario. Each of these levels has its own breath and the levels of granularity interact. Often what we think of as clever writing is just one level pushing the pace of another which might resist a bit. That's the secret behind Pulp Fiction.In most cases, a movie just takes the cadences from prior entries in the genre so we don't even notice it. When those cadences are engineered deftly and uniquely, they can be supremely effective. Its why the masters are masters. Tarkovsky. Greenaway. Look at Seven Samurai to see how the small measures move slower than they should and the larger ones rush with less regularity, press in on the zen.The opposite is true also. When a writer, director, editor have no sense or tense of these matters, the project collapses. When you encounter one, it is worth paying attention to because these failures will tell you more about contrapuntal narrative rhythms than the successes will. In this case the writer seems to have written things down as if they were a memoir, notes, and not something with machinery designed to affect us.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I ever saw","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" sorry for my English , but this movie is simply bad. Why people in this movie speak each other so stupid,so pathetic.......so silly Normal life,normal living and normal peoples are so far from this movie! First time I saw and........horrible well,I must speak about this movie more.......why she,when she is looking her husband kiss so free? I saw this movie firs time on Czech television and I hope I never must see such a brainwash from United states. Elswhere you can see is a plenty of a good movies ( you can see it in a lot of European movies festival, but televisions still bought this silly Americans. If You want buy or rent this movie - don't do it "}{"Title":"Not even worthwhile for a rabid Anna Paquin fan","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Previous commentator Steve Richmond stated that A Walk On The Moon is, in his words not worth your $7. I ended up paying a bit more than that to import what is one of the worst-quality DVDs I have yet seen, of this film or any film in existence. Even when you ignore the fact that the DVD is clearly sourced from an interlaced master and just plain nasty to watch in motion, the film has no redeeming qualities (save Anna's presence) to make watching a top quality Blu-Ray transfer worthwhile. Not that this is any fault of the other actors. Liev Schreiber, Diane Lane, Tovah Feldshuh, and Viggo Mortensen all score high on the relative to Anna Paquin acting ability chart. Far more so than Holly Hunter or Sam Neill did in spite of an equally lousy script, anyway. Director Tony Goldwyn's resume is nothing to crow about, but Pamela Gray's resume includes Wes Craven's most dramatic excursions outside of the horror or slasher genre, so one could be forgiven for thinking this is a case of bad direction.As I have indicated already, the sole reason I watched this film is Anna Paquin. In her acting debut, she literally acted veterans of the industry with a minimum of twelve years' experience above hers under the table. While she is not as far ahead of her castmates here, her performance as a girl that starts the piece as a brat and grows into a woman whose world is crashing down around her proves her Oscar was no fluke. For some time I have been stating to friends that she would be the best choice to portray the heroine of my second complete novel, and a dialogue seventy-three minutes into this film is yet another demonstration of why. This woman could literally act the paint off walls. Anna aside, only Liev Schreiber comes close to eliciting any sympathy from an audience. Sure, his character spends the vast majority of the film neglecting a wife with an existential crisis, but he plays the angered reaction of a man who feels cheated brilliantly. I should know, even if it is not from the same circumstances here.Viggo Mortensen also deserves credit for his portrayal of a travelling salesman, although perhaps not to the same extent. In a manner of speaking, he is the villain of the piece, but he successfully gives the character a third dimension. Yes, his actions even after the whole thing explodes are underhanded, but not many men would act any differently in his situation. Nobody wants to be the other man in this kind of messed-up situation, so Viggo deserves a lot of credit for giving it a try here. Unfortunately, these are all participants in a story about a woman who feels trapped in a stagnant marriage where Tovah Feldshuh tells us that the Mills And Boon archetype of women being the only ones who feel life is passing by simply does not exist. Either writer Pamela Gray or director Tony Goldwyn thought they could just put this line into the film without thinking of how the audience might receive it. Anna even gets to speak the mind of the audience when she asks Diane who she is to be lecturing anyone about responsibility.That said, the film does have a couple of things besides Anna going for it. Mason Daring's original music, while not standing out in any way, gives the film a certain feeling of being keyed into the time depicted that helps where the other elements do not. Roger Ebert is right when he points out that while Liev is a great actor, putting him alongside Viggo in the story of a woman forced to choose between her marriage and her fantasy is a big mistake. He is also very correct in that when the film lingers over scenes of Lane and Mortensen skinny-dipping or mounting one another under a waterfall, it loses focus from being a story of a transgression and becomes soft porn. The film seems terminally confused about the position of its story. No matter how many times I rewatch Liev's scenes, I cannot help but feel he has been shortchanged in the direction or editing. One does not have to make their leads particularly handsome or beautiful, but taking steps to make them the most interesting or developed characters in the piece would have gone a long way.Ebert also hits the nail right on the head when he says that every time he saw Anna on the screen, he thought her character was where the real story lay. Stories about the wife feeling neglected and running into the arms of a man who seems interesting or even dangerous are a dime a dozen, to such an extent now that even setting the story in parallel with an event as Earth-shattering as the moon landing will not help. In spite of feeling revulsion at the manner in which her character's story is presented, Anna might as well be walking around with a neon sign above her head asking the audience if they would not prefer to see the whole thing through her eyes. While I am all too aware that it is difficult to control exactly which character your audience will find the most interesting from your cast, it is very much as if they did not bother to try with Lane and Schreiber. Fans of these two would be well advised to look elsewhere. Hopefully by now my ramblings about the respective performances will give some idea of where the whole thing went wrong.I gave A Walk On The Moon a three out of ten. Anna Paquin earns it a bonus point with one of her best performances (and that is saying something). "},{"Title":"Meatballs meets Unfaithful","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to admit, I've seen much of this movie several times on digital cable but haven't quite made it to the end (for reasons explained later). Diane and family vacation at Catskills resort in the late 60's, Lane the satisfied wife and mother -- until she runs into free-spirit blouse salesman Mortensen. Schreiber is fine as the lovable but dufus husband, as is Feldshuh as his mom (in real life only 13 years older than Lane!), and Paquin as the blooming daughter. It's always fun to watch a beautiful Lane agonize over these life issues and a pre-Lords Viggo is a treat. The Airplane's Today gets as good a musical placement in this movie as you'll ever see. The set up is really superb (although a little more graphic than I needed). But But But But But. But the Woodstock sequence seems unnecessary and contrived, blowing a beautiful slice o' life movie to smithereens. Wrong turn. I can't bear to watch it after that, maybe I'll make it through sometime and things will be okay after all. "},{"Title":"A bad movie on the premises","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here again is yet another Diane Lane movie where she cheats on her husband. Is this the only role she knows how to play? This time it's set in 1969 and she cheats on her husband with the blouse man. I am so not surprised because that is so very predictable. Then her husband gets mad and throws the milk. I wouldn't be surprised if she slept with the milkman as well. I wouldn't be surprised if she slept with the ice cream man too because this is a very boring movie. Then after some milk throwing, she says sorry and sees the blouse man again. Duh. Then while she is making it with him, her son gets stung by wasps. My mom always told me not to throw rocks at a wasps nest. This kids mom didn't have time to tell him that, she was too busy with the blouse man. "},{"Title":"Squeaky perfect","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A Walk on the Moon takes the audience back to the days of the Apollo moon landing, hippies, Woodstock, etc. as a family of 4+ vacation in the Catskills where Mom (Lane) fools around while Dad's (Schreiber) away. Telling of a woman's belated wild oat sowing or midlife crisis or attempt to reclaim lost dreams or whatever, the film doesn't nail the Grass is greener syndrome as it should in spite of a solid performance by Lane (though nothing like her stunning effort in Unfaithful). Wandering off into other family matters, the tryst couple hasn't time to develop a relationship of sufficient depth to make the carrot on the stick a juicy enough reward for the risk involved. Obvious and predictable, this flick has a soft edge even during the most harsh moments and everyone is a little too squeaky perfect. Nonetheless, for those who can make the buy-in, a bittersweet story about priorities in married life awaits. (B-) "}]