[{"Title":"A Very Underrated 'Neo Noir'","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think this is one of those modern-day film noirs (neo noir) that went under the radar. It is excellent, and few people know about it. It's a very underrated film.It had an interesting and unpredictable story with some very neat twists which a good noir might have. I'm not really sure I liked the very ending, but I sure enjoyed the rest of it. That entertainment included ogling a couple of sexy female leads, played by Elisabeth Shue and Chloe Sevigny and I loved the wonderful colors in this movie. Not only was the cinematography great, so was the soundtrack with some solid blues tracks. The guitar playing reminded me of the Ry Cooder's work in Midnight Run.The movie was labeled by some national critics as a poor man's 'Body Heat.' Well, that's fine with me because I liked Body Heat a lot, too. If you liked that, you should like this movie, too.Yes, there are a few holes in the story but nothing that damaged the storyline to any degree. Woody Harrelson was good in the lead and Gina Gershon and Michael Rapaport provided solid performance in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Slick And Entertaining","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This slick thriller is entertaining from start to finish. Harrelson plays Harry Barber an ex con who is lured by mega rich temptress Rhea Malroux (Elizabeth Shue) in to helping set up a straight forward bogus kidnap scheme involving her stepdaughter Odette (Chloe Sevigny) It seems simple, he can earn a lot of money for doing very little. As the plot thickens Harry finds out that things, and people, are not what they seem and that is where the trouble begins. Harrelson is convincing in the lead and Sevigny is very good as the rich kid, although Elizabeth Shue tends to overact her part. The biggest crime in this film is that of Gina Gershon, who seems wasted in a weak role as Harry's girlfriend. The film on a whole is good though, and because of this you can almost forgive a 'Batman' style ending!  "},{"Title":"Riveting thriller.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Apart from one central problem (Elisabeth Shue certainly has the body, but not the inherent tough-girl attitude her role requires; in other words, she's miscast), I personally cannot understand how anyone can claim to be a mystery fan and not like this movie. Absorbing storytelling (which takes its time), some tense moments (the body in the car trunk) and many great, totally unpredictable surprises that even the most hardened genre buffs will not guess. Riveting and interesting from beginning to end. (***) "},{"Title":"Surprises at every turn.","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although the characters lack credibility (it seems like every single woman in the history, all of them gorgeous, is dying to get into the underwear of the main male character as a matter of urgency).Nevertheless the plot is unusual and nothing is what it looks. All seems like a normal thriller in which the roles of everybody are the typical ones but the surprises that unfold in the last minutes make it a watchable twist around a theme many times explored before.The superb luscious ladies and the unusual plot make it a good watch, "},{"Title":"A largely underrated film.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that Palmetto is going to be a cult movie some years from now. It has been clearly underrated. It is noir, although located in sunny places. It has a sort of kinship relation with George Stevens' A Place in the Sun. And it has a quite good Woody Harrelson in the leading role. Sweat plays more than a role in the plot characters are sweating all the time (mainly Harry Barber), for different reasons. May be that's why some people dislike it. "},{"Title":"THE modern film noir classic","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This brilliantly-written film has everything a great film noir movie needs. First and foremost, the femme fatale Rhea Malroux, played with cunning accuracy by Elisabeth Shue, and the sucker who gets screwed over, Harry Barber, played by Woody Harrelson. Another important and necessary element is the sticky, hot Florida climate, that adds to the erotic atmosphere. The money is the object of everyone's desire as well. Because of all this and much more, Palmetto achieves what every film noir film shoots for. Thrills, surprises, murder and steam. Trailers and reviews made the film sound like a sex romp, when in reality there isn't one nudity shot in the whole thing. Because Palmetto is not about nudity. It's more than that, like any good film noir is. It's about TEASING. About strutting and never showing all the goods. Rhea Malroux struts her stuff alright, but never strips. And that's much better than gratuitous sex and nudity. Much better. The film focuses more on the plot, about a fake kidnapping scheme that is sure to please everyone...if it goes smoothly. And of course, it doesn't. Bodies turn up, and people are not who they seem. Harry Barber quickly realizes he's gotten too deep in something he never should have gotten involved in. But after serving two years of a four-year sentence in an 8X10 jail cell for a crime he didn't commit, he feels someone owes him. So he agrees to participate in a fake kidnapping that will get the wife of rich Felix Malroux 500,000 dollars and Harry a nice whopping 50,000. But because Harry is not naughty by nature, he doesn't do well disguising his innocence and his guilt comes through, sweating profusely when the DA Renick calls him in to act as reporter, Harry can't take the heat. He attempts to call the whole thing off, but once told the money's already been delivered, he can't help it. He wants back in. E. Max Frye is the brilliance here, for his script says it all. Based on an old pulp novel Just Another Sucker by European author James Hadley Chase, the film is directed by Volker Schlondorff, who should also be commended. The acting is first rate, and purposefully over-the-top by brilliant Elisabeth Shue as the best femme fatale I personally have ever seen grace the silver screen. This is not a must rent, it's a must BUY!  "},{"Title":"gooooood","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film for the second time yesterday and i enjoyed it just as much as the first time. It has everything a black thriller needs. Good plot, with a lot of plot twists, interesting scenes, great characters, and good acting (Woody Harrelson is really good as an ex-convict getting involved in a fake kidnapping). Still the action is slow in many moments. Very good ending. Vote 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Okay Thriller With Tons of Sizzling Sex!","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Woody Harrelson plays Harry Barber, a wise guy reporter who just did some jail time for a dirty deal that wasn't his fault. When he gets out of the slam, he just wants his life back. But bad breaks and shifty women soon send him right back into the seamy, sexy world of double deals and decadent rich folks, in a steamy Florida town called PALMETTO.The plot of this movie is okay, and the story moves along at a slow, but steady pace. But what really makes it work is the sexual subtext of a man fighting to maintain both his moral high ground and his sexual potency while surrounded by a trio of luscious, dangerous women.At first, Harry Barber's biggest problem is finding a job. When he gets out of jail, his loyal girl friend Nina (Gina Gershon) is waiting to meet him. Dark-eyed Nina is the ideal best pal -- friendly, loving, and supportive. Not only does she take Harry in, she's more than willing to pay for his expenses and keep him on as her assistant until he finds a job. The sizzling tension between them is that Nina wants a docile and submissive male concubine while Harry is too macho to accept the pleasures Nina can provide. He's clearly the kind of man who feels that it's emasculating for a woman to have too much money or power in a relationship. Still, Nina is so stunningly attractive and so clearly besotted with him that he almost unwillingly sinks into dependence. Watch the early morning scene where he makes coffee for Nina and tensely waits for her approval! It's pure Neanderthal male pride that drives Harry to accept a dirty job from blonde temptress Rhea Malroux. Elisabeth Shue has never, ever been more radiant than in this classic noir role of the black widow. The sex scenes are sizzling precisely because Rhea is using Harry and preparing to feed on him. Yet when her spoiled step daughter, Odette, appears, Harry is forced to pleasure not one but two of the most dangerous women in Palmetto!Frankly, the ending of this movie is not very satisfying -- Harry does not really triumph in the end, nor does he learn the value of Nina's loyalty and support. In the end it's more of a paranoid male fantasy than a real classic thriller, but still worth watching just for the sizzling sexual subtext between Harry and his three witches! "},{"Title":"Betrayal, lust, greed, sex, kidnapping, a beautiful blonde vixen and the steamy red-hot Florida sunshine, hey what more could you ask from a film!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Most people I've talked with didn't enjoy this movie, but I clearly disagree I feel this film is one of the better I have viewed in sometime. Though Palmetto has more plot twist and story misdirection than a city slicker being lost in a small town, Palmetto sure leaves the viewer guessing and highly entertained. The setting of a small Florida town fits the storyline perfect thanks to Volker Schlondorff crafting it along with the James Hadley Chase novel. You finally figure the whole plot out in the end, and many like myself didn't like the ending it's like starting over as Harry Barber (Woody Harrelson) once again finds himself in prison. This proves the old adage wrong that you learn from your mistakes, but not in Harry Barber's case as he is once again screwed. Believe me you learn from experience, anyone should no better than to trust a cunning-beauty Mrs. Rhea Malroux (Elisabeth Shue) who plans a kidnapping scheme to good to be true. Because people who plan are only planning for their benefit. So Palmetto has some very basic moral meanings to it some like Harry Barber learn the hardway and remain in mediocrity, while others like Mrs. Donnelly aka Rhea Malroux crash in the end but to only drag others down with them. The twisting of the script and film's setting are probably Palmetto's better qualities. All good performances from Harrelson, Shue,and Gershon. Just to mention Gina Gershon and Elizabeth Shue have beauty and looks that would make any man foam at the mouth. I hope to continue to see Shue and Gershon in many films to come they were the two driving forces of Palmetto. I recommend this film to anyone, but remember you must pay close attention throughout the whole film or will you be as lost as city person in the wilderness. "},{"Title":"Passable thriller","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Released from prison after being cleared of charges, Harry Barber tries to get his life back when he is approached by the beautiful Rhea Malroux with a proposition to make money.  It's simple - Rhea's stepdaughter will pretend to be kidnapped, Harry will write the notes and Rhea will get $500,000 ransom money from her rich elderly husband without the police ever getting involved.  Needless to say, things don't go totally to plan and, after Harry collects the money, things go badly wrong and he finds himself desperately trying to get out of the web he is caught up in.An ex-con gets approached by a gorgeous woman and is seduced into committing a simple crime - typical noir territory, cue a twisty thriller where things that are presented as facts turn out to be lies etc.  The plot is quite good even if I was waiting for the twists rather than having them come out of leftfield at me.  The lack of real surprises was a problem for me as it did turn the story into rather a workmanlike affair at times.  The characters aren't great either.  Aside from Harry all the others are basic cardboard cut outs of characters rather than being well scripted people.Harrelson does a good Harry, he has a sort of haggard yet oafish character here who is always one step behind and Woody can do that quite well.  Shue is OK as the supposed femme fatale but I couldn't help feel that Gershon would have done a much better job, although at times Shue does look very sexy.  Sevigny and Rapaport are both good young actors but neither is really given anything to do here - especially Rapaport who has bad dialogue throughout.Overall though this is watchable and isn't bad - just routine.  It has weaknesses but it does well to ape the atmosphere and prerequisites of the genre well, although it is pretty run of the mill as far as the genre goes. Still worth seeing but if you've seen more than three examples of the genre then you'll know pretty much what to expect. "}{"Title":"This movie is rated 6 out of 10?","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Seriously, those who rated this like some random stuff, are already medium to heavily hollyntoxicated. This is for the remaining ones who know what lively and charming acting is. This is the kind of entertainment movie I'm not sick to see. It's FRESH, teasing, simple and colored, something Hollywood guys forgot some time ago. Good actors but again not in the H. style (is that a style anyway?). Compared with Hollywood productions this movie is the same as going to a lively, friendly, full with warm locals bar, or going to some fancy club, full of models where nobody's talking with each other. Stop bashing, this is not perfect, but I prefer it to standard movies who are done by the book to the point the actors cannot express themselves any long. "},{"Title":"I liked a lot this modern film noir","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I like this movie very much, each time I catch it by any chance on TV when I am making zapping I watch it again. I think that Palmetto deserves 7.5 stars, I was surprised to find out it has just 5.6 stars.I have always liked the work of Woody Harrelson, but in this movie he is great as the journalist Harry Barber. the supporting cast is very good too. The plot of the movie is about Harry Barber a journalist that is released from jail for being found innocent. After that he is going to have problems to find a job until a sexy woman proposes him to be involved in a false kidnapping for some easy money, because of this Harry is going to get in a lot of troubles.I recommend you to watch this movie, I found it very entertaining since the beginning until the end. "},{"Title":"I love a movie I have to study 2 or three times to get it all.!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love this kind of movie, with a plot that is not obvious. The kind I have to see it two or three times just to figure it out. It has the same steamyness of Body Heat !! All three characters are sultry in their own way. Woody is especially good as the leas character who goes from confidence to trapped.  "},{"Title":"Good suspense mystery","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good performance by all involved.Keep me watching for the next twist.The twists caught me off guard. Which makes for a good mystery. As I was watching Gina Gershon it reminded me of another good movie she played a great part in called Bound.This was a well paced movie. Keep my interest from start to end.My score ***3/4 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Best James Hadley Chase adaptation.","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just recently I came across the late author James Hadley Chase. I was surprised at the huge number of novels he had written over the 50s and 60s. A movie I had also watched a movie earlier which was giving reference to behind the inspiration used. I decided to dwell in to the writers works and discover what made him so popular. After reading one I could not give up. I was surprised by the themes and characters that were involved in the novels. Many times it felt like I was not reading a book, but watching a movie. Given the fact that his books were not long made it more easier to complete them. Many of Chase's novels have been adapted in to movies. The trend of Chase adaptations became a cult trend for french and Italian cinema. However here in the west it never took off. Novels like 'Miss Shunaway waves a wand', 'The set up' and 'Hit and run' were adapted for the big screen. Unfortunately they did not make bells ring at the box office. The novel 'Just another sucker' is made in to a movie and The theme became instantly familiar to me as the first few minutes begin to roll. The name of the novel has been changed to 'Palmetto' for the movie. As one watches on you realise the noir atmosphere is prevalent in almost every scene. An old novel's transition to modern day cinema makes an impressive outcome. Both Woody Harrelson and Elizabeth Shue were perfect choices for the casting. Their performances really make the movie for what it is. Volker Schlondorff makes a sincere attempt at presenting his perception of the novel. He has incorporated all his basic understanding of the theme and there is never a feeling that a foreign director made the movie. He has made many dull moments enhanced by capturing the character's expressions. There are a few scenes and moments that make the movie longer in duration but this does not put the viewer off. It was disappointing that the movie did not have huge box office status when it released. Since the theme of kidnapping was used, and one has to contend with releases like 'fargo' and 'The big lebowski', I would assume that this movie went unnoticed. I think that the reason behind its failure was directly due to the incorrect release date. Maybe a year early or late would have had some positive impact on the movie's success ratio.*********************SPOILERS AHEAD********************* Woody Harrelson plays Harry Barber who is released from prison after spending two years there for no reason. He considers going to Miami but his girlfriend (Gina Gershon) persuades him to not leave. At a bar he encounters a woman who who is the wife of a rich man by the name or Mr Malroux. She tempts him in to a fake kidnapping scheme where her step daughter (Chloe Sevigny) will be involved in. The ranson will be 500,000 dollars. All that Harry has to do is make a phone call and send the threatening letter demanding the ransom. Initially Harry does not approve but later he convinces himself. After meeting the step daughter the plan is put ahead. The girl stays away from home for a short time and her father delivers the money in a suitcase to the location mentioned. He is later shocked to discover that the girl has been killed and he has a body to dispose of that is not easy to do. The local authorities are on the case and 1 plus 1 does not seem to be adding to two for Harry. Plus what he received was not cash at all. The situation becomes more and more sinister and paranoia begins to take over him. To his surprise he later discovers that at every step of the way more and more clues will point towards him as the culprit behind Mr Malroux's daughters disappearance. He realises eventually that he was just used for the whole plan. Eventually he has to prove his innocence to the authorities. ************************END OF SPOILERS**********************I could not help getting a dejavu of 'Body Heat' while watching this movie. Many situations were reminiscent of the classic. The setting of Florida too was an indicator of this. The constant sweating faces and sexual intimidating scenes also were a giveaway. But the similarities end there. Movies like 'Derailed and 'Out of time' too had a similar concept. The director has incorporated many slow moving frames which highlight plot twists and key moments which are crucial. These are a highlight and really create the right tone at certain intervals. With a running time of 1 hour and 53 minutes the movie does tend to take long to get the plot to progress. Much of the first hour is spent behind planning the kidnapping. However the second hour's pace builds up. Much of that specific portion of the movie delivers plot twists after plot twists. These makes for a very intriguing experiences as the movie progresses. The usage of a background score is very minimum. But the sleazy sounds do appear regularly at important moments because you can't have a noir movie without them. This is one of Woody Harrelson's best performances. He has managed to blend many moods and shades in to one role. We can feel sympathy for his character as well as hating him. We can sense his paranoia and unsettling feeling while just watching him. There are certain moments where one would also laugh at him. He truly did play the man in despair from the heart. Elizabeth Shue would have given any actress from the 40s and 50s a run for their money as she played a femme fatale brilliantly. Her body language and acting were just on the mark. Overall this is the perfect treat for fans of noir. I would also recommend watching it with others. "},{"Title":"A Let Down","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie builds an unoriginal, but exciting plot. This is one of those  movies where the ending determines whether it is worth recommending or not.  In this case, the end is a really let down. Still, it's pretty good for  just something to watch if you got nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"average suspense flick","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a good average little suspense flick.  Woody is good as the patsy, not too smart, but with some street savey.   The babes have him going in circles ... it's not as tight as Wild Things, but a step up from Random Encounter, and about equal to Shadow of Doubt for intrigue and story line. Worth a rental.  -Bob  "},{"Title":"So-So Noir","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The color photography is all that'll keep you from thinking it's the late 1940s and you're watching grade B film noir. All the ingredients are there, including (1) a dumb sucker being set up to take the big fall for the femme fatale (2) the related crime which turns out to be far more serious than the protagonist first suspects, (3) the protagonist's voice-over reminding viewers that he is indeed that dumb, and (4) one or two too many plot twists.Yes, Palmetto has them all, and for good measure is set in a hot, wet, sweaty Florida-in-summer locale. The problem is that the plot is a little over blown, the dialogue not nearly as crisp as it should be, not very well directed, and consequently the usually excellent cast seems to have mailed this one in.  If you like the genre, or really dig one of the actors, rent it. Otherwise, look for something else.  "},{"Title":"Elisabeth is a Shue-in for vampiest female","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although Gina Gershon is absolutely wasted in this film, Elisabeth Shue plays one of the best femme fatales of the Nineties in this film noir. Woody is just Woody....you enjoy watching his depiction of the hard-luck ex-con. Chloe Sevigny is also interesting as the rascally daughter. I rate this movie highly for the performances but not so high for the plot.  "},{"Title":"Under-rated Neo Noir","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another underrated movie on IMDb like many other suspense/mystery thrillers. Seeing the rating on IMDb and then watching suspense/mystery thrillers made me feel that movies of mentioned genre are not rated well here. They are often underrated and because of that many suspense/mystery lovers might have missed quite brilliant movies. I rather put it in a way that Neo Noirs are actually not well rated here.Any suspense/mystery lover can easily like this movie. Movie has quite good twists and turns which are difficult to predict. Screenplay is written well but could be better. Woody has done great job but I feel Elizabeth was bit over acting. Direction is good. Overall movie has great neo noir feeling.I recommend this movie specially to neo noir lovers, they will not regret watch it. There are few others which I like to mention are well underrated like Wolfgang's Shattered, John Dhal's Kill me again. "}{"Title":"a promising cast, a disappointing film. two stars**","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   I was excited about the possibilities of Palmetto, I liked most of the cast, the location (Florida) lends itself to the noir style, with the unbearable heat and unpredictable storms, but the film relies too heavily on the so-called formula for this genre. The plot is at times too convoluted for even the most attentive viewer to follow, and at other times, it is far too simple. Woody Harrelson gives us a good performance as Harry Barber, a man betrayed by his principles, now understandably bitter and suspicious. Gena Gershon is wasted here in a role too shallow for her abilities, while Elisabeth Shue is stretched too far and fails to be a strong femme fatale. Shue is a fine actor, and certainly sexy enough to lead a man astray, but it just doesn't work here. A better screenplay would have given these actors a chance to breathe life into the steamy landscape. Two Stars out of a possible four.** "},{"Title":"Tries too hard to be Body Heat","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is not all that original but is still fun to watch.  Of the 3 female characters, Chloe Sevigny is the vampiest.  Elizabeth Shue tries too hard and Gina Gershon is just out and out boring.  Woody Harrelson's always on time.  Overall, I'd give it a 7. "},{"Title":"When a movie doesn't know it's a comedy...","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie becomes a lot more watchable when you realize how much it has in common with Who Framed Roger Rabbit.  First of all, Elizabeth Shue is doing her best Jessica Rabbit impersonation.  I truly expected her to say I'm not bad, I'm just drawn that way.  I don't want to give anything away, but there is even dip in it that dissolves humans rather than cartoons.  It doesn't have a toon town, and there is a bit more sex in this movie, but...well its a reason to see the movie if its the only thing available. "},{"Title":"Seductive Noir Thriller at his best!","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A perfect example of steamy, teasing, dark femme fatale film noir classic. Excellent script, direction and acting. It has everything you need. Heat, murder, comedy, and there is an element of fantasy. Woody Harrelson portrays (quite well) a normal, fallible person, Harry Barber (even his name is conflicted and clever), in a completely abnormal (but admittedly self-inflicted) situation. Elizabeth Shue, in addition to being one of the sexiest, nastiest women on God's earth, is also a superb comic actress, in the Carole Lombard tradition. Her flights of fancy, weird expressions, and overall daffiness are a great change of pace. Yes, there are a few holes in the story but nothing that damaged the storyline to any degree and Michael Rapaport provided solid performance in supporting roles. Overall, this film will keep you glued but maybe not to the edge of your seat!Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"wrong steps get more and more convoluted","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Harry Barber (Woody Harrelson) is released after spending two years in prison when a key witness turns. He was an investigative reporter who was framed after uncovering local corruption. His girlfriend Nina (Gina Gershon) has her own successful artwork. He's jobless and femme fatale Rhea Malroux (Elisabeth Shue) comes into his life. She wants him to be the voice of her stepdaughter Odette (Chloe Sevigny)'s kidnapping who is happy to be involved. When the cops hire him to be media relations, he tries to call off the scheme. However Odette refuses and things spiral out of control.This is trying to be neo-noir but doesn't quite pull it off. Elisabeth Shue is not really the femme fatale type. Woody Harrelson is perfectly good in the role. Harry's unemployment doesn't really make sense. He should be a media star. He could be writing books about being wrongly convicted. The start is filled with little wrong steps and the movie gets more and more convoluted. The noir style isn't the best but it does have some good elements. "},{"Title":"Woody Harrelson joins a fake kidnapping scheme with Elizabeth Shue","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Palmetto (1998) is unambiguously a neo-noir based upon a James Hadley Chase novel. Woody Harrelson has done two years in jail after being framed when, quite suddenly, new evidence in another trial shows him innocent. He's released from jail with the intention of going to Florida, but his loyal girl friend and independent artist (Gina Gershon) heads him back to Palmetto in Georgia. After some dithering around, he conspires with seductive Elizabeth Shue in a fake kidnapping of her step-daughter, the equally seductive Chloe Sevigny. Needless to say, there are serious complications and Harrelson finds himself in plenty of trouble, despite the fact that he is cautious and investigates before he commits himself.The director, Volker Schorndorff, has an unobtrusive but sure hand extracting effective performances from his cast in a smoothly-edited film. The story is told as one long flashback that begins with some voice-over from Harrelson talking about himself being released from prison. But the story quickly engages us as if we were watching events unfold in the present. Harrelson's Texas-influenced accent works well. Every film I've seen him in has featured an excellent performance from him. Shue and Sevigny both make a sexy mark in this picture. Their stated or apparent intention is to bilk Shue's tightwad but rich husband into letting loose with $500,000. What's apparent is not always what's going on in a neo-noir like this one.This is a solid neo-noir that should delight fans. "},{"Title":"Double Indemnity Clone.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Palmetto (1998) Dir Volker Schlondorff / Cast Woody Harrelson, Elisabeth Shue, Gina Gershon, Michael Rapaport, Chloe Sevigny Palmetto is a place of happening for Harry Barber who is released from prison and encounters a seductive woman. She seduces him into kidnapping her stepdaughter to get her husband's money, which leads to police, murder and betrayal. There are numerous plot twists but photography is drab and unappealing. Directed by Volker Schlondorff is basically remaking Double Indemnity to a much lesser degree. He previously directed a controversial film called The Tin Drum as well as The Handmaid's Tale. Woody Harrelson plays off the anxiety and paranoia of the gullible Barber who will eventually dig a hole so deep that the only way that he can dig his way out is to dig right over wrong. Elisabeth Shue overacts shamelessly with her whining greatly reducing this vixen to a joke. Gina Gershon is assertive as Barber's girlfriend but the role should be broader. Michael Rapaport delivers the best lines as a corrupt cop but again the role is reduced to a pitiful concluding scene where brains weren't present when he attempted to deal with a threat. Chloe Sevigny plays a younger woman schemed into this by Shue and thus further hooking Barber. The ending is poorly handled but its biggest problem is its flirtatious attitude as one big sexual peep show. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"I have a genuine question - Please help me.","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie was fine, i agree with most of the other comments, a little slow, bad color, good plot, but worth watching.I just want to know, around 55 minutes into the movie, when Woody starts running on the beach away from the police, and he gets shot and falls on the sand then he gets up and starts running again.What is the significance on the lady in black holding a baby, just meters from the water edge. She does nothing and adds nothing to the movie. She then disappears behind some rocks, as Woody is running towards her.Please help.... "},{"Title":"A cheap update of Body Heat","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Why does Hollywood redo movie ideas without even knowing it's recycling old material? Are these scriptwriters and producers so young that they can't remember back even less than 20 years? Palmetto is Body Heat on the cheap. And if Elizabeth Shue is better built than Kathleen Turner even when she was thin, the fact is Turner is a fabulous actress and Shue is just a gorgeous blonde. Woody Harrelson looks like he was born precisely to get into this kind of a mess, so it's hard to relate to his character, either. Film noir needs more than this. "},{"Title":"So-so script and pointless plot twists","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Palmetto is humid and sweaty, but it flounders around on the screen trying to convince the audience that it is a taut noir thriller.  Palmetto, about a fake kidnapping plot gone wrong, is actually aimless and pretty tame.  The film isn't outright bad, exactly.  Just unremarkable and forgettable.Woody Harrelson, who is good in just about anything, nicely conveys Harry Barber's desperate attempts to keep the kidnapping plot from collapsing, but Elisabeth Shue looks like a deer caught in headlights and acts like an eleven-year-old girl trying on Mommy's clothes and acting naughty.  The plot progresses with the mandatory double-crosses and revelations, but fails to make any impression except for Shue's vamping and Gina Gershon's nagging.The final twenty minutes of the movie are downright laughable, but by then I was already bored into a state of complete disinterest.  Honestly, Palmetto makes Follow That Bird look like an edgy thriller.  And the only intriguing about Palmetto is Elisabeth Shue's wig at the end. "}{"Title":"Slow but keeps your intrest but still a let down","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In Palmetto woody harrilson plays a guy who just got out of jail  looking for money and excepts a job from elizabeth shue to kid nap her daughter and hold her for ransom so they can get money from shue's husband. Slow but keeps your intrest with harrilson(white men can't jump), rapaport(true romance), shue(The Saint) and gershon(snoops). "},{"Title":"This is a failed suspense movie","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The cast is definitely capable of pulling this idea off but the movie is a let down.The premise starts out quite promising, but does not deliver. Woody's character is way too dumb and you cringe as he makes mistake after mistake. "},{"Title":"good story, although the movie could have been better","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Volker Schlondorff's Palmetto has a very interesting plot, although I think that the movie could be better. Woody Harrelson plays an ex-con who gets drawn into a supposedly fake kidnapping in Florida. The movie contains a series of plot twists (I won't name them, lest I spoil the whole thing), but nothing gratuitous. You have to realize that this is not a bad movie; it's just that Schlondorff could have done a better job with it (especially towards the end). Overall, I do recommend it. You'll probably like it.Also starring Elisabeth Shue, Gina Gershon, Michael Rapaport, Chloe Sevigny and Tom Wright.Schlondorff also directed The Tin Drum and Strajk - Die Heldin von Danzig. "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that a lot of people don't give this one much of a chance.  Sure, it's a bit contrived, but folks take this as if it were supposed to be a serious film.  It is, in fact, a stab at the old Film Noir genre, and a humorous one at that.  Harrelson is as always, Woody Harrleson.  Elisabeth Shue is cute but not much of an actress.  The best part of the movie is the irony it presents through the plot.  Give it a shot, it's worth a look. "},{"Title":"NOT SO BAD","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is the kind of movie you could see in a day where you haven't anything better to do.It is not an excellent movie, but has a surprising ending.If you have a spare time, watch it ! Otherwise, see something better. "},{"Title":"Chinatown comes to Palmetto ..............","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In what seems to be an obvious reference to Chinatown, the sexy would be kidnapper is named Mulroux, not Mulray, but Mulroux. Woody Harrelson is set up nicely to take the fall for a murder, hidden behind a fake kidnapping. Sexy women abound, and plot twists are nicely spaced along the way. Character development is acceptable, but not great, and believability at times is stretched. Nevertheless, Palmetto is a decent neo-noir that maintains interest throughout. My only letdown was an ending that seemed unsatisfying. Rather than compare this to blockbusters like Body Heat or Chinatown, I would say it is more along the lines of Red Rock West. - MERK "},{"Title":"a modern film-noir wannabe","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think that this must have been Schlondorff`s idea when he began shooting this movie!Although is seems to feature some elements of this kind,the plot as well as poor Woody gets lost between all the babes around!And what babes!Worth watching at least for them!   "},{"Title":"In film noir way","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A German director for a film written by classic James Hadley Chase (The Grissom Gang, 1971). Recreated a quite achieved atmosphere from film noir. There is a excellent and curved Elisabeth Shue who remind me some of the best vamp at the cinema story. Note her attempt of remaking Gloria Swanson in Sunset Boulevard (1949). Curious  and well-meaning picture.  "},{"Title":"In a plot this old, it's hard to be good","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Your enjoyment of this film is likely to be based on your expectations.  Why?  It's the odd combination of some Class A talent (Woody Harrelson as the sucker who gets involved in a fake kidnapping plot and Elizabeth Shue as the femme fatale), and the standard potboiler plot.  From many happy hours spent in front of a television tuned to BBC2 in the afternoon I am fairly confident this film has been made at least 200 times before, usually in black and white.The plot meanders rather than twists and Harrelson's character isn't interesting enough to make you feel sorry for him - but he is playing a sucker and he does that well enough.  A film limited by the core material, rather than the execution. "},{"Title":"Stupid thriller but Shue worth watching","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Elisabeth Shue is really hot and worth watching, despite the plot  "}{"Title":"A steamy tale of greed and murder.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a male-ID flick (definitely NOT a chick flick) with Woody Harrelson as a jaded small town Florida newspaper reporter just released from false imprisonment having his choice of three sexy babes and a fake kidnapping scheme. He tries all four with varying degrees of enthusiasm, but of course makes no real move on the underaged kidnappee, played very sexily by Chloe Sevigny, who calls his lack of initiative a shame.This steamy tale of greed and murder overcomes an unlikely plot thanks to her, Woody, Gina Gershon and Elisabeth Shue who keep us interested.Shue plays a psychopathically sensual murderess with a studied lack of consistency, as though discovering the interpretation in medias res. Her final scene coming down the staircase a la Norma Desmond in Sunset Boulevard (1950) seems more than a bit contrived, as is the tentative voice-over frame from Woody via Joe Gillis from the same classic movie. Still, Shue, as always, is better than a drunken sailor's dream.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"NOT TOO BAD TRY AT FILM NOIR","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a nice try at film noir but it simply falls apart and comes no where near classics like The Maltese Falcon or modern noir like the superb L.A. Confidential. The cast is good but the script really lets the film down. The only really good advantage of this film is to see the gorgeous Gina Gershon tightly bound and tape gagged as she struggles in a chair at the finale. "},{"Title":"No noir!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The film noir formula needs all the ingredients of the era when it was created by those magnificent all-purpose directors that gave us The Maltese Falcon, Farewell my Lovely etc. To wit, black and white (ideally, although a talented cinematographer might find other ways of creating atmosphere), at least one tough guy who gets conned, short, perky dialogues and a scenarist who knows his job. It also needs the surrounding atmosphere of the 40s, a naivety both in the public and among the people behind the camera, so to speak. Our times have lost the naivety and without this the admittedly far-fetched stories don't go easily down. If you are to repeat a noir today you should at least put it firmly in its home ground - the 40s - and try to revive the atmosphere of a past era. Schländorff's Palmetto hasn't got anything of the above. The very able Harrelson is no though guy; he's an ex journalist who should know better than this. His femme fatale is Elisabeth Shue, quite out of character here, although curvaceous enough to tempt anybody to destruction. But no femme fatale - never! The scenario is a flop. No bad character worth speaking of, only a second rate ex-policeman who schemes Harrelson's destruction but we never quite know how and when. Good actor Rapaport has no part to play! The dialogues are hopeless, stupid and morose. The film plods. Harrelson piles blunder after blunder - indeed what happens to him is less than he deserves for being sooo stupid! You don't identify with him the way you are supposed to. And the finale belongs more to Superman or Batman than to film noir. Now Mr. Schländorff seems to be a guy who reeds books. He has in his debit the atrocious Swann's Way (from Proust's `Un amour de Swann') and now this one, which claims the origins of its story to J. H. Chase. He should better keep away from the books he loves. The good cinematography (although out of place here) is a boon for watching this film made long out of boredom.  "},{"Title":"Royally, remarkably awful","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Good lord, this is bad. The film starts with a very interesting premise, and a pretty good plot, and proceeds to smash it in to the ground over and over again by virtue of one of the worst hack job scripts of the past century. Elizabeth Shue also gives one of the worst acting performances ever. She seems to have been instructed by the director Stick out your chest and breathe a lot. We'll get it done quick and you can go home. Woody Harrelson, as the lead, gives a decent Woody Harrelson performance. Although he can act, he chooses not to, getting by on his solid Woody-ness.   "},{"Title":"From Die Blechtrommel to ¿this 'abfalleimer'?","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Volker Schlöndorff was just 40 when he made that wonderful film `Die Blechtrommel' (The Tin Drum)(qv) and six years later made a more or less nearly acceptable version of Arthur Miller's play `Death of a Salesman' with Dustin Hoffman before getting to this rather lame attempt at a thriller for the US market. `Palmetto' just does not attain anything near reaching the capabilities of this erstwhile shrewd director; but, the same as Frankie Went to Hollywood, so did Herr Schlöndorff, and that was his undoing &#150; at least as far as intellectual and/or artistic cinema is concerned. `Palmetto' is a run-of-the-mill production, loosely directed, though often without direction as it wanders through rain-soaked Florida swamps with rather poor interpretative performances all round, and ends up being rather pathetic.I only watched the film from seeing the director's name heading the credits; otherwise this one would have passed by without my even knowing, which definitely would have been better for all.You might watch this one for the lovely ladies, definitely not for the awkward Woody Harrelson, and most certainly not if you have seen `Die Blechtrommel' and consider Volker Schönberg as a great European director. Because, fair's fair, in `Palmetto' he is a long way from being such and merely comes up as a very poor second-class `B' rated Hollywood man who got lost somewhere along the road to fame.  "},{"Title":"Elisabeth Shue... well she can just come on round to my place any time she chooses","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Do not watch this film for the plot, it sucks big time. In fact, almost all aspects of this film suck big time.However, if you are of the male persuasion, everything will be forgiven and forgotten in an instant, all thanks to Elisabeth Shue. This beautiful and underrated actress delivers the most lust-filled and sexually-charged performance you are likely to find outside of a porn film. And all without removing a stitch of her (admittedly figure-hugging) clothing. Because of this performance, I can watch this film over and over again and be absolutely mesmerised every time.Apart from this, though, there is very little in the film worth seeing. Woody Harrelson provides some decent support, but Chloe Sevigny is, well, skanky, and Gina Gershon's pointless part was reportedly written in after shooting to make the rapidly collapsing story work better. It is only Shue who keeps the film from being one of those dire, low-budget, badly-acted TV movies that ends up being shown every Tuesady at 4am on one of the movie channels. "},{"Title":"Watch this only for the actresses in it","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  At first I thought this movie was going to have an interesting story (Honest!), but then it sucked from the very beginning.  Then I saw Gina Gershon and Elisabeth Shue and then began to envy Woody Harrelson.  The girls here are hot, and Shue especially.  If this movie depicted reality in Palmetto, I will move down there as soon as I can finish this sentence (but its not, cus i've been there, there are some hot girls but i dont think one can have it as easy as woody).   "},{"Title":"A sad day for James Hadley Chase","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some highly talented authors have the misfortune of having their works being produced as trash in cinematic form. Like HP Lovecraft. James Hadley Chase was another one such unfortunate author. Being the owner of the biggest fan site of Chase on the Net, I eagerly picked up this movie recently, although having read its reviews, I was filled with trepidation. Without giving away the plot, some of my personal gripes are as follows 1. Why the title change? Just Another Sucker is way more catchy and appropriate than the stupid Palmetto What the hell is Palmetto by the way? 2. Whats with the cockroaches throughout the movie? Palmetto bugs? What was the director thinking of? 3. While JHC developed the plot in his own awesome manner, the way the script-writer went about developing the script absolutely destroyed the suspense element. The motivation and desperation of the lead character in taking up such a dicey assignment went totally missing. The movie's mumbling, bumbling Harry Barber comes across as a parody of the novel's shrewd Harry Barber, who planned the kidnapping drama as meticulously as he could.4. On second thoughts, most of the characters come across as parodies of their original selves, except perhaps, Nina (Gina Gershon).5. Liquid Nitrogen being used to dissolve bodies to flush them down drains?? Hmmm...6. Two Odettes? A big hmmmm..I can go on and on.. but then, to hell with it. Its simply not worth the effort. Chase, 'ol friend, as a big fan of yours, I sympathize and even apologize for this fiasco of a movie. If I ever have enough money, I will make a film of one (or more) of your novels, and present it to the audience, the way you would have wanted it to be presented. "},{"Title":" Rhea Malroux","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Woody Harrelson is eccentric as Harold in this tumultuous suspense film. The following cast is wry. The costumes are conservative. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Palmetto flings ample mysteries. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bad adaptation of a good book","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just Another Sucker is definitely my favorite James Hadley Chase book. Unlike most of his average crime novels, this one really has a good story, memorable characters and I just couldn't leave it until I read the last page...Well, they have tried to make a movie out of it and the result of this effort is unbeliavably bad!The main thing about Palmetto is the incredibly bad acting. I mean, I loved Woody in films like White Men Can't Jump and Money Train, but in this one he is really unconvincing as the main character Harry Barber. All I can say about Elisabeth Shue and Gina Gershon is that they are very pretty and charming and sexy, but the acting job they do here is so terrible! And what was Michael Rapaport thinking?? His character seemed to be taken out of a comics, his lines were so unreal...The second big letdown is the plot itself. This movie manages to ruin the wonderful story the book had by making some very wrong script decisions. I would strongly encourage Hollywood to make another adaptation of Chase's work but stick to the original storyline this time!Bottom line avoid this at all costs! Its only worth seeing by people who would like to see Shue, Gershon and Sevigny dressed in some sexy attires, but I would prefer turning into the fashion channel instead! "}{"Title":"Word to the wise","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'll save you some time there's no nudity. -pNo, really. Yes, I know what kinda flick it seems as though it'll be. But it isn't.For that matter, there's not much else contained within to save it, either; it's a thoroughly mediocre movie, not especially memorable on any level. So skip this one. And get a cold shower. "},{"Title":"Terrible start and never recovers","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A terrible start to the picture, the plot starts off very lazily and so stupid that even a 4 year old kid could've produced a better intro to the twisty story. The first 20 minutes are bad, are we expected to believe that the character would be so stupid? The writer and the director thought so.The film never really recovered, the characters are sometimes poorly written and the story is a little too stupid.The performances are poor, Woody is wooden in this one. Gina Gershon had nothing to do and woefully underwritten. Elizabeth Shue plays her character badly, it doesn't work at all.The directing isn't bad, but really needed a better screenplay to work with. The cinematography is excellent, very classy.You'd be better off watching Body Heat which is similar to this picture but a much better screenplay, direction and a super John Barry score.Overall, a poor start and never recovered.  "},{"Title":"Boring noir; Woody is wooden...","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Boring film noir mystery starring Woody Harrelson and Elisabeth Shue as lovers who pull a con. Hey, there isn't much to remember about the plot, despite the fact that I only saw it about two months ago. I guess that's an indication that it's not very memorable.2/5 stars. "}]