[{"Title":"Brilliant, original, funny, but not for everyone","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie, yet I can see why others hated it. This is not the comic food we have grown up on. It is a different cuisine that tastes strange at first, but if given a chance, rewards with fresh, delicious sensations at every bite.Early in this movie our actor heros take turns mugging an emotion on command. I think this moment is the key to understanding the entire film. Almost every scene is painted by facial expressions and body language. The editing lingers to give us time to enjoy each portrait, then cuts a bit further along in the story than we are used to.  This unfamiliar timing gives the strong cast a chance to act rather than react.  The story is about actors, but the movie is a tribute to comedic acting.If you want a formula comedy, rent something else. If you want movie that is funny, warm, original, and brilliant and are willing to give its different pace a chance, put this film at the top of your list and plan to view it twice. "},{"Title":"Rib-ticklingly hilarious!!!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a top-notch comedy at the most audacious level. I once heard someone say that door-slamming farcical comedy never works on film; and I think this is one of the movies that proves them wrong. It reminded me of the brilliant stage farce Noises Off (which was also turned into a movie with fairly successful results).I thought the opening title gags were brilliant, especially Oliver Platt. I loved Billy Connolly as a camp tennis player and Allison Janney as a gangster's moll. I also thought Alfred Molina, Tony Shalhoub, Campbell Scott, Steve Buscemi and Matt McGrath were brilliant as well. The pastry shop scene and Tucci crying poor were also outstanding highlights.My only slight criticism with this film is that the pacing seemed a tiny bit slow at times, but otherwise this is an exceptional storyline. This is definitely the sort of movie I'd like to see a lot more of. It also proves that they CAN make 'em like they used to. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen Meets The Marx Brothers With BIG NIGHT Cast!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm afraid to say too much about director/writer/co-star Stanley Tucci's follow-up to BIG NIGHT because I don't want to spoil any of its sublimely insane surprises! This rollicking screwball comedy follows two dedicated but starving actor pals (Tucci and Oliver Platt) on their increasingly nutty adventures in 1930s NYC and aboard an ocean liner. The all-star indie film cast includes many of Tucci's co-stars from BIG NIGHT (including BN co-director Campbell Scott as the cruise's officious German director), many of them in change-of-pace roles. For example, it was a delight to see Lili Taylor get to exercise her flair for comedy as the pretty, plucky activities director being romantically pursued by both Scott and Matt McGrath.  Although many have compared THE IMPOSTORS to Laurel and Hardy, I think its sophisticated air and sly playfulness make it more like Woody Allen meets The Marx Brothers.  If you want to be swept away into a sea of laughter, THE IMPOSTORS is well worth seeking out at the local video shoppe! "},{"Title":"A very positive response to a rare viewing experience","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rented THE IMPOSTORS for the first time on Friday and by the end of the weekend had watched it 4 times - and yes, I do have a life. Blithe is the only word I can use to describe the experience of watching this video. In a world of multi-screen theaters that show a variation of 3 basic movies - mindless action, gross-out comedy, or big-screen version of the issue of the week - THE IMPOSTERS was a homage to an earlier genre - the silly, almost plotless comedies of Laura & Hardy. Homage - not remake - an important difference. This was definitely a 1990's movie - more quirky than slapstick, with slick production values. A series of vingettes, tied together to make a whole, yet each scene easily stands on its own as a comic gem - the initial credits being my personal favorite. One final word - all this and a great cast! and score. This movie was a rare 10. "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this knowing nothing about it (not much of this kind of thing makes it to Kentucky). I just really like Oliver Platt. So I rented it one night in college, having nothing better to do...And I loved it. It's really not like any movie I've ever seen. I'm not really a connoisseur of Laurel and Hardy or anyone like that--I'm just your average college kid, I guess. I don't like most American comedy, though, because it's a little too dependent on violence and switching one's brain off. But this movie was so different and so funny! It was silly, sure, but it was smart and really amusing. I love Steve Buscemi in everything he's in, and he was just TOO funny here. I was rolling in the floor.And Campbell Scott was just great, I loved how he kept popping up at the most inopportune times. But my favorite part, I think, was that little bit with the Hamlet play. I've seen productions like this and known actors like that and it was just PERFECT! The archetypical actor who can't fit his inflated head through the backstage door. It was truly hilarious all the way through, and I don't know anything about what it could be based on. I just liked it a lot. But it's not your average American comedy, and it might inspire a love/hate response in many viewers. I think it's probably an acquired taste. "},{"Title":"Funny, but not for everyone. *** out of ****.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THE IMPOSTORS (1998) ***Starring Oliver Platt, Stanley Tucci, Lili Taylor, Steve Buscemi, Campbell Scott, Isabella Rossellini, Billy Connolly, and Hope Davis Written and directed by Stanley Tucci   Running Time 102 minutes   Rated R (for some language and sex-related material)    By Blake French	Certain movies are just not for all audiences. Stanley Tucci directs the new comedy, who is one of the creators of the 1995 drama-comedy Big Night. The film is certainly not for everyone. It will satisfy fans of screwball comedies, and perhaps fans of someone in the cast-they may enjoy it. However, I only liked The Impostors because of the laughs it brought along with its well-written script. It is not your typical comedy. Now, I'm not saying that this movie is great. I am saying, however, that this movie satisfied me to the point of a recommendation.  	The Impostors opens with a hilarious sequence in which the two main stars, Tucci and Platt, play two out of work actors, Maurice & Arthur, who play on a silent stage who have serious and comical problems with women, coffee, and each other. Maurice & Arthur get in to trouble and escape from the police in a boarding box. However, while they were sleeping, the box was loaded onto a ship carrying an assortment of bizarre passengers that provoke even more laughs. They include a Nazi steward with tight lips, Lily, the social director who helps Maurice & Arthur, a First Mate who is a mad bomber, a tennis pro who is aggressively gay, an ex-queen  in despair entertainer who wants to commit suicide, and many more. 	The films casting was more to my liking than any other movie I have seen this year. The characters fit the actors so perfectly and realistically that I could have been fooled that these people were actually victims of a secret tapping of  Candid Camera. Each of them bring a story to themselves outside the plot. No one character is at the mercy of the script.As for the script itself, it kept its cool even as it organized its own extremely complicated chaos. There are many laughs that evolve from hyperactive activity from the assortment of characters because there is such a variety, everything feels so fresh in this movie. The Impostors is an opinion based movie. Certain film's don't carry massive plot holes, obvious flaws, or any other structural or character problem, but they don't necessarily bring anything overwhelmingly powerful to the big screen either. The Impostors is this kind of comedy. Whether you find it to your liking or not will totally depend on your taste in comic material in film. I was amused by the picture. Many filmgoers will differ on my opinion though. The individual I screened the film longed for its conclusion and declared this was the worst movie she had seen in her life. I recommend the film, but take into account your personal feelings on my review before you make a judgment call. The Impostors might make you laugh uncontrollably, but it also may cause you  to turn your head in pitiful despise. Brought to you by Fox Searchlight Pictures.   "},{"Title":"Pure, tongue-in-cheek, humor from start to finish.","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Pure, tongue-in-cheek, humor from start to finish.A near perfect film. Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt make a great duo in this comedy about two starving actors.Desperate for food, they decide to con a pastry chef out of some of his pastry. As previously planned, Platt comes to the pastry chef's rescue, but instead of getting pastry, he gets two tickets to see hack stage actor, Jeremy Burtom excellently played by Alfred Molina.Through a series of incidents, Burtom threatens the boys with imprisonment if he catches them, The two end up accidentally stowing away on a cruise ship and that's when everything gets complicated.An excellent cast was assembled for this superbly funny script. Watch for Campbell Scott, son of George C. Scott. His portrayal of a Nazi-like ship steward is hilarious.My hat goes off to Stanley Tucci for doing an excellent job writing and directing this film! I only hope more people can see this jewel. "},{"Title":"Fresh and witty","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stanley Tucci really knows what he's doing. This film, which for some odd reason wasn't really very well received. This movie is funny and smart and very easy to like.But the acting isn't just the reason that this film is one of my personal favorites, it's also because of the superb script. It's brilliantly paced and full of laughter and intrigue.Tucci's film deserves a look, but really, watch the film as a comedy, don't take it too seriously.3.5/4 "},{"Title":"A very funny film that reflects the golden age of Hollywood","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very amusing film. It has elements of the Marx bros, Laurel and Hardy, Grand Hotel and Some Like It Hot. Really an homage to the screwball comedy films of the 30's that were chock full of great character actors. The plot is skimpy at best but half the fun is guessing the previous credits for the great cast. Look for an un-credited performance by Woody Allen as a distracted Broadway director. "},{"Title":"Wrestling, naked, on the steps of the Acropolis!","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My God!  That line alone was enough to make me soil my pants. One of the best farces I have ever seen with characters to make one's imagination drool. I want to keep Stanley Tucci's brain in a jar and show it off as a prized possession to all my friends. Better yet....invite them to watch the film. "}{"Title":"Lovely Beckettian update of 'Some Like It Hot' (spoilers)","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can see why a lot of people have been irritated by this tribute to 'Some Like It Hot'.  Its theatrical hammery can be absurdly precious, its attempts at slapstick bungled, its comic situations tortuously contrived.  The film proclaims itself as a farce, and yet the mechanics aren't tight enough (a hint of studio interference?); too many characters and situations are introduced at convenient moments to sustain farce's exquisite suspense, surprise and inevitability.  An air of complacent superiority breezes through the whole thing.I loved it.  The film it most reminded me of, despite its echoes of Beckett, silent comedy and 'Bullets over Broadway', was 'Topsy-Turvy'.  There is the same fruity dialogue and opportunity for ostentatious thesping.  The theatrical milieu allows for a suspension of realism - like Leigh's film, there is no attempt to faithfully recreate the period; rather 'The Impostors' is like a play of the period, filmed against a flat background with appropriate signifiers (clothes, music etc.).  This idea that the narrative is not 'real' (ie as a narrative) is suggested by the closing revelation of the movie set, removing a plot full of people playing other people to another level.Of course, this kind of closing self-reflexivity, this shattering of illusions, is pure Fellini, and the ship setting reminds us surely of 'Ship Of Fools', that ironically melancholy portrait of a doomed society. 'Impostors', despite the final burst of the carnivalesque, is too controlled to be a Felliniesque extravaganza; too in thrall to the idea of plot, and the way plot reflects the metaphysics of action; but there is a variety of character; an impulse towards mocking melodrama and the picaresque; a feel for the grotesque and chaotic, a sheer love of role-playing and transformation, that Il Maestro would possibly have enjoyed.It would be reading too much into 'Impostors' to see the ship and its passengers, travelling from Prohibition America to Paris as in any way allegorical - the characters and situations are pure stage types - the impoverished gold-digging mother, the suicidal divorcee, the deposed Ruritanian queen, the Teutonic manager, the kamikaze revolutionary, the lovesick captain.  I don't think they are used to explore a particular political viewpoint or historical interpretation - rather, they allow for a wide-ranging analysis of the conflict between acting and role.The film's impulse is to mock even it's own plot, so that resolution is hardly a morally satisfactory dividing of the spoils.  The impostors are shown to reveal the wider imposture going on in all levels of society - acting can both expose the fraudulence and help the miserable and betrayed. They move from being outsiders desperate for recognition from society to critics and exposers of society - typically, they save it and are absorbed by it.  The film begins with them disrupting reality with their false cafe melodramatics; it ends with them saving marriages, foiling revolution. Acting, once it's recognised as acting, is neutered.There are three great pleasures in 'Impostors'.  First is the acting. Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt are an adorable couple, part Vladimir and Estragon, part Laurel and Hardy (and Beckett was profoundly influenced by silent comedy) - their attempts at acting only further revealing their characters.  The post-theory sexualising of the likes of Laurel and Hardy is intimated here - the impostors share a bedroom; they are constantly confronted with aggressive male sexuality; they are never considered as a heterosexual threat - but, appropriately to the period, this is never brought to the surface.They have some great set-pieces, particularly in the first half (the cakeshop; the denunciation of Jeremy in the pub); their wordy dialogue is deliciously appropriate; their mixture of deadpan and ham a treat.  Not all of the cameos come off, but Campbell Scott's absurd manager and Alfred Molina's blustery bad actor are a hoot (is the Hamlet he plays a defining spirit of the film, the anguish over whether to act and be appropriated or interpret and remain free (and hungry)?).Secondly, the filming.  Although most of 'Impostors' is pure farce (and there is far too little of THAT in the cinema nowadays), there is nothing stagy about it.  The prologue is shot as delightful silent slapstick, and the smooth shooting is often broken by moments of disruptive handheld immediacy which provide some lovely epiphanies.  The repetition of key scenes and moments (eg all the characters staring into the round, porthole -like mirrors) are expertly done.Best of all is the insanely inventive score, beautifully appropriate to the period, a pastiche of salon, jazz and tango that is witty but also emotionally revealing, creating a real sense of romance and nostalgia, while silly post-modern things are going on on screen. "},{"Title":"Nice idea; never gelled","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must confess at the start that I turned off my VCR halfway through The Imposters - it was too painful to continue. I can at least review the beginning of this movie...Being a devoted Marx Brothers fan, I truly wanted to like the film. It's got a good director and a splendid cast, but these were not enough to save it. It needs MUCH tighter direction and editing - the timing seems to be off in nearly all the gags and scenes go on too long. I also doubted the wisdom of including all the profanity ... it didn't fit. From the first scene at the park cafe, the rhythm was just off, off off. The actors are clearly doing their best (Campbell Scott was great), but it's not enough.Spend your money on Night At the Opera instead. Perhaps someday someone will succeed in revitalizing the screwball comedy, but this, unfortunately, isn't it. Sorry, Stanley. "},{"Title":"Pretty empty, not to mention rather tiresome.","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Impostors is a film which I compare metaphorically to stale bread It might still be edible, but there's nothing much to do with it even if you found a way to alter it. It's bland, and trying to nibble at the first amount becomes a burden to finish the rest.Stanley Tucci tried (and tried a little too hard) at recreating the  era of 1930s/40s slapstick comedy, about a couple of unemployed losers who want to become actors eventhough no one will hire them. They're accused of assaulting a snobbish Ham actor, and after finding a place to hide they discover they're actually on a ship with him. At this point the blandness comes to a halt, and resumes to inanity and effortless skits. It was as if Tucci saw a segment of The Little Rascals or The Three Stooges one day and said, Hey, people know who I am, let me make my vision of this and I'm sure everyone will love it for what it is, regardless of how it will turn out.I guess I'm not everyone.Even the Woody Allen cameo wasn't convincing. The Impostors is not a good movie. "},{"Title":"Cute enough.  A diversion.","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I agree with the comparisons of Platt and Tucci to Laurel and Hardy. Their faces and mannerisms and teamwork are all reminiscent of the old comedy teams.  The film is decent, good enough, but not something I'd want to see again.  It reminds me of those scraps of piecrust that are left over after your mom made a pie.  She'd cut them into strips and sprinkle them with cinnamon sugar and bake them.  Those sweet scraps relate to the pie in the same way that The Imposters relates to Big Night.  You get the feeling that this gang of actors wanted to do something else together, something fun, and this film is the result.   "},{"Title":"Delightful ship of fools","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The working title SHIP OF FOOLS is appropriate. Never since the Marx Brothers took on the world, opera, and a ship of pretentious windbags has there been such a delightful comedy. It's too bad the film is being shown only in art houses. It is a gem of a comedy. "},{"Title":"very labored rent any Laurel and Hardy feature instead!","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  well.....almost any.....avoid anything of the Boys after 1946.  This was well intentioned but just DID NOT work for me....just proving how very much talent it takes to do this well.  I love Tucci and Platt and I really wanted to like this...but.....Honestly   rent some Laurel and Hardy features or two reelers..you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a wonderful inside joke about the art of acting. The characters are wonderfully over the top and hilariously brought to life by a funny script and fabulous cast, who obviously had a great time making this movie. Who wouldn't? Every time I see it, and I see it often, it makes me smile. Another reviewer aptly observed that if you are expecting the typical formulaic Hollywood comedy, this ain't the picture for you. So true. This is closer to pure French Farce. Written and directed with much love for, and a great sense of humor about everything associated with theater and acting. Bravo Mr. Tucci.I know it didn't make a lot of money, but I hope you write and direct more. You are wasted in pictures like Burlesque. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I first watched this I didn't really grab my attention, but then I couldn't stop thinking about it. Within three about I went from thinking is was so-so, to loving it. I guess I can understand why some people don't like it, as I didn't at first. I love the humor in it. I especially love the songs Steve Buscemi and Hope Davis sing. Along with those two songs the soundtrack to this movie is great. I say, give it a chance and watch it twice. It also stars the wonderful Lili Taylor, Elizabeth Bracco and Tony Shalhoub. One of my favorite parts was the dancing at the end to Skokiaan by Louis Armstrong. I just really liked it. "},{"Title":"Gentle, Joyful Froth","Date":"5 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie features Arthur, played by Stanley Tucci, and Maurice, played by Oliver Platt, as starving and out of work stage actors who have been involved in a minor altercation in a bar with famed and besotted Shakespearean actor Sir Jeremy Bertrom (a thinly veiled reference to Richard Burton), played by Alfred Molina. Bertrom immediately inflates the episode as an attempt on his life, initiating a chase by the authorities, the unfortunate pair ultimately hiding in a crate on a dock. They fall asleep, finding the next morning that they have been loaded aboard a luxury liner, making them inadvertent stowaways. As luck, and admittedly ham-handed writing would have it, Bertrom has booked passage on the same ship, where he hopes that The salt air will heal my wounds, and the motion of the cool, green sea will soothe my tortured soul.Arthur and Maurice's presence on the ship is soon found out, and with the help of sympathetic cruise director Lily, played by Lili Taylor, disguise themselves as stewards and manage through luck and mayhem to stay just ahead of Bertrom, Meistrich, the severely Prussian head steward, hysterically played by Campbell Scott, and the gentle, mild mannered Marco who is charged by Meistrich to apprehend the stowaways. In the process, the duo learn that the first mate, played by Tony Shalhoub, is in fact a terrorist cum freedom fighter of an obscure and unnamed country who plans to blow up the ship, and that an American couple, Johnny and Maxine, thieves masquerading as Parisians, are planning to seduce and murder a wealthy widow and an Arab Sheik, respectively.Set sometime in the 1930's, the tone feels decidedly European, with European sensibilities. There is elegance here, within the confines of a limited budget. There are tuxes and flower arrangements galore, but this ain't Titanic. That said, the production design pokes fun at itself in that the bulk of the movie is shot on a static ship-board set that does not resort to the use of fancy lighting, gimbals, or even water, and in place of a green screen uses a cheap, to hell with 'em if they can't take a joke painted backdrop. The pace is quick and frenetic, energized by the extensive use of hand-held camera work. The acting, for its part, is poured not into characters per se but joyfully and unabashedly into cartoon-like characterizations. And this is not the hallmark of bad acting as some would suggest, for the writing allows the actors free rein to deliver in places great monologues, in the way jazz artists are given, each in turn, an opportunity to display their virtuosity in their solo performances. I would suggest that it takes great skill to flesh out such vivid and flamboyant personages.This movie would best be described as a gag movie, in that it has the appearance of a string of set-piece gags that are carefully set up and sprung on the viewer. And, if the art of humor lies with the delivery, than the delivery here is top-notch, with great lines joyfully delivered by over-the-top characters. It should be noted that in the hands of lesser talent, lines such as Meistrich The danger of the chase has made you perspire. It has made me also&#x85;moist. Maxine What are we gonna do with all that cash, Johnny? Johnny What do you think, baby? Maxine Take it on the lam and scram to some far-off land and lead a life of bliss, Johnny? Would fall flat and strike the ear as crushingly hokey. It takes real chops to make material like this work.And the delivery isn't made up just in the acting. The camera has an active part in selling the lines, also. To illustrate, Marco and Lili are romantically involved, but Meistrich, who is infatuated with Lili, repeatedly tries to insinuate himself in every private moment the couple manages together, the camera drawing away abruptly and without warning at such times from an intimate two shot to a three shot, revealing the intruder Meistrich. The music helps establish the mindset in the viewer also, alternating between delightfully continental Tango music to breezy and raucous Dixieland.And though this is most assuredly a gag movie, the bits are not just strewn helter-skelter against a vapid storyline. All the jokes become glittering sequins on a lovingly woven and coherent fabric of plot. It hangs together very nicely, thank you. However, it should be noted that not all the gags work, however. The sheer volume of them and the variability of taste in movie-goers would decree that at least some fall flat, and for this reviewer that is the case, but many more are delightful, and more than make up for the klunkers. So why didn't this do better at the box office? And why does it have a ranking of 6.0 on IMDb? It isn't for the craftsmanship; technically, the directing is first-rate, the writing also, the acting top-notch, and the soundtrack is superb. So the problem is that of taste. For any one individual, that person's taste will decree that they are either going to like this movie or they won't. I know folks who, to their credit, have tried to watch Monty Python and the Holy Grail several times and still can't see the funny in it that tickles others. For myself, this one is a gentle, joyful froth that does not concern itself with heady examinations of the human condition or the subconscious. Rather, it is cinematic playfulness, perfect for distracting me at least temporarily from the burden of seriousness that life imposes. "},{"Title":"Late to the party...","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found this DVD for $4.99 at K-Mart, so I took a chance with it. I began to watch it and lost interest, and so for about four weeks in a row, I would put the movie on and start doing something else and not really watch it. Once time I caught the credits rolling and I new then I had to see how they came to this conclusion. The first time I sat down and actually paid attention to it, it was hard to watch, until they got on the ship, then I was in love with this movie. Since then I have gained a great amount of appreciation for he beginning of the movie as well. I have always loved the farces of the 30s and early 40s and this movie a big fat wet kiss to those movies and the fun they looked like they had making them (the actors looked like they had a ball making this movie). I love this movie now, I look forward to seeing it and have to deprive myself of it at times. I love this movie because it is a very well crafted tribute to movies I have loved since I was a child. Laurel and Hardy, Astaire and Rogers, and a bunch of artists who love the art. This is a wonderful movie. There are times I wish I could tell Stanley Tucci just how much joy I get from this silly little movie and to thank him for making it. "}{"Title":"some good laughs","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is not perfect-- There are some timing problems and a few jokes fall flat, but it is a good madcap romp with lots of great actors having a good time. This is a good movie to watch on a day when you need cheering up and your brain is not being too demanding.The music is also terrific and there is a great dance number with the whole cast and crew as the closing credits roll.Tucci and Platt are really good in their roles, but the supporting cast makes it work. Billy Connolly does a good turn as a over-sexed boxer who gets his eye on one of the boys. Lilli Taylor is charming as usual and Campbell Scott does one of the more unusual parts I have seen him in.It looks like the actors all got on board this one just for fun and they all appeared to have fun overacting and playing the slapstick to the hilt. "},{"Title":"Relax and enjoy this tip of the hat to Woody Allen and to Laurel and Hardy","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw the film a few weeks ago now, so my comments will reflect my overall impression, rather than detail. There were so many similarities to a light Woody Allen film (in the vein of Manhattan Murder Mystery), and, seeing Woody Allen appear in the film, I believed this to BE a Woody Allen film that I had somehow missed. That was, until a few minutes ago when I looked it up on this site! Two actors find themselves in trouble. No matter how hard they try to free themselves from the entangling web, it draws them in tighter and tighter, to our inevitable smiles and cringes.Stanley Tucci does a decent job of honoring both Mr. Allen and Laurel and Hardy films at the same time. Much was predictable, but this is still a fun film to watch - you don't have to engage your brain too much, just relax and enjoy how it unfolds. There is no need for depth here, all parts are caricatures, and that is fine for this genre. Sometimes, it's just nice to relax and enjoy. "},{"Title":"An Actors' Ship of Fools","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The impostors in this film are the actors themselves.  We watch them slip in and out of a panoply of roles.  Yes, the film spoofs various other films, and yes, the plot is simple and annoyingly hurried near the end, but it all serves as a set-up for the actors to test their hand at what appear to be impromptu role changes, some of which (above all the death scenes) they practice a variety of times before perfecting.  I won't attempt to count the number of impostors in this film - any more than I would think to count the number of acts in a variety show.I have watched this film three times and find myself liking it more each time.  Again, my enjoyment derives not from the story, or dramatic tension, but from sharing what must have been exhilarating moments for all the actor-impostors in the cast.Note that much - if not all - of the story plays out on sets, most of all an ocean liner with beautifully painted sea and cloudscape behind.  Indeed, throughout there is a curious interplay between the theater stage feel of certain scenes (above all those outdoors) and the comparative trompe l'oeil of the interiors.Again and again, the main characters need introduce themselves to others and do so in confused, embarrassed and somewhat defeatist fashion, explaining, No, no, you wouldn't have seen us in any films...  We're sort of in the theater, you see... but it's very difficult, you know, with the cards stacked against us... - accenting the intent of this film.  It's a stage actors' romp, and, as said, I like it more and more.  I also enjoy the handling of sex in this film - much as treated under the Bros. Marx or Charlie Chaplin - more truly adult than what's typical for Hollywood's often juvenile or pathetic, show-all personality cult figures.  We don't need a Mrs. Hackenbush in the nude - we'd lose both in art and dignity - nor need we dwell on possible homosexual relations among the brothers. "},{"Title":"Superb cast, good story, lots of fun","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is a pleasure to see so many talented actors having so much fun onthe screen. Alot of times when actors have as much fun as this cast did,it comes off as self-indulgent. This cast is different. As an actor whohas performed in many stage comedies, I know how much work goes into aphysical comedy like The Imposters. These actors pull it out without ahitch. Everyone does a good job. Even the actors who are more well knownfor their television work(Allison Janney) gets to show their depth andversatility. Tony Shaloub is hilarious as always. Oliver Platt is fun towatch and Campbell Scott was a huge surprise. I had no idea that he hada funny bone in his body. And I'm totally in love with Lili Taylor whoplays Scott's object  "},{"Title":"Offbeat, Nostalgic Entertainment","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Nostalgic, comedy noir feature has many good scenes, and overall harkens back to the screwball comedies that were so popular in the 1930's. The leads, Stanley Tucci (who also wrote the screenplay) and Oliver Platt play well off each other, with good chemistry. As per the norm in these particular types of comedies (a la SOME LIKE IT HOT, etc.) -it's either the mob/cops or both after our heroes. They stowaway quite by accident aboard a cruise liner, and the real fun starts from there. The usual characters (the royal princess, the sultan, the anarchist, etc) make up the passenger list. There is a fine line between paying homage to a genre, and following it too closely. This can make a film appear to lack originality. THE IMPOSTERS, while not an extremely funny movie, pays homage enough to cast a pleasant nod.     "},{"Title":"A little gem of a film with a continental flavour that may not appeal to all","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The fact that a film like this can be made in the US is almost enough to restore one's faith in Hollywood. The writing and direction are reminiscent of a continental movie, with the director (Tucci) owing a debt more to films like Waking Ned and other similar 'gentle' films than the zany antics of Airplane or The Naked Gun. Yet there is a lot of original and self-referential humour in here, too, with one of the best moments a scene where one of the characters finds out what a foreign character is saying by reading the subtitles! The setting, apparently the 1920s or 30s, is perfectly captured, yet when the two leads are on board the ship there is little attempt made to disguise the fact that this is a movie set. This is taken to the extreme during the closing credits&#133; A real diamond of a movie that stands out from the crowd - but lovers of fast-paced action/sex comedies may be advised to rent There's Something About Mary again&#133; (Personally, I'm going to track down a copy of Tucci's first film as writer/director, Big Night). "},{"Title":"Totally off the wall comedy","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hated the 1st half, and loved the rest. This is one of those films which, to be appreciated, one has to develop an acquired taste. It was a goofy, herky jerky movie with a Laurel & Hardy plot, and every manner of looney character imaginable. Good once you become accustomed to it, yet very strange. "},{"Title":"Hilarious slapstick, wonderful comedic chemistry","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In yet another excellent performance, Oliver Platt teams with the also wonderful Stanley Tucci. The pair play two destitute would-be actors of whom Samuel Beckett would be proud. Every day, the two of them take turns acting out murdering each other. They nearly starve, but refuse to find other work. In order to feed themselves, they contrive a scheme that will net them some free pastries from a bakery. Instead, they get free tickets to see a play that stars one of their most hated rival actors. Plot twist piles upon plot twist, until the two wind up stowaways on a luxury liner. Far be it from me to attempt to do this complicated tale justice, but let me conclude by saying that fans of the golden age of Hollywood comedy should definitely give this film a shot. "},{"Title":"Finest road movie since the classic Abbott and Costello films!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Finest buddy or road movie since the classic Abbott and Costello Films! Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt are a great comic team.  Their various situations kept me entertained and laughing throughout the film.  I really thought of how well this would have worked with Abbott and Costello without feeling as if Tucci had just made a rehashed version of some of the classics that The Impostors now resides with. "},{"Title":"Why can't Americans make more movies like this?","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is old school film-making at its finest. Plenty of sight gags, a fast moving script, witty jokes (one involving a mirror and captioning is absolutely inspired), and never once does it pander to a low level sense of humor. HERE is a full-on comedy for smart people. Bravo Stanley Tucci, may more people follow your example. It gives hope to those of us lost in a sea of movies geared toward people who find multiple serious injuries amusing. Instead of flying paint cans and people falling downstairs, we have here actual dialogue, a plot, and gags of a less gratuitous nature. A first-class movie all 'round--the team of Tucci and Platt is terrific (Tucci lends a hyperactive genius, and Platt a charming puppy-ish grace that seems so out of proportion with his height). One of my favorite movies upon first viewing. "}{"Title":"Homage to old 30's comedies","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Probably one of the best homages I've seen in years to 30's comedies.  Humorous comedy tells that of two dirt poor, out of work actors (Stanley Tucci, Oliver Platt) that are so poor, they have to scam food off bakeries. The two of them attend a play where a snobbish, overrated actor (Alfred Molina) is performing. The two of them offend the actor by insulting him in a bar behind his back. He takes it to the max by declaring it as assault and the two of the actors run from the police and end up as stowaways on a ship where they meet a group of eccentric people including a ballbusting German (Campbell Scott), a sweetheart (Lili Taylor), a suicidal comedian (Steve Buscemi), a treacherous employee (Tony Shalhoub), and a husband and wife pair of scam artists (Richard Jenkins, Alison Janney). Another guest on the ship includes the offended actor and has the two of them yet again on the runThis movie is very comical and the chemistry between Platt and Tucci is well matched as bumbling actors. Top notch performances are also among the cast including Buscemi, Taylor, and Scott. A well scripted comedy that plays off like a stage play played off as a movie. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Love that Tucci..... and the Platt doesn't hurt at all, either","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To be far too brief, this is a very funny throw-back to the silent-movie-era farce movies (remember the Marx brothers?). This movie sports an absolutely fabulous cast of (actual) thespians, a funny plot, and not too shabby directing (by Tucci, who also wrote and stars).  If you know ANYTHING about actual theater acting, or just really like funny movies, go see this wonderful jewel of a movie. "},{"Title":"Tucci triumphs!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An almost entirely successful throwback to the screwball comedies of yesteryear; Stanley Tucci has assembled a sterling cast of clowns who seem to be having a ball; Tucci, Oliver Platt, Matt McGrath, Dana Ivey, the priceless Allison Janney and a host of others create a splendid ensemble. Would love to see them all work together again and again and again. It's also a treat to see a big screen comedy without a mean streak in its body. A fun ride.   "},{"Title":"Classic farce in a classic comic setting...","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After his successful co-directing debut with the delicious 1997 dramedy BIG NIGHT, actor Stanley Tucci moved ahead with a grand plan to update one of early cinema's most-imitated genres....the wacky, shipboard farce. Chaplin and Keaton both did it; and the Marx Brothers had done it better than anyone in in 1931's MONKEY BUSINESS.Utilizing much of the cast he and friend Campbell Scott had recruited for BIG NIGHT, Tucci cast his favorite acting chums, which makes up a who's who of the stage and screen's most theatrical talents, in this endlessly funny and wild trip in which a pair of out-of-work New York thespians end up running scared on a steamliner bound for France!The Impostors is what I call one of the great thespianic comedies.The rest of them are MY FAVORITE YEAR, WAITING FOR GUFFMAN, THE PRODUCERS, and THE TALL GUY. "},{"Title":"Great, silly fun","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Impostors is a spirited romp. Campbell Scott is absolutely hilarious as the ship captain and Steve Buscemi is also very good as the suicidal clown. Oliver Platt is a great rising star. "},{"Title":"Very funny, but not to everyone's taste.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An extremely clever, funny farce.  It is very artificial, and rather in the British style, although set in New York.  There is a great deal of dashing about, hiding under beds, and similar business, but it is saved from tiresome silliness by the charm of the main characters, and the sense that everybody in the cast is having a wonderful time.  I saw it in a theater with a very small audience, and one of them walked out.  I had a good time and laughed heartily as did a few other people, but I got the impression most of the audience was a little confused. "},{"Title":"The best disappointment of 1998 (**1/2 out of 4 stars)","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As odd as my summary may sound, I believe to be true. The Imposters starts off as one of the funniest movies of the year, but, sadly, it loses it after its wonderful first half-hour. It's not that the rest of it is bad, but I laughed only occasionally, and mostly sat there, watching the film get too over the top (I don't recall laughing at all in the last 20 minutes). Still, some of the gags are clever (like Oliver Platt hiding under the bed, reading the subtitles of a passionate Russian couple who plan on blowing up the ship), and some fall flat (like Oliver Platt in drag, a guy in drag stopped being funny a long time ago).Sigh.  "},{"Title":"Who are the impostors?  Everyone!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stanley Tucci and Campbell Scott, who acted and directed Big Night, give us another little gem.  This movie made me think of Some Like It Hot, a great film by Billy Wilder.  Granted it's not quite that good but it is a delightful farce.  Well-written and directed with a great cast of interesting, hilariously funny characters.  The film captures the feel of earlier film making with physical comedy and the timing it takes to make it work as well as the way it was filmed and well tuned soundtrack. I won't go into the story but the acting by the leads, Mr. Tucci and Mr. Platt, was excellent.  Great performances were also given by Mr. Scott, a Nazi-like steward, Mr. Molina, a pompous Shakespearean actor, Mr. Shaloub, the first mate and more, Mr. Connolly, a wrestler(?), Mr. Buscemi, a singer, and many others as well as an interesting cameo.  No obvious flaws.  All in all, a good afternoon's entertainment.  Three plus stars.    "},{"Title":"Agreeably silly","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can understand why these types of movies aren't made any more, even though I'm a fan of Laurel & Hardy and especially the Marx brothers, but I found this agreeably silly.  True, it's no BIG NIGHT, but few movies are.  Tucci and Platt make a good comic team, and are especially good at not mugging, which ruins a lot of comedies these days.  Platt shows again why he's rapidly becoming one of our better character actors.  It was a bit of a surprise to see Lili Taylor, one of my faves, in the heroine role, but she pulled it off well, and the rest of the cast, especially Alison Janney, Richard Jenkins, Hope Davis, and Tony Shalhoub was good as well (though Billy Connolly was a bit too over the top).  This film also contains, near as I can tell, the only Ralph Fiennes impersonation ever filmed, courtesy of Campbell Scott (who's very funny).  No masterpiece but quite fun. "},{"Title":"Terrific performances and great fun","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just viewed The Imposters and was extremely impressed with the performances of, in particular, Oliver Platt, Campbell Scott, Lili Taylor and Steve Buscemi. Filmed in the style of an old slapstick comedy, set aboard a cruise ship, Platt and Stanley Tucci fumble their way through the situations presenting themselves in a light hearted way. Don't take this film too seriously and you will love it.   "}{"Title":"Let's act and let the fun begin","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The story, the character the setting and music all fit into making this a true comedy. Lately, this classification has been used so unpredictably, that movie goers do not know what to expect when a movie is called a comedy.But what a surprise you'll get  This is a genuine comedy, with actors that are excellent comedians (remember Rosalind Russell!  (old days always better!), with a comic script, and a comic ending. And like all comedies, this one is full of surprises and detours from the standard sinuosity of the situations. Incidentally, the movie's R classification is not accurate. In my opinion PG may be more like it. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Best Film of 1998","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved it, loved it, loved it.  I'm still smiling as I think of the farce; the sight gags; the faces; the situations that were hilarious.  The best film I've seen this year by far.... "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable--loved it!","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so much fun!  I think I was grinning the entire time, between laughs.  The performances were very entertaining and the story was very good. I loved the ballroom scene.  It is great to see so many fine actors in such a fun movie.  I definitely want to see Big Night again, and look forward to Tucci's next film. "},{"Title":"May the farce be with you....","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many have feared that the art of the farce was lost, but The Impostors shows that it was merely misplaced.  Now that it has been recovered, it needs minor overhauling, a little work, and lots of polish.  This was not a bad effort, but effective farce requires years of practice in timing, in retort, and in fitting the action, words, and context.  Platt is an excellent actor, and Tucci an excellent foil for him, but Taylor actually shows the best understanding of the genre and if she continues in this vein she will become another Radner.  One element missing from this picture was the recognition of the absurdity of the actions they were taking--  they were only mildly bothered by their actions, but aghast at the actions of others.  However, all in all, this was a welcome change from the standard fare at the multiplex.  HWS "},{"Title":"Fresh, clever and often hilarious","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just as he did in Big Night, Stanley Tucci (writer/director) has created a little gem. He and Oliver Platt are the impostors, actor wanna-bes who end up getting into endless LaurelandHardy-esque scrapes by pretending to be who they are not. Fast-paced with a marvelous cast, this is one of the 10 best films of the year.  "},{"Title":"This is the best movie I have seen this year.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen this year.  It even out does Deconstructing Harry!  This movie deserves all of the compliments that it has received.  In my opinion this is a movie that anyone; young, old, or in-between would find entertaining. "},{"Title":"Comedic timing is impeccable!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt are brilliant in this delightfully slapstick and savvy movie.  I started laughing after the opening sequence, and had a silly smile on in between guffaws.  It is full of double-takes, prat falls and  'a picture is worth a thousand words' facial expressions.  Be prepared to be literally 'taken for a ride' on this Ship of Fools. "},{"Title":"An unexpected surprise...","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  At first, I thought it was a little slow, with the long shots and scenes with not much activity.  Once they are stranded on the boat, I couldn't stop laughing.  Campbell Scott had the funniest character in the movie.  The cast was chockful of great talents and indie stars, like Lily Taylor.  This is one of the year's funniest. "},{"Title":"Harking back to the days of Laurel & Hardy, The Imposters is a hilarious, slightly modern homage to the film comedies of a more innocent time.","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Imposters is one of the freshest movies to come into the mainstream in quite a while.  Probably the most notable aspect of the film is its superb cast, each member fitting a character niche created in the comedies and noir films of the 30's and 40's.  Campbell Scott almost steals the show, as the uptight, smitten, Nazi-esque porter-captain on the USS Inter Continental. Oliver Platt and Stanley Tucci bear a striking resemblance to Laurel & Hardy, and play the straight guy/funny guy bit to the T.  Highly-recommended if you want a good laugh, and a modern look and salute to some of the best comedies ever made. "},{"Title":"It's a stitch!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems Stanley Tucci has reached into the dark recesses of his life to create this homage to the great comedy teams of Laurel and Hardy with a dash of the Marx Brothers!  At times brilliantly comedic in what isn't said and screamingly funny in its satire on acting, this thing is a stitch.Tucci has asked back from Big Night some of the screen's most under-rated actors who act for all their worth.Definitely worth the price of admission.  "}{"Title":"Uproariously funny, intelligently written, brilliantly acted","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was fabulous... from the mesmerizing and devastatingly funny opening scene, until the actors danced off the set as the credits rolled, it was glorious.  Imposters is a beautiful homage to much earlier comedies - it's perhaps a wonderful accident the the two lead roles are played by actors named Stanley and Oliver.  On the other hand, you might almost believe that Laurel & Hardy had been reincarnated, and taken a little guidance from Keaton, Chaplin, Ball, and the Marx Brothers.  "},{"Title":"Very silly but very wonderful","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not much else to say about this film.  It's silly.  Extremely silly.  Wildly silly.  But if you feel like turning your brain off for two hours and laughing ALOT, go see this movie.  The entire cast is brilliant.  Hope Davis (Next Stop Wonderland, The Myth of Fingerprints) and Allison Janney (The Object of My Affection, Six Days Seven Nights) deserve to be huge stars. Hopefully, this movie will introduce them to many new fans. "},{"Title":"Sweet, wonderful screwball comedy","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was an incredibly sweet movie reminiscent of the screwball comedies of the 1930's (it also reminded me of Woody Allen's Everyone Says I Love You). Its setting on a cruise ship is perfect and the characters are all funny. Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt are perfect as the Laurel & Hardy-type actors who become stowaways on a ship.  Billy Connelly, the Scottish actor/comedian is particularly funny as a wrestler enamored with the male physique.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Terrific Farce--Touche, Tucci","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well written, very funny, obvious in places, but a terrific farce. Stanley Tucci shows (again) that he can write and direct with the best. Touche, Tucci ! "},{"Title":"Think of it as a Laurel & Hardy film for the 90's. Even the two co-stars are named Stan(ley Tucci) and Oliver (Platt).","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Mixing sophisticated comedy with some old-time slapstick, Stanley Tucci (who also produced and directed this film) and Oliver Platt work well together as two out-of-work actors who wind up on board an ocean liner filled with unusual characters and secret plots. Wackiness ensues. A cast of familiar faces includes Lily Taylor, Isabella Rosselini, Steve Buscemi and a cameo appearance by Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"Pay full price to see this one!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know some people are going to disagree with me on this, but what is more subjective than criticism?  The Imposters is written and directed by Stanley Tucci (co-writer of Big Night with Campbell Scott), and features many of the same actors who were in Big Night including Scott.  It's an ensemble comedy, an homage of sorts to the screwball comedy of the 20's and 30's, but intelligent and accessible and above all, great loads of fun.  All the faces are familiar and all the performances are great.  The  best part is the palpable sense of fun that all the actors exude as they work. The short version  Oliver Platt and Stanley Tucci are actors stuck on an ocean liner, hiding from and discovering dirt about a rainbow of characters, and wackiness ensues.  Steve Buscemi, Lili Taylor, Campbell Scott, Tony Shaloub, Jessica Walling, E. Katherine Kerr, William Hill, Alfred Molina,  - each has their own story but they brilliantly intersect and resolve and the journey is not predictable,  just delicious.  I grinned the whole time. The production design by Andrew Jackness and the costumes by Juliet Polcsa are delicious.  I did spend too much time trying to figure out approximately what year the film is set in (and settled on the late 20's right before Prohibition) but maybe that is just my problem.  Interestingly, a man named Andrei Belgrader is credited as artistic consultant. The 20's, 30's, and 40's are sort of back in the public eye again with the resurgence of swing and the accompanying dropped hems and dropped stocks, but this production is more concerned with the graceful beauty and naivete of the times rather than the fashion and the politics.  The cartoonish situations that comedic leads found themselves in at that point in cinema are revisited and I am afraid that people will fail to recognize that, instead watching the movie in a modern context. As with Big Night, the music is constant and mood-enhancing (maybe not at the ball...) and I must find the soundtrack!  It's broad, it's a little theatrical, but it's also very tight and very high energy.  Almost nothing is sacrificed to low or cheap humor.  Scott is particularly cast against type (and maybe channeling the glorious character actors from back in the day) and a wild giggle.  Platt and Tucci make a surprising pair on screen. The silent movie style opening sequence is just as natural as their possible siblinghood. It made me want to see Big Night again and for some of these goofy entertainment magazines to get off their Gretchen Mol/Leonardo DiCaprio tattooed butts and start noticing the relaxed, easy brilliance of this production team. "},{"Title":"Uneven and a disappointing follow-up to Big Night","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seems overly self-indulgent at times, at others brilliantlyhilarious. Big Night created high expectations. One majorproblem is that the plot (complicated and convoluted as any inthe zany comedies of the 30s that inspire this) takes too longin being established and the plot complications that bear thereal fruit of humor don't occur until late in the second act, asit were. A somewhat reserved recommendation. "},{"Title":"Another great comedy team named Stan and Oliver?","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having just seen the film, I can only say that it is hilarious. In a year full of gutter-humor comedies, it's refreshing to see a film which relies on old-time slapstick to garner laughs. Maybe because it is set in the days of yesteryear, I was reminded of the great comedies of the past such an Abbott and Costello film. Is it a coincidence that the main actors are Stan (Stucci) and Oliver (Platt)? I hope they team up again soon. "},{"Title":"Why be yourself when you can be someone else?","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Goofy fun pervades Stanley Tucci's wonderful new film The Imposters. This comedy is genre filmmaking at its most reverent with sparkling performances by Tucci and Oliver Platt playing a couple of out-of-work actors. Their chemistry is very apparent and very humorous. In fact, the entire cast turns in delicious performances in this highly entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Four out of 10 is a generous rating for this disappointing lightweight comedy. At the beginning there are some promising scenes but 20 minutes in hopes turn to fears. The other three stars are for having Isabella Rosselini in it. Watching this movie is like watching your smarmy 12-year-old nephew do his own stand up there is a lot of frantic effort and you know it's supposed to be funny, but you watch in embarrassment and horror for the performer and whoever's bright idea this was. Sadly, any comparison with well-done screwball comedies, Marx brothers, and Laurel/Hardy just highlights how Tucci's movie is lacking. More sadly, it might have been funny had there been comedic timing, better writing, and fewer moments that your 12-year-old nephew would think are absolutely hah-larious. A good cast couldn't save this movie for me. A character in an actually funny movie asked about a performance, Is this rotten or wonderfully brave? For The Imposters and Tucci, it's both. "}{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun!","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Admittedly, this is not an Oscar contender. Nor is it intended to be. But it is a night of silliness, an enjoyable movie full of enough plot twists and goofiness to entertain even the stoic movie buff. It is also somewhat of a 'Hey, there's...' movie, lots of faces you'll recognize but maybe not place right away. Looking for the cameos is half the fun! Not all of them are credited, so keep your eyes open! Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt are wonderful. And the fact that each of the characters is a sort of caricature of what they are meant to be just makes it that much funnier. I laugh every time I watch it! Sit back, make some popcorn, and just enjoy the entertainment. This is not one you're going to have to think hard about. ) "},{"Title":"Great start that sputters into just OK","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first 30 minutes of this movie are UNBELIEVABLE, but once the plot leads us onto the boat, it becomes a Luke-warm French farce. The idea of following the struggling actors and their eccentric self-training methods is hilarious. Their war with Alfred Molina's pompous star is equally exciting. Its unfortunate that Mr. Tucci felt that he had to make his film more marketable and bring in a recycled classic comedic device. For instance, why undercut your really witty idea with a series of lame sex jokes (Campbell Scott's character) and horribly dated homosexual jokes (Billy Connelly's blah turn) when you were on the way to writing something fresh and new? On a side note When is Oliver Platt going to get the respect he deserves?  "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Memories of Laural & Hardy and the Marx Brothers flood my mind. I Have always wondered why someone wouldn't make a comedy devoid of the over the top efforts of Bevis & Butthead, Wayn's World and others to numerous to mention. This was both funny and in a very sincere way sweet. I believe this is a must see for anyone appreciating good humor. It was interesting to see Tony Shalhoub who, even in a minor part, now stands out because of his extraordinary success with his new Television Show. There is not a single bad performance. A wonderful blend of characters played by a group of very talented performers. "},{"Title":"Charming, Euro-style comedy","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this on video last year and immediately had to have the soundtrack. I've been reading others' comments and have to warn that although I loved this movie, I totally understand why some people wouldn't/couldn't enjoy it. It's not a typical American comedy.  Recently I saw Amalie, and The Imposters is, in some ways, more similar to that genre of comedy than to say, an Abbott & Costello or Laurel & Hardy slapstick comedy.  Very indie feel to it.Just a strange, delightful, creative and quirky little movie with wonderful performances and a kick-butt sound-track!  I do hope you all like it. "},{"Title":"Funny and smart.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My husband and I saw this at an art theatre and had no real idea what to expect.  We were befuddled at the beginning, but it didn't take long for us to start smiling at the adventures of the two struggling actors.  By the end of the movie, my cheeks and stomach hurt from laughing so much.  This movie is for anyone with a sly sense of humor.  I had seen Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt before but didn't really appreciate them until now.  And Campbell Scott steals every scene he's in.  Truly a delightful film that I have been telling everyone about. "},{"Title":"So Close....","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Imposters is an admirable movie.  Stanley Tucci lovingly recreates a genre rarely seen in American movies anymore; the slapstick comedy as practiced by Laurel and Hardy and the Marx Brothers.  The trouble with The Imposters is that Tucci's execution is missing something.  And this something keeps The Imposters from being the laugh riot (and box office hit) that it really deserved. If you are attuned to this kind of movie, by all means rent it.  Tucci and Oliver Platt are very good as out-of-work Depression-era actors who stow away on a luxury liner to evade the law.  The movie is chock full of excellent bit parts using such luminaries as Woody Allen, Isabella Rosselini, and Steve Buscemi.  But the timing and pacing are often off base and action can drag.... so be forewarned The Imposters is not for everyone.  "},{"Title":"Silence with sound.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Stanley Tucci's film The Impostors is shot like a classic silent film with full sound and dialog. I enjoyed aspects of the film but not the entire film in general. Oliver Platt and Stanley Tucci are great in the lead roles and there are other great performances as well. Campbell Scott's performance as a man possesed by the beauty of Lily Taylor is cool, Scott's German accent adds more comedic touch. All the performances were great, but many were wasted. This film could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Scrappy, eager-to-please comedy is all over the place...","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Stanley Tucci wrote, co-produced, directed and stars in this happy, but only moderately successful comedy about two out-of-work actors--so unemployed they are reduced to staging wild scenes in restaurants just for the food--who get on the wrong side of a drunken stage-star and end up as stowaways on a cruise ship. Very broad, occasionally funny, but the humor and the R-rated language don't really match up with the 1940s scenario (the vulgarity feels forced and heavy-handed). Tucci is a wonderful ham actor, and he's well-matched with Oliver Platt, but his direction is shaky and some of his jokes are mean-spirited. For those who stick with it, the finale is admittedly terrific. ** from **** "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought that the movie was fantastic . It had a kinky sense of humor not adored by all , but i found it rather enjoyable.The Characters all have unique personalities that are very lovable.The plot is one that takes a great turn and keeps you wondering what on earth could possibly happen next.The little captions between scenes keep it cute , and the plot will have you glued to the screen, one moment of the story that is missed can leave you a bit confused for the rest of the movie. I saw this movie on the WB17 movie lineup and was surprised that such a great movie was on daytime T.V.Its one of those movies that is great throughout the entire movie , it keeps you laughing till the ending scene (even the credits are great!) "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it, but...","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This one was shown tonight on the Independent Film Channel and, unfortunately, I tuned in a little late after the opening scenes which, by common consensus, are considerably better than what follows. The cast works hard, the film doesn't look bad (although some of the art direction seems a little threadbare), the music score was obviously a bow to Woody Allen, who makes a brief uncredited appearance, but, oh my! how things went downhill fast.I love good slapstick, lots of slamming doors and such, but this effort just wasn't up to its aspirations. Methinks that Stanley Tucci should have asked for some help with the script and let someone else, with a surer touch, take over the directorial reins.For me, a disappointment, though not without a few smiles here and there, as it bungled its way to that silly conclusion, with the entire cast doing a jig, exiting the set, past the film crew, on their way out onto the studio's street.  "}{"Title":"Not Always So Funny...","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Impostors is a film made purely for comedy's sake. The characters and plot both exist for one reason to make the audience laugh. Films like The Naked Gun and Austin Powers were of this genre, and worked for one reason they delivered the laughs. Plot development and sophisticated dialogue play no part in this type of comedy, so if the film isn't funny, there is nothing to fall back on. In this way, a movie like The Impostors must be funny throughout in order to distract the viewer from the silliness of the plot and characters.The Impostors both fails and succeeds in this way; some parts are as hilarious as they are meant to be, while other parts leave the audience shifting in their seats. The unfunny scenes seem to carry on and on, giving the viewer time notice just how silly the film really is. This turns out to be one of the movies biggest problems.Other films of this nature combat this problem by firing the jokes off one after another, so that if one joke bombs there is another to take its place. The Impostors needed to utilize this technique more. This is not to say that the film was a dud.  Many scenes and characters are very funny, but the bad ones tended to be very noticeable.The Impostors revolves around Maurice and Arthur, two veteran actors in Depression-era New York, trying to earn a living through acting. Parts are scarce though, and the two spend their days honing their skills by acting out 'scenes' with made up characters on the unsuspecting public. After a wild chain of events, Maurice and Arthur end up as hunted stowaways on an ocean liner headed to Paris, where they become entangled in the lives of the other quirky passengers.The Impostors has the feel of a silent movie; every gesture, facial expression, and action seems to be exaggerated for comedic effect.  Many of the scenes would be funny even without the dialogue. Slapstick humour runs throughout the movie creating that silent movie feel. The Impostors plays out like Saturday Night Live sketches pieced together to form a plot. This method has funny results, but when one 'sketch' fails the whole movie suffers.Maurice and Arthur are played wonderfully by Oliver Platt and Stanley Tucci, respectively. The two characters weasel their way into the hearts of the viewers from the very beginning, just as characters in a good buddy movie should. Platt and Tucci's relationship is based on a Laurel and Hardy model, or for a modern reference, David Spade and Chris Farley. There are other great performances from characters on the ship. The Impostors has a good cast with Woody Allen, Steve Buscemi, Lili Taylor, and Isabella Rossellini in small, one dimensional roles. The funniest performance by far is Campbell Scott in his role as Meistrich, the German ship director. Meistrich comes complete with a monocle, a scar, a thick German accent and the attitude of World War Two General. When he is not hunting down the stowaways (Maurice and Arthur) his is trying to win over Lili Taylor's character, Lilly, with hilarious results.The Impostors concludes with the cast suddenly dancing joyously off the set and around the studio where the filming took place. Obviously the actors enjoyed making the movie; the performances during the film and the dancing afterward attest to this. In fact, it seems they had more fun making the movie than audiences will have watching it. The Impostors makes a good effort, but in the end it isn't quite funny enough to pull the whole thing off. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's a scene in this movie where the beloved but down-on-his-luck singer Happy Franks takes the stage and tells his band leader to play a tender, weepy ballad for his opening number. Isn't that a little slow? the band leader asks.That scene pretty much sums up this movie Great performers get on screen and you expect a fast-paced, fun time, but instead get a slow, slow movie.Who to blame? I'm going to have to go with Stanley Tucci. I like Stanley Tucci, but I don't think he's very funny. He plays half of the the film's title duo, and he's teamed with the hilarious Oliver Platt. Platt is great, likable, and funny. Tucci is not. His character has no sense of comic timing, and apparently neither does Tucci, as he wrote and directed this movie. It doesn't have the right pace for a comedy- it takes about half an hour to get them to the boat and have the plot start, and the things that happen before that aren't very interesting (save for a hilarious cameo by the great Woody Allen). Once they get to the boat and the story begins, the movie picks up considerably. The cast in this movie is fantastic- Steve Buscemi, Billy Connoly, Tony Shalhoub, Lili Taylor, Alfred Molina, Dana Ivey, Hope Davis, Allison Janey, Isabella Rosselini- even the usually stodgy Campbell Scott is great in this. They are all fun to watch, even if they're not doing anything terribly exciting.I want to like this movie, I do, but it's like watching an improvisational comedy class that goes nowhere. All the scenes that would be great in a Deleted scenes section on a DVD were never deleted. It's best when it's madcap and crazy like a Marx Brothers movie, but it's just not funny enough to be recommended. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies from the 1990's...","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is excellent. That much I can say confidently and without a doubt, though sadly, it remains overlooked by some film patrons. The plot is simple; two starving actors in the early 1900's named Maurice and Arthur want to find roles and act, but their luck is poor and they are both hapless. The two try some schemes involving acting but these go to pot. One day, the two make it aboard a ship in order to hide from a blow-hard actor and hilarity ensues as various characters, each with their own troubles or situations to deal with, interact and otherwise run into this comedic pair. All of these, however, seem to tie in with Arthur and Maurice's plight. The humor is reminiscent of Laurel and Hardy comedies, and has its slapstick edge which gives the film a great boost. Although the humor shown has its perverse moments, it is still not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic, Hilarious","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" File under general silliness. I laughed at this the way my spouse did with Jim Carey's Liar Liar. This is a risqu update of Laurel and Hardy or Abbot and Costello movies with a heaping helping of Film Noir. It is complete with Pink Panther-like pratfalling and Monty Python farce. Definitely for an adult audience, not a kiddie movie. Dissing this movie is like complaining that Rocky Horror Picture show lacked plot development. If you get this film genre, if you really get it&#133; you're going to wet your pants laughing. Look for Campbell Scott's portrayal of the Nazi ship's steward Meistrich and a wonderful stretch with Oliver Platt in drag. Stanley Tucci and Tony Shaloub are a riot. Scenes with Scotsman Billy Connolly as the physically fit tennis pro are not to miss. He's way funnier than Fat Bastard and easier on the eyes. So settle in quietly with a glass of wine or a bottle of Guiness and let this delightful 1930's farce treat you an old fashioned belly laugh. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I laughed so hard my stomach hurt. This movie is delightful! It's zany and one must have a sophisticated sense of humor to enjoy the slapstick/laurel/hardy type of humor. It's wonderful. Recommend highly. Stanley Tucci did a magnificent job of directing. Surprise appearance by Woody Allen was much appreciated. Music reminds me of Woody Allen's movies. Quick moving, and it's literally a laugh a minute. This movie is appropriate for adults and not children. The plot is intriguing and has many surprise turns. Oliver Platt was delightful as a buffoon and Stanley Tucci's character was delightful. If you're in the mood to laugh or cry, this movie is the one to see. "},{"Title":"Slick, witty and a total joy.","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found this film in the throw away pile at a local video store and took it home purely because it was a comedy and I'd had an awful day. It's times like this that you come across total gems. I initially thought a film written by, staring etc... the same actor might be rather on the self indulgent side, but when it is Stanley Tucci he could be forgiven. The first few minutes of the film are in total silence and actually rely on the talents and comic timing of the lead actors who carry it off with breathtaking gusto. It is a comedy of manners and situations, which grabs you attention straight away and holds it right until the end when you sigh with relief that good comedy is still being made. Oliver Platt and Tucci make an hilarious couple and with some notable cameos thrown in from the likes of Billy Connelley as a tennis player with a penchant for large Greek looking men and Steve Buschemi as a depressive singer called Happy, there were moments when I really thought I had done myself some serious damage from laughing. I love this film and have shown it to many friends who express surprise it did not make a bigger splash than it did. Do yourself a favour and see this movie, the cast obviously enjoyed making it which is abundantly clear and it shows what you can do with a small budget and large talent. "},{"Title":"Comical Genius","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Though different and very unique, I found this movie absolutely hilarious. I laughed so hard, I had to stop the movie about three times to finish laughing and so I wouldn't miss a thing. I'm glad i had it on video because I have watched it over and over again. Not only is it cast wonderfully, but the way the film is set up mixes old and modern techniques to create perhaps the funniest movie I have ever seen. Stanley Tucci is a wonderful writer, producer, and actor in this intricate comedy. The adventure this film follows is not your usual adventure and can be just as gripping as it is funny. I HIGHLY recommend this film. I have already told all of my friends and have even written a review of it for my school newspaper.  "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I fell in love with it. Tucci's use of classic comedy techniques (title screens and slapstick) along with impressive set and costume design give this oddball movie a unique flavor that will make you want to watch this cute flick again and again. Platt and Tucci head up this amazing cast but the movie wouldn't be half as good as it is without a brilliant supporting cast, filled with albeit one-dimensional characters which are a lot of fun despite their lack of depth. If you like Charlie Chaplin, the Marx Brothers, or Laurel and Hardy, you'll appreciate this modern day homage to old-school comedy. It's hard to find in video stores; I saw it once on the IFC and then had to find it on NetFlix, but if you have a chance to see it, you won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"An Ode to Vaudville and Silent Film Comedies.","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Impostors was great, though probably not side-splittingly funny if your not willing to lose yourself in the simple comedic antics that occur throughout the film. Two actors, Aurthur (Stanley Tucci) and his tall, chubby companion Maurice (Oliver Platt), are hard up for work, but they always seem to have an opportunity to use their acting talents, even if not working onstage. During a plan to weasle some food from an unsuspecting baker, the actors outwit themselves, fumbling their plan. Instead of the starving pair getting free food, they get tickets to a Shakespeare show. After watching the dreadful Bernardo (William Hill) butcher 'Hamlet', they insult the actor and get into a scuffle, forcing Maurice and Aurthur to hideout. Consequently, their choice of hiding places was not great, since they become stowaways on a ship. The same ship that the trashtalking-Bernado was travelling on. Things become a mess as Maurice and Aurthur scurry around the ship, pretending to be everything from bellhops to a British gentleman and his lady, in an effort to avoid Bernardo and several other extremely weirdo passengers, including Happy Franks (Steve Buscemi) as the horribly depressed singer who fumbles every suicide attempt; a couple disguised as French tourists (Alison Janney and Richard Jenkins); a furiously gay Scotsman (Billy Connoly); a Russian Communist disguised as an easy-going shipmate (Tony Shaloub); an annoyingly hypocritical German (Campbell Scott); and many others to make it a furiously hilarious odd assortment of characters. These secondary characters are really the ones who make the film so funny whereas Aurthur and Maurice are more like mild mannered guys who just found themselves in a bad situation, but seem to take it rather well. And again, as the introduction indicates, styled along the lines of silent-film comedy, that is the kind of comedy this film goes for--the slapstick/misconception comedy of Vaudville, matched with overdramatic movements and chases and whatnot of early silent film comedies and dramas. It is not blatant stupid-comedy Carl Reiner films (such as the Cheap Detective), because it doesn't drive the whole movie (there is more attention paid to the story), nor is it overdone. Best of all, the humor is delivered at great moments. For example, the Captain, looking for his long lost lover, seeks out a woman at the bar who veils her face as much as she can from him. He seems to anxious to know if this is the same woman he has searched for for so many years. He approaches her, Are you you? It certainly isn't the kind of thing you expect a guy to ask if he think he's just found the woman he's been searching for that long. It's really good stuff if this is the kind of comedy you enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Great Cast Great Performances","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have not seen this in a while. When I found it at Borders. I wanted to relive the experience, if you will. Besides  it has Hope Davis and Lili Taylor.Two of the best actors in the Movie business. Very overlooked and underused. The film seems a little slow at first. Our two leads are out of work actors in NYC. They are struggling to pay the bills. Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt were wonderful in their roles. Anthony Molini was great. As good as he was in  Chocolat. Only one missing from this film that would have made it perfect is Lena Olin. Isabella Rossellini is excellent. Great Cast with great performance. "}{"Title":"The Genuine Article","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After the magnificently-offbeat Big Night, writer/director Stanley Tucci reunites his cast (including Tony Shalhoub, Isabella Rossellini, Alison Janney, Campbell Scott, Oliver Platt, to name a few) in another offbeat tale of two over-zealous, out-of-work actors (Tucci and Platt) who offend an over-rated thespian (Alfred Molina), flee from his wrath and end up on the very ship that he is taking a vacation cruise on. From its opening scene homage to the silent-movie, this film characterizes itself as a vehicle which takes chances Tucci and Platt engage in staged battle at an unsuspecting street-side caf, Platt opting to be killed by Tucci, even though - we are to learn in the successive scene - that it was, in fact, Tucci's turn to die. One twitch on the side of non-conviction and this delicately-humorous tableau would have fallen flat. Tucci pulls it off directorially *and* comedically.Ultimately, chance-taking is a double-edged sword, and teetering on that blade will either get you lauded as a genius or slice your bollacks off.Tucci's film is Damoclean in that the blade grimly alerts us to its presence many times, but is ultimately stayed by Tucci's deft comedic hand. For instance, editing seemed strained in a sequence which saw Tucci and Platt seeking a room on an ocean liner to conceal themselves - yet through this device, new characters were introduced to the mlange; then too, certain characters are colorfully realized whilst others float wraith-like through the script &#150; until Tucci's clever storytelling unites all these disparate strands at the Captain's Ball, when a character bellows Impostor! and we see how each of the varied players may be guilty of that accusation, all of whom flee at the indictment, which is, of course, not even remotely aimed at them.Alfred Molina, scenery-chewing like Tim Roth on crank, is that bellowing character, his dexterity at mutton-headed slapstick a revelation; Billy Connolly shines as the aggressively-gay tennis pro; Tony Shalhoub is overboard as the ambiguously-foreign, terrorist First Mate, but no one can upstage the singularly uproarious performance by Campbell Scott, opting to veer off the grid completely in his rendition of Nazi purser, Meistrich.Though Tucci's script stoops to Stooge-like pratfalls at times, he stays ahead of the Great Unwashed's pedestrian sensibilities by embellishing it with brilliant minutiae, sprinkled liberally - the bedraggled shot of Molina during an intermission of his Hamlet and his melodramatic apology to the theatre audience, replete with crooked wig and burp; Platt's mindless, drunken soliloquy, including dialog which seems to be way off-script (Boozy boozy boy! &#150; sucky farty boy! - I poke you I poke you I poke you!) &#150; and then there's Campbell Scott, who arguably steals the movie, whether entering the frame and making the soundtrack skip off-record, or propositioning the Social Director (a beautifully Brick House Lili Taylor), or impassively telling the ship's discomfited detective (played with witless Euro abandon by Matt McGrath), that learning how to kill people, is not that hard; Shalhoub's passionate radio call to his lover, including more seemingly off-script entreaties (Touch me pure! Touch me good! Touch me hard!); Connolly's man-wooing of Platt with seductive scenarios of wrestling naked on the steps of the Acropolis, that's where we'll wrestle, my semi-Grecian lad &#150; that's where I'll make a man of ye! And the *joie de vivre* of the last dance sequence is an utterly contagious masterpiece of the director's self-awareness, which could have easily gone awry. These are not unknowns peopling this film &#150; any one of these well-respected actors could have mutinied Stanley's decision to unify them in this last, ridiculously-genius dance number. Instead, they joyously partake of the bunny-hopping and arm-waving like a naive coterie of first-year acting students who have nothing to lose; in doing so, beautifully rounding off a superbly-entertaining film. This dance sequence, which takes them outside the set, through the crew, across the camera tracks and ultimately out of the studio building, is Stanley's knowing nudge to movie viewers on many levels and seals his brilliance as a director willing to take those offbeat chances. One of those rare Gee-I-wish-I'd-thought-of-that moments in film. Here too, we are indulged with the prominent soundtrack, which lent itself perfectly to complementing the film's action with its noticeably-distinct, recurring themes to signify melodrama, suspense, romance and slapstick.Is it just me, or has everyone already pegged that Tucci and Platt's first names echo those of a past generation's legendary comedy team? Stanley tips his glass at Oliver to utter the film's last lines To life, and its many deaths. (Movie Maniacs, visit www.thedunmore.com/POFFY-MovieReviews.html) "},{"Title":"A very funny movie","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie with hilarious situations and droll performances from a great cast.  It updates many comedy conventions with love and wit.  The ensemble plays together seamlessly and it feels as though everyone had a great time making the movie.I'm surprised this one fell through the cracks - in many ways it's better than Big Night. "},{"Title":"A Real Sleeper","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Never heard of this movie, and wasn't expecting much. It started with farcical scenes setting up the setting of the ocean liner stage. Like most cruising movies the cast of characters was introduced, each with an imposter story. Much slapstick and action told like a silent movie with staccato scenes and fast moving action. Even with the over the top good/bad characters you find yourself cheering for the heroes and delighted as the plot resolves. The final credits even show Mr. Tucci's love of the play and the actors. See it if you can. "},{"Title":"What a bad idea!!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a bad idea!  Was anyone wanting an update of Laurel and Hardy?  Does anyone want to see two unattractive guys pawing each other for a whole picture?  Does anyone want to see a bunch of New York dramatic actors trying to act like they're funny?  Does anyone want to hear the same bad musical selections played over and over while the actors run through the same hallways again and again?  Bad bad bad.  The only good moment is at the end, when the entire cast dances off the set and you know that the movie is officially over.   "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Maybe it is because I'm a fan of screwball comedies, although I abhor that word. I'd prefer to say I'm a fan of intelligent, absurdist, fun, fast-paced comedies, and this fits the bill perfectly. Every line is a gem, every facial expression telling. Highlights Happy Franks - Johnny Ray was never this good!, the mood exercises, the perverse Prussian, the spy's girlfriend on the radio.. heck, there's just too much to mention. Mr Tucci, do it again!! "},{"Title":"A goofy misfire with a few sparkling moments.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Although there are several very funny moments in this non-stop farce, they don't add up to anything remotely coherent.  There are far too many characters thrown at you throughout the movie and as a result, none of them are developed and the entire endeavor falls flat.  About 30 minutes in I didn't care about anyone in the film and the running around a cruise ship that was supposed to be such madcap fun was instead maddeningly repetitive. Steve Buscimi's character was fun to watch, and there were a host of good ideas that might have made a good movie if they weren't suffocated by hundreds more mediocre ideas.  "},{"Title":"Not Funny","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm dumbfounded by all the rave reviews here; how anybody could possibly compare this twaddle with Laurel and Hardy or the Marx Brothers is just mystifying. Not one laugh, not one. I'm sorry, but stupid is not the same as funny. Pauly Shore is funnier than this.I was foolish enough to go into this with high expectations, having read a few pages of reviews here, all of them glowing with praise. And all wrong. Except for a few truthful ones on the very last page. Why is that? Almost as if somebody doesn't want anyone to find out how terrible this film really is.The truth is, not even Steve Buscemi and Billy Connoly could save this mess. The comedic timing needed to make something like this work is completely absent. I would have to blame that on the director, who apparently knows nothing about comedy. "},{"Title":"An old fashioned romp","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those movies that can be viewed with anyone, and all will enjoy it; It's  tame enough for children and squeamish old folks, and campy enough for all. The cast is dazzling, and you get the feeling watching it that they had a blast making it -- the fun is infectious.  It always makes us feel good when we watch it, and for some reason the jokes never get old.  A perennial favorite. "},{"Title":"A worthy attempt at classic film","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It wasn't a fantastic film but it wasn't horrible.  I liked the idea that they wanted it to reflect older American films and I think they did a rather good job of it.  I also think the casting was very well constructed, especially for such estranged characters.  And though it was a comedy, I never really found the humor in a lot of parts.  It starts off really slow until Maurice (Oliver Platt) and Arthur (Stanley Tucci) find themselves on the ship, in which the whole film seems to change directions for the better.  Comically wise, I'd have to say the highlight of the film was when Maurice was trapped in the First Mate's (Tony Shalhoub) room and was first bewildered by the captions appearing in front of him out of nowhere then grossed out at the First Mate who was now becoming extremely excited by the voice of his dear...Regina!  So all in all it was a good average film, enjoyable, but probably not for everyone.  Just give it a chance.        "},{"Title":"Hilarious comic romp","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll be brief I loved this movie at the theatre, and I loved it the second time, when I watched it on video (because I wanted my wife to see it.) A 6.6 out of ten? No way. Give it an 8.5 at least. (The other reviewer is mistaken it has nothing to do with Some Like It Hot.)What's it about? In the depths of the Depression, two down on their luck actors who practice dramatic death scenes as part of silly scams to cadge food, end up as stowaways on a second rate cruiseship, being chased by the world's worst Shakespearean actor (whom they insulted), in the midst of hilarious suicidal, homicidal and plain nutty characters. Great comic turns from a great cast. A sure remedy for the blues!  "}{"Title":"A bit of a strange... but a laugh riot","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tucci and Platt pull of a bit of a Laurel and Hardy comedy. The situations these characters end up in would be funny even if the characters weren't, and they are. Its an unusual piece and not for everyone. My favorite scene is when Oliver Platt is hiding under a bed reading the subtitles while the first mate is speaking some gibberish language.  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the second movie I see from Tucci the director (after Big Night) and I think the two had great qualities. The first one was in the early 1950's and this one is from the 1920-30's. Tucci had great talent to reproduce these era, and pays tribute to the movies of these decades. In this one, wesometimes think about Laurel & Hardy, because there are very good chemistry between Tucci and Platt (This guy is always good).  This is a very creative movie, although it was inspired by the past. American movie directors should do more movies like this. It's away from boring Hollywood mainstreen and for me, movies like this is the true heart of American cinema.  Stanley Tucci will perhaps becomes a new Woody Allen in the future.  Or maybe the first Tucci! "},{"Title":"Verrrrrry underrated","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is quite simply one of the most underrated comedies of the last 20 years. I'd go so far as to rank it up there with The Producers or any of Mel Brooks early works. Tucci and Platt do a wonderful homage to comedy duos from the early years of cinema, mostly a blend of the Marx Brothers and Laurel and Hardy. Cambpell Scott does a nice turn as well as the always funny Billy Connoly. I remember seeing this on video when it first came out, so imagine my surprise when I picked this DVD up for $9 at the local Zellers; I would have gladly paid $50 for it. It's worth seeing just for the ending alone. I wish that these two would do a series of movies along the same vein as this, it's a shame that we get bomabarded with teen comedies filled with mindless toilet humor. Anyway, go find this movie and tell your friends too! "},{"Title":"What a pity!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It started so well and turned out so bad!The first 20 minutes of this film were awesome. Probably the best comedy i've seen lately. Great satire, great gags. Great acting, especially by Tucci. See the gag with the cakes, or them practicing some roles. Simply awesome.What happened after 20 minutes? I don't know. The movie suddenly turned into a low class predictable comedy, a missed remake of Laurel and Hardy. The gags became stupid, pathetic and totally not funny, the acting became average. It's a pity, because this movie had such a great potential... watch it, but only until they go up the ship. Afterwards it's a wasted time.Vote 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Too much stage-acting for me","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think they were trying for a bit of a Laurel & Hardy and old movie approach.They didn't do a terrible job on that but it was quite focused on theater, including older Shakespeare stuff and all.I think this would appeal much more to people who are really into theater more than the average movie-going person.  Still, not BAD for the average person, just too blah due to not getting it all.  "},{"Title":"The Definition of Slapstick","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know what I would have done if I'd never stumbled across this film. I must have been in the sixth grade when I was appearing in funny play. On the morning of the opening performance, I'd come down with a case of laryngitisso I stayed home that day hoping to recover some of my voice. Having a two minute walk between me and the local video store encouraged me to rent some great comedies for inspiration for that night's performance. The spine of the The Impostors VHS case jumped out at me (it must have been it's funny lettering) and I read the back. Interesting I thought and rented it. I was thoroughly entertained throughout the whole film and it became an instant favorite. However, this comment is not about the story of my life and passion, it's about this fantabulous film, so I'll shut up and discuss how great this movie is.I'd like to state that this is the definition of slapstick comedy. Stanley Tucci and Oliver Platt team up in this brilliantly funny film. They have so much chemistry on screen together. They need to collaborate more!First off, Stanley Tucci's writing and direction are genius. What a comedian in front of the camera, behind the camera, and in front of a computer writing a script like this one. Each character you start to love no matter who they are. The character development is also superb. After watching this incredibly intelligent and comic film, I now have a new respect for Tucci. I loved him in Big Trouble, but The Impostors is simply his best ever.Oliver Platt and Lili Taylor are also the shining jewels of this film. For the past couple of years it seems as if Oliver Platt has sort of disappeared from the silver screen and as much as I hate to admit this, I sort of forgot above my fondness of him. When I decided to take a trip down memory lane and rent Impostors my love for this talented comedian resurfaced. He's an amazing man. Such a clown. Such a hilarious cuddly bear. I've never been too familiar with Lili Taylor. I'd always find myself mixing her name up with another one of my favorite actors, Jennifer Tily. Now I feel that I can tell the difference. I've found a new respect for her. She's the cute, normal, down to earth girl who may not win the heart of the popular sex good, but the heart of an intellectual guy who cares about her and also will save the day. She's so amazing and clever, and I seem to be unable to articulate my new love. Ahh..the power of love.This comment could go on forever. I'd love to explain each character and why I've become to attached and fond of them. Not only are the characters brilliant but the actors who play them are more so. The Oscars should invent a nomination for the Casting Director because this films casting director (sorry I can't remember their name) cast every role correctly. In conclusion, I feel that this film will always remain an unearthed gem. It's so clever, comic, quircky, and entertaining. It is the king of slapstick comedy. Each time I watch this film (I now own the VHS and DVD) and I watch it twice. It will never get old for me. It's become a classic in my life and has a special place on my DVD/VHS shelf. I swear to everyone reading this comment that when I become a famous director, I'll remake this. Unfortunately, I'm afraid I'll never be able to top Tucci and everyone who worked on this project's genius.  "},{"Title":"Awful.  I wanted to stop watching during the opening credits.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Simply awful.  I wanted to stop watching during the opening credits.  THE ONLY decent part of this film....was the dance number at the end credits. Horrible.  Awful.  Terrible. This was NOT worth even a $1 rent. "},{"Title":"A crime","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first movie I have walked out on since Ishtar.  If only I had left it sooner.  Not even Steve Buscemi and Isabella Rosellini could save this juvenile, slow-witted waste of my time.  "},{"Title":"A very disappointing effort by Stanley Tucci.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was with great anticipation that I went to see The Imposters.  Maybe that is why I was so disappointed.  This a terrible movie.  There is absolutely no chemistry or viable comedic timing between the protagonists, Tucci and Platt. The rest of the cast is even worse, with one shining exmple, Campbell Scott as Meistrich.  Every joke and attempt at humor, save for a couple of sight gags, was forced to the point of embarrassment.The Imposters has a nice premise, but it looks to me, like Stanley Tucci, who I admire as an actor and director, has personally proven the old truism that comedy is the most difficult thing to do. "},{"Title":"Life is too short for french film imitations","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 25 minutes into this film, I decided to look it up on IMDb. I was expecting a comedy, not a talent-less imitation of Stan & Laurel or french film. OK, 30 minutes, but still not smiling!This turned out to be the most awful film in the comedy genre, I have ever seen.Woody Allen appearing in this film should give me a clue, but apparently his appearance was uncredited. It may have scared me off on beforehand, or at least lowered to my expectations for entertainment. Probably some of his wives are in the film too.At least now I know, that Stanley Tucci has no comic talent whatsoever. If he is ever on a cast for a supposed comedy, I will know to avoid it. Well, more than 40 minutes wasted on this film. "}]