[{"Title":"Cute and adorable!","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I will agree that this film was predictable in some ways, but had a few strategically placed plot twists that made up for it. Monica Potter is beautiful, funny and charming as the object of three lifelong friends' affection. I liked Joseph Fiennes in Shakespeare In Love but he's absolutely wonderful here. I didn't think he and Gwyneth Paltrow shared much chemistry in Shakespeare but here he has a warm and special chemistry with Ms. Potter. It really looks like they are in love, and I love the way when he repeated his ideal of the perfect woman, they filled in the gaps.This is an underrated but enjoyable romance, along the lines of Sliding Doors.   "},{"Title":"Delightful Romantic Comedy","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film with the title The Very Thought of You and think that Martha, Meet Frank, Daniel and Laurence is far more apropos and distinctive, although a bit of a mouthful to casually mention the film to friends.  I expect that far too few persons will see this delightful film.   I was particularly charmed by Laurence's description of the perfect woman and even more charmed when (as if I might have missed it) it was replayed!  The film is worthy of smiles and laughs throughout, with an especially funny moment which rippled through the audience in laughter for many moments into the next scene.  It is artistically directed and edited, intelligently written, and well acted (except when Monica Potter seemed to sound like Julia Roberts -- I can't imagine why she would want to do that).  Interestingly, Joseph Finnes is also outstanding in one of the films that I believe is among the best of the decade  Shakespeare in Love.   I find the implausibility of this is irrelevant -- it's an 83-minute movie that sets out to capture a mood, tell a story, and entertain.  I expect that many will easily brush this film off as cute and sweet but I personally would love to see more films that are as well-constructed and intelligent.    "},{"Title":"Sweet and frothy","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I happened to flick across the beginning of this film last night on cable. I missed the title, but saw Joesph Fiennes, Rufus Sewell, and Ray Winstone - and decided it was worth a look.Though the beginning was a tad slow (the first five minutes makes you think it's going to be very depressing), this is actually a sweet comedy about love and friendship and the nature of love at first sight.Joesph Fiennes is heart-stoppingly beautiful, with his lovely puppy-dog eyes put to good use in his character as an overly-sensitive young man wedged between two aggressive friends who are less-than-sensitive.I dislike most romance films; yet this one was different, for a reason I can't quite put my finger on. It tugs at your heart, and for all it's improbable situations (de rigeur in most romantic comedy), it rings true to life.Definitely a good film for watching on a rainy afternoon. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly funny, lighthearted romantic comedy","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I seen this at the video store but passed it by because I thought it was the typical Sarah Michelle-Melissa Joan-Freddie Prinze-Katie Holmes type of romantic comedy.  I didn't realize it was a British movie(otherwise I might have given it a second look at the video store) and caught it on cable.  I was pleasantly surprised by the acting.  I liked the fact that it didn't go the typical sex route, although I didn't think about that until the movie was over.  I was pleasantly surprised that it was a British film, it seemed more in the Hollywood vein, not as dark and gritty as a lot of British cinema.  The mood of the film was cheerful, upbeat and somewhat witty.  I particularly liked the technique of going back in the story to fill in the gaps of the storyline.  It reminded me of an old fashioned type of movie; and I have to admit the lead actress did remind me of a Julia Roberts type. Very entertaining. "},{"Title":"A very funny and humorous film.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a great British film that deserves a good pat on the back. Not only did the film put together such a wonderfully presented cast that went together so realistically, so precise(including the sexy Joseph Fiennes), but it was a fantastic film with an original and laughable plot (which is better than seeing the same story over and over again). A great film that I enjoyed immensely.  "},{"Title":"A hillarious romantic comedy","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a fan of Joseph Fiennes, so naturally, this was a film I've been wanting to see for ages. And it didn't disapoint me one bit!The plot is basiclly three English friends meet an American girl within three days, at seperate times, and they all fall for her. First, I was excited to see a romantic comedy set in Britain ... I always look forward to those. And then, despite the ending being pretty predictable, I came to the conclusion that this is definately one of the best Romantic Comedy films I've ever seen.Monica Potter does a great job at Martha, the American girl who's had enough of her life in America so buys the first plane ticket to anywhere for $99, and ends up in London. There were one liners from Martha that made me laugh so much.Tom Hollander is a great Daniel, the rich and spoilt British guy who's a bit of a ladies man, and just loves to get a rise out of Frank. It's by not trying to be funny that makes us love and laugh at Daniel. Hollander does a great job at achieving this.Joseph Fiennes ... is there any criticism you can give this man? He's perfect for the role of Laurence, and that's why it works so well. When you look into his eyes, you can dive deep into his soul, and he has the sort of face which you love. Laurence is the romantic and sensitive character, and I can't imagine a better person than Fiennes playing him.Rufus Sewell as Frank steals the show. Frank is the funniest character, despite how serious he is. Frank, the depressed and failed actor who is constantly getting into arguements with Daniel, will have you laughing your ass off! I can't think of a time when he said something I didn't laugh at. If you're not a big fan of Romantic Comedies, this movie is worth watching, just for Sewell.Stars out of 10  10 "},{"Title":"Fun and romantic - seems right for the genre","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Martha (Monica Potter) is single, sexy and she's so sick of her life she's off to London with the last of her money.Daniel (Tom Hollander) is single, successful and after one look at Martha he thinks he's in love. Frank (Rufus Sewell) is one of Daniel's friends, despite the fact he is always trying to get one up on him. Lawrence (Joseph Fiennes) is another of Daniel's friends, and he is always caught between Frank and Daniel as they jostle for supremacy.The casing and script are both strong, and the feel of the movie is nice and original, even with the usual clichés in the romance element. It's funny, it's romantic and it has sex appeal for both men and ladies, so obviously its worth a watch; if you don't try it, you'll never know.7/10 "},{"Title":"a few clever twists before a totally predictable ending","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for simplicity with little twists here and there - just enough to make it amusing but not too much to be thought-provoking -then this movie would be a good place to start.It's definitely a low-budget film, you can really tell from the color quality. Clever, feel-good script - really aims to entertain instead of being profound, although it's probably a good idea to lay off the cheesy, over-used lines like she's different from any woman I've ever met and do you believe that things happenned for a reason?.Good line up of cast. Tom Hollander and Rufus Sewell really shines as Daniel and Frank, they play off each other beautifully and show a bit of versatility which is nice (both are well known dramatic actors).Joseph Fiennes was okay - Laurence doesn't really provide much. He's the long suffering lovesick puppy type which Mr. Fiennes has obviously played quite a few times before. He somehow fits in less  naturally here as if he's gone straight from a stage production and hasn't really got time to shake off the character. Very good vocal (still got the elizabethan twinge in it)and not much facial expression. I do enjoy the idiosyncracies like Laurence drawing something whenever he feels stuck in the middle. And how he's occasionally being called Florence.Monica Potter provides a very Julia Roberts style performance, which isn't saying much of her own quality as an actress.I was watching this movie with a roomate the other day and she said It's a movie that makes you want to fall in love - I myself was just looking for a comedy and was getting it just fine from this movie. So for whatever reason, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"British quality","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a British film. It means that noboby will take you for a fool. This is a romantic comedy, but a MALE romantic comedy! Three guys takes the place of one Meg Ryan. In that sense, it makes it very original, with a subject very déjà vu. I also love the fact that the film is short, that some of the gags are very funny without having to howl all the time. The gag of Fiennes talking to a psychologist who is not is funny. Good young actors too! "},{"Title":"Cute and funny but useless","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't really know why I've written that this movie is useless.  I think it's obvious that it won't change your mind or your life, won't make you cry or laugh (OK, you can smile sometimes), won't be successful, won't be anything. It's just a movie, an ordinary movie in such a competitive world.Here in Brazil, a competitive place too, I went to one multiplex (I hope that's the name for these theatres with 7, 8, 9 (...) screens there) to watch Teaching Mrs. Tingle (I'm really embarrassed now). Unfortunately, the movie was sold-out, I had already watched The Sixth Sense twice, I really didn't want to watch Bowfinger, the teen-trash American Pie again, the horrible End of Days, and the most horrible Letters from a killer. So, I tried the unique watch-able movie there, the unique romance, the unique that still had some tickets in that competitive world Martha, Meet Frank, Daniel and Laurence. The Brazilian name, Mero Acaso (in a free translation, Mere Chance or Pure Fate) is one good summary for this movie about one American woman that moves to England and, by fate, develop three relationships with three guys. These three guys are friends but they don't know that they're seeing the same woman. Interesting? Not very much. In fact, the original title tells the story. I watched it without knowing that she would meet the three, so really enjoyed. It was relaxing, fast, cute, romantic but like films made for television. No big plot, no big camera moves, no big cast, no big musics, no big budget... (although some of the best movies I've ever seen were very cheap). And it had some awful stereotypes the American girl was blond, feminist, modern, on (bad) fashion, colored, with a huge suitcase. The British guy was shy, out of fashion, polite, bla, bla, bla. It's perfect to watch at your house eating popcorn. The truth is that I'm lucky. This movie is much better that Teaching Mrs. Tingle, at least. Thanks God that we live in a competitive world! "}{"Title":"The spark is missing","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Passable romantic comedy with a few problems. First of all the direction is choppy and the story rather nonsensical which is often the case for a rom-com but they should be based in some sort of identifiable reality, this isn't. All that would be forgivable if you were enchanted by the central character. Monica Potter is a decent actress and what could best be described as goofy in the lead but to make this story of three men instantly captivated by one woman work that woman would have to be entrancing like a young Audrey Hepburn or Margaret Sullavan loaded with gossamer charm which Potter is not and it's a flaw that the movie can't overcome. None of the men are fleshed out but Fiennes does provide a suitably centered and conflicted protagonist, Tom Hollander and Rufus Sewell are wasted however. "},{"Title":"At least they tried to do something different","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I suppose you can give this movie a few points for taking an unconventional approach to romantic comedy. Instead of boy meets girl, boy loses girl, The Very Thought of You gives us boy moons over girl, girl exploits and then blows off boy, girl throws herself at second boy, second boy shows all the genuine interest of a big Judy Garland fan, girl meets cute with third boy, third boy finds out that acting like Billy Crystal from When Harry Met Sally doesn't actually work with women, girl guilts second boy into giving her another chance, girl runs away from second boy and then runs back to him. Oh, and boys 1, 2 and 3 are all lifelong friends, which girl doesn't discover until it's far too late.All that's rather convoluted and the sequence of events and the behavior of girl and her three boys often doesn't hold up under scrutiny, but it's certainly different and more involved than what you usually get in a romantic comedy. These filmmakers were so focused on being unconventional, though, they forgot that rom-coms live or die on two very simple points.1. Does the audience want to see boy and girl get together?2. Can you keep them from getting together until the end of the movie in an entertaining way?These filmmakers never answer those questions in the affirmative, nor do they seem to even understand those questions are being asked in the first place.Martha (Monica Potter) is a Minneapolis girl who flies to London to escape a life of quiet desperation. In short order she meets Daniel (Tom Hollander), who moons over her; Laurence (Joseph Fiennes), who responds to her overt flirtations with all the energy of a damp sponge; and Frank (Rufus Sewell), a miserable git who wants to bed her out of spite but whose wooing technique is only slightly more advanced than dipping her pigtails in the teacher's inkwell.In truth, you can see the potential for a successful rom-com here. Monica Potter is more than cute enough and Tom Hollander and Rufus Sewell are appealingly pathetic as the obstacles that get in between Martha and Laurence. Joseph Fiennes is sort of a dud, but that's more because Laurence is such a dud. What keeps The Very Thought of You from being even marginally effective are some really terrible storytelling decisions.To start with, Martha and Laurence don't even meet each other until you're nearly halfway through the film. First the movie is all about Martha and Daniel, then Martha and Frank, then it focuses on just Martha before finally getting around to the two people who are supposed to get together at the end. By that time, however, you really can't give a crap. You've seen too little of Laurence to care what happens to him and you've see too much of Martha to believe it when she swoons over him like a 1950s teenybopper over Frank Sinatra.This film is also a bit nonlinear, showing us Daniel and Frank's encounters with Martha and then jumping back in time to show us what was going on with Laurence and Martha at the same time. It's not confusing to the audience, but these filmmakers must have lost track of what was going on because there are at least a few occasions where characters act like they know things they shouldn't have learned yet in the story. In particular, Laurence's decision to run away from Martha for the first time doesn't make any sense based on the information available to him at that moment.And while I've already mentioned it, let me emphasize how weird it is that when Martha falls head over heels for Laurence, he responds to her for a long time like a gay guy who hasn't yet come out of the closet. When Laurence finally starts showing some interest in her, it's so abrupt and total a change that it's like he got a steel bolt shoved into his brain that altered his personality.This movie isn't as painful to sit through as some disastrous rom-coms I've seen, but you won't care a whit if boy and girl get together, stay apart or get kidnapped by clowns and forced to perform a geek act in the carnival. "},{"Title":"So good it even mentions Iceland...","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really didn't expect much when I saw this movie. I was in full knowledge of it being a self-proclaimed 'British/American romantic comedy with a twist', whatever that means, but I honestly took my seat at the theatre half-expecting to sleep the way through it.Boy was I wrong!?!?This is not a flawless movie, far from it. On the downside it felt a way bit simple and sometimes dangerously close to becoming a generic movie but it actually did a great job in walking the tightrope.The pacing, it must be said, is brilliant as it does a great job of telling you full four stories and establishing multi-layered relationships between 3 best friends from Britain and a young woman from America with such ease that you feel like you've known them forever. The acting is spot on, although credit must be given to Rufus Sewell who owns this movie as the unfortunate Frank, whose like me! like me! plea warms my heart every time I see it!The music is great, the lighting is terrific and somehow, over a period of 30 minutes, this movie manages to create and establish a scenario so perfect that every man and woman will emerge from the cinema wishing they were there. Of course, not all is gold that glitters and as such the scenario more or less crumbles throughout the story but the main theme in the movie is this; it's there and if you keep your eyes open it just might happen to you.Of course, 'happen to you' is the easy part. What's hard is trying to make it work all the way, i.e. not just catching the ball but actually carrying it all the way into the end-zone. Which is where the story gets interesting.I advise anyone who doesn't have any prejudice against romantic comedies to go see this one, as it will surprise you. No, it's not the movie to end all movies, nor is it a piece that will change your outlook on life, but for 90 minutes it will make you forget about all your worries and just enjoy yourself laugh, smile, hold hands, wish you were holding hands, feel loved or love someone or both, and eventually walk out into the real world feeling like you've experienced a piece of bliss that has made your day a good one.Give it a try, it's not big but it might bite you.4/5. "},{"Title":"4 Flaws, but still may be worthwhile because...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The four flaws were1. An unrealistic, far-fetched story. 2. A predictable plot. 3. Poor editing, especially in the first half. 4. Contrived, trite characters of the three men.For me, it was STILL WORTH watching because1. After all, it was labeled a 'romantic comedy' so I was prepared for a light-weight story, and the humour did in fact have meaning with it;2. Look, I am a guy and I will be honest. Monica Potter was a stunning beauty. And for you women - my wife assured me that Joseph Fiennes (of 'Shakespeare In Love' fame) was a hunk.3. The beautiful colours. Really! The apartment walls, furniture, 's clothing, etc.  I cannot recall such beautiful colour in a film.It helps to see it with someone you love, or to have a warm heart ready for some fun. "},{"Title":"Sweet Wit Elevates An Otherwise Commonplace Rom-Com","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" AKA The Very Thought Of YouThis has been done many times before. You take a basic fish-out-of-water story, and try to put your own spin to it, in an attempt to make it seem like a fresh idea, and hope no one notices.I'm happy to say that this time, it worked. Tom Hollander and Monica Potter are delightful as the would-be couple. Monica Potter is the fish out of water, as an ex-Minnesota resident cum Londoner.This is delightful, and quite smart in places, giving this production an overall slick execution, while not pushing the envelope so hard, as to detract from the work.This is quite enjoyable, in spite of the cliché level of the base premise. The two key performances are quite endearing and sweet. This one grabbed me, and pulled me in, in spite of myself.It rates a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Good Writing","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a well written piece by Peter Morgan, author of Stephen Frears' and Helen Mirren's The Queen currently making the rounds of the theatres. Director Nick Hamm is certainly not without a CV either. One unfortunate aspect of it all is the absolutely terrible title given the film in the US - truly there is no excuse and it belies the mentality in that country.As a romantic comedy - of a sort - it beats anything that ghost town Hollywood be capable of; there are elements here which won't be obvious to you on first viewing and that's to your advantage.Joey Fiennes he talks like Shakespeare! There's a least one scene where you expect him to blurt out 'oh I am fortune's fool'.This is refreshing and highly original and well worth a view. Ourselves we saw it on the telly, so we'll have to hunt it down as a rental or a purchase to benefit fully by it.The charisma between Fiennes and Potter is palpable. As many say, Potter seems the blonde Roberts, but she's very much a match in talent as well. The conceit of this film - a girl who has her back to the wall and nowhere to go and simply gets on a plane to go somewhere, anywhere - has very much the feel of other movies in the genre such as French Kiss. It's a cathartic setup that works well and frankly Joey Fiennes has something his brother will never have.Definitely worth the view and possibly the purchase. "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this. I saw it not more than five minutes ago, and I already want to see it again! I usually hate romantic movies, but this had enough twists to make it enjoyable. The actors looked like real people, and (thank god!) acted like them! Insecurities associated with dating came through brilliantly, and the two main characters really shined. I recommend this, especially for people who like quirky movies... And if you like this, try I.Q.! JD "},{"Title":"Pleasing romantic comedy but not the best one out there","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Martha (Monica Potter) has fled the United States and is traveling to London to start her life over again.  On the plane, she meets Daniel, a successful English businessman, who is promptly smitten with the blonde beauty.  He offers to pay Martha's hotel fee for her first night in London and advises her on a choice of lodging.  By strange circumstance, Martha also runs into Daniel's two best friends, Laurence and Frank, over the course of the next twenty-four hours.  All three of them are attracted to her.  Which one will she choose?This is a sweet British romantic comedy, told in flashbacks by Laurence, as he confides the tale to a psychiatrist.  The four principal players give capable performances and invest their characters with charm, especially Fiennes.  While some viewers may be disgruntled that the plot unfolds in bits and pieces, most will stay intrigued.  Those looking for the best humorous love stories available will find this film does not make the A-list. Still, it has enough fine qualities to make it a worthy addition to the genre.  Recommended for those seeking a snowy day diversion. "},{"Title":"Viewers, Meet a delightful and funny film","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I'm walking through the video store late one friday night. I'm looking for something that will make me think. I'm tired of seeing movies that bore me.I'm in the comedy section, I see The out of towners, forces of Nature, other crap like that and then I see this film.I know...I know, checl out my other reviews, not my kind of film. So I pick it up, and read the box. I usually don't go for romantic comedies, but I like Joseph Fiennes, so I did the unthinkable. I rented it.Now if you knew me, you would know that I spend hours in the video store just so I can smile when I get home. I hate to be letdown by films that suck.I popped it in the VCR and poof, 88 minutes later, my smile was from ear to ear. This movie is guaranteed to put a smile on your face. Here's whyWithout giving away to much, this film tells the story of love and friendship in London. Monica Potter plays Martha, an american looking for something. The Brits, which are all impressive in their own way, deliver great, hearfelt performances. Rufus Sewell and Tom Hollander should pat themselves on the back for playing so unpredictably. And Fiennes, should play this way more often.I feel very priveliged to have seen this great little film.4/4    "},{"Title":"Nobody suffers better than Joseph Fiennes","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...and if you understand and agree with that statement, you're going to want to add a star to my rating; if not, you may need to see a few more of Fiennes' films from 1998. That was the year Fiennes was seen in this semi-charming romantic trifle, the costume epic ELIZABETH (as Robert Dudley with whom the title character had a complex relationship) and as the title character in the rare but deserving comedic Oscar winner, SH*KESPEARE IN LOVE (which also won Oscars for Gweneth Paltrow, his leading lady and Judy Dench as an older Queen Elizabeth - but then new kid on the block Fiennes wasn't even nominated).The pace of THE VERY THOUGHT OF YOU - or, as it was originally called, Martha - Meet Frank, Daniel and Laurence (which can't quite decide if it's a buddy film or a romantic comedy) will drive some viewers up the wall, but those who stick with it for the joy of the contrasting boy/men buddies circling around the charming Martha and structure will be rewarded with a pat ending which is the very definition of a sure fire date movie - then go back and have a look at the hilarious WHAT'S UP DOC? that they stole it from.The key to both the movie's success and failure is probably the casting of the four putative leads. Martha, the film's McGuffin around which the thin plot turns is a generic blonde pixie indistinguishable from half a dozen delightful others, in this case Monica Potter, whose only problem is that there are too many other talented actresses just like her. The three best friends she meets and entrances are, in order, the blond, wealthy but shallow Daniel (Tom Hollander - more people probably saw him that year in support in the gay themed BEDROOMS AND HALLWAYS), author of the grand romantic gesture she will copy before the film's over, the struggling, competitive actor Frank (Rufus Sewell - a Tony nominee on Broadway for Tom Stoppard's ROCK & ROLL, here doing a remarkable imitation of a young Ian McShane!) and the insecure intellectual bridge instructor Lawrence (Fiennes). You'll know 30 seconds after she meets him who Martha's going to wind up with, but if the ride is worth the trip (the flashback in the psychiatrist's office structure is a television oldie but goodie) the audience will come away happy.Nothing terribly original here, but once it gets rolling the actors are fun to be with. Limited pleasures, but real. Worth taking a chance. I'd be willing to bet anything with Fiennes would be; even in a minor piece like this, this is a star persona that demands attention. "}{"Title":"Some People Are Such Harsh Critics","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I cannot believe how some people viewed this film. Peter Morgan is a brilliant writer. Do we really expect a predictable love story from such a great writer? No way. Monica, as usual, is incredible to look at and watch. In my opinion, she's the next Julia Roberts. Rufus Sewell can obviously play any sort of character. I have seen him in Tristan and Isolde, Uncorked, and now this film. I am in love with his eyes and well everything he does is superior to most British actors today. Everything about this film was delightful. Tom Hollander is also very versatile. Thank you, Peter, for giving us a movie with love, life-long decision-making, style and wit. This film is pure genius! Joseph is slowly becoming the actor his brother Ralph has become. Good movie which has to be taken the right way, or it will fly right over the average movie-goers' heads! "},{"Title":"Twisty-turny light Britromcom","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Four British actors in pursuit of the increasingly evanescent formula that gave us four weddings. It's made enjoyable by the elan of the actors who are, in general, used to doing more weighty things.The big surprise is Ray Winstone, a foggy character who fulfils the role of a shrink, listening to Joe Fiennes whining. Nick Hamm keeps it moving along though, weaving the relationship threads together competently enough whilst Hollander and Sewell give pat representations of their character-tropes. Joe Fiennes is rather good in this sort of genre but I liked Monica Potter best of all, the American chick stuck on the end of the hook for the big US theatre going fish. Unremarkable but inoffensive. 4/10 "},{"Title":"I love this movie but...","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can never remember what it's called! I've only ever seen it when it's on television, and they refer to it as The Very Thought of You, which I find as a very inappropriate title. The other title is an improvement, though I have to admit it's a bit wordy. Other than that, I really enjoy watching this movie. I love the idea, the cute British guys, the setting, and Monica in this role. She's like a blonde Julia Roberts. Don't get me wrong, I'm not usually this approving of most movies. In fact, anyone could argue that this movie is like any other romantic comedy. Though something's different in the formula that makes this stand apart from the rest. Just don't ask me what it is... Call me a hopeless romantic in need of a vacation. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Quaint!","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being quite the Monica Potter fan and incidentally being at a stall in a market where they sell videotapes, I recently came across this movie. Seeing that these movies were cheap and all, I decided to watch it because it's Monica Potter, and what can I say, no one should turn down any film with Monica Potter in it! After saving it for a rainy day, I popped it into the old video recorder and watched. And may I say, my eighty-three minutes were well spent.The whole plotline seemed sequential and well-drawn at first, but when I realized that some parts were not in chronological order, I seemed to have assumed that it was not to lose the interest of the viewer. I didn't lose any interest, because I mainly focused on the characterization of these three men that practically grew up together. When I saw all three of them congregating at the restaurant, I couldn't possibly tell how these guys got along. Fiennes character caught my attention the absolute most because he was downright miserable, dismal, and incredibly similar to a William Thacker (for those of you that don't know, see Notting Hill) except for the fact that he didn't own a bookshop and that he taught bridge to old ladies. It kind of gives me an impression that his experiences are similar to mine; he never travels that much. Rufus Sewell portrayed a washed up, unemployed actor that seems to always have a rain cloud over his head. Nothing ever good seemed to come out of his life. And then there's this other guy that plays the role of being this famous, pompous moron that is responsible for being some sort of manager, producer or coordinator. He bored me simply because he lacked the basic fruits of life (intelligence, charm, and morals). I would have personally liked to have seen him get picked off in the middle of the movie. It's a shame that the writer did not create this elaborate fight scene which would have been similar to Bridget Jones' Diary.And then, there's the stunning and intriguing Monica Potter that plays the role of Martha, this completely wonderful and dazzling optimist who decides to fly to London (firstly, because it only cost ninety-nine bucks, and secondly, to start a new life). But in her case, she does not seem to have any luck due to the fact that she is, in a sense, dissatisfied with Britain. In all my regards, I consider her to be the scene stealer of the film, and I would have liked to see more of her.On the cover of the box, they say that this is a sexy, romantic comedy. The only problem that leaves an abrupt question mark is, where the hell is the sex? Why would they call it sexy and a romantic comedy if there was no bloody sex? Important element in a romantic comedy script there has to be a sex scene in order to characterize it. All romantic comedy writers know of that. But it didn't disappoint me in any manner.All in all, the comedic delivery, the irony, and the entire plotline were the only things that kept the film alive. The film's charm and cinematography was what kept me from not hating this film. I could not believe the ending, because it was one of those endings that someone would have never expected. It's a delightful romantic comedy and I strongly recommend for Monica Potter fans and other lovers for a rainy day!9/10 (Or a B average due to the wonderful characters and the crazy storyline. The only thing it lacked was the romance in the romantic comedy.) "},{"Title":"Funny, Entertaining, Well-Built Movie!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is touching, the plot is built nicely... The way we go back to see what happened with each of the charachter...Soundtrack has some nice songs in it too...A movie to watch with your girlfriend.8 of 10. For the nice time watching this film. "},{"Title":"Fresh, fun stuff.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Very Thought of You tells the tale of one woman who encounters three men individually while starting her life over in the UK. Curiously, the three men happen to be best friends...the crux which launches this charming and amusing little romantic comedy. Low on schmaltz, fresh and fun, TVToY is a three star flick worth a watch for anyone into this genre. "},{"Title":"Really a fantastic, pleasant and amusing movie.","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had the opportunity to watch this movie by means of a VHS that I have gotten in Spain, and I can really say that I like it a lot, it really entertained very much me. It is a pity that this movie has not been seen in my country, Argentina, and according to my thought, in any other country of Latin America. Precisely alone in Spain. But well, I had the opportunity to see it and I am not sorry.  The movie begins when Lawrence (Joseph Fiennes) takes a psycological session where he talk about he, his two friends and a person that they have in common. Martha (Monica Potter), an American young girl, travels to London to make her new life. There, in the same flight, she will know Daniel (Tom Hollander), a young man that will fall in love at first sight of her. Then, Martha will know in a park to Frank (Rufus Sewell), an actor with bad luck in the love, that also will fall in love of her. But Martha doesn't like to both. Alone she will fall in love at first sight with Lawrence, to who she will know accidentally in the airport. Lawrence, a young man serious but a little clumsy, will also fall in love with her. But Martha doesn't know that three guys that she met at same time are friends. How will react when she know the truth??? This movie has a resemblance to the typical American romantic comedies, being in fact an English movie. But I really recommend it for anyone. It is such a simple movie that it will catch you from the beginning until the end. It should not really allow it to happen. The performances of Potter, Fiennes, Hollander and Sewell are brilliant, but I have heard many complaints with that the character of Potter could have been interpret better by Julia Roberts. For my, Potter is quite well in this movie. It is a pity, but this movie should really have been watched here in Argentina and Latin America of Spanish Language.  My opinion A great movie, Really if you have the opportunity to see it, it doesn't waste it, will see it. Amusing, pleasant, funny, a great romantic comedy. Don't get lost it. "},{"Title":"forgot","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can understand people in the US wont rent this movie, the cover seems really like false advertising! I mean Potter looks totally different - she does't look like that in the movie! and it says sth sexy film- which is totally the opposite from what it is!!! "},{"Title":"clever story from 4 POVs","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Martha flies from Minnesota to London to escape a failed romance and a boring life. She meets 3 different guys who become intrigued with her. One is a music producer who's rahter shallow, one is an actor who gets caught up in rivalry with the music producer, and the other is a nice quiet guy. Cleverly told from all participants' points of view.  "},{"Title":"How inspiring!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would definitely recommend this film, if not for its cutely romantic outlook, or its refreshingly talented stars, I'd give it a thumbs-up just because it's English. Granted, I haven't seen a whole lot of British television or film, but it seems that everything I have seen has been either outlandishly funny or suicidally dramatic.  English romance always seems to fall under the second, and sometimes numbingly depressing, idea. How wonderful, then, that I should run into this quiet little movie, which, although I will admit that Boise, Idaho is not the largest outlet for foreign film, I don't remember ever being released in my area.  I remembered Mr. Sewell vaguely from Hamlet, and have longed to see Mr. Fiennes in a film since Shakespeare in Love, but never remember seeing Ms. Potter in anything, and I am sure that I never seen Mr. Hollander before. While I would not lie and say that this is a profound film and that there is anything to be learned from it or much to be thought of after seeing it, it would be only natural to praise it for its pure movie-like, feel-good quality, a small escape from the everyday.  It resembles little, other than the highly implausible plot, of a Hollywood film.  American romantic comedies seem built according to specifications designed only to provoke that slightly nervous, overly sweet feeling in the majority of female audience members.  They usually have all the weight of a Twinkie, and leave one wondering how something so simple could be so utterly manufactured. This movie is more like a Wheat Thin, possibly underrated, certainly rather bland looking, but somehow much more satisfying and although it comes salty or in low sodium flavors, is surprisingly sweet without a trace of gooeyness.  "}{"Title":"How inspiring!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would definitely recommend this film, if not for its cutely romantic outlook, or its refreshingly talented stars, I'd give it a thumbs-up just because it's English. Granted, I haven't seen a whole lot of British television or film, but it seems that everything I have seen has been either outlandishly funny or suicidally dramatic.  English romance always seems to fall under the second, and sometimes numbingly depressing, idea. How wonderful, then, that I should run into this quiet little movie, which, although I will admit that Boise, Idaho is not the largest outlet for foreign film, I don't remember ever being released in my area.  I remembered Mr. Sewell vaguely from Hamlet, and have longed to see Mr. Fiennes in a film since Shakespeare in Love, but never remember seeing Ms. Potter in anything, and I am sure that I never seen Mr. Hollander before. While I would not lie and say that this is a profound film and that there is anything to be learned from it or much to be thought of after seeing it, it would be only natural to praise it for its pure movie-like, feel-good quality, a small escape from the everyday.  It resembles little, other than the highly implausible plot, of a Hollywood film.  American romantic comedies seem built according to specifications designed only to provoke that slightly nervous, overly sweet feeling in the majority of female audience members.  They usually have all the weight of a Twinkie, and leave one wondering how something so simple could be so utterly manufactured. This movie is more like a Wheat Thin, possibly underrated, certainly rather bland looking, but somehow much more satisfying and although it comes salty or in low sodium flavors, is surprisingly sweet without a trace of gooeyness. Hope yet for slightly awkward American girls.  "},{"Title":"A fun and witty date movie.","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Originally released as  Martha Meet Frank, Daniel and Laurence in Britain, this import is not your typical romantic comedy the storyline is totally implausible, the characters are ridiculous, and the emphasis is on comedy over romance. That said, this is a very entertaining film, with witty dialogue (Fiennes' description of the perfect woman contains none of the regular anatomical references and is positively Shakespearian) wonderful performances, and lacks the cliches littering similar Hollywood fare.  Told in a nonlinear flashback style, it boasts some beautiful cinematography and several amusing twists.If you're looking for a well-crafted intelligent date movie, your search ends here.  "},{"Title":"A charming fairy tale","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A cute, sweet film.  The story is totally unbelievable but so charming that you don't care.  A perfect date movie, It's over before you know it so make diner plans afterwards! "},{"Title":"Comedy of errors.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Martha, Meet Frank, Daniel and Laurence. An American girl who decides to  leave everything behind in Minneapolis for a fresh start in London  separately meets three young Britons who happen to be friends and two of  them fall desperately in love with her. This is a lively and original  comedy with interesting characters and funny misunderstandings. *** out of  ****  "},{"Title":"Poor Movie","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film was a disappointment, my cable provider described it as a witty comedy, but it was awful. The cast proved that light romantic comedy is harder than it looks. Avoid this movie it's not very funny and doesn't make any sense.The script from Peter Morgan (The Queen, Last King of Scotland) was weak, the plot feeble and you didn't really care about any of the characters.Martha (Monica Potter)is an American woman on the rebound. She escapes from a failed romance in Minnesota and hops on a cheap flight to London. At the airport she meets Daniel (Tom Hollander), a short but successful music executive. Everyday he meets attractive women but falls in love with Potter at their first encounter. Martha does not reciprocate Daniel's advances but because she only has $35 to her name she accepts his hospitality. Martha meets Laurence (Joseph Fiennes) and promptly falls in love with him. Fiennes and Hollander are best friends. The series of coincidences and chance meetings defy credibility. "},{"Title":"Two Words... Joseph.  Fiennes.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yikes! Is Joseph Fiennes outstanding, or what??!!? Not only is he gorgeous, but he's the most talented, believable actor out right now. English actors are just IT for me. I'll take Joseph, Jude, Colin (Firth), Rufus, etc., over any of these American cookie cutter nonsense actors (Ben Affleck, Mark Wahlberg, etc). Joseph Fiennes is simply amazing! His eyes speak volumes. You feel as if you are gazing into his soul and... *ahem*... well, onto the story... This is a delightful and refreshing comedy. Even though the plot of three best friends falling for the same girl in less than two days is slightly unbelievable (aren't they all?), it still works. It was pulled off as realistically as it could be. Monica Potter's quirky character wasn't too annoying, which was a welcome change. With these types of movies, I am often left wondering, What was so great about her?, but I didn't feel that way about Martha. Her converse sneakers had to go, and she drank too much, but she was charming nonetheless. Joseph, on the other hand... absolutely no complaints with him or his character, Lawrence, except to say that I wish he would have had even more screen time. Rufus was hilarious. He had some of the best lines in the movie. This review probably hasn't been too helpful, so I'll end in this way... this is one of the best modern romantic comedies I've seen in a long time. It's extremely witty, the acting was great, there was actually chemistry between all of the characters, the storyline is fairly original, Joseph Fiennes is in it, etc. So, take some time out to see it!  "},{"Title":"Sweet and playful","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a sweet, charming romantic comedy with a playfully self-referential plot knitted together in flashbacks from different characters' points of view David Lodge's 'Small World' meets Hal Hartley's 'Flirt'.A woman comes to London to start a new life, and bumps into three very different men who all fall for her. She doesn't know that they're friends; they don't know that she's met all of them. She thinks she's lost the one she's fallen head-over-heels in love with, he thinks he's lost her. But we know that it'll all come out right in the end, because it's that kind of film.Furthermore it has Joseph Fiennes looking soulful, and Rufus Sewell in a part he wanted because I got to smoke cigarettes and say 'f*ck!' a lot. Definitely one for a girls' night in. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Film-The Very Thought of You","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just watched the video of this film (it wasn't released widely in theaters) and I think it was well worth seeing.  I think if the distributors had marketed it for the people who enjoyed Notting Hill it could have done well in theaters.The basic plot is of three boyhood friends in London who all meet an American girl.  Eventhough the outcome is fairly predictable, the plot takes several twists to arrive there.If you like romantic comedies, give this one a chance.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Cuddly Romantic comedy.","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This Brit. flick is good fun and at 83 minutes is just right to put on one evening, soak up the atmosphere and enjoy but it suffers from being predictable. Yet another British Romantic comedy trying desperately to individual but not succeeding, although despite this it is very likable. Monica Potter is absolutely adorable as Martha, a bored American who flies in to London desperate for a change of luck. By coincidence she meets 3 friends, all at different times, who all fall head over heels for her. Joseph Fiennes, later to hit it big in 'Shakespeare in Love', is also good. Funny though to see Ray Winstone, usually known for his abrasive hard man characters in such films as 'Nil By Mouth', 'Face' and 'Scum' in such a cute romantic story!  "},{"Title":"woeful","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Joseph Fiennes acts unbelievably badly in this movie, it was really painful to watch. His brother Ralph must be appalled! He wasn't quite as bad in Shakespeare in Love. It could have been an OK piece of fluff to watch on the couch if it weren't for his acting. At least he's really good looking which gives a slight compensation! Rest of the cast range from bad to ordinary acting- wise, and the characters are all quite irritating - especially Rufus Sewell's character. The character of the neighbor was OK. Monica Potter was reasonable. Production values were fine - it looks like a regular film with an OK budget, and the camera work etc. were all fine for a B movie. The plot wasn't in any way credible and despite the premise that three guys are attracted to one girl there didn't seem to be any chemistry between anybody at all. I didn't feel that I cared in the slightest about what happened to anybody. I really disliked this movie, in case you can't tell already! "}{"Title":"A Perfect Romanic Comedy","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Monica Potter is a wasted talent. She is charming, engaging, and has great comic timing. There are so many awful romantic comedies out there that I actually ignored this film on that basis alone for years.Then, one particularly uninspiring evening a friend lent a copy of it to me and I skeptically watched it. I was shocked, but in a good way. This movie is very intelligently written, has sharp, realistic dialogue, and allows you to escape with Marta (Monica Potter) as she searches for a new life in England.She ends up meeting three very different men.You are introduced to a grotesque, and creepy, self-loathing Rufus Sewell, a short,needy, and very badly dressed Tom Hollander.I was wondering what was going to happen if she ended up with either of them. Then you meet totally gorgeous Joseph Fiennes of (Shakespeare's In Love) fame.Hello?.Thankfully, these two have genuine chemistry. A weak point in many romantic comedies. The story has many clever plot twists, and the ending is satisfying, but not overly sweet. On the basis of it's stars lack of Hollywood status this film will never reach a full audience, but good word of mouth might get it some due notice.Check it out, I know you won't be disappointed, it's funny. "},{"Title":"one of the greatest","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie is absolutely awesome! I mean Joseph Fiennes, here I come- are you single? The way he eats that orange! I mean, this movie has all these little things that you don't notice at first. Like the scene where Joseph peels half an orange and bites into it, I have never seen anyone eat it like that. I like the thought of going off somewhere where you don't know anyone, although I don't know why Monica Potter's (she was in Con air, small part of Nicolas Cage's wife)character has to drink... That part where she asks a stranger (a loof!) for a drink is NOT believable- ok I know many things aren't- she meets three guys and they all know each other? well anyway- doesn't matter, Joseph is the best! And somebody wrote here that he's out of fashion- excuse me? pink shirt? white tight t-shirt- i mean HERE I COME!!! "},{"Title":"Not-quite-Julia-Roberts Meets One Big Girls Blouse and a Couple of Comedy Sidekicks","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes I'm a sucker for a romantic movie, more rarely, when the black mood takes me, I want to rip out the protagonists innards and dance on them. Yesterday was such a day. I finished watching this movie which I'd started watching a few days ago, back when I was of the opinion that romantic movies were just lovely. I have two major bones to pick with the entire oevre and they both relate to the same basic concept, the indoctrination of helpless saps like me with bullshit romantic shite like this.1. Being a helpless girlie who's just a little bit crazy and whines about how hard her life is will not cause all men within a hundred foot radius to fall in love with you no matter how perky your nose/breasts are.2. That thing! That thing with the meeting and the moon eyes and the first date sex and the brief comedy misunderstanding leading to the immediate reunion and forgiveness cause you're just both so much in tune. It doesn't happen! And if it does why does it never happen to me!? I hate to be a cynic but I am one of those people that thinks if Romeo and Juliet hadn't offed themselves they probably wouldn't have lasted a year.It's not that I want to believe that. I wasn't born cynical, I was turned. I am a bitter romantic. I went out into the world all doe-eyed and hopeful and offered myself up on the bloody alter of love and rather unsurprisingly, I got butchered. I wasn't prepared. They should make you watch Witness and that Jennifer Connelly movie with the double ended dildo and The Ice Storm before you hit puberty instead of crap like this.  "}]