[{"Title":"","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved ZERO EFFECT and would heartily recommend the film to  anyone who enjoys a great story told with great style and wit. Jake Kasdan is in his early 20's and has written and directed a wonderful film that belies his age and relative inexperience. I take my hat off to him.  On this evidence he is a major talent and I can't wait to see what he does next.When I heard about the plot of ZERO EFFECT, the story of an eccentric and reclusive, private detective and that this part would be played by Bill Pullman, I was sold on the film immediately.  Bill  Pullman is a wonderful actor who I admire greatly and is always a joy to watch on screen.  The part of Daryl Zero is a very tricky one and very few actors could pull it off, but  Bill was simply brilliant. The scene where we hear Daryl playing his guitar and singing a song but don't actually see him  for about three minutes was perhaps the most wonderful introduction of a character I've seen in any film.Ben Stiller provides sterling support as Daryl's right hand man and Ryan O'Neal (nice to see him again) and Kim Dickens are also terrific.There are so many great lines in the film, particularly those where Daryl is explaining his methods of deduction and surveillance. His explanation of the best way to follow someone is priceless, as is his explanation on how to find  things !This film is a pure joy and very refreshing. Go see it ! "},{"Title":"Terrific movie","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a really pleasant surprise.  I didn't know what to expect before watching this film, but what I got was a great movie that featured some really good performances.  Stiller and O'Neal are solid, but the always-likeable Bill Pullman is the real standout here.  There are lots of great moments in this film, many of them comedic, and except for an occasionally slow pace during the second half, I was greatly entertained throughout.  Definitely worth checking out this movie. "},{"Title":"Very cool...","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bill Pullman is a very underrated actor, and this film he totally steals the show as the reclusive, quirky but 'greatest detective in the world', Daryl Zero. He certainly suited the part in Zero Effect!Ben Stiller, Ryan O'Neal and Kim Dickens all provide great support in this different but interesting comedy. It had a very good story, some interesting social commentary and observation. Not quite a thriller but for its acute observation, realistic characters and storyline, Ill give this a ***1/2 out of *****!!! "},{"Title":"A great movie, but credit is due to Doyle.","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, I thought this was an excellent movie. Having said that, where is the credit to Arthur Conan Doyle? When movies are based on the works of Shakespeare, such as modern day versions of Hamlet and Macbeth they always credit Shakespeares works. Compare Zero Effect to A Scandal in Bohemia.Compare the character Zero to Holmes 1. both use drugs 2. both play a musical instrument 3. both apply astounding powers of observation to solve cases 4. both use disguises 5. both are loners who rely on their intermediaries (Watson/Arlo)In Zero Effect, Arlo deals with conflicts between his romantic life and Zero's need of him to function. In A Scandal In Bohemia, Watson has recently married and Holmes and Waston must deal with the issue.The first line of A Scandal In Bohemia reads To Sherlock Holmes she is always THE woman.Guess what, in the end Sherlock doesn't get the girl and he admires her as his most capable adversary. I guess Doyle must have a copy of Zero Effect stashed away somewhere.Again, I will say I thought is was a fantastic movie. I'm not always a big fan of Pullman, but he was excellent in the role. If you are considering not watching this movie because you don't like Ben Stiller, well don't let that stop you. He takes his normal persona down a couple notches. Don't expect to see any traces of Zoolander or Meet the Parents. "},{"Title":"The world's best detective is hired to find the blackmailer of a wealthy businessman.","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Excellent story and dialog. Certainly underrated. The film has great performances by Bill Pullman and Kim Dickens, as well as Ben Stiller. This one seems to have gone unnoticed by most people, but it was clever and entertaining. The plot moves and has plenty of twists, but the plot twists are not what makes the film great. The characters and their development are what make this movie unique. Daryl Zero is one of the most memorable private detectives I have ever seen and his relationship with Gloria Sullivan (Kim Dickens) is well developed. Daryl's sidekick, Ben Stiller, is interesting too as his loyalties are tested throughout the film. At first it is difficult to determine how astute Daryl is--is he really the most observant person in the world? Or is he a bumbling fake? As the story develops, you see how adept Daryl Zero is. Even the soundtrack is good with a great song by Nick Cave. "},{"Title":"One of the best detective comedies ever.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As soon as the Zero Effect finished, my wife and I turned to each other and said, that's one of the best movies we've seen. Bill Pullman shows why he is one of the best, if often overlooked, actors. He plays the very private detective Daryl Zero who is uncannily insightful on the job, but otherwise is a mess.  We laughed so hard at times that we had tears in our eyes. And it isn't just funny - there is a very well-woven story involving murder and blackmail.For its cleerness, acting, story, and directing, I give it a solid 9 of 10, and one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Emotionally Effective. 9/10","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A lot can be said about the superb writing that this film contains. It is also very well acted. But one thing that has always shocked me is just how emotionally involving it is. Darryl Zero's budding relationship with the woman, Kim Dickens, is so well written and acted that I believed every moment of it. Kim Dickens' character goes through some very difficult situations, and they all work. Ben Stiller's problems ring true, also. And I'd like to point out that his girlfriend is the woman Bruce Campbell has to defend in S-Mart at the end of Army of Darkness.There are only a couple of criticisms I have of the film. The first ten or fifteen minutes seem to contain an entirely different style of comedy than the rest of the film. With Darryl Zero's horrendous guitar stylings and fridge full of TAB and tuna, I expected it to be an off-the-wall comedy or spoof of a detective film or something. The first time I saw the film, I was told how funny it was, and after I saw the ridiculous first ten minutes or so, I was constantly expecting the film to use slapstick and other such jokes. The film is funny, but if you go in expecting a comedy, or only a comedy, anyways, you're going to miss the emotional cues. Also, some of the discoveries and some of the trivia that Darryl Zero exhibits is a bit ridiculous. I mean, Sherlock Holmes, who was actually based on a real person, a college professor at Oxford, I believe, had amazing powers of deduction, but not even he could guess which bus Kim Dickens was going to tell her victim to get on. And I would also think that someone who does have the abilities that Darryl Zero supposedly has would never make up a job and tell that to one person, and forget that job and make a new one to give to someone else who frequents the same place as the first one!  "},{"Title":"Who is this Guy Anyway?","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The cast in this movie is well thought out!! Bill Pullman plays Detective Daryl Zero, and he is a consortium of unorthodox emotions!! Your initial perception of him being one whereby he is an amphetamine freak, who chants like a castrated country rock singer, and drinks 68 cans of Tab in a single day!! Concocting irrational conclusions for everything is Daryl Zero's favorite hobby, and, all of his ersatz proclivities, which unalterably require a necessary detachment, are peculiar enough to put him in either Belvue or Believe it or Not!! He can astutely characterize a white collar criminal, and speak six different languages, yet, he is incapable of filling out a tax form!! With regard to something or someone being hazardous, Daryl Zero should come with a personalized warning label which reads Compared to this guy, arsenic seems like an innocuous and palatable beverage!!The movie starts off with Gregory Stark, (Ryan O'Neal) who is the anonymously wealthy guy. Stark has now become the aggrieved recipient of blackmail!! Steve Arlo, (Ben Stiller) plays Detective Zero's business manager, Steve (Ben Stiller) manufactures a mystique about Detective Zero through a bastardized affidavit containing a bevy of counter culture mannerisms!! Arlo (Ben Stiller) presents a cogent case to Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal) that Daryl Zero's doggerel of accomplishments consists of numerous radical approaches and techniques which serve as a means of being the most effective method to cracking the case!! Desperate and annoyed by pecuniary depletion from a petty (yet stinging) series of blackmail tactics,Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal) is ready to give way to the unconventional!!! Consummation of this deal opens up the floodgates for an onslaught of nuances to surface which everyone in the movie becomes besieged with.. Daryl Zero's prescience is profound in his ability at pinpointing the perpetrator to this blackmail crime!! This film provides a precarious pontification to many different ideological premises for all parties concerned!! More importantly, it should be established that the trivial details and innate intricacies of everyone's sordid human nature, are far more significant to the plot of this movie, than the overall complications which pertain to this film's resonating end results!! The two OB's; observation and objectivity, guide Detective Zero in the direction of satiating his desires to resolve everything... This acute homogenization of deductive logic is what is referred to in this film as the Zero Effect!!This movie is loaded with talent, the writing is particularly well thought out, and the innovative genre to this film makes it intellectually gratifying to watch!!! All is well, but ends well, however, it is not manifested in the proverbially neon accented format that people are accustomed to when viewing a film with a happy ending.. Everyone's aggravated afflictions are related to their environment, and, Detective Zero's concluding jeremiad, which establishes a mandatory closure on the whole blackmail issue, winds up getting categorized accordingly!! That being said, let's put it behind us, it's over, so why not just go sky diving, or attend someone's funeral or something!! Extremely well made film. It is Crazy with a capital C. I am very glad that I saw it!!! "},{"Title":"Not to be overlooked","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't see this in theaters because most critics up here were dismissive of it, so I checked it out when it hit video and what I wanted wasn't available.  I should have ignored the critics.  Even if, like me, you're not well versed in Sherlock Holmes (which this film is inspired by), you should enjoy this movie.  Bill Pullman is wonderful as Daryl Zero, who lives his professional life by the two obs; observation and objectivity.  He's quirky without being overly eccentric, and he's very believable and touching.  Ben Stiller is a nice foil as his front man.  Kim Dickens proves after PALOOKAVILLE and this that she's a talent to watch.  I even liked Ryan O'Neal, whom I'm not a fan of.  I'm definitely looking forward to Jake Kasdan's next film; he looks like he may be as talented as his father. "},{"Title":"Phony, Fake, Cliche, Immature","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't believe the people who say this is a great film. It was made by the 23 year old son of a famous movie director, and it has all the weaknesses that implies. There is not an ounce of reality or originality, which leaves a bunch of genre cliches floating around like a slow-motion Cuisinart. The acting is what happens when talented actors are left to their own devices without a strong guiding hand - show-offy, undisciplined, incoherent, charming, sexy (how actors want to be seen), scenery-chewing, and quirky. The writing is the same - surface polish that comes off in your hand if you watch till the end. The plot seems intriguing at the beginning, but peters off into a disappointing end - sort of on a level with a seventies TV detective show. The cool ideas never go anywhere, and the quirky characters never pay off. The appeal for most people, I think, seems to be the cleverness of the great detective's mystery-solving, but it is the same cheap, unbelievable tricks pulled by Sherlock Holmes and his immitators for the past hundred years I deduce that you are the daughter of a gardener from Shropshire from the dirt on your boots. Nonsense, but it seems tricky and smart, and people get a real rush from identifying with a genius character. Plus, we never even get to see the detective do one piece of real detective deuction; the most crucial plot points (finding the keys, arriving at the bathroom), are either lucky or unexplained. The movie starts out with Ben Stiller as the lead guy, but then he just sort of disappears as Bill Pullman takes over. The leading lady is hopelessly inadequate. Only Ryan O'Neal comes across well. Even the music choices are bad (although a running gag about Bill Pullman's character writing bad songs might have something to do with that. The only reason I take the time to slam a movie by a twenty-three-year-old first-time writer/director is because I hate to see so many people praise such a disappointing effort. I have no doubt they all sincerely enjoyed it, but make no mistake it is a bad movie all the same. People are just taken in by the writer/director's insistant hammering away at his (baseless) claim that this is a clever film. "}{"Title":"Not crazy about Stiller or Pullman, but both were great in this movie.","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie rides on this goofy charm from start to finish. In the past, I'd always been mildly turned off by Pullman. But he converted me here with a pitch perfect portrayal of such a strange character. One thing I dig about this movie is that even though it follows the standard plot requirements of a detective mystery, everything comes across fresh. I was continually, completely fooled into believing these characters were not constrained by the requirements of the plot. I'm a sucker for mysteries, and used to settling into that mystery movie groove. I don't think it's a bad thing. But every now and then, one comes along that makes you forget there's a groove at all. And this is one of those. On top of Pullman's 1st class perf. (I'm cracking a smile just thinking about it), Ryan O'Neal and Ben Stiller play to their strengths to great effect. I've never been huge fans of them, either. One of the reasons I chose to review this movie is that it took three actors I've never been incredibly fond of, and I loved it in spite of it. Loved them in spite of it. Not to mention Kim Dickens, who is a revelation (she's gone onto a few other movies and a meaty role on the HBO series Deadwood). She's just excellent here. You can never figure out what's going on in her head.If you love this movie, rent Freaks and Geeks. The director, Jake Kasdan, directed several episodes of this classic, short-lived series. "},{"Title":"A good idea...","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie seemed to fall flat in many places. It opened slow and never really picked up a lot of steam. That being said, the story is engaging and very well-written. The dialogue, though...I thought the dialogue was a little poor. Jake Kasdan might be better served finding a screen writing partner to jazz up the dialogue. Maybe I'm a little spoiled by Monk (which I realize came later), but I didn't find the main character all that endearing. Mostly his traits were just annoying and not fully conceived--for instance the weird scene with him playing the guitar...which never comes up again. Why add in that particular moment unless it's going to play a part later on? The camera-work was excellent, with lots of long steady-cam shots. One place where I thought the film shone was in its use of music. I usually don't even notice the soundtrack, but on this one it really stood out as being well-selected. Ben Stiller usually bugs the crap out of me, but his performance was restrained and I actually liked him a lot more than Bill Pullman's detective character.7/10 "},{"Title":"The best movie that nobody saw in 1998.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Here's the thing about Zero Effect, you have to see it more than once. It's one of those movies that just gets better every single time you see it. I was upset that this movie didn't see the sort of theatrical success that it really deserved, but I have a feeling that it may very well become a cult classic. Bill Pullman (who I normally can't stand) really threw me for a loop as Daryl Zero. I really can't recommend this film enough.  "},{"Title":"Interesting comedy/drama","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Zero Effect (1998) is a comedy/drama starring Bill Pullman, Ben Stiller, Ryan O'Neal, and Kim Dickens. Bill Pullman is Daryl Zero, a combination of Howard Hughes and Sherlock Holmes - an eccentric recluse with amazing deductive powers. Ben Stiller is Steve Arlo, his representative with the clients. The job is taking a toll on Steve's relationship with his girlfriend Jess. A high-powered man (O'Neal) is being blackmailed and, through Steve, hires Daryl Zero to find out who is blackmailing him and also to recover some keys that he lost. He believes the keys have given the blackmailer information he shouldn't have. Darryl works on the case hands-on, though distancing himself from the client, and becomes entangled with a paramedic (Dickens) whom he believes has something to do with the case.The acting is very good, particularly from Pullman and Stiller, and the script by writer/director Jake Kasdan is good, with some quirky twists. Unfortunately he also has his main character, the brilliant Daryl Zero, make a couple of stupid slips to facilitate the plot. No fair! All in all, Zero Effect is an odd film - it's not really a comedy, actually coming off more like a drama, and it's very low-key in its delivery, which is surprising with someone like Stiller in the cast. And it's quite absorbing, not at all a zero effect. "},{"Title":"Great Update and Remake","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great update and remake of the Sherlock Holmes adventure A Scandal in Bohemia. If Sherlock were around in contemporary times, this is what he would be like. I understand that the film was re-made for TV, with Alan Cumming and Julian Hirsch. It's hard to imagine that they'd recreate the chemistry between Bill Pulman and Ben Stiller. It may be however that the idea was taken up and run with two other shows - Monk and House.In any case it's a pity that now sequels were made. Perhaps, like so many other things, the stars went their different ways and the rights lapsed. A pity. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I got this movie very cheaply, and expected to just watch it once and then chuck it out. (I generally avoid Ben Stiller.) But it was a very pleasant surprise. Bill Pullman is great. The girl, Kim Dickens, is great. The story starts off as obvious comedy, but in the course of the movie things get more and more serious, and other than the funny premise about the reclusive detective with the ridiculously encyclopedic knowledge, it really isn't a comedy. The story is engrossing, and you grow to care for the characters. Even Stiller's situation, and decisions, are understandable and believable.Pullman and Dickens' characters - Daryl Nick Zero and Gloria - had a great relationship developing. I really like the fact that, even though Gloria knew that Nick wasn't who he claimed to be, she still knew that he was being honest in his feelings for her. She never doubted that. That's a kind of understanding that you rarely see in movie situations like that. They always tend to make a big deal out of the you were just faking your affection for me! kind of thing, and then spending a tediously long time sorting out the misunderstanding. Very refreshing to have it handled more maturely and insightfully here.I would have liked Pullman and Dickens' characters to have ended up together; there didn't really seem to be any pressing reason for their remaining apart. But the writer-director apparently didn't want the typical romantic cliché ending, and I can understand that (even though I disagree with the decision in this case).While not a superb masterpiece, this was a good and interesting movie, which will be worth watching again sometime. Definitely a keeper.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"droll","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great script.  If you like deadpan humor and character-driven films, give this one a try.  The relationship between Darryl and Steve is so touching.  (Well, yes, a trifle dysfunctional, but as another one of my favorite characters, Royal Tenenbaum, remarked, But then again, what isn't, these days?)  Darryl is brilliant and socially disabled.  Steve just loves to be needed.  And that marriage of his is never going to work! I just know Steve will end up working with Darryl again, just like Dr. Watson couldn't resist going back to Sherlock.  Visually, the movie is nothing special, but the pleasure is to listen to the lines.  Passion is the enemy of precision.  Objectivity and observation, or the two 'obs', as I call them.  Bill Pullman, Ben Stiller, Ryan O'Neal, and Kim Dickens are all great.  Nobody overacts.  And everybody stays in character.  Watch it just for the throwaway lines! "},{"Title":"A splendid film !!!","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A fine Sherlock Holme'sesque yarn for the 90's. Steve Arlo makes a fine Watson type to Pullmans master detective character. A film as enjoyable for its fine one liners and well crafted characters as its plot. The whole mix being finished off with a twist of the surreal.If David Lynch had ever tried to do a detective movie it would probably have turned out like the Zero Effect.  "},{"Title":"Exceptionally Tedious...","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jake Kasdan (I'm sure utilizing some of his father's influence) made this movie which plays like something out of a college freshman writing class.It's coy and aimless and has no dramatic high point, but worst of all Kasdan shows signs of exposure to Terry Gilliam's disease.  The disease (named after the director of the same name) requires directors to turn in long blathering movies at or beyond the two hour mark, when a more economical ninety minutes might have saved them.  These movies aim for lightness or brilliance (or both) but no one in the history of film has made a comedy that long which doesn't bore you to tears by mid-point. I couldn't believe the convolutions and tone/genre (sipping soda at a malt-shop ?@#$$??) shifts of this boring convoluted story.  I yanked the tape out of my vcr long after it should have ended and saw an equal amount of tape on the reels.  I WAS ONLY HALF WAY THROUGH!!!Do yourself a favor and quit before you get started! "},{"Title":"The most clever detective story to come by in ages.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the nicest surprises I've ever encountered.  What I thought would be a mildly enjoyable indie flick, turned out to be the most insightful film of the year.  It has been some time since I've seen a film that captures every aspect of it's characters so well.  There are some scenes in this movie where I feel have stumbled into the most intimate parts of some of the most interesting people I could ever hope to meet.  This film allows me to go to places in these brilliant peoples life and observe what they are like.  Bravo. "}{"Title":"Offbeat, intelligent character study","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When we first meet Daryl Zero  (Bill Pullman), the brilliant Nero Wolfe-esque private detective at  the heart of Zero Effect, he is jumping on the top of his bed singing a horrible rendition of yet another of his horrible homespun country songs. it's good, really good, his faithful assistant and footman Steve Arlo(Ben Stiller) says. Despite Daryl Zero's genius, he can't see through this lie. Arlo is bringing before his reclusive, paranoid employer another difficult case, this one involving a millionaire businessman, a lost set of keys, blackmail, and a treasure trove of family secrets.For some reason, Zero decides to solve the case personally, and more importantly, outside his well-guarded home. In the process of discovering clues and evidence, he meets a girl. A very special girl, in fact, who is as good at intuiting him as vice versa. To give away too much would spoil the movie; suffice to say she is central to both plot and character development.The film is written and directed by Jake Kasdan, and it's an auspicious debut. It's very well-written, with a complicated but never overwhelming mystery as its narrative drive. The characters are three dimensional and unpredictable. By the end of the movie, you really care about these characters. Watch also for a very good comic performance by Ben Stiller. It won't get all the attention, but it's sly and understated. "},{"Title":"Two performances not to be missed.","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Stiller and Bill Pullman give great performances in this offbeat comedy  about a reclusive yet brilliant detective and his front man who tackle only  the most difficult cases.  Pullman plays a detective that never meets his  client face to face.  He is a master of disguise and a very paranoid human  being.  Stiller is excellent as the front man who interviews the client and  does the legwork for Detective Zero.  He is torn between his loyalty to  Zero and his love for his girlfriend.  Pay attention or you will miss a  clue to the mystery. "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller Disappoints/ Story Lacks Power","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie convinced me that Ben Stiller (a.k.a the white Samuel L. Jackson nowadays - in reference to his numerous movie roles) needs to go to acting school.  It's not the fact that Ben Stiller is necessarily a bad actor, it's just that I don't think he's taken the time to really learn how to perform on the big screen in starring roles.  Stiller's comic genius goes undisputed, and his potential as a director is intriguing.  However, as was painfully apparent in the Zero Effect, Stiller's acting skills need to be refined.  The script was witty, and Bill Pullman was a definite bright spot, but quite frankly the ending sucked.  There is no way to softly describe an ending as boring and cheesy as that of the Zero Effect.  The melodrama that is forcibly injected into the movie (a.k.a Pullman's love interest) is undesired and disruptive.  Although this film is worth your 3 dollars (Pullman is worth $2.75 of it himself), it lacks the power and spirit that is essential to a quality film.   "},{"Title":"Student Project","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I like mysteries because they engage the reader and writer in a battle of wits, where the reader's mind is always trying to be ahead of the narrative. Its the nearest thing to living in the future. It can be powerful stuff in the hands of an intelligent filmmaker.So...student project what do you have to do to Sherlock Holmes to make him work in a modern film context? Need to preserve the deduction, reclusiveness, probably the drugtaking, bachelorhood and of course establish a Watson of some type.Here we have young Kasden's solution. The engagement here is not so much with guessing the story -- all is revealed very early. Instead the game is watching a movie that likely could have been great, and superimposing your own solutions to make it better.Stiller and Pullman are good enough choices. But we see little of Zero's talent. Most of what we see is ordinary snooping. His haunted ruminations don't seem connected to the rest of him. This needed some work. Stiller's character too -- we have no idea why he is indispensable. Probably the one element of Watson that should have been kept is his daftness sometime prompting insights.But so much in this genre is defined not by characters entering a situation, but characters who are defined by a situation -- and the situation here isn't very interesting. It has some promise, with a couple false conclusions, but no red herrings. Ryan O'Neal reminds of William Shatner. Horrible. And our mastermind female never charms, never seems intelligent. Dickens just cannot project that magic illusion of manipulating the environment according to some inscrutable plan.I think this young filmmaker has some clever general notions about what works, but he seems to lack the talent or intuition to really make those notions sing.  "},{"Title":"Had No Effect on Me","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this and hoped it might be a cool indie movie that I missed and no one ever heard of. There's a reason no one's ever heard of it, it kinda sucks. No it definitely sucks. A lot of the other comments and reviews here might lead you to believe you're going to see an intelligent, plot-twisting detective story. Well, the plot just tries to be intelligent by being so complicated the viewer needs to keep notes to follow the twists. Stupid romantic subplot and a scooby-doo ending.  "},{"Title":"Zero Effect Is True Buried Treasure","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Continuing my look back on three Buried Treasures from the late 1990s, let's review 1998. That was the year of Steven Spielberg's WWII drama, Saving Private Ryan. Why it lost the Best Picture Oscar to the lightweight British comedy Shakespeare In Love remains one of the greatest mysteries in Oscar history. While Saving Private Ryan was the motion picture that year, 1998 was also the year of Roberto Benigni's Life Is Beautiful, John Travolta's star turn (a spot-on Bill Clinton impersonation) in Mike Nichol's Primary Colors, and director Terrence Malick's triumphant return with The Thin Blue Line. But there was also a little-seen gem called Zero Effect. Directed by Jake Kasdan (son of director Lawrence), Zero Effect tells the story of Daryl Zero (Bill Pullman), supposedly the world's most private detective. In fact, Zero is so private he won't even meet with his clients. Instead, he sends his assistant Steve Arlo (Ben Stiller) to meet with them, so that he can, in turn, investigate his clients without their knowing who he is. Seems so logical, I wonder why private eyes don't do this in real life. Zero also has a passion for jumping on his bed playing hard rock air guitar.Now I know what you're thinking. Jumping on bed, assistant played by Ben Stiller, strange method of investigation. This has gotta be an offbeat comedy, right? Well, not really. I found the personality quirks (such as jumping on his bed) to be annoying, Stiller plays his role straight, and the very undercover method of investigation works like a charm (at least on screen, if not in real life). No, Zero Effect actually happens to be one of the most interesting mysteries I've ever seen on screen.The plot concerns millionaire businessman Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal) who hires Zero to find out who is blackmailing him for his money. The blackmailer turns out to be Gloria Sullivan (Kim Dickens), a young EMT who, logically, should have no personal or social connection to Stark. But Zero refuses to turn her in until he understands why on earth she's blackmailing a local businessman. In the process of the investigation (and remember, nobody knows who Daryl Zero is), he begins to fall for her romantically. As the plot continues to unfold, we learn of a shocking backstory involving the millionaire and the EMT. Meanwhile, the romantic entanglement (secondary though it may be to the story) is genuine and heartfelt. Could Gloria be the one to finally tame the great Daryl Zero? Yes, Zero Effect is a bit offbeat, but again the screenplay is alluring, the script is tight (like something David Mamet might have written, albeit without his trademark stilted dialogue), and the acting is first rate &#x96; particularly Kim Dickens as Gloria, the EMT. This was her first major starring role, and she continues to be the best character actress nobody has ever heard of. Need proof? Watch her as the police detective in last year's Gone Girl, or as Mrs. Boswell in 2009's The Blind Side. Dickens continues to fly under the proverbial radar while nailing all her roles, no matter how small.Was Zero Effect a masterpiece? No, but it certainly deserved better than it got. While critics generally loved it, Zero Effect garnered slim box office. Go back and look for this one. You'll be glad you did. Zero Effect is my Buried Treasure for this month. "},{"Title":"Bill Pullman, greatest P.I. in the world, finds Ryan O'Neal's keys, himself and love with Kim Dickens","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jake Kasdan wrote and directed Zero Effect. It's a brilliant piece of work, fashioned on a neo-noir story in a Sherlock Holmes-Dr. Watson frame. It's beautifully balanced among comedy, mystery and romance. Bill Pullman pulls you in and pulls it off in his uniquely engaging way. Few actors could being this character to life as he has. Ben Stiller is his loyal assistant whose love life is being interrupted by Pullman's quirks. Slight, pixie-ish and determined Kim Dickens charms Pullman and us.Pullman, who is quite anti-social, advertises himself as the greatest P.I. in the world. Stiller is his front man and agent who sells his boss to prospective clients. Ryan O'Neal, who has lost his keys including a key to a safety-deposit box, is being blackmailed and becomes Pullman's client.The comic element occurs more in the first part of the film, after which the detective case takes center stage, entangled with the growing attraction between Pullman and Dickens.Surprise is a dominant feature of the story. It's the surprise of discovering who the characters are because we really do not know what to make of them at first and for some time. Irony is another feature as Pullman's how-to-be-a-detective memoir runs into real-life complications.This is a charming movie. "},{"Title":"Extremely enjoyable movie worth watching...","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Zero Effect is a movie that when you are done watching it, you will be hard-pressed to come up with a parallel film to compare it to. It truly is unique. Its blend of comedy, crime and drama is outstanding.For people who like unusual characters, the main character, Daryl Zero, is detached from much of life but is a brilliant private investigator. For those of you who may be curious about what is really going on with him, I would say that he could be diagnosed with Schizoid Personality Disorder (though he also has some Obsessive Compulsive Disorder traits).There are plenty of twists and turns throughout the film, many of which are totally unexpected. The acting is very well done and the script seems to move the story along at a nice pace.I believe the opening ten minutes may be one of the best lead-ins to introduce a character.As I write this, I think the only film that I can come up with that may be similar is Kiss, Kiss, Bang, Bang. If you enjoyed Zero Effect you will likely enjoy Kiss, Kiss, Bang, Bang as well. "},{"Title":"The world's most private detective","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a rather obscure and cultish film from Jake Kasdan (son of Lawrence Kasdan). Bill Pullman is 'the world's greatest detective' Daryl Zero. The plot is loosely based on the Sherlock Holmes story 'A Scandal in Bohemia.'Zero besides being a great detective is quirky and a misanthrope. He never meets or has direct contact with his clients. Instead he leaves it to his put upon assistant, Steve Arlo (Ben Stiller).Zero and Arlo are hired by a millionaire Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal) who has lost the key to a safe deposit box and is being blackmailed by an unknown person who forces him to follow elaborate instructions to deliver the cash payments.From early on in the film you see Zero is very much a combination of Sherlock and Mycroft Holmes as well as Nero Wolfe. Pullman delivers an intense and yet distant performance very much in keeping with his character. Ben Stiller in an early role plays the everyman role, dedicated to and yet also frustrated by Zero.The film is small scale and enjoyable which depends on its actors to deliver the goods. Jake Kasdan never gets the pacing entirely right and its debt to Conan Doyle is rather obvious. "},{"Title":"Autistic Trauma Love Story","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Witty, well written and well done. One of Ben Stiller's best (Mystery Men) performances, and I think Bill Pullman's best to date. Kim Dickens though, she really stole the show as far as I'm concerned. A really moving performance, strong, yet fragile, beguilingly mysterious. The narrative is interesting and amusing, not too studious or too slapstick. Cinematographically nicely done, well shot and apparently accurate geographically, seemed to capture the Northwestern feeling. The elephant in the room, that no one mentions, is that both main characters seem to be suffering from Asberger's Syndrome (or something similar), which can cause savant like abilities to process data, or observations. How else could they deduce what they did. So to me this is an Autistic Love Story. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly One of My Favorites","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When told about this film, you wonder how a crime thriller starring Ben Stiller and Bill Pullman could be any good. It was to my surprise to find that this film is exceptionally entertaining. Both Bill and Ben bring excellent performances, making their characters come to life. The story is easy to analyze but still intriguing to follow. It is a unique crime film, with a modest conclusion. For some reason I cannot scrutinize this film on any account, for I enjoyed it that much. I am sure that gaggles of others would find some fault in the film, but in my case I find no fault. In conclusion, I enjoyed the acting, story, filming style, etc. No complaints for this convivial film experience. "},{"Title":"All crime is passionate.","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charming, Quirky, and Modern Retelling of Sherlock Holmes. A Reincarnation of one Daryl Zero, The World's Most Private Detective. Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller are the Homes and Watson of this Bizarre Cult Favorite that was a Surprise from First Time Director/Writer Jake Kasdan.The Dialog, or the Words are what Moves this Rather Complex Story from A to B. The Best Stuff comes from the Voice Overs and Explanations that Define the Detective and His Methods. The Performances from the Main Actors are also Worthy and Effective. The Story Itself maybe too Complicated by a Half and the Film may be just a Little too Long for its Own Zeitgeist, but it is Better by Far than a Lot of so called Hip Comedies and Manages to Combine Wit and Personality to take the Movie on an Offbeat Path and Therein Lies the Appeal.It is Character Driven to Say the Least and the Mystery is kind of a Letdown in the End but the Road Taken is Filled with a Number of Pit Stops that are Both Intriguing and Intellectual Enough to make this a Sleeper Worthy of a Watch, and Maybe Even at this Late Date, A Sequel. "},{"Title":"Why can't Pullman and Stiller do this more often?","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The big budget films that Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller get leave me unimpressed. The films a lark, but who are these guys? Can they act? Given an interesting script and a good director, Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller certainly can act.This is no comedy, although there are moments where you will laugh.This is not a derivative version of a Sherlock Holmes story, although there are interesting comparisons.I had not heard of this movie when I bought a VHS copy in a close-out bin. Since then, I have watched it every few years. It is the best work I have seen them do. "},{"Title":"The Corrodium Three Deduction","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" To Sherlock Holmes, she is always 'the woman'. I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind. And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory. - A Scandal in BohemiaJake Kasdan directs Zero Effect, an excellent but little-seen film which relocates Arthur Conan Doyle's now-iconic Sherlock Holmes to contemporary United States. The film's narrative is loosely based on A Scandal in Bohemia, an early Holmes classic.The plot? Bill Pullman plays Darryl Zero, a socially inept private detective who lives a secluded existence, locked away in the high-tech apartment from which he solves cases from afar, often without ever leaving his home. As he is The World's Greatest Detective, most of Zero's job offers come to him from high-flying corporate types, who pay well and are willing to forgive the detective for his many eccentricities. Meanwhile, in his private life, Zero's a slob, recluse, seems to be nursing some deep scars and relies on assistant Steve Arlo, played by Ben Stiller, to act as a continuous middle man. Arlo does all of Zero's legwork, sets up meetings, interviews and attends events on Zero's behalf. Zero's philosophy is to have zero effect, to remain outside the world, such that there is no feedback, no contamination, no trace effects. He solves crimes from above, a distance, through sheer mental computation, research, intellect and study, and intervenes directly, steps into the petri dish, only via his physical avatar, Arlo. As Arlo says to a prospective client Zero never meets any of his clients. He doesn't speak with them or for that matter communicate in any direct fashion. He never even leaves the house. This modus operandi breaks down when Zero is pulled into a blackmail case which piques his interest. As such he travels to LA &#x96; a city romantically associated with private detectives &#x96; and sets about investigating. Hilariously, the case revolves something as trivial as a set of lost keys. But the mystery isn't important, and the film seems more interested in functioning as a character study. In this regard Zero meets a blackmailer called Gloria Sullivan, who intrigues the great detective. As Zero has zero social life, no social skills and is awkward around women, he finds approaching Gloria unsettling. She's based on Irene Adler from Doyle's A Scandal in Bohemia, both clever women with a fondness for blackmailing powerful men.At its best, Zero Effect functions as a love story about a damaged couple who struggle to connect. Take, for example, a scene in which Zero's painfully uncomfortable around Gloria; he all but explodes when she briefly touches him. Elsewhere the film flips several Sherlock Holmes conventions, with Zero (rather than Watson) documenting his methods himself via voice-overs and a combative relationship between Zero and his sidekick, Arlo, who can't stand the eccentric detective at all. There are other changes - Zero does amphetamines whilst Holmes did cocaine, Zero jams on acoustic guitars whilst Holmes did violins and Zero taps away at computers whilst Holmes prowled bookcases and ledgers &#x96; but these are all minor.This was Kasdan's debut as a director, so aesthetically the film's a bit shaky. A lovably weird performance by Pullman, who was making a number of neo-noirs and interesting films during this period (Lynch's Lost Highway, Wenders' End of Violence etc), makes up for this. The script was written by the young Kasdan himself (roughly 22 years old), and is well written, particularly Zero's noirish monologues.8.5/10 &#x96; See another excellent Holmes film, They Might be Giants. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"I met Bill Pullman while he was filming this","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Filmed in Portland, Jake Kasdan's Zero Effect casts Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller as detectives investigating who is blackmailing Ryan O'Neal's character...but things aren't quite what they seem. It's a quirky movie, with some really interesting scenes of taking the bus back and forth. Not a great movie, but I liked it. I actually got Pullman's autograph during the filming. One of the sets was located not far from my school, so some of the other students and I got Pullman's autograph. He was a really nice guy.Like I said, it's not a masterpiece or anything, but I thought that it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Nifty Witty Character Play","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a nifty little character study, character play, if you like.The overall plot is simple enough a recluse is great detective, and is hired to find out two things where a set of keys is and who is blackmailing someone. Ben Stiller plays his public face, downplaying his usual uncomfortable shtick some here.Bill Pullman plays Daryl Zero, the detective, and does so as he often does in his character roles -- very well. And, Kim Pickens -- very good in a piquant role -- also has an important part of the plot, particularly as some one Zero falls in love with. Ryan O'Neal has a small part, which he does fine enough, as the client.The movie is laid back and some might be turned off by that, since it takes it time and doesn't try to do too much. But, to me, given I liked the characters and all, it works for me. Nice ending too. "},{"Title":"Where's the Planetarium?","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I couldn't find the planetarium in the Movie. I saw it on TV so I can't back it up to check the name, but it was something like MacRidges or MacFadridge, Does anyone know if there is really such a planetarium or did they make up the name? It would seem silly to do so. I did enjoy the movie, and to me too it seemed a precursor of Monk. I also don't think we'll ever get bored with the Holmes and Watson combination theme either. Overall a great whodunit with plenty of plot twists and foreshadowing. Ben Stiller was great as usual in his supporting role. I wouldn't mind seeing a Zero 2 myself. I was impressed with the directing and also the photography in this movie. It was clear, easy to see, and therefore easier to follow the plot. "},{"Title":"Two Different Pictures","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am with those of the posters who see this as two different pictures. The opening scenes, and the casting of Ben Stiller, lead the viewer to expect a raucous comedy. But it isn't, and it probably wouldn't have been a good one. In any case, Darryl Zero turns out to be anything but a goofy, off-the-wall, comic detective. And therein lies the point.The 'second picture' is the really good one. It consists of a series of dialogs between two of the characters, in which a tremendous, touching intimacy comes to be. The plot twists are not neutral, but actually touch upon and expand the growing rapport. These are wonderfully intense scenes that are what give the movie its value. The ending is heartbreaking. "},{"Title":"Zero is a perfect 10","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frankly I loved this movie, which is kind of an update of the classic eccentric genius, Sherlock Holmes. Bill Pullman plays a nerdy bachelor (Darrel Zero) who is The greatest private eye in the world and Ben Stiller is his somewhat put upon assistant. Like Holmes, Zero has uncanny investigative skills, and is given to pithy maxims and asides regarding how he does his work. Ryan O'Neal plays an unlikeable tycoon (Stark) with a secret or two, and who hires Zero to help him out with his problem, which revolves around the loss of a safe deposit box key and blackmail. The rest of the story is an entertaining series of plot twists and turns. The gentle and less than heavy handed humor mixes well with the inevitable skullduggery that ensues. The ending is such that you rather hope for a sequel, which unfortunately never materialized. An under-appreciated gem. "},{"Title":"The Sherlock Holmes angle","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Daryl Zero character is an obvious parody of Sherlock Holmes, with Steve Arlo as an obvious Watson. The eccentric genius worshiped in the 19th century is of course totally insane in a late 20th century setting &#150; the more as 'Watson's bourgeois virtues are accentuated. The plot is heavily based on the Holmes story 'A Scandal in Bohemia'. Actually you can identify most of the film's character from the short story, as well as the main conflicts &#150; though the father-daughter aspect is original. 'Zero Effect' might be seen as an example of 'post-modernism' in film, with the many levels of references to literature, genre and popular culture. Knowledge of the sources of intertextuality makes the film the more enjoyable. If you love the Works of the Coen brothers, chances are you'll love this one too. "}{"Title":"great movie, glad i watched it","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" i really wasn't expecting much out of this movie initially. didn't think a movie about a half whacked detective would be anything out of the ordinary. but the movie turned out to be just the opposite. now it isn't a thriller, but it moves along at a calm steady pace, and at no point does it seem to drag or lose momentum. it brought one small surprise after another in the storyline that kept it entertaining throughout. most unpredictable and thats what i liked about it. i also found the investigations and methods of the detective very interesting. if you've read and enjoyed Sherlock Holmes stories, you're definitely gonna like this film. the acting is convincing, the actors blend into their roles perfectly. and you cant help but immerse yourself in the story after the first few minutes. it was almost like reading a book - very relaxed air about the whole movie that fitted the storyline perfectly. this is something you could definitely watch with the rest of the family and children. left me smiling and happy. "},{"Title":"The true mark of successful celluloid work","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" is whether it can withstand a subsequent viewing. Zero Efect does. The only tragedy concerning this uniquely styled mystery will be if its Director (Jake Kasden) and scriptwriters never produce a sequel.In TV reviews this film is accurately billed as a - wickedly quirky detective comedy thriller. It is safe to say the old cliché they-don't-make-them-like-that-anymore applies, and in truth, they probably never made them like this beforehand either! The one resemblance to other filmmakers work is that there is a Coen-esquire; vibe to it. A true compliment indeed.Usually, American movies often high on gloss, glitter and noise lack the essential ingredient that compels viewers to become completely engrossed that of depth. Or more precisely, the hook is depth and complexity. Here, offbeat quirkiness provides the humour. A non-format story pans out to provide novelty. A moderately paced detective story throws up one surprising twist after another, backed musically where appropriate to support the flawlessly acted evolution of an ever-deepening plot. All of which combine to unravel a charming, cogent mystery.The problem this finely balanced inventive film creates is that by comparison it brings home the paucity of run-of-the-mill who-dun-its. Given the summary above Zero Effect, and films of this ilk, may prove more suited to European than American audiences. Films that make the viewer do some work ultimately tend to be the most absorbing and successful (e.g. recall - The Usual Suspects).The five central characters each achieve the professional actors quest of being thoroughly and seamlessly believable, subtly injecting humour, pathos, unpredictability and sensitivity. You can easily empathise with them as their characterisations play out. Kasden's film excels as what must be the definitive comical mystery in all respects, perhaps setting the benchmark for future detective films to surpass.~ "},{"Title":"An Indie Gem!","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This small film is a work of art - a low budget film, with pitch perfect performances from a magnificent supporting cast. Bill Pullman is wonderful as the eccentric, but brilliant Darryl Zero, a man who can solve any problem but is incapable of forming a meaningful human relationship. The sly humour, the inspired casting of Ryan O'Neal and Ben Stiller in supporting roles, and the intricate, surprising script make this a must see movies for those who are desperate to see an intelligent film in the sea of dross that Hollywood has been offering up in the past 4 years. See it now - if only for one of the most poignant love scenes you will ever see committed to celluloid! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Zero Effect is one of those movies where the more times you watch it the better it becomes. The subtle character driven humor and smart writing set it apart from other movies. When most movies need a gag or physical humor to make me laugh out loud, Zero Effect makes me laugh by the characters acting like themselves. Not by telling jokes but acting like unique quirky individuals trying to go through their lives. The detective genre has been done before, but it has never seen the likes of Darryl Zero, who is the ultimate anti-hero. He prefers to do all his work from his highly secured apartment, and not even deal with people at all. His struggle to say what he thinks is normal is one of the running jokes of the movie. This movie is a gem that most people haven't heard of, if you have the chance to see it I recommend you do. 10/10  "},{"Title":"great movie....watch it again","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've read some of the comments about this movie and I must say that if you didn't like it,watch it again. The first time I saw it i liked it..not loved. the next time I was hooked. This movie is the rarest of flicks, in the fact that it holds you attention and gets you more involved each time you watch it. I personally like slice of life type movies. Movies that let you watch a persons life and all their weird character traits that make them unique from every other human being. If you're looking for a Hollywood type ending or a car chase scene, this is not the movie for you. If your looking for a movie that is smart, funny and slowly weaves a plot that is interesting, you should check this out. I love the fact that this dosen't fall into any particular genre of film. So people have to use the term quirky to describe it. It is what it is. A cool film that you don't have to lower your IQ to watch. I wish they're were more of em....  "},{"Title":"What is Daryl Zero up to these days?","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Because somehow he actually grew on me, and now I really care about him.The key to enjoying this film is to go into it without hyped-up expectations. I was not really looking forward to viewing it because I am an aficionado of detective fiction, and somewhat a purist. I don't care for films that make fun of a genre I take seriously. Well I guess I needed to lighten up.As is often true with great storytelling, this film is at once entirely derivative and utterly innovative. It is an example of an author fashioning something genuinely original from recurring dramatic elements employed ceaselessly since the inception of the genre. It is constructed from a thousand clichés, broken down into component parts, and reassembled into a subtly persuasive composition which reveals the director's cultural perspective on timeless human themes.The plot is not as intricate as a purist would oblige, but complicated enough to form the basis of a complex interaction between the characters, and the necessary evolution of their relations. The 'case' is merely a diagram. Our detective's real inquiry delves into the naked human soul, but is played out against a backdrop of impossibly intuitive and half-explained factual deductions &#150; child's play for the world's greatest detective.Zero's most incisive observation was overlooked by all of the major participants in the field the greatest mysteries lie within the self.A. Conan Doyle should receive 'story by' credit for this work. Nonetheless, if by accident or by prodigal conception, Kasdan has achieved a valid literary contribution to the detective genre, and Bill Pullman has realized a sort of perfection in the execution of the character.I loved every minute of this film. I hope that Daryl Zero is well, writing folksy music, locked in his penthouse, perhaps having a Tab, and solving cases at his obsolete micro-fiche reader. Most of all I hope to hear more about his various and fascinating exploits.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best...","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Since I am a big Bill Pullman fan, I am biased in saying that this is definitely one of his best film roles to date! I think if more people had given this film a chance, it would have been more popular and maybe made a little more money at the box office, but, what are you gonna do. I took a chance seeing this film, since I don't usually watch private eye/mystery movies, and I was pleasantly surprised! The storyline is what totally sucked me in; like Twelve Monkeys, it's one of those films you do have to watch all the way through to get it. Awesome film, awesome actor! "},{"Title":"Something different","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was nice to see Stiller in a different roll , more of the logical serious type. The scene with Pullman changing his reversible jacket in slow-motion had me on the floor along with Hubert huberson or whoever that fake identify was at the airline check in counter. Decent movie and a better change of pace.  "},{"Title":"AN intelligent comedy","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is by far one of the best movies i have ever seen. It has its own unique blend of comedy and drama. THe film starts off with Ben Stiller taking in a proposal from Gregory Stark, a nervous buiseness man who is being blackmailed, he then hires the eccentric Darryl Zero (Bill Pullman) to find out who the blackmailer is and stop him. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Criminally Underappreciated","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If there was ever a movie that should have started a wonderfully rich (albeit modest) franchise, this should have been it. Pullman and Stiller were wonderful. Although they are quite different, Zero could have easily been described using the later Adrian Monk's moniker The Defective Detective.  Every so often when I re-watch this movie, I wish for the sequels that should have come. Kasdan's instincts were right throughout and it's a shame this movie didn't get the following it so richly deserved. If you haven't seen it, hunt a copy up ASAP. "}{"Title":"Mayonnaise Man Takes the Cake","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Usually just looking at mayonnaise man (Bill Pullman) makes me yawn.  But, here he was funny, sexy, and vulnerable.  Ben Stiller's role was actually the tedious one.I highly recommend this movie for something good and out-of-the ordinary. "},{"Title":"Great fun, and totally undervalued movie","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very well-done modern-day twist on the classic Sherlock Holmes tale; with excellent performances by Bill Pullman, Ben Stiller, and Kim Dickens.<Spoiler Warning>My fav bit is when Pullman's character states in narration that he is totally clinical and devoid of emotion in his approach to a case. We then cut to see him having a massive temper tantrum on the scene of the crime.  I love little spins like that. "},{"Title":"A fun anti-Sherlock Holmes detective story","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That is, the PI in this movie is the direct opposite of Sherlock Holmes.  This movie is about a case and its very strange investigator, Darryl Zero.  Zero is a brilliant, but extremely flaky private investigator who works with a somewhat reluctant lawyer who acts as an assistant.  The problem he confronts in this story is to find the lost keys of a very rich client.  Naturally, there is more to the case then a bunch of keys.  And the keys turn up ... well, where is anyone likely to lose their keys?Once you accept the premise of this film you are carried along quite nicely.  The acting is good and the characters are interesting and even believable.  If you have ever enjoyed detective novels, you will recognize and enjoy the simple pleasures that are found in these stories. "},{"Title":"better than most, but far from his father's best","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A fairly interesting film, certainly worth watching.  I don't think it was as smart as it pretended to be, however.  In some ways Zero was more like Mr. Gadget than Sherlock Holmes. The cliches and words of wisdom/advice mouthed by Zero and Sullivan were nearly all second rate.  I also wasn't terribly impressed with pieces of Stiller's performance.  I found him inappropriately arrogant and disrespectful in some scenes. ***Spoiler***But then again, most of those scenes involved the client, Stark, who was a pretty despicable guy.  ***End of Spoiler** Reading reviews here, I had hoped this would be an overlooked gem on par with Donnie Darko.  It is not.  Having said that, the woman playing Sullivan delivered an outstanding, consistent, ultimately moving performance, Pullman was solid and often funny, and I never grew tired of the movie.  Probably a 7 to 7.5 out of ten. Not in the same hemisphere as Kasdan Sr.'s Grand Canyon or The Big Chill, but we will see where the kid goes from here.  "},{"Title":"THE CASE OF THE WOEFULLY UNDERVALUED FILM!!!","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm genuinely shocked to see quite a modest rating for a film I consider to be one of the most enjoyable and captivating to come out of Hollywood in recent years.  ZERO EFFECT is played and directed to perfection to produce a polished, unique and subtle comedy which is a joy to behold. Although the film is crammed full of positives, from director JAKE KASDAN through to brilliant supporting performances from BEN STILLER & RYAN O'NEILL, it's the towering turn by BILL PULLMAN as eccentric and asocial super detective DARYL ZERO which really gives this film that something extra special!This little gem gets my highest possible recommendation and I urge anyone who enjoys their comedy dark and restrained to go see this film!! 10/10!  "},{"Title":"More than a detective comedy","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this unpretentious movie! Bill Pullman was great. I love movies that work on character building like this one, particularly when the character is so quirk. The movie has a few holes, which can only be digested by watching it twice or by watching the director's comments. The scene at the planetary for example was not clear to me at first -- the idea of the similitude between Gloria and her mother didn't show up clearly despite the good acting. Later I could get it 100% and found it to be nice. Well, that's why I suppose there are so many junk movies out there nobody takes risks, preferring the wasted but safe formulas. In this movie the director took risks, and he mostly succeeded at it. I liked so much the scene in the ice cream parlor by the way, leading to the love scene sensitive (despite the comic side of the movie), nice acted, and tastefully directed, all complemented by an interesting use of music score. "},{"Title":"The world's most private private detective","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ever see The Big Chill? Remember that scene at the party after Alex's funeral where the little boy asks Tom Berenger for his autograph? That little guy grew up to be Jake Kasdan, who wrote and directed The Zero Effect, the best movie no one's ever seen. Kasdan has since gone on to direct episodes of the fabulous cult show Freaks and Geeks. The Zero Effect is a work of comic genius and has the added bonus of being a titilating mystery. The soundtrack is killer and Bill Pullman is the funniest he's been since Ruthless People.Ben Stiller is very effective as the lawyer Steve Arlo, without whom Daryl Zero could not be the greatest, strangest detective since Sherlock Holmes. The movie is a study in the comically mundane and absurd. Paranoid, twitchy and pilled-up, Daryl is the antithesis of all the investigators seen in movies and on tv.The Zero Effect is also surprisingly moving. Zero's monologue in the ice cream shop to Gloria (Kim Dickens) marks a turning point in the film from zany mystery to heartwrenching drama. The introverted investigator's moving account of his childhood is so carefully worded and deliberately revealing that it adds a completely new and unsuspected dimension to the character. The relationship between Arlo and Zero is also one of the greatest depictions of a working friendship. Arlo's faithful dedication to Zero is admirable; no one else could possibly understand or appreciate a complex creature that is Daryl Zero.Zero's various disguises and corresponding fake driver's licenses are worth the price of the DVD, but blink and you will miss the hiliarious hairstyles in the photos. The airport phone booth conversation between our hermit detective and the irritated lawyer is also a finely crafted scene, both touching and inane.The film begs for a sequel. Daryl Zero is one of the finest and most compelling American film characters to come around in a while and his adventures MUST continue in some shape or form. We can only hope Jake Kasdan has more adventures of Daryl Zero filed away somewhere in his wildly creative, genius mind. 10/10  "},{"Title":"one of the great underrated films of the 90s","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this film when it was originally released, having to go into central London because there were only a handful of films showing it. No-one had heard of it, but it had received a good review from a magazine I trusted. At the time I thought it was good, but nothing too special. A few years on, however, and I've had to revise my opinion. The fact that nobody knows about it, the fact the nobody has seen it, is a huge tragedy, since it's a virtually flawless film. The chemistry between each actor is impeccable, the dialogue is fluid and natural, the pace is spot-on. And the message is simple but effective. I can understand why some people could be underwhelmed by it, but to me it'll happily sit in my top ten films. "},{"Title":"stylized noir homage","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most good actors occasionally find themselves in a role so superbly suited to their physical appearance and mannerisms that you can't tell they are performing. Darryl Zero is such a role. BIll pullman turns in the performance of his career running through a dazzling array of emotions while appearing deadpan.This homage to detective flicks of the 40s and 50s is smart, funny, touching, and sad. I can't understand why this movie wasn't a hit.  Catch it from time to time on Bravo or the sundance channel.   "},{"Title":"Great movie; see it!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie greatly.Excellent writing and performances.  Great to see Ryan O'Neal taking a middling role and breathing real life into it.If you like edgy detective mystery and smallish-town, real-world noir, see this movie!  Nicely handled romantic angle; it communicated real feeling.Particularly enjoyed the soundtrack in this film.  Observe it carefully; a number of priceless moments where the filmmakers used incidental music to obtain lovely bittersweet and comedic timing effects.  "}{"Title":"stylized noir homage","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most good actors occasionally find themselves in a role so superbly suited to their physical appearance and mannerisms that you can't tell they are performing. Darryl Zero is such a role. BIll pullman turns in the performance of his career running through a dazzling array of emotions while appearing deadpan.This homage to detective flicks of the 40s and 50s is smart, funny, touching, and sad. I can't understand why this movie wasn't a hit.  Catch it from time to time on Bravo or the sundance channel.   "},{"Title":"enigmatic, haunting, hilarious","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bill Pullman is perfectly cast as Zero here - he must surely be one of the most  intelligent actors of his generation. Can you imagine, say, Ben Affleck eventrying to bring off this version of exaggerated eccentricity masking deepvulnerabilities in his character? (Darryl Zero is anything but an anti-hero -  maybe we should term him a post-protagonist!) The presumptive whodunit inthis story is really just the maguffin for the Mystery Dance we hear about in the  song playing under the opening credits Romance sneaks up and pulls the rugout from under the stratospheric and adolescent disdain Zero has for the limited  intellect and unlimited foibles of ordinary people. And by the time Ben Stiller  gets to conk us on the head with a plaintive There's no GOOD guys... or BADguys ... there's just ... a bunch of GUYS! we aren't offended by what in another  context could be a hopeless platitude. Jake Kasdan's directorial debut would be  a career-capping gem for most of the hacks churning out the flood of specialeffects trash from Hollywood these days. Give me the Zero Effect any day! "},{"Title":"so old it's new","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The delightfully off-center characters and the twisting storyline of Zero Effect are so enchanting that only two minutes before the movie ended did I realize why there was such an undertow of familiarity to it -- it's a re-make of the first Sherlock Holmes short story, A Scandal in Bohemia. As Daryl Zero reflected aloud about the young woman he'd fallen for it dawned on me that these were the exact words Holmes used to describe Irene Adler. Bill Pullman's performance is, to me, the best of his career. His portrayal is the only modernized Holmes that is realistic; Nicole Williamson's in The Seven Percent Solution was tedious, Michael Caine's in Without A Clue was hilarious but without substance. Making Pullman's Daryl Zero seem almost normal is the surreal juxtapositon of Ben Stiller's zestful nebbish against Ryan O'Neal's cold-blooded reptile. Kim Dickens' provides a timeless version of Irene Adler -- sturdy, pleasant, forthright, and ordinary in the way that people with whom geniuses fall in love are ordinary. The writing is a rare example of how the spirit of a character can be re-embodied in modern times without reference to its original socio-cultural milieu (no small task). Kasdan's Zero is intense but he does not smoke a pipe or wear a deer-stalker's cap nor does he occasionally use cocaine; his Watson is indistinguishable from the moral cllimate of his time but without reference to Victorian values. The direction is appropriately simple and tight. Too bad it did poorly at the box office, but Zero Effect will no doubt quickly become a cult classic.Mary Cadney Oklahoma City "},{"Title":"A lovely film.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film again and here is what I noticed the script is strong, the performances good, the direction tight. The movie is, in essence, technically perfect. It doesn't attempt to overstep it's bounds or do anything out of the ordinary. No tricks. It just stands on it's own merits. I heartily recommend this movie. Frankly, I will watch anything Bill Pullman does. He is just great. "},{"Title":"watch it","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good acting, good atmosphere, interesting plot.  Will be slow for you action buffs, but for those who enjoy a mystery and appreciate subtle humor, you'll definitely enjoy Ben Stiller's comic interjections and pace of this film. I was impressed by Ryan O'Neal's acting in this film which was a surprise because I hadn't seen him in anything interesting (to me) in a long tim. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wish this had been a big success at the box office.  I remember when it came out, watching Siskel & Ebert review it, wanting to watch it.  It was one of the first movies I bought when I got a DVD player and I loved it.  Which is why I wish it had been a success.  If there is any movie out there that I want to see a sequel to, it is this one.  I want more adventures of Daryl Zero, more cases, conning Steve Arlo into leaving his honeymoon or his new job to work this 'one last time'.  I'll watch Rush Hour 2, Matrix 2, Shrek 2 etc., but if those sequels weren't made I wouldn't miss them.  Daryl Zero I'll miss. "},{"Title":"***1/2 o/o ****","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw Zero Effect on a $1.00 rack at a used movie store I thought to myself ,Ben Stiller in a serious role? I don't even know if this movie is worth my dollar. But, right as I was about to check out I decided hey, why not, I should give him a chance to prove himself. After viewing this film, I would strongly recommend spending the $20.00 that it is worth.Director Jake Kasdan (son of Lawrence Kasdan *Writer* `Return of the Jedi', `The Empire Strikes Back, `Raiders of the Lost Ark') delivers an intriguing and enjoyable film that will forever be part of my library. The movie opens with Steve Arlo (Ben Stiller) attempting to convince Portland timber tycoon Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal) to enlist the services of his employer, a private investigator named Daryl Zero (Bill Pullman).  Stark is being blackmailed by an anonymous person who demands money in $100,000 payments. Arlo paints Zero as an accomplished PI , a man who stopped an international fiasco without ever leaving the comfort of his home. In reality , Zero is a paranoid intellect who refuses to meet his clients face to face and would rather sit at home singing folk songs than socialize. The largest case that he ever solved was one involving a man who lied about his age. Daryl Zero accepts the job drags and Steve Arlo with him to Portland which forces Arlo to cancel a date with his girlfriend. Arlo is torn between his job and his girlfriend Jess (Angelina Featherstone), who begs him to leave his job to spend more time with her.Upon arriving in Portland, Zero observes Gregory Stark (one of his two obs, the other being objectivity) at a health club where he also meets Gloria Sullivan, who he identifies as a paramedic by her wet hair (working from night before) and the scent of iodine. Throughout the rest of the movie, Zero slowly builds a romantic relationship with Sullivan and discovers things about her that could jeopardize his investigation into the blackmailer.Ben Stiller manages to maintain an atmosphere of humor without sacrificing the semi-serious tone of the movie. Bill Pullman is perfect for the role of Zero and is a very convincing and intriguing character. But for some odd reason I can picture Billy Bob Thornton as Zero, perhaps because he is even more odd than the character. I don't know why but Kim Dickens as Sullivan just doesn't do it for me. Bill Pullman and Kim Dickens just don't make a good on-screen couple, they seem more like close siblings than lovers.The only complaints I have about this film are the lack of an original score and the weak plot twist.  An original score would have added much to the atmosphere of this movie. An Elvis song for the opening credits didn't seem to fit the movie's feeling. The plot twist, which I will not give away here, is neither surprising or exciting. Some may disagree, but a plot twist is not essential to a good detective movie. Zero Effect was the best $1 I have spent in my relatively short lifetime and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who feels like watching a fulfilling detective movie with a touch of humor and romance.  "},{"Title":"Excellent working of Master Detective meeting his female match","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watching this excellent movie I could not help but think of the Sherlock Holmes story A scandal in Bohemia. But to be frank the resemblance in only that of a great detective meeting his match and the blackmailing aspect, this movie is in no way a adaptation or copy of that, and is completely original in its own right. There are moments when you wish you could rewind and listen to the dialogue again and again just to enjoy it. And there are some truly touching moments. The only negative point I have to say about the movie is how its ending, like so many other american movie endings, is disjointed and feels like a patch-up job. Bill Pullman shows that he can hold his own in becoming the complex Daryl Zero, Ben Stiller as Steve Arlo is in his element and Kim Dickens as Gloria Sullivan just breeds empathy. "},{"Title":"A Great Little Film","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a quirky little movie full of interesting characters and some of the best performances by today's popular actors.  If you like offbeat tales and whodunits, this is for you.I'm a huge fan of Bill Pullman, who plays the unique hero of the film.  I'd never seen him portray a character of this type - kind of zany - and was pleasantly surprised at how many ways he behaved.  I'd consider this his best performance to date, and he's had a lot of them.Ben Stiller has never impressed me, but, I liked him in this movie.  He made me believe that as the reluctant hero, he really would go to great lengths to maintain his loyalty to the Bill Pullman character.  He wasn't silly or trying for laughs, I think he gave an honest performance.I wasn't familiar with the female lead, but, I liked her.  She was kind of scrappy and spunky and played her part magnificently.  Since this movie, I've seen her in a lot of bigger budget films.  Her chemistry with Pullman is pretty credible and they both compliment each other wonderfully.Ryan O'Neal has a great role as well, and though I'm not familiar with much of his work, I think he gave a good performance.  His scenes with Bill Pullman are especially good because he holds his own against Pullman's wacky identities.Finally, there's Angela Featherstone.  I think she might be one of the most incredibly diverse actresses in films.  Period.  She plays Stiller's girlfriend/fiance here and though it isn't much of a part, she makes it her own.  I've never seen her look the same in any two movies, but, I hope her star continues to rise.  She's a real joy to watch.All in all, I'd give this film the highest ratings and include it on my list of all-time favorites.  I kind of expect a sequel some day. "},{"Title":"Slick as Daryl Zero","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is inspirationally creative and the character of Daryl Zero remains the ninetie's most underrated superhero.  I would like to point the makers of the Titanic and Pearl Harbor to this little gem and say,Zounds, this is how you make a love story.  But a little box office comparison seems to undermine my argument.  Aw well, if you found yourself rooting for the boat in the Titanic, then turn here for some much needed stylish and well written romance set against an incredibly cleverly conceived murder mystery.   "}{"Title":"Clever and well-written","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw Zero Effect for the first time, there must have been 5 other people in the theater. It's really a shame that there was so little hype behind this film.  It's incredibly well-written, the plot is intricate, and the acting is top-notch. This movie made me a fan of Bill Pullman, who is usually reduced to playing doofy spurned lovers and lame Presidents. I'll tell you a secret... he can ACT.  His character is a modern Sherlock Holmes, in every respect.  Ben Stiller is good in everything, and the female lead... we need to see more of her.I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Too Cool for Words","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is too cool for words. The first meet with Pullman's character is precious. There are strains of Conan Doyle in here to be sure - but who cares? Big question Where is Jake today? Did he give up? This has got to be one of the best first movies ever made/written (he did both - hats off). "},{"Title":"This film is intelligent, funny, and Oh so cool!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My last post on Zero Effect was Hubby's view.....this is mine. Zero Effect is a film which should not be missed by anyone who enjoys Bill Pullman's performances.  This one is his BEST. A series as in the  Mike Hammer, Sam Spade, or even the television Rockford Files would be welcome.  In this film Bill takes me from laughter (his singing and guitar playing, and he's wearing my red long johns) to pain (the delicatessen scene when he's describing his 'evil and abusive father.....he woke up and everything was different....powerful !!!!), to compassion, (sitting on the floor beside the bed with the 'cold dark in my heart' calling for Mama). I've even come to the end of the tape, re-wound it to play again immediately and entertain myself with it as a 'second feature'.We've watched this film many times and I keep falling in love over and over and over, with Sergio Knight, Nick Carmine, (Dr.) Mitchell Hodgemeyer, Ph.D. Esq., Harrold Darmine, Sergio Burges (?) and, of course Darryl Zero.  I am surprised that this movie was not considered for an Academy Award.  It's a fine, fine piece of work. Loud applause for Bill Pullman, Kim Dickens, Ryan O'Neal, and Ben Stiller.  Many thanks to the young Mr. Kasdan......a talented Hollywood brat. "},{"Title":"This film is intelligent, funny, and Oh so cool!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My last post on Zero Effect was Hubby's view.....this is mine. Zero Effect is a film which should not be missed by anyone who enjoys Bill Pullman's performances.  This one is his BEST. A series as in the  Mike Hammer, Sam Spade, or even the television Rockford Files would be welcome.  In this film Bill takes me from laughter (his singing and guitar playing, and he's wearing my red long johns) to pain (the delicatessen scene when he's describing his 'evil and abusive father.....he woke up and everything was different....powerful !!!!), to compassion, (sitting on the floor beside the bed with the 'cold dark in my heart' calling for Mama). I've even come to the end of the tape, re-wound it to play again immediately and entertain myself with it as a 'second feature'.We've watched this film many times and I keep falling in love over and over and over, with Sergio Knight, Nick Carmine, (Dr.) Mitchell Hodgemeyer, Ph.D. Esq., Harrold Darmine, Sergio Burges (?) and, of course Darryl Zero.  I am surprised that this movie was not considered for an Academy Award.  It's a fine, fine piece of work. Loud applause for Bill Pullman, Kim Dickens, Ryan O'Neal, and Ben Stiller.  Many thanks to the young Mr. Kasdan......a talented Hollywood brat. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A really nice little movie -- not so much a detective story as a drama about love,  loneliness and the burdens of our pasts. The plot is not perfect but thecharacters are original and believable. Fine acting by Bill Pullman, playing a  man who is observing the world instead of living in it. Ryan O'Neal is good, too,  as the nervous villain.  "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Movie","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A well written and thoughtful movie, with good characterization and performances by the leads. Bill Pullman is marvelous and Ben Stiller has more gravity to his character than usual, which is refreshing. The plot is neatly laid out, and the script is very careful at explaining character motivations and plot incidents. The action is at times slow, but the dialogue is witty and insightful. The script is written in the tradition of Sherlock Holmes and Solar Pons, great detectives who use acute observation as the key to solve crimes. The script also makes some insightful psychological observations. Overall, a refreshingly intelligent and compelling movie. "},{"Title":"The effect of this movie ain´t zero. That´s for sure.","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I work at a video store, and let me tell you, with a lot of movies at my disposition (does that word exists?), watching them is sometimes a bit of a monotonous ritual.So, when a few days a go, in the front page of IMDb, the selected Movie f the Day was -you guessed it- Zero Effect, I was quickly drawn into the plot.And not just the plot, or the fact that it was directed by this guy, Kasdan (is he really related to Lawrence Kasdan?), but because of conceiving this two good actors Pullman and Stiller in the same movie.Whoa! Their styles are so different that I`ve never imagined them in the same film. But there they are. And think this judging by many of their other roles, arent´s the parts that both of them play in this movie changed? Doesn´t Stiller reminds us all of an excentric guy? Hasn´t Pullman always played calm (almost passive) guys? Forget the age differences.One more thing I´m starting to reevaluate more what Stiller has done on screen. He sure shows talent in this movie. Not to forget Pullman (watch what he does with his eye expressions).So, yeah, go and rent it, or watch in on cable. Whatever suits you. It´s worthy of it.Oh... and thanks IMDb ;-)                 ( ...tell me more, tell me more... )(what some people would write just to get shown online) "},{"Title":"It's a toss-up..between Zero Effect and While You Were Sleeping as Bill Pullman's two BEST movies !","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A comment by my hubby who is a fan of Bill Pullman's.  Not as ardent as I am, but an honest viewer of films in which the actors display their skills and artistry effectively.  Bill Pullman does this.Zero Effect has an effective plot development and character definition and refinement.  Pullman exercises the scope and depth of his acting skills when the sociopath morphs into a social agent as the situation demands this persona, and reverts to form when alone.  Zero is the perfect objective observer who is compromised when his 'soft underbelly' is exposed.  Bill Pullman handled this transformation superbly. "},{"Title":"surprised enjoyment","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  By the time I finished watching this movie, I was surprised to find that I had enjoyed it enough to want to keep a copy. At first, I thought it was kind of silly, but the quality of the acting and the cleverness of the script ensured that I came away affected by the movie. How nice, especially when unexpected - not that I hadn't thought I would enjoy it, just not how much. The story reminded me somewhat of The January Man - quirky, likable characters and complex storyline and deduction - and I felt that there was a parallel with Nero Wolfe (Zero/Nero, doesn't like to leave his home, his aide-de-camp is Archie/Arlo). How could it miss with Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller (anyone else notice that while Ben's characters are always odd, there's always someone odder?). I felt good after this movie - what else can be said?  "},{"Title":"A Scandal In Bohemia","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While many have drawn the parallels between this film and A.C. Doyle's master detective, all the reviews I've read have neglected to point out that this is really a direct homage to the first Sherlock Holmes short story, A Scandal In Bohemia.  It is more than a passing homage - the very language at the end of Zero Effect is the same as at the front of the Holmes story...That said, it is perhaps bar none the best and most creative Sherlock Holmes adaptation I've seen, even including Jeremy Brett's astounding turn as the anti-social detective. "}{"Title":"This is a great movie!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one movie not to be missed, it's funny, intelligent, and smooth.  10/10  This was the debut of Jake Kasdan, the son of Lawrence Kasdan.  He did Body Heat and The Big Chill, and other such films.  But being Jake Kasdan's first film (he wrote and directed it) that's a pretty amazing feat.  It's like The Usual Suspects, everything is perfect. "},{"Title":"A gem that is great to find.","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Overlooked movie that is smartly written, funny and a great story.  I would like to know how it got overlooked.  A sleeper that is just a fun time. Bill Pullman does a very good job, and Stiller is his usual self. "},{"Title":"Simple, and cool as hell","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    Zero Effect is about the this hermit named Daryl Zero who happens to be the best private investigator in the world, not the other way way around. It is a movie that tells two stories while Zero works one interesting, challenging case. One of the parts of this movie is the mystery Daryl(Bill Pullman) and his associate (Ben Stiller) are trying to solve. The other being the portrayal of Daryl's secluded, isloated life and those who come in contact with it.     So what makes this a movie worthy of being labled cool as hell? The writing of Zero Effect is superb, the acting is great and the story is pretty awesome to watch unfold. Stiller and Pullman steal the show from eachother though great acting filled with humor and emotion. You will laugh at this movie, and you will enjoy this movie. I've watched it with several different people, all of which had different tastes in movies, and all of them were pleasantly surprised by this excellent movie. I just wish there this movie would have done better, because it deserved to have a sequel. "},{"Title":"What A pleasant surprise...","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Since I'm not a huge fan of either Ben S. or Pullman I went in not expecting much but came away very surprised...this is a nice little film...Pullman and Stiller did a great job playing to slightly quirky characters...Pullman was quirky in his unique job description...Stiller in that he had to be quirky to work for Pullman as his assistant in the film...a hidden treasure on the video rental shelf for sure... "},{"Title":"A true hidden gem","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I heard about this movie on Siskel & Ebert and wanted to see it, but it never came to my town.  So when I finally found it on video I rented it, watched it, watched it again, and again.  It has quickly become one of my all time favorite movies.  Why?  Because it starts off as a comedy and quickly moves into a really involving mystery and romance.  Funny, this is the same combination that makes Casablanca such a great movie.  But what really gets me every time I watch this movie is the depth of the characterizations.  Ben Stiller is at his best in the understated comedy of playing the sidekick.  You can see how torn he is trying to be a friend to an obnoxious @$$hole, but knows that he is needed by said @$$hole.  Kim Dickens is absolutely wonderful, in a role that should have catapulted her to more.  She is so grounded, that all of the odd goof-ball things that go on around her can happen only because she plays it absolutely straight.  It is her groundedness that makes the mystery/romance so compelling.  But really, this is Bill Pullman's best performance ever.  He starts off in the same sort of oddball, goofy stuff that he's so well known for.  But there's a depth underneath.  We find out why he's like that.  We find out what it must be like to be the most brilliant detective.  And the price for it complete and utter detachment from life.  It is this compelling characterization, so well pulled off by Pullman, that opens up the romance. It is quite unlike any romance I've ever seen on screen.  Usually it is the man who is suave and in control.  Here, Daryl Zero has no control, and is forced along a path he's never taken before.  And we see as he is forced out of his shell, exactly what brought this brilliant man to the point in his life where he's never even kissed a girl.  It's really an incredible story. And before I go, I would just like to make one final point.  There is a scene where Daryl is talking to Gloria in a diner.  In this scene, Gloria confronts Daryl and forces him to tell her the most horrible memory he has. There has been a lot of questions about whether Daryl is telling the truth in this scene.  In watching the DVD with the commentary, Jake Kasdan says that even he isn't sure whether Daryl is telling the truth, but he says that Daryl is telling the emotional truth.  I think that's a good distinction. Watch Pullman's face as he tells this horrible story.  You can see the pain on his face, and the obvious attempts to hide it, and he's not sure whether he should hide it.  And once it has come out, he feels relieved, and scared and a whole lot more all at the same time.  Without a doubt, this is the finest scene of pure acting I've ever scene.  Pullman should be very proud of this performance.  It is the finest in his career and deserves to be seen.  So, as you can probably tell, I highly recommend this film.  Not only does it work as the compelling drama I've described above, it is a hilarious comedy and has a great mystery at its heart.  Dig through your video store to find this one.  It is definitely worth it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Viewing","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Interesting and mildly convoluted whodunnit with the 'World's Greatest Detective' Darryl Zero and his long suffering partner and front man Steve Arlo. Hired to investigate a seemingly routine blackmail case Zero's obsessive reclusiveness is put to good effect as he first investigates the blackmailer and eventually the blackmailee. This is the most interesting and unique part of the film and Bill Pullman is excellent as the definitely weird Zero, hiding away alone with only Ben Stiller's Arlo knowing who he is. As the film moves along at a comfortably slow pace we become more aware of the motives and personalities of the 4 main players, none is the stereotypical bad guy or good guy and this lends the film a very refreshing air which keeps you watching right till the end. Zero's awakening itself is superbly written and acted and the finale is not the usual thing we've come to expect from Hollywood. In all honesty this could spawn at least a sequel and possibly a whole series. I hope so at least. "},{"Title":"Quirky, not totally successful, but great to watch","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With more starts and stops than a rickety county fair  rollercoaster, this film appears headed for disaster on  more than one occasion. But the odd and subtle (yup)  performances on everyone's part, especially the virtually  unknown Kim Dickens (about to change - she's in five films coming out in 2000), makes it completely compelling,  moving, and fun. The tiny comedic touches are great, like the horribly banal names for old cases. And the tributes  scattered to Sherlock Holmes (like his experience with *the* woman and deductive technique) make it an  homage of sorts. "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie. One of my favorites","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies that I have ever seen!! The movie has a lot of action and mystery to it.  It really keeps you guessing and the story stays entertaining through out the entire movie. I highly recommend this movie! It is great and I am sure that you will enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Great Filmmaking and a Story in the Holmesian Tradition","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Other comments and reviews have missed what to me is obvious and intriguing about this film.  It is based on the premise of Sherlock Holmes brought into the 1990's, more than a hundred years into the future.  There is Steve Arlo, a lawyer in the stead of a doctor Watson.  There is the detail of the drug habit of the greatest living detective, Zero; methamphetamine , instead of injects of a 7% solution of cocaine.  Then there is the story which is based on a few Sir Arthur Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes stories, especially A Scandal in Bohemia where Holmes encounters The Woman Irene Addler.The film also explores the nuances of a Holmesian personality, the reclusiveness, the unrelenting observational compulsions, an over active ego, Zero's dependence on his employee and friend Arlo, Zero's difficulty at coming to terms with his feelings for the woman etc.  All these themes run through the film, yet don't take away from the storyline, and only make the plot twists more interesting.Holmes fans will, I think, love this film, and will ask for more. Unfortunately, given, this film's uninspiring action at the box office (due to lack of any real promotion) I think we have seen the last of Zero. "},{"Title":"Wit and style combine perfectly here.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had heard about this movie in MAXIM or Details when it was in preproduction, heard all about how young Mr. Kasdan was all set to follow in his father's footsteps as a Great Director, and then I remember the film being yanked from the theaters after about twelve minutes. Nobody I know saw it, and since then young Mr. Kasdan has, to my knowledge, dropped off the face of the moviemaking Earth (otherwise known as Hollywood). This is a shame, because Zero Effect is one of the best hidden treasures to come out in a long time.My roommate stumbled across it at the video store and, thanks to his appreciation of Ben Stiller, the DVD made its way into our apartment for a few nights. Let me tell you, this movie beat out the Superbowl for some of our friends, who chose to lose themselves in the flawless storytelling and incredible wit displayed by the director and his wonderful cast. Bill Pullman gives the best performance I've ever seen him give, Ben Stiller reminds us that he can be effective even when he's taken seriously -- the most darkly talented genius of our time, forever misunderstood, shines nicely here -- and Kim Dickens give one of the most Real performances I've seen from an actress in years. You would almost think you were watching a Real Human Being instead of an actress -- and that's a compliment and a half, please believe me.In all, I have to say that I consider myself fortunate to have seen this film, a movie I wouldn't have otherwise rented save for a piqued curiosity. Now my curiosity is piqued in another direction -- on the lookout for the next motion picture from the talented Mr. Kasdan. "}{"Title":"Interesting, but lethargic","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Zero Effect puts some interesting spins on the detective story, offering a sleuth who is so objective as to be emotionally uninvolved with everything around him, and an array of circumstances that are fairly amusing (in particular, concerning a lost set of keys).  The story is promising, and the actors, in particular, appear ready and willing to rip into their roles. Unfortunately, they weren't given the direction they needed to make the film really click.  The scenes are consistently monotone; a couple of them are downright listless, in particular the scenes between Zero and Gloria.  One senses both actors needing the leadership of a strong director.  But despite the strength of his story's premise, Jake Kasdan never lifts the story out of its lethargy.  Overall, not a bad film -- the story alone will hold your interest -- but hardly the film it could have been. "},{"Title":"Very Cool","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Plenty of movies start of with a flash and then proceed to slack off and miss the target. Zero Effect presents a riveting opening scene and incredibly sustains that level of style and suspense throughout the film. An amazing accomplishment from such a young director (Jake Kasden).Ben Stiller and Bill Pullman do quite well, but some more seasoned stars (picture Tom Cruise in the Stiller role and tell me that wouldn't work) could have elevated this very good film to greatness. I say this with the utmost respect; quite simply, Kasden's story deserves the best.Really looking forward to future Kasden films. He exhibits great maturity, refraining from superfluous violence and patiently unfolding his masterful plot piece by piece. He also has a great ear for dialogue (for some reason, I particularly enjoyed Stiller's just a bunch of guys speech). Even his choices of music seem absurdly correct, as a Johnny Cash-esque song mentioning an interventionist God perfectly bookends the film's one (artfully chaste) sex scene.  Fans of Chinatown, Blood Simple, or The Usual Suspects, see Zero Effect and meet Jake Kasden.   "},{"Title":"A wantonly unusual mix","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is initially a bit uncomfortable in Stiller's mythic-tinged descriptions of Zero's power and Zero's initial weird, dysfunctional appearance, but that sequence soon seems out of place as Zero proves to be a genuinely intriguing character; withdrawn and socially conflicted, with his ego driving him into difficult emotional dilemmas, but also highly quizzically and functional and ultimately taking on a grandeur close to that of Sherlock Holmes ( the final	scene evokes both Irene Adler and Moriarty, while still though eulogizing his own unique qualities). That aside, Stiller's role isn't that integral to things, and the movie meanders a bit - it's a wantonly unusual mix of elegant, offbeat human relationships and standard detective stuff, but always suggesting (even if it's not always clear to what end) a broader, almost metaphysical reach and a taste for meeting the test of time; the fact that its reach exceeds its grasp is somewhat endearing, and the casting (which seems uninspired on paper) actually turns out really well. "},{"Title":"It makes you think as it unfolds","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What I liked about this movie was that it made me think.  It didn't entertain all by itself, no fast chases or violence, but I felt that I was living the story.  This is what an intelligent film does, rather than be obvious or simply active, it is interactive in a real sense. There are great characters, offbeat but believable scenes, clever lines.  However, as a first time effort, Jake Kasden makes many mistakes.  The pacing is often weak, some of the acting is stiff (Ben Stiller in particular), and the relationship is sophomoric (the sex scene is a waste).  But these are easily overlooked if you enjoy a movie that treats you as a thinking person, and will bring thoughts into your head, and smiles to your face, for days after you watch it. "},{"Title":"Quite dissapointing","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented Zero Effect with high expectations. It had been dubbed another Usual Suspects by some publications and watched it based on that premise. It started intriugingly with the mysterious zero being profiled by Stiller while pitching to a client and making bar-talk. And it is moments like this that make the film zip along at a fair pace at times, the other standout scene is the one involving O'neal's drop-off. But at other times it is much too slow. The romantic subplot that leads into the main plot is both boring and predictable and seems almost compulsory in execution. As for the performances Pullman, basically reprising his Last Seduction role is effective as is the mysterious and vulnerable O'Neal. But Stiller fails to convince, unless delivering a one-liner, undermining his indie-cred, and showing up his limited talents. That said, the melodic soundtrack is excellent and there is a sex scene to jerk off to, but on the whole it dissapointed and seemed over-hyped.  "},{"Title":"Endangered species","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I consider Zero Effect and Rushmore as two of the best films I have seen in recent years, for similar reasons.  Both treat the viewer with respect, refusing to take the easy way out, opting to proceed along an emotional and intellectual path, rather than relying on pyrotechnics and tired plot devices as a substitute for character development.I saw the film initially for Ben Stiller, who plays the harried assistant with class and subtlety, a role which could easily have been overdone by any number of character actors.  Stiller's performance is finely nuanced, complex and ultimately believable- he is human.The film is a tour-de-force for Bill Pullman as well.  His character is completely over-the-top (he describes himself as the best private investigator in the world) in every way, yet played with a sensitivity nothing short of miraculous.  Despite his innumerable infuriating idiosyncracies, I was left feeling much the way Stiller's character appears to feel about Zero  simultaneously frustrated, angst-ridden and fiercely loyal.It's refreshing to see such sophisticated material these days, and much more unfortunate not to see it.  These films are few and far between, and they enjoy limited runs and little, if any, profits.  Safe to say we probably will not see any sequels to this most sequel-worthy film, which is probably for the best, as sequels seldom live up to the original.Films such as these are indeed an endangered species.  "},{"Title":"Lasting Impression","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I picked this movie up in the video store strictly based on the actors.  It turned out to be an unique, witty film that I have since recommended to everyone I know.  The plot centers around a private detective, Bill Pullman, who is so private that he has a lawyer, Ben Stiller, deal with all of his clients.  Sharp and original, I can't believe this movie didn't get more buzz when it was in theaters.  A definite video rental.   "},{"Title":"Good, but subtle","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I agree with some of the other comments.  This movie is a lot deeper than it appears.  It progresses through many of the PI movies of the past to reach the present.  This is Holmes in the 1990's.  And a series just waiting to happen.  Not sure if that's a good thing, but so obvious. Daryl is definitely the greatest Private Investigator in the world.  No doubt.  And just as weird, and profoundly insightful,  in our times, as Holmes was in his.  You know he could whip out the most amazing techno device at any moment.  But he gets the job done, no muss, no fuss.  Just logic.  As cold as Holmes.The ending is sad, and melancholy.  Would you expect Holmes to be any less?  Or Sam Spade?  Philip Marlowe?  So.  A classic new series, waiting to happen.  Might take a couple of years.  Just wait, cause it will happen.  This is a concept too good for Hollywood to pass up.  Though they'll probably find some chesseball actors to fill the places. "},{"Title":"Holmes for the 90s; an excellent film","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's one thing for a movie to introduce somebody as the World's Greatest Detective, and quite another to follow through and make you believe it.  Zero Effect does exactly that; when Daryl Zero does bother to explain his reasoning, it's so convincing that any other leaps of deductive logic he makes also seem plausible.  Too many movies like to take the lazy route of this guy thinks he's great at what he does, but he's actually terrible and only succeeds through dumb luck.  This film takes the road less travelled, much more challenging but far more rewarding as well.Daryl Zero is a complete Sherlock Holmes for the 1990s, incorporating not only the genius and crafty mysteries to unravel, but also the substance abuse, social dysfunction, questionable musical talent, and loyal sidekick who acts as his link to the real world.  Zero keeps his own diary, however, since his Watson-equivalent can't be bothered.  Bill Pullman provides a masterful realization of this character, while Ben Stiller, Kim Dickens and Ryan O'Neill also do excellent work.Those who panned the film probably expected a zany, madcap comedy, which Zero Effect most certainly is not.  It is first and foremost a mystery in the Holmes style (with a dash of Columbo), with humour and romance added in.  I found it to be  invigorating, amusing, even poignant, and would be more than happy to see a new adventure of Daryl Zero every year.  "},{"Title":"Great detective story...with a few surprises","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a great flik. It moves along as a great detective story, then shifts gears into a true powerhouse of a movie with one simple scene that lays out the emotional heart of the main character in the boldest stroke possible. Bill Pullman (who deserves better roles than he's been getting lately), and Ben Stiller have excellent chemistry, and would be a wise choice for any director to match up again. "}{"Title":"Very underrated film","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the best films of 1998, but also one of the most overlooked... Pullman gives a great performances as the world's best (and weirdest) detective, and Ben Stiller is the perfect 'straight man' to Pullman's wackiness. The script is very intelligent and funny. Very enjoyable film. Go rent it!! "},{"Title":"A combination of mystery, humor, and romance","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent film that combines mystery, humor, and romance.  The acting is top-notch all around, and while it's often obvious that this is Jake Kasden's first movie, he nevertheless imbues passion into this film that makes it work.  If you get a chance, listen to Kasden's audio commentary on the DVD for lots of inside info about the nuances of the performances and background of making the film.  "},{"Title":"Who The Hell Thought Of This?","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the most original film I have ever seen.  Jake Kasdan is an incredible director and even more an incredible mind.  The methods of the greatest private investigator in the world is greatest, coolest idea for a film.  I have no idea how he came up with this, but I am glad he did. Pullman is excellent as Daryl Zero and his relationship with Gloria Sullivan is very well done.  Ben Stiller, who I have mixed opinions about, is excellent in his role as Zero's representative, Steve Arlo. I don't know how anyone could not like this film.  It's brilliantly done and everyone should see it.  "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films I've seen in ages and a perfect antidote to all the dross that Hollywood vomits forth every year. It's refreshing to see a film with a well thought out plot, interesting characters and good dialogue. It's a shame that no one saw it when it was released but thanks to video you can rectify that mistake. Go and rent it now.  "},{"Title":"Something about Bill","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is something about Bill Pullman I like as I watch this movie again and again.....I really enjoyed the movie and would recommend it for all age groups.  It didn't stay in the theatres long, so I finally rented it at a video store.  Mr. Pullman is one of our best American actors working today in the movies and the variety of roles he chooses -- I also liked his 1996 movie, Mr. Wrong.  Another thing that prompted me to watch it was that Kim Dickens is from my hometown of Huntsville, Ala.  I give the movie a 10 out of 10 also. "},{"Title":"Bill Pullman is the GREATEST!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't say enough wonderful things about this movie! I recently bought this film and have watched it at least ten times in the last month. Bill Pullman is absolutely BRILLIANT in the role of Daryl Zero. He was born to play this role. I was surprised he did not get an Oscar nomination for this role, as he was so deserving of it! My favorite line in the film is when he is talking to Ben Stiller's character, Steve Arlo, concerning the man he was hired by, Ryan O'Neal's character, Starck. Zero has been following Starck, and Zero says to Arlo, Starck gets a massage the same time every day by the same red-haired masseuse. Men are soooo predictable. What a crack-up! Bill Pullman, you are the BEST! GOOD JOB!!!Whatever you do, run out and rent or buy this movie! You won't be disappointed!   "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this film before spotting it at my video store. I sat down to watch it expecting something good, but not this good! Jake Kasdan is a talent to watch out for, he definitley follows in his Dad's footsteps.It's a shame that franchises don't exist in the indie world, because the main character, Daryl Zero, deserves to get many many sequels.This film is a 9 out of 10 because of a great character driven script, spot on acting by Bill Pullman, Ben Stiller, Kim Dickens and Ryan O'Neal and great ending that is absolutely un-hollywood. "},{"Title":"Movies that start with Z don't stand much of a chance in the video store","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The reason I decided to check this movie out was because of the rave reviews that Siskel & Ebert gave it. I wasn't what you call a regular viewer of theirs, but I enjoyed the show when I caught it. They both spoke highly of the film, mentioning it's strong characters and engaging story. It's sort of a modern day Sherlock Holmes with a slightly socially inadequate yet brilliant private investigator, and his Watson who's a lawyer basically fed up with his employer's many neuroses and annoying tasks for him. Played by Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller respectively, masterfully executed by both gentlemen.So I talked a friend of mine into seeing it with me, and I could tell from the all too familiar trend in film listings that it didn't have much life left regardless of whatever support was shown. This film had a very shortrun as I recall.It wasn't long before the film was out of theaters and destined for video. It was one of the first DVDs that I bought, and it somewhat prompted me to buy the DVD player in the first place, as I had been waiting and investigating the situation for a long time. I particularly enjoyed the soundtrack and bought it promptly.But I guess the first effort of Jake Kasdan, son of writer/director Lawrence Kasdan, is unlikely to be tried out by the casual movie renter. I guess that any film starting with the letter Z is doomed to be at the end of the new releases rack, and by then most people have already picked out their movie. Do yourself a favour, make your way to the end of the rack, and pick it up. This one's worth it. "},{"Title":"A rousing TEN.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie completely took me by storm. Clever writing, believable acting, twist after twist. It is a remarkable production. I just hope there is a sequel with the same cast and crew. I am amazed that it was just about flawless.It belongs in the top 250.Go Kasdan. "},{"Title":"You can do a lot worse (5/10)","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, I think the other reviews on this site are way overrated. It's a good script, nice acting as well but nothing phenomenal. Every time I see Pullman onscreen, I have flashbacks of his earlier films and I just can't seem to take him seriously. Decent stuff though..I'd put this somewhere in the middle of your video-shopping list. "}{"Title":"A highly polished, great first film","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an example of very good filmmaking.  It is well written, perfectly cast, and brilliantly photographed.  The dialogue is spectacular and full of dry wit, particularly Zero's deadpan insights about the world and his work as a private investigator.The story is very original in creating memorable characters the likeable, agorophobic, chemically-challenged, hyperactive Zero;  his comparatively sedate lawyer sidekick;  a somewhat unsympathetic corporate blackmail victim;  and the paramedic love interest.The only minor criticism I have is that for all of the film's noteworthy achievements, its story is somewhat weak.  The film really didn't need to tie up loose ends.  In fact, I think it would have added an aura of continuing mysteriousness to its other appeals.Nonetheless, I highly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Loved this one","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My husband fell asleep on the couch and then left halfway through this one, but I enjoyed every minute of it. I am a big Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller fan, so the casting was perfect in this flick. Each character was very likeable in their own way and the road to solving the case was interesting and unique at every turn. I'd recommend this one! "},{"Title":"Holmes reinvented...","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great stuff... I love a good detective story, and this is the best I´ve seen in years. It´s Holmes reinvented. The script is very well written, starting off as black comedy, working its way through tense thriller and ending as up something completely different... And Bill Pullman proves ones again that he can handle complex characters.   "},{"Title":"fantastic debut.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  an amazing debut by Jake Kasdan. EVERYTHING here was top notch. the acting, the directing, and most of all, the script. I was so captivated throughout the whole film that I didn't even realize it was a modern day adaption of one of the greatest Sherlock Holmes stories made until after it was over, which I assume was the point. Anyway, pure genius. I'm definitely waiting for Kasdan's next effort, which will hopefully be just as good. "},{"Title":"Bill Pullman's best work to date!","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A fun and different plot with a great cast equals a terrific movie.  Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller are a great pair with good chemistry and Kim Dickens gives a great performance as the heroine/bad girl.  "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise...","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The literary gamesmanship, a screenplay which reads like Crispin Glover updating Conan Doyle's A Scandal in Bohemia, the setting, the suddenly fashionable Pacific northwest, the star power, Hollywood heavyweights play against type...It all adds up pretty nicely. The best mystery movie in years and one of the funniest films of the 90's to boot. A must rent. Really.   "},{"Title":"I give this movie a 10","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Intelligent, well acted, and unlike many Hollywood movies, unconventional. Bill Pullman gives his best performance and further demonstrates that he is one of the most talented American actors working in movies today. His performance is surely worthy of an Oscar nomination.  "},{"Title":"Most entertaining film of 1998","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie after passing it over several times in the video store. I like Bill Pullman, and I've felt sorry for Ben Stiller ever since his doomed TV show.  But it just wasn't enough to make me want to rent the video.And although I hate to admit it, Siskel and Ebert gave this film a great promo during their Memo to the Academy, and that made me want to give it a shot.The screenplay was intelligent, and I especially liked the Sherlock Holmes references with a modern day twist.  In fact, I liked the film so much, that I went out and bought the DVD the next day.And even though it isn't saying much, I thought that 'Zero Effect' was the most enjoyable film of 1998, which was a year of terrible disappointment  and big budget eye-candy.  Regardless, this film would hold its own in any year. "},{"Title":"Bill Pullman  Best Actor of 1998","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I were to choose the nominees for 1998's Best Actor Oscars, they would includeTom Hanks, for Saving Private Ryan Robert Downey, Jr., for Two Girls and a Guy Warren Beatty, for Bulworth John Travolta, for Primary Colors and Bill Pullman, for Zero EffectThe winner, if I were to pick that, too, would be Pullman.  In a performance that can only be described as a work of art, Pullman knows when to cut loose, such as his first scene (unshowered, incoherent, obnoxious), and when to have restraint--the scene where he talks about his father to Kim Dickens. He's funny and touching, annoying and endearing, a nerd as well as, well, the world's greatest detective.  Bravo! "},{"Title":"SHERLOCK HOLMES AND DR. WATSON / VERSION 1998","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The least one can say about ZERO EFFECT is that the script is very intelligent and reveals the work of a genuine writer.Jake Kasdan has certainly read the adventures of Conan Doyle's super detective Sherlock Holmes with great delight.Like Holmes, Bill Pullman likes to take drugs (amphetamines for Bill, heroin for Sherlock) and to play music ( guitar while Sherlock had a predilection for violin) when he's out of work.Like Holmes, Bill stays away from women who could deconcentrate him and loves to surprise his audience with his wonderful sense of observation and the amazing logic of his deductions.His only problem  Watson isn't a Doctor but a lawyer who will not (ungrateful Ben Stiller!) write the story of the numerous cases he has solved during his career. So he has to open his PC and do the job himself.The scene in which Bill Pullman tries to find keys in Ryan O'Neal's office is undoubtedly an homage to E. A. POE's detective Auguste Dupin in THE PURLOINED LETTER (1845 !) .In fact, nothing new under the sun ! But these references are discreetly hidden in this movie and demands a constant attention in order to appreciate them.ZERO EFFECT is the first movie of Jake KASDAN and I look forward for his next films with great impatience.A movie to buy and to add to your collection of  unknown great movies.  "}{"Title":"Great watch","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I picked this movie not knowing anything about it. It disappeared quickly from the theaters, I guess. I'm not sure why it never achieved more acclaim. It is a good watch.Bill Pullman is Sherlock Holmes updated to the present, a brilliant mind, an investigative genius, and a person with no gift for anything else in the world but that. He can't relate to people. He lives behind multiple locks, playing the guitar and writing dreadful songs (echoing Holmes' violin).His Watson is Ben Stiller, a lawyer hired for his ability to take meetings and talk people into deals. He's the one who interfaces with the world, while the reclusive Zero works in the shadows.The plot is fun (if predictable), and the dialogue often sparkles. The characters really got me involved. The ending just cries out for a set of sequels. Even though it seemed too much like a series pilot, I liked this film. It would, indeed, make a great series. Perhaps it will be a series of films, and Pullman will stay on, because he just nailed this part.More people should see this. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Darryl Zero the modern day Sherlock Holmes","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is wonderfully developed and it's one of the few instances where I didn't want the film to come to a close. The Darryl Zero character is so quirky and interesting that I found myself aching for a sequel, which I don't remember feeling in quite some time. This would be a great television series, although the writing could never come close on a consistent basis. Kasdan in his early 20's has a long career that many will be anxious to follow.  "},{"Title":"A great movie everyone will love, it has terrific acting, characters and dialogue.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the best I've ever seen.  It revolves around a private investigator who has no social skills in his personal life but when he's on a case he is a smooth operator. He uses his intuition to the fullest and is simply the greatest observer of human nature in the world. The scenes of him deducing from clues and the way he then explains how he figured the solution out are remarkable. The script was superb, as was the acting. No viewer could figure out the mystery until the end, the case was multi-dimensional as were the characters.  It was quite like 'The Usual Suspects' in this way. I can't say enough positive things about it. The character of Darryl Zero (played by Bill Pullman)was extreme, but at the same time he seemed like a real life person. I liked the way they explained how he came to have such a schizophrenic life. Ben Stiller's performance was multi-layered. He wasn't just the comedic sidekick. I really could feel how he was struggling having to work for such a tyrannical man, but a man whom he can't quit on because he loves and respects him. A good, unpredictable ending tops off the movie. Any other script would have written a sappy ending, but I liked how the characters stayed true to themselves throughout.      "},{"Title":"Kudos for Zero Effect","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unusually clever. The story and characters are very entertaining. Bill Pullman really IS the Best P.I. in the worrrrlllld!!!  I thoroughly recommend seeing this movie!! "},{"Title":"Tax scene","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love (love!) the scene where Zero does the woman's taxes and she asks about some obscure deduction.  The painful pause before the last word (malgoram) is the best acting of 1998.  "},{"Title":"Good mystery, great characters","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie in a rental store under Comedy.  This isn't really true.  It's sort of Sherlock Holmes updated for the Nineties, with a great twist -- the computer-brained sleuth is too weird to appear in public, so he needs a Watson (Ben Stiller) to front for him.  Bill Pullman makes the character compelling -- always convincing, and you find yourself pulling for the character all the way through.  This movie is really a mystery story, though, and a good one.  Take my advice -- see this movie. "},{"Title":"Hidden Humor","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Are you a nerd?  Do you know any nerds?  Then you're in for a treat in Zero  Effect, because Darryl Zero is about as nerdy as they come.A lot of the humor about Darryl's nerdiness isn't blatant; you have to look  for it to spot it.  Check out his workstation, what he eats, his ignorance  (he doesn't know the difference between a W-2 and WWII).In his investigations he prides his ability to remain emotionally detached,  the better to analyze available information and intuit a solution.  But  watch what happens when Mr. Logical Person meets a certain woman He  discovers his feelings and hormones, while his detachment crumbles!  "},{"Title":"Daryl Zero is Sherlock Holmes, baby!","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perusing the other comments for this movie, I've got to wonder about the  state of education in this modern world. Did nobody notice that, not only  is Daryl Zero a send-up of Sherlock Holmes, but that this entire movie is  based on A.C. Doyle's short story, A Scandal in Bohemia?Ah, well. Zero Effect is a fine piece of film, and an excellent first   (commercial) effort by Jake Kasdan. The storyline is well adapted and  modernized, and serves as a terrific bridge to Doyle's work for those  willing to take the effort to read it.The only letdown in the film is that Kasdan allows the Zero character to  undermine his own objectivity in one particular area. This film would have  been better (and more in keeping with the Sherlock Holmes mystique) without  it. The detective of A Scandal in Bohemia would never allow himself to  fall prey to his emotions in the manner that Zero is allowed. "},{"Title":"Lost Keys Attract Detective","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Zero Effect is a classy who done it from first time writer director Jake Kasdan, the 22 year old son of Lawrence Kasdan (The Big Chill, Silverado, The Accidental Tourist). Lineage certainly doesn't guarantee quality but there seems to have been a good dollop of film nous passed from father to son in this case. Daryl Zero (Bill Pullman) is the best private detective in the world and perhaps in the tradition of Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson hires the trusty and devoted Steve Arlo (Ben Stiller) to search out his next detective project. Steve puts Zero onto Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal) who has lost his keys and wants them back. Only his keys? Now there must be more to Zero Effect than that!  In spite of what I've just told you Zero Effect isn't a comedy, although it is often very funny. It is however very off beat. Daryl Zero for example lives on a mixture of amphetamines and canned tuna. Bill Pullman plays Zero as being brilliant but also rather sad. Zero can source out a clue and gum shoe it with the best of them but if he 's dealing with people on a personal level he's totally inept. Pullman, along with Jake Kasdan adds an odd ball warmth to Zero, and if Zero is going to grow in Zero Effect, well he just might have to find someone to grow with. And someone like Bill Pullman to play him. Pullman showed his class in The Last Seduction, before which he was most often cast as the fellow who missed out on the girl. It's important that the plot isn't revealed here, so let me recommend Kim Dickens (the bemused baby sitter in Mercury Rising) who plays Gloria Sullivan with a particular gloomy intensity and Ryan O'Neal who as well as having lost his keys lies about his prowess in the gym. Ben Stiller plays a similar character to his leading role in There's Something About Mary. Stiller to this point of his career seems to be able to play earnest types in such a way as to not  make them boring, which is quite a feet! Not to mention his other skills. Ben Stiller also directed The Cable Gun and Reality Bites. The sets and costumes are fun in Zero Effect, combining technicolour hues with an eclectic collection of bric a brac. The story has a worthy and vital twist typical of the genre and memorable characters well worth remembering. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the better detective stories to come out of Hollywood in a VERY long time.  Daryl Zero is one of the most original characters that I've seen on film, and the chemistry between Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller makes their screen time together unforgettable.  A must see. "}{"Title":"","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Totally excellent! 10/10... a cult classic in the making. Films like this and Grosse Point Blank are giving us a real Film Noir for the 90 's. Pullman is brilliant, and handles the lead role with such a laid back approach you keep thinking 'is he really like that?'. Great plot, clever twists, very funny. Nice to see Ryan O'Neal back in action too. "},{"Title":"Excellent, atmospheric mystery/character study.","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very entertaining mystery. Zero is a detective in the vein of Sherlock Holmes and Nero Wolfe (that is, ingenious), but he's also very strange. The movie is also a character study of the detective and his relationships with his assistant, his client (whom the detective meets only anonymously), and a blackmailer. Pullman does an excellent job portraying a brilliant, deeply weird person -- I think that this is his best work ever, and the first time since The Last Seduction  that he's played a grown-up role. I recommend giving the movie a chance; I liked it from the first, but it really grows on you (if it works at all) as it goes along.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a perfect example of a film with ideas.  This is probably one  of the most well-thought-out movies of the year.  Bill Pullman and Ben  Stiller made me laugh and the story was just cool to follow.  I think I'm  going to take it upon myself to do some investigating of my own.  I'm going  to find some more smart movies like this.     "},{"Title":"A great debut effort by the son of Lawrence Kasdan","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was genuinely impressed by Jake Kasdan's debut effort Zero Effect.  I was  intoxicated by Bill Pullman's performance as Daryl Zero, the world's most  private detective.  He brought a complexity to a character who could have  easily been just a lovable goofball who happens to be a great detective.   The intermittent narration gives great background into how he became who he  is and adds depth to an already dynamic character.  Ben Stiller shines as  Zero's associate Stephen Arlo whose had enough of Zero's lifestyle and  wants to settle down and marry his girlfriend.  The film is not perfect,  but it is quite enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"I gave this one a 10","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bill Pullman and Ben Stiller are great in this unusual mystery/comedy/drama /romance.  I enjoyed the hero, Darryl Zero, revealing some of his secrets of  observation and deduction (much like Sherlock Holmes) as we come along for  the ride.  By then end of the film I found myself really caring for Darryl  Zero because you not only respect him, but also because you feel close to  him and some sympathy (and joy).  You know a movie's good when you feel a  little depressed knowing there will probably never be a sequel and  therefore no more adventures to experience. "},{"Title":"Zero Effect has zero impact.","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" World's greatest detective Daryl Arlo has a lot of quirks and rules that make him one of the more unique entries in the offbeat private eye world. With a methodology that demands he keep his distance the raspy voiced, head tilted Zero narrates like a philosophical zombie breaking his own rules along the way. It is a tiresome listen, featuring listless performances, contrived situations and poor pacing that will you have you yawning midway.Zero is hired by wealthy Greg Stark to find out who is blackmailing him. Sparks glosses over possibility and motive forcing Zero and faithful assistant Steve Arlo (Ben Stiller) to dig deeper follow a different tack to get answers. But wouldn't you know it a dame (Kim Dickens) greases up the works for the focused Zero as he ignores one of his hip Holmes axioms passion is the enemy of precision. Still Zero pulls himself together to tie ends up, but he will never be the same.Listening to Pullman drone on is like listening to chalkboard screeching as he listlessly deduces interminably making it hard to believe he could feel passionate about anything. Stiller's moaning and groaning flunky fares little better especially when going seriously dead pan after some spineless whining. Dickens and O'Neal also chip in medical examiner performances but when was Ryan anything else but flat. Zach Kasdan's direction follow's suit with lackluster composition and sluggish scenes (the gym in particular) that fail to resonate as Kasdan waits for Pullman to gather his off beat approach. If I go on about the six minute phone conversation climax it would be piling on. Suffice to say the title sums Zero Effect succinctly. "},{"Title":"More clued out than clue-driven","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE first film from Jake Kasdan, the son of famed director Lawrence Kasdan (Pacific Heights, The Big Chill), is a detective comedy that works off a premise so obvious it's surprising it hasn't been exploited more often.Zero Effect steals the Sherlock Holmes mystery formula and places it into a contemporary context. The problem with Kasdan's film is that it doesn't get much beyond this modestly clever idea. Mixing excessive plot intricacies and broad, quirky comedy, the film ends up as a mildly puzzling sophomoric diversion.The self-styled world's greatest detective is Daryl Zero, played by Bill Pullman (Independence Day). He's a twitchy character, hair askew, eyes glazed and living in Howard Hughes-like isolation. As is often the case, Pullman seems to be in an acting class of his own, experiencing complicated inner surges and thoughts that don't have much to do with his character.This is hardly the cold, precise, but admirably balanced mind of Arthur Conan Doyle's detective, though the parallels are deliberate. Instead of cocaine, Zero imbibes amphetamines; instead of playing the violin, he plays loud, squawky confessional songs on his acoustic guitar. But armed with the latest in information-gathering technology and arcane knowledge -- bylaws governing motel bed placement for the past 30 years -- Zero solves cases with magical precision. The Watson of the story, Steve Arlo, is played robotically by Ben Stiller (Flirting with Disaster). He's a resentful sidekick who gets drunk and complains incessantly about his employer while trying desperately to have an ordinary romantic life after office hours. He works as a front man for Zero, maintaining strict client confidentiality, and collecting big fees.At the beginning of the film, Arlo is in a meeting with lumber tycoon Gregory Stark (Ryan O'Neal), a client of Zero's who is searching for missing keys to a safety deposit box, but who is also being blackmailed for a secret he will not reveal. In short order, Zero has figured out who is doing the blackmailing a paramedic (a tough gamine played by Kim Dickens, who makes a strong impression here as she does in Great Expectations) who works at Stark's health club. In his quest to expose her motives, Zero gradually finds himself falling in love for the first time in his life, a fallibility that never afflicted Sherlock Holmes.The movie then changes directions to concentrate on the love story, while Arlo continues his quest to break free of his boss so he can enjoy a fling of his own. The plot is complicated, relying on Zero's weird knowledge and observational skills. But the momentum is gone long before the movie ends and one is left only with a faint sense of curiosity. Like listening to Frank Sinatra sing Stevie Wonder, it's interesting, but why bother? Benjamin Miller, Filmbay Editor. "},{"Title":"Botched job","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How many more movies do we have to endure where the 'hero' is introduced as a stereotyped disorganised twit (nerd) who also happens to have near genius ability? Viewers either picked up on this movie as tops in comedy, or just plain boring and silly. My feeling is it presents elements of the latter two, but despite the mis-directed development of the subject and plot by the writer, the director has to carry the can for what ends up as a botched job. Basically this story and film could have been much better. This story hinges on a few but nonetheless interesting premises, all of which are thrown away by the writer and director. Silliness, neuroses and psychoses are too often misused, or confused with comedy - especially by American writers and directors. To such an extent that many European critics consider anyone living West of Ireland incapable of understanding (or creating) irony or the truly eccentric character. (Gore Vidal, it should be noted has lived most of his life in Rome.) If 'Zero Effect' has been re-written by an Italian and made with Giancarlo Giannini picking up where he left off in 'Sono stato io' ('He was Himself') this film would be so hysterical you'd die. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if you have low expectations","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented it out of lack of other choices and it was enjoyable.However, I think some of these other reviews are WAY overboard.It isn't fully developed as a story, there really isn't much suspense and the hero offers observations that are kinda interesting, but not anywhere near the caliber of deduction and inference that a sherlock holmes might make (as other reviewers have compared him to).It felt more like a rough draft of a film, including the post-production (there are several jump cuts that weren't covered by effects quite cleverly enough to not be jarring) but I'm willing to cut an indy, medium-low-budget film some slack, that's why I gave it a 6.What worked for me were Bill Pullman's character, after the first 30 minutes especially (that crazed, Tab-drinking stoner genius bit was not my opinion of good acting or character development, it reminded me more of the immaturity of Joe vs. the Volcano, Hey, we'll have the natives drink orange soda, that'll be funny), and what really kept my attention was Kim Dickens, she has an intensity on screen that really focused me, the only character I cared about...and she looked so damn familiar...And of course Ben Stiller is delightful as always, has he ever been lousy in a film?Like I said, if you pick it up on a slow night and let it run its course, it will grow on you and leave a pleasant warm smile on your face at the end of the evening. But Academy award material it is not.Until I read the reviews just now, I didn't know that the director and writer was only 23 years old, I will agree with other reviewers when I say that I will be looking forward to his future films. He displays some creativity here, just doesn't seem to know how to make it snap and crackle. "},{"Title":"A little slow paced if you ask me","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I admit gladly that this was a really entertaining story and Bill and Ben work so well together, for some reason this just wasn't to me an good movie to watch. I also definitely fell asleep on it twice, which is a bad sign in my case. Bill plays a detective who is trying to figure out a blackmailer and where a tycoon's keys are. But unfortunately for him his partner played by Ben Stiller, he wants to quit and settle down with his girlfriend. Also, Bill happens to fall in love with the blackmailer from what I understand and it gets in the way, big time.Not my type of movie, it was kind of boring to me. I know that IMDb users will not find this comment useful, that's OK. I don't want to spend a paragraph on why I didn't enjoy the movie, you're just going to have to take my word on it.6/10 "}{"Title":"Had Zero Effect on me","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like private eye movies but Zero Effect just took too long to get started and Daryll Zero himself (although brilliantly played by Bill Pullman) knows so many stupid things that no one would ever remember for any reason. Check out the scene in the crime scene motel for example.Ben Stiller is quite watchable too though. But for some reason in every scene with him and his girlfriend they are making out. I don't know if anyone else has noticed this. Zero Effects main problem is that's it's too talky and almost every scene takes place indoors. This adds an unwanted sense of claustrophobia to the film.Writer/Director Jake Kasdan does have talent and I would like to see him go far in Hollywood. And perhaps even make a sequel to Zero Effect but with a bigger budget and a more accessible plot line. It would be a shame to kill of a potentially great franchise because of one rather lame movie. "},{"Title":"Rename it the Zzzzzzzzero Effect","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has the distinction in my book as one of the few that put me to sleep while sober.  It is also unique in that it one that I shut off before the ending because I couldn't take it anymore.  Several times I was brought to a state of semi-consciousness by an interesting plot point only to be let down by a total lack of interesting resolution. Watch this flick if you want a good nap. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review nonsensical & fails to be clever","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Zero Effect is supposed to be a comedy, but the actors play it straight, and the parody elements don't work. So ultimately the film turns out to be a detective story.Unfortunately, there are some serious disconnects between the way the characters are supposed to behave and the way it comes across on screen. Daryl Zero, the famous detective, is both arrogant but also sweet. He is clever, but also stupid. He doesn't know how to act around people, but can pull off the most difficult nuances of human interaction.Comedy is partly timing, and the timing is all off in the film. There are weird disconnects from scene to scene. For example, in a running gag, Ben Stiller is forced to fly across country back and forth repeatedly. The straight man bit never comes across well.To cap it off, both romantic plot lines fail completely. There isn't a romantic tension, and without giving anything away... the ending was totally nonsensical. The casting and editing were pretty bad, but I would mainly fault the writing, and the performance by Bill Pullman.Who should see this film-- nobody, even if you think you might want toI'll give Zero Effect an awful 3 out of 10, which is the lowest rating I'll give a film that I could actually get all the way through. "},{"Title":"Did I missing something?","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am sorry, fans of this film, and please, don't get all mad at me, but I found this film to be really pretty dreadful. It just dragged, it wasn't funny with the exception of a few things. I give it points for not following the usual comedy patterns, but it really wasn't good. It was just a bore, and very unengaging. "},{"Title":"Too Little, Too Late","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This starts off pretty good, gets a little better and then fades in the second half and keeps fading.The twists and revelations in the final minute come too late to save the film. Once the suspense the romance ends, it just doesn't work the rest of the way.All of the characters, except by the one played by Ben Stiller, are either crooked or have no life or no conscience so it was tough for me to like a film that has so many unappealing leads.Bill Pullman's narration was pretty good but there was little else for me to recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Sequel Fodder.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Zero Effect was a modern take on the Sherlock Holmes tale A Scandal in Bohemia.  I enjoyed the acting of Bill Pullman and Kim Dickens and I think the story was nicely presented.  The scene in the ice cream shop was worthy of a DVD replay and a slow motion step through. I'm not sure how successful the movie was at the box office but I would like to see a sequel.  I also think Zero Effect would make a perfect TV series.   The Ben Stiller character could be changed easily since he did resign and could be replaced with a female lead.  A female Dr. Watson with Bill Pullman as Daryl Zero, now that sounds promising. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I expected","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first heard about ZERO EFFECT I was excited because Bill Pullman was actually doing a comedy for once, but when I finally got around to watching it on television one night I have to say that I was kind of dissapointed. I expected it to be one hilarious movie and what I got was an occasionally funny movie with little plot. I thought that this would actually be one of the best movies of 1998. Then it turns out that this is actually one of the worst movies of 1998. "},{"Title":"This movie would make a great TV Series , or a series of movies with detective Daryl Zero! Also a good movie for law professors to use teaching Agency Law.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Written and directed by Jake Kasdan,  the son of Lawrence Kasdan (The Accidental Tourist,  The Big Chill) talent runs in the family!  Nothing like learning from the best. The music is jovial which  reminded me somewhat of the sound track of Singles, directed by Cameron Crowe (Jerry Maguire). There is a combination or producers that I find interesting Lisa Hensen, daughter of the late Jim Hensen (Muppet, Sesame Street),  Janet Young (The Joy Luck Club, The People vs. Larry Flynt) who has done most of her work with Oliver Stone (Any Given Sunday); Naomi Despres (Savior); Jim Behnke (The Pretender). Bill Pullman (While you're Sleeping, Casper) is so good in the part that he made me lose track of the story line. I am glad I bought the tape, because shortly after I finished watching it I had to rewind the tape to figure out why the bad guy,  Ryan O'Neal (Irreconcilable Differences)  Gregory Stark , was bad. This movie would make a great TV Series , or a series of movies with detective Daryl Zero. Such as Peter Sellers as Inspector Jacques Clouseau, except that Daryl Zero is not clumsy! Dysfunctional but not clumsy!  He  is clever, perceptive, witty, refined, and dysfunctional all at the same time..This role gives Pullman the chance to show off his talent. This character had so many nuances. Bill is just great!  Kim Dickens, (Great Expectations),  Gloria Sullivan does a great job such as allowing Daryl Zero to change his moods so much.Daryl Zero is dysfunctional in his private life.  Listening to Zero singing and playing the guitar in those red pants was sure funny! But Zero is very sharp, controlled and perceptive in his professional life. Bill Pullman along with Dennis Quaid (Any Given Sunday) are two of the most underrated actors in Hollywood. I love the work of both of them.This movie is also a good movie for law professors who teach Agency Law. Bill is an undisclosed principal and Ben Stiller (Flirting with Disaster) Steve Arlo, is his agent. Ben Stiller is the son of Anne Meara and Jerry Stiller.  Zero drives Steve Arlo crazy by keeping him flying around all the time. Favorite Quotes Gregory Stark You can not buy silence, you can only rent it!  ZeroPassion is the enemy of precision. Favorite Scenes every time Bill transforms Zero into a completely different guy, Zero computing because his writings are very clever.  I recommend this movie! Besides being the movie of kids of famous parents this movie is a blast!  "},{"Title":"Pullman is acting out of his mind","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great script and some great acting from Bill Pullman, Ben Stiller, and Ryan O'Neal (Ryan O'Neal!). Especially Pullman, who seems to come into his own. The scene between Pullman and Dickens in the diner is Academy Award material. Many people might be turned off by his smirk, unless they get the joke from the beginning. But everyone should be impressed with his interpretation of this role, which easily could have been played with more abandon and less subtlety. "},{"Title":"Quirky&#153; Sherlock and Holmes style detective mystery","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When he's on the job Daryle Zero is the best private detective in the world, capable of reading people and situations and picking up the slightest of clues.  However his personal life does not exist and he has no social skills to speak of.  He shies away from people and uses Steve Arlo to act as a middleman in all interactions with clients and others.  Arlo takes a case for millionaire Gregory Stark which finds Zero putting his skills to the test to uncover a case of blackmail where he finds more than he is first told.  Meanwhile the constant travelling and working for Zero is putting Arlo's relationship under strain.I had reasonable hopes for this film when I sat to watch it.  I knew it was going to be quirky &#150; in other words not hilarious but a detective story with just enough to make it different from the pack.  To that end it worked for me but not as much as I had hoped.  The plot is pretty good but it has slight holes that I suspected would unravel if I pulled at them at all &#150; so I didn't.  It doesn't all sit together and the conclusion of the mystery lacks any real punch &#150; it's more of a `oh'.  However during the mystery it holds the attention but mainly due to the quirky telling rather than a gripping or involving central plot.The marketing wisely chose to talk up the quirky nature of the film, in particular the relationship between Zero and Arlo.  This is what makes the film watchable.  Zero is a good character and it was enjoyable to watch him work but also watch him fail to be a normal person and have to rely on Arlo.  It is flawed because the quirkiness is the film's main draw, but if it works it works.  Pullman does well as Zero but Stiller is better as Arlo and it's a shame when he's not around &#150; he does seem absent in a lot of the second half.  The best stuff comes with the two men together.It is not without flaws &#150; the `serious' business of the mystery and Zero's growth as a person seems to get in the way of the quirky feel of the first half of the film rather than building on it, but nothings perfect.  Overall, because it relies heavily on it's quirks to entertain and involve it is ultimately a little insubstantial.  However this is still passable as different entertainment.  Stiller and Pullman do well together to deliver us an eccentric modern day version of Sherlock and Holmes. "}{"Title":"The movie will leave Zero Effect on you.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie starts with an interesting premise but stops delivering after about 35 minutes.The story of an eccentric, reclusive detective who never meets his clients. He is presented with a case of missing safe deposit keys and the secrets it holds.The cast is fine including Ryan O'Neal.This might all be a spoiler.First he?s a recluse and a mess and complaining about being up for three days hopped up on speed - next minute, he?s well groomed and leading man looking on a plane flight to Portland. Huh?He?s supposed to be a functional illiterate but he seems to have ZERO problems navigating through society - again, huh?He?s supposed to be so intuned with his senses and observational skills because it?s like he?s not from Earth or this society which we would all love to see like a modern day Sherlock Holmes but they seem to think we?re not ready to accept that so after an hour, they pretty much forget that. Huh?His assistant wants to quit during the movie - subplot pointless.My guess is this movie was supposed to be TWIN PEAKS David-Lynch kooky but Jake Kasdan just doesn't have the skills, talent or life-experience to pull it off. It?s a flat movie that sets up a weird character but immediately retreats from it because he?s not willing to go through with it - so why should we? The movie is aptly named - it will have zero effect on your life as it?s pointless and not worth any of your time. "}]