[{"Title":"no reason to get so upset","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Trekkies IS a very funny movie, whether you are a Star Trek fan or not. It shows a wide variety of fans in a variety of situations, and there are no voice-overs to tell you how to feel about the characters presented.I notice that one prominent review is as horrified by Trekkies as one might be if one found a dead prostitute in their father's closet. The filmmakers may have been laughing at the people on the screen, but they weren't making fun of them. They were merely filming them. If I get in front of a camera and walk blindly into traffic, is it the fault of the person behind the camera if I get run over? No, because I would have been fully aware of my actions. So are the fans presented in Star Trek. Trekkies won't make a non-fan like ST, nor will it make a rabid fan feel as though they've wasted their lives. This is a slice-of-life documentary. If you feel, like some people who have tsk-tsked this movie, that the filmmakers should be ashamed of themselves, I would contend that you protest too much; could it be that you pity the fans on the screen, yet find yourself compelled to laugh at them? Such a conflict may well cause you to feel shame, and you would naturally project that outrage onto the film itself. But documentaries, by definition, can only tell you so much. It's up to the viewer to evaluate the material; blaming the filmmakers for a poor interpretation is ridiculous. These people ARE laughable. But so am I, sometimes. It's okay, because I don't take myself too seriously. And these fans take their hobby very seriously, but many, like the dentists, are aware that ST is a very geeky hobby. And no matter how many times I see James Doohan describe his encounters with the woman who wrote him those fan letters, I break down completely. How is that bad? How have the filmmakers presented him in a bad light? I can't say for sure, but I believe the filmmakers ARE fans of ST, and I believe that they're aware of the absurd lengths to which some ST fans will go (paying $1500 for a piece of latex, drinking a sick man's water). So what? It's entertainment. And if you can't laugh at yourself, who can you laugh at? (But that smarmy 14-year-old with the mullet still needs to be slapped....) "},{"Title":"It's not about coolness...","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I've read many reviews before I actually saw Trekkies and I must admit that I was pleasingly surprised! It isn't as bad as many people want to make you believe... actually I find it very interesting and entertaining. True, there are some really weird people in it, but weird also means NOT boring. And I don't mean only in the film, I also mean in live!I think, only StarTrek fans who take themselves too much serious, believe that the people who are shown in Trekkies were portrayed as freaks. I agree that they picked up some real extreme examples of StarTrek fandom, but as mentioned by Peanuthead before, that's what makes the film so interesting It's capacity to make you think!And anybody who thinks that they better had shown some cooler fans is missing the point! StarTrek fandom isn't about being cool or stylish, it's about enthusiasm, about devotion and about being what you want to be. It's about being yourself and enjoying it, to stay to yourself and not denying what you are or what you love. Not every fan has to live it out like that, but everybody who wants to, is free to do! Sometimes people actually want to be different, not necessarily to be someone special, just to be not like everyone else...Sometimes this can cause extreme examples, but think about it, where does the term fan come from? ...right, it's the short form of fanatic! (And that's not necessarily always a negative term.) At one or two occasions of the film I had to bear in mind the StarTrek/X-Men-Crossover-Novel Planet X, where the character Archangel is pushing it over the edge with Captain Picard to test this unknown community of the future, which claims itself to be so liberal and tolerant...Think about it and you probably think about yourself.Greetings LoganSanP.S. Don't mind my bad English... ) "},{"Title":"wonderfully original","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Finally, something new and fresh. This documentary needed to be made. It's very funny, scary, weird, touching and always interesting. Although the pace drags at times, it's entertaining and *gasp!* educational.I'm no trekkie, I do enjoy the movies though. Although I can't relate to the trekkies featured here, one can't help but admire their devotion. Oh sure, we laugh when we see some klingon's going to a fast food restaurant, get a tad freaked out by a transvesite in a Starfleet uniform, and shake our heads at Spinerfems. But guess what, they aren't hurting anybody! In fact, from what I saw, local Trekkie chapters do a lot of good for their community. Klingons even visit children's hospitals!Is it weird to see someone in public wearing a phaser and a star fleet uniform? Yes, to so-called 'normal' people. Yet it's considered perfectly acceptable for an armchair jock to wear major-league baseball caps and jerseys of their favorite players in public.  Hey, if a trekkie married couple has a succesful dental practice, do they need to get a life? Maybe the guy who spends his Sundays at the bar watching football all day needs to get one.Hey, I laughed at it most of the time. I admit it. The candid interviews of some of the ex-cast members are a riot! And near the end of the video, there was one interview with a Radio-Shack-Trekkie (the worst kind, I think) where I could not stop laughing. I mean it, he was such a GEEK. But then, this guy has invented something useful, I haven't. There you go.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" When my friend and I rented this movie, we sat down with the intent that it was going to make fun of trekkies. But after watching it, my opinion actually changed about them. And for the better.This movie not only shows the fans, but it talks about the culture itself. I ended up actually respecting the Gene Roddenberry trekkies because Roddenberry wanted an upbeat future. Something where humanity was actually better over all. And the fans that followed his idea are very friendly and accepting. Even the ones that emulate the war like Klingons are still a lot more friendly than other sci fi fans you will meet.I'm not saying all of the fans are like this. I've met some of the more egotistical ones, but that is mainly on the inet where you have a tendency to run into people that have very little social skills. But the people in this movie are actually quite normal! As for the movie, Denise Crosby does a great job as both host and interviewer. She asked questions in a non-biased way, which is the most we could want in a reporter.I liked Star Trek The Next Generation but not the other series in the franchise so I wouldn't call myself a trekkie. I never went to a convention and don't plan on ever. So this movie was an eye opener. I'll deal with theses Roddenberry fans over any other TV show fanatics any day of the week. In fact, I'll take these fans over sports fans as well. Trek may be dorkie, but I never heard of a trekkie booing the first black Star Trek actor like Philly fans did to Jackie Robinson in baseball.Oh, and as a side note. During the Klingon language class scene, my friend and I had to stop the tape and rewind to watch it again. The one woman in the class was hot. We were dumbstruck by the fact that an attractive female was trying to learn Klingon P "},{"Title":"NOT just for Star Trek fans","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I am not a fan of Star Trek, but I thought this movie was hilarious, and very well made.I never realized how much Star Trek fans loved that show.  Some wear Star Trek uniforms to work.  Some wear phasers every day.  Some are fluent in Klingon.  There's a full translation of Hamlet in Klingon language.  A dentist has outfitted his entire office as if it were aboard the Enterprise. Who knew?This is wacky and funny.  Trekkies doesn't relentlessly mock its subjects, but shows them sympathetically.  Still, it's hilarious.I recommend it to anyone at all familiar with Star Trek.It is NOT only for Star Trek fans. "},{"Title":"subtle, gentle, hilarious","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I thought the storytelling in this doc. was incredible. Never does the narration, the interviewing, or the framing poke fun at the bizarre, unconventional -- you know, I'm not even sure what other word works to describe these people -- fans who have made incredible adjustments in their lives in order to pay homage to Star Trek.Yes, they are strange. Yes, they seem to sometimes proclaim the supremacy of Star Trek with a vehemence that only suggests the alternative is enough to topple their worlds. But at the same time, this film, I think, takes a gentle, even respectful look at their strange personal universes.If you want to laugh, that is your prerogative. But I think this doc. is motivated more by fascination than by indignation or disgust. Trekkies (and Trekkers) are a cultural phenomenon. One that deserves the care and depth used in the presentation of this documentary. "},{"Title":"Trekkies is the movie that HAD to happen, too bad there was no planning for it.","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" The execution of a movie that HAD to happen could of so easily misfired. Thankfully, its execution was pretty good. Somewhat respectful of the series and the fans, it doesn't shy away from the kooks. Watchable by Trekkie, Trekker, or civilian was a tough trick to pull off. Granted, it is difficult to feel the tone of the movie at times. Maybe because the movie itself never knows what it wants to be. I guess the big cause of the identity crisis is Denise Crosby. Possibly I am just jealous seeing someone who CAN have her cake AND eat it too. Making money while making fun of the fools giving her loot AT THE SAME TIME would make any producer or director schizophrenic. It sure filled me with awe and envy. She should get into politics were such defects of character would be an absolute boon. Oddly enough, that does not take away from the movie.Out of all the cast members, Brett Spiner comes across as the most 'down to earth' (pun intended) and likable. I sure hope the crazy red- head never tries anything BAD. George Takei is always gracious and unflappable, even on the Howard Stern show. But what about the titular Trekkies? Fear not. Barbara Adams, the transvestite, and the mullet- kid using the biggest words he can think of are a blast to watch. The prize for most irritating is a three way tie between the smarmy jerk who allegedly created the Klingon language, the goofs who actually attend a Klingon language workshop, and the group of 'Klingons' featured in the film. A scene where I suppose they are supposed to be intimidating is so bad, it is embarrassing. Get real, wannabe toughs. They make Paul Lynde seem downright tough. Too bad, the Klingons of both series are pretty interesting. 2nd place goes to the cat who plays Q. He does not come off as particularly likable or even moderately talented. Speaking of minuscule talent, the radio morning show guys were a living parody. The machine on the Simpsons could easily replace that duo.Finally, to the stooge who purchased the Q virus*, hangovers are not communicable. It is hard to determine who deserves more contempt. The huckster who put it up for sale, or the unnamed, & thankfully unknown moron* who bought it? If you watch it, that statement will make sense. BY ALL MEANS, check out Trekkies. Before the haters start dogging this review, I watched STTOS in 1974. As an 12 year old paperboy I had to buy a 13 b&w because the reruns were on the same time as the news. And STTNG was about the ONLY thing worth watching on SPIKE-TV. There are so many things that could of been dropped, especially Janeway interviews and 60% of the alleged fans.*You know who you are, doofus. PS James Doohan lost his finger on D-day. The dentist and Denise's joking about it is aggravating to this veteran. Gardening accident? ggrrrr "},{"Title":"Case study in perception.","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  As I sat reading the other reviews about this film it occurred to me how much it is a case study in human perception. Everyone who sees this film will view the same material, but they will all see it differently. Some viewers feel that the people who where shown in the film where exploited and I can see there point. Some of the people shown in the film do come off as weirdoes, oddballs, and nut cases, but I don't feel that is necessarily the film makers fault. Some of these people may really be weirdoes, oddballs, and nut cases. That is why I say the film is a study in perception. For every person who thinks the people shown in the film are crazy, there is another who feels that they are perfectly normal. The film presents these people as they are and lets you decide whether or not they are abnormal in their love of Star Trek. After having seen the film a few times myself I am still trying to figure it out myself. Although I do think some of these people cross the line from fandom to insanity,  I can't tell you who does and who doesn't. That is what makes the film so interesting. It's capacity to make you think. As a Star Trek fan myself it made me look at my collection of Star Trek action figures and wonder How far am I from the guy who wants Spock ears implanted in his skull? So whether the people in this film make you laugh, think, or just give you the creeps you must admire there passion for Star Trek and there willingness to share that passion. In a world where there are so many violent things people can be passionate about, being passionate about Star Trek is a pretty benign thing. So as far as I am concerned this is a solid film, that gets 6 out of 10 stars from me. Live Long and Prosper. "},{"Title":"fascinating look at a geeky underworld","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I've known a number of sci-fi geeks over the years, and it is fascinating to see a whole movie about them. I've never been able to develop that sort of all-encompassing passion for anything, be in the New York Mets or The Grateful Dead, but it's fascinating to see what this obsessiveness produces.I think Trekkies and sci-fi fans in general consist of people who have been pushed so far out of mainstream society - these are almost invariably the people (like me) who were tortured and marginalized growing up - that they have an almost insane attracting to alternate societies. So they go to sci-fi conventions, joining the Society for Creative Anachronisms (you'll also find that there is a major overlap between fans of Lord of the Rings and Star Trek with people who are into S&M or polyamourous relationships. I wish someone would make a documentary about the whole alternate geek lifestyle thing).Anyway, this movie is very funny and covers a lot of ground in a pleasantly chaotic fashion, jumping from merchandising to fan fiction to people making it through hard times via their obsession with the show. It is very much worth watching. "},{"Title":"infinite diversity in strange combinations","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" A documentary for Trekkies, made by Trekkies, about Trekkies. Trekkies are Star Trek fans, usually very obsessed fans (there is a brief segment on the debate between what are 'Trekkies' and 'Trekkers', but no conclusions are reached). The film, hosted by Crosby (who played Tasha Yar on the Next Generation TV series), who's also a producer, focuses on the whole gamut of far-flung Trek fans, including, famously, the juror who showed up in Trek uniform, and the dentist who converted his office into a Trek starbase. Then there's the guy who recreated a motorized life-support chair (from an early classic Trek episode) and rides around in it on his town's streets, only his head visible poking up from the top. Most of the fans come across as harmless eccentrics who are actually fairly intelligent (the one exception is a guy who, for some reason, seems to be wearing a female wig and lipstick - kinda creepy - I think he thinks he's Troi of the TNG series). The central message conveyed is a hope for a better future, without prejudices or other social problems. It that sense, these fans are, indeed, more advanced than the average citizen, who is still stuck with the 20th-century's petty squabbling and short-sightedness. There are also short interviews with several of the classic and Next Generation cast members,including (poignantly) DeForest Kelley, who died in '99, and Leonard Nimoy(Spock), Jimmy Doohan(Scotty), Walter Koenig(Chekov), Nichelle Nichols(Uhura), Brent Spiner(Data), Michael Dorn(Worf), Jonathan Frakes(Riker) and Kate Mulgrew(Capt.Janeway). Some relate very touching stories about how the show literally changed someone's life for the better, including a suicide prevention by Doohan, who died recently. It also touches briefly on the fringe element of Trek worship, the pornographic fantasy trade. The end credits contain clips from some stand-up comics doing Trek jokes, which are pretty funny. All in all, pretty comprehensive; it just fails to wrap it all up smoothly and almost seems to end with an unspoken question. Hm, but there was a sequel last year. "}{"Title":"A funny, heartwarming look at one of the biggest television fandoms in the world.","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  When I rented Trekkies, I expected mostly to laugh at the weird and wild extremes to which Star Trek fans will go.  (I myself a Trek fan, so I was also prepared to do a bit of laughing at myself as well!)  But Trekkies also surprised me with its warm-hearted, caring look at Trek's most ardent devotees.  It managed to tell both a funny story about Trek fans and pay gleeful tribute to their obsession of choice.Humor-wise, Trekkies scores big.  The Klingons eating Big Macs, the Borg from New Jersey, and the Voyager sex scripts received by the Trek producers were all riotously funny.  The Trek cast members all had funny stories to tell as well, from DeForest Kelley's ardent female fan to Kate Mulgrew's marriage proposal.But there were also some genuinely touching moments in Trekkies as well. James Scotty Doohan's story about the suicidal fan brought tears to my eyes.  I know people who are fortunate enough to have met Mr. Doohan, and from all accounts he is a truly kind, compassionate individual.  That really shows through in all of his comments about the Trek fandom.  LeVar Burton tells how Gene Roddenberry named his character, Geordi LaForge, after a terminally ill Star Trek fan who passed away; John de Lancie (Q) speaks of another paralyzed patient who finds solace in Star Trek.Although Trekkies seems to poke fun at its subject, it's clear that the spirit of the film shares the same love for Star Trek that motivates the fans.  It pays tribute to the groundbreaking nature of the original Trek, and praises the spirit of progressiveness and harmony of the Star Trek universe as a whole.  Trekkies never questions whether or not Star Trek was a good show.  It only questions how far people will go to express their appreciation for it. "},{"Title":"Klingon Like Me","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It seems that the dissatisfying depths sunk to by The Phantom Menace have caused the sci-fi pendulum to swing wildly back into the Star Trek camp.  First we're given Galaxy Quest, a fictional spoof on the Star Trek convention sub-culture, and now the Trekkies, a dead-pan documentary that manages to take the spoof further than any fiction could.  The premise is simple; former Next Generation cast member Denise Crosby wanders the desolate plains of science fiction conventions with camera in tow.  What she uncovers is often fascinating, frequently disturbing, and almost without exception, incredibly sad.  In case you've missed one of the best-documented cultural phenomena of the past two decades, convention attendees notoriously devote their time and energy to emulating what they've seen on the screen, which usually means playing dress-up.  Some are obviously out to have fun, but most seem to invest a great deal of their self-worth in the creation of their characters.  Even this can provide good entertainment, but it often seems unbearably vacant; many of these folks express admiration for the society of equality and freedom depicted by Trek, but instead of actually doing something in the real world to make the vision come to life, they put on a wig, paint their face blue and go to the con.Not surprisingly, the pretense clung to by the Trekkies (or Trekkers, as some prefer to be called) rings false much of the time.  The Star Fleet officers they strive to mimic are members of  a hierarchical, pseudo-military organization, in which people presumably ascend in rank through merit and achievement.  The sad sacks running around in Trekkies have the luxury of defining themselves as they wish.  Logic would dictate that such a scenario would produce many more Lieutenant Commanders than Yeoman, and Trekkies provides ample proof.  What's especially hard to comprehend is the gleam of pride so evident in the eyes of these people.  What's to be proud of?  They did nothing to earn their store-bought uniforms or pips, except, of course, purchase them.  I got the impression that 20 years ago, these same folks would have been nudging me on the school bus, offering to tell me tales of their 20th-level Paladin, his +5 Holy Avenger, and the contents of his Bag of Holding.  Thankfully, we are also offered a few brief interviews with many of the cast members of the original series and its progeny.  The descriptions of the original Trek convention are intriguing.  Most admirable is Brent Spiner (Lt. Cmd. Data from Next Generation), whose dry humor and cynicism seem appropriate. "},{"Title":"What Sad Creatures","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I`m a DOCTOR WHO fan and being a DOCTOR WHO fan often means making negative and sometimes downright nasty comments on least liked eras of the show . I hate the era of the mid to late 1980s and quite happily boot the boot into the series made between 1985-89 . In short being a fan of the show is like being a football supporter who spends his weekends at matches shouting for the manager to be sacked . There , that`s what it`s like to be a DOCTOR WHO fan . What we don`t do is dress up as Sontaran battle fleet commanders , or learn the Sea Devil dialect , and under no circumstances do we wish to be tarred with the same brush as STAR TREK fans . Why ? Well watch TREKKIES to find out what I mean .TREKKIES was produced as a documentary but it turned out to be the biggest unintentional laugh-fest I`ve ever seen . Are we expected to swallow that STAR TREK fans are normal intelligent people ? Okay then let`s take a look at these  normal intelligent people ......The first person to be interviewed is a transvestite trekkie , and seeing as he/she is only filmed in extreme close up I`m just curious as to what he/she was wearing at the time . I`ve got a suspicion he/she was wearing one of these sexy little mini dresses from the original show . I hope he/she shaved her/his legsThe dentist whose wife and children are dressed in ST uniforms and whose dental surgery is decked out as a ST shrine called  The Starship Dentalprise The Greenstiens who spend every day dressed in their USS Enterprise uniforms and who don`t have any children ( Did anyone faint in surprise upon knowing this ? ) but have a poodle also dressed up in a ST uniform . It goes without saying it`s the dog I feel sorry forA bunch of people dressed as Klingons order their lunch in a klingon dialect. The voice over informs us they do a lot of  community service  ( Probably a euphamism for work fare - Would you give them a job ? ) and that they  Visit sick children in hospital  . I`ve got to confess that if I had a child in hospital I`d want them to meet klingons as much as I`d want them to meet Victor Salva or Michael JacksonThe James Doohan anecdote of the suicidal fan . This isn`t as heartwarming as has been made out . In fact when Scotty finishes with the line  She wasn`t getting the help she needed  I shouted out  None of the people I`ve seen so far are getting the help they need  .This brings me to the saddest fan of the lot who is the lad who owned Captain Pike`s life support/travel machine which resembles a headless Dalek. The fan turns up at an electrical store to buy some batteries and stuff only to get a weird reaction from the store worker who eyes dart from right to left very suspiciously and who has a  WTF  expression plastered all over his face . The reason for this attitude is explained when the fan leaves the store in the same transport he arrived in , yes that`s right he came in the Captain Pike life support /transport machine and now drives off at 2 mph with his gormless face sticking out of the transporter .I can`t wait to see TREKKIES 2      "},{"Title":"Star Trek Hate it or Love it, you must see this movie!","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This is a special sort of movie that to some may seem like a waste of film while to others it is a masterpiece as great as the Enterprise D itself! What is this movie about? Star Trek? Yeah sort of, but more important the fans of Star Trek. Yeah OK, it is a strange world that you enter in this movie, maybe the tag line should be To boldly go where no jock has gone before because it does feature a lot of people that to the naked eye appear to be nerds at Star Trek Conventions. STOP! Now think about it though, Are they nerds? What makes their fan fair for Star Trek any different then a football fan or hockey fan? Too me there is not much difference. In fact this point is made in this movie.This movie while strange does bring home an important point about the human condition. The people featured in this movie, while although they seem strange to the general public are no different then you or I. It brings to heart that we are all human and all of us have a passion about something. (Even the odd Klingon who has a passion for Glory!) It is well worth the rental price just remember it is a documentary. "},{"Title":"In life, the geeks get the last laugh","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  If you believe, as I do, that the geek will inherit the earth, you will find some of the implicit mockery in this film annoying.  I found most of the fans to be charming people, from the 14 year old kid who designs studio-quality computer animations in his spare time to the Klingon who blows 1400 bucks on a forehead prosthetic.A few moments were rather scary, however, such as the fellow who admits he'd like to have surgically altered spock ears but it's too expensive.  Now think about that for a moment.  Okay, he made the right decision not to give himself spock ears, but the very fact that he knows it's too expensive means he actually called up a plastic surgeon and asked how much it would cost!And then there's the seemingly nice, intelligent mother who has dubbed herself a Spinerfem and who keeps hundreds and hundreds of near-duplicate photos of Brent Spiner and owns a house overlooking his, on the balcony of which she periodically takes Spiner breaks to daydream and gaze at his backyard.  Now, if I were Brent Spiner I would be a little disturbed. Hell, I'm *not* Brent Spiner and I'm a little disturbed.My favorite, and the winner of the Don Quixote award, is Barbara Adams, the former Whitewater juror who conducts herself always as a Starfleet officer and insisted on wearing her starfleet uniform to trial, complete with phaser, communicator badge and tricorder, just as she does every day at work.  Her serious-minded, innocent devotion to the world of Star Trek was utterly charming.  I hope she's still doing the same.To a milder ST fan, who hasn't been to a convention since he was 9 years old or so, this was a fascinating peek into the world of ST that still thrives (or at least did ca. 1996).  Many of the characters you see on screen remind me of the friends and acquaintances I made in ST fandom when I was but a wee lad, as Scotty would say.   Some things never die.  I hope Trekkies keep treking, because this is surely one of the more harmless expressions of fandom.  Think football fans and their sometimes violent misbehavior or rock fans and their drug abuse and then Trekkies will not seem quite so demented and sad as perhaps they did before!  What a world!  What a galaxy!  Live long and prosper!  "},{"Title":"Has its moments, than gets tedious.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It has been about 35 years since the first episode of the original STAR TREK aired. Had it not been for reruns and Neil Armstrong 's landing on the moon, TREKKIES would not exist. The concept is brilliant and very thoughtful.  The editing is above average. The work put into this documentary shows. TREKKIES is a not bad film. What then becomes a humorous feature with a very sweet and lighthearted tone to it, soon turns into a tedious venture as you try and sit through the rest of the footage. It gets boring once you have heard the most of it.TREKKIES documents the fans of the entire STAR TREK universe. Dentists , jurors, and students show how much they live for the series. Actors from the series than talk about some of the fans, some moments are wild but the best ones are the heart felt ones (James Doohan 's suicide letter was heart warming).The actors talking about the fans and the conventions are great. Some moments with the Trekkies are cute, but you have a hard time wondering if some segments are meant purely to insult the fans as much as thank them. Once the initial introductions are broken in, TREKKIES is a long sit down to endure, even at 85 minutes. Denise Crosby 's intentions are good though and the result shows TREKKIES is a half-decent film. "},{"Title":"A freak show.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Trekkies is really not a movie about Star Trek fandom.  It's a freak show about those Star Trek fans who have no sense of reality.  As a freak show, it's fine.  But it is a mistake to think that this movie gives you an insight into Star Trek fans.  Most Star Trek fans cringe at what this movie shows. "},{"Title":"A great introspective into the minds of Trekkies everywhere...","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  All right, before I go any further, there's something I have to admit....I AM A TREKKIE!  There, I said it.  Whew, I feel so much better.  Having said that, I was very nervous when I heard about the release of Trekkies, thinking that this would be one big insult to the group of people who base parts of their lives around Star Trek.  Thankfully, I was wrong.To me, being a Trekkie is no different than the people who went ga-ga over those four guys from Liverpool.  Yes, we do take things to the extreme(like the WhiteWater juror who wore her uniform to jury duty), but, when everything's said and done, we're just like normal people.Trek-isms have even affected non-Trekkies, and some great examples are illustrated in the film.  For example, a psychatrist might talk about the shields going up, when describing defensive reactions to other people. Or, the most famous example, the phrase, Beam me up, Scotty.In short, if you don't have a sense of humor, Trekkies probably isn't for you.  But, if you've got an open mind, and can laugh at yourself, give this film a whirl.   "},{"Title":"Provides another glimpse into our culture.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Trekkies is a very brief, limited examination of those whose lives revolve around Star Trek (the TV series and the movies).  The film overemphasizes the 'extremists' -- men and women who always wear Starfleet uniforms, create Captain Pike's life support unit, and learn the Klingon language.  Unfortunately, the movie doesn't comment on the vast majority of serious Star Trek fans who live normal lives, wear normal clothes, and whose devotion to the series is limited to watching the weekly episodes of Voyager, the repeats of The Next Generation and Deep Space Nine, and the movies released every two to three years.  What we DO learn is that these 'off the deep end' Trekkies are apparently good people, who do good things, and basically don't bother anyone else.  Their hobby is really no different from stamp or beer can collecting, only more visible.I don't believe the film ridicules/lampoons these fanatics.  On the contrary, it shines a strangely flattering light on devotees of one the world's newest and (ostensibly) everlasting crazes.  I was especially impressed with the Star Trek cast members (who, in reality, are only a bunch of actors lucky enough to be part of Star Trek) who don't turn their noses upward when discussing this phenomenon.  Watch it for another glimpse into our culture.  As Brent Spiner (who played Data on the Next Generation) put it, We're all unique. "},{"Title":"They walk among us...","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  When you watch this movie, you'll realize that hardcore Star Trek fans walk among us everyday. You may even work with one. Business suits on the weekdays, and Klingon battle armor from episode 56 of The Next Generation on weekends. Should these people be locked up? Of course not. Society locks them up for us. There are probably triple the closet Star Trek fans than there are ones that are featured publicly wearing costumes in this film.Trekkies puts the spotlight on the outrageousness of it all. It tries to show us that these people, with mullet haircuts (or as I like to call them Ape Drapes), and attire from the mid-eighties, have not anything better to do, collect or believe in, than Star Trek. Everyone needs solace. Some choose the bible, some choose crime, other choose Star Trek.I'm not sure which of the above is the most outrageous. But that's besides the point.Trekkies is a fine film. It walks a fine line between giving the diehards insights and exclusive interviews from the space stars, all the while keeping things light and not too Trek-heavy for people like me who just want to watch and see how far these people actually take it. "}{"Title":"One of the great documentaries","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Trekkies is not about Star Trek or its fans.  It is about life.  This is one of the great documentaries, up there with Roger & Me.  The director has achieved that which is so rare in documentary transcending the topic in question to make a film about everything.Trekkies is about the hope of a better future.  It is about tolerance and accepting those who are different.  It is about finding yourself and a place to fit in.  It is about the responsibility that television so rarely accepts to portray hope, and what can happen when the media doesn't always glorify evil.  It is about a singular dream of peace that more Americans share than is apparent.  The film starts off strong, climaxing about half-way through with a tear-jerking story by Scotty about a life-changing letter (get your tissues).  And even though it slows a bit in the denoument, it always remains fascinating.  The film follows several fans as they attend conventions, go grocery shopping, go to work, attend jury duty, and live at home.  These day-in-the-life's are interspersed with interviews with the stars, and their anecdotes of fans, letters, and conventions.  This is a tight documentary that is well interviewed, well shot, well edited.  Trekkies is definitely a must-see. "},{"Title":"If you've ever known a Trekkie, rent this movie.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Whatever your take on the Star Trek phenomenon, watching Trekkies will make you feel a whole lot better about yourself. This hilarious and occasionally insightful documentary presents snapshots of Star Trek fanatics for whom the cheesy late-'60s sci-fi show (and its numerous '80s and '90s spin-offs) has become more a way of life than a hobby. If you count yourself among them (Trekkies, Trekkers, whatever), it may be comforting to find that you're not alone - these people are literally EVERYWHERE and whatever the filmmakers' intentions, Trekkies does not mock its subjects. For the rest of us, however, the boundless obsession of these characters is solid entertainment. Have you ever felt curious about those Star Trek conventions but didn't have the guts to sneak a peek (or the extra cash to throw away)? Here's your chance. You'll look on in amazement at a memorabilia auction in which a man dressed as a Klingon bids $1,400 for a piece of latex that happened to be used as someone's headpiece in a Star Trek episode. You'll howl with laughter as one electronically-minded Trek zealot rolls down the shoulder of a highway with his head sticking out of the Captain Pike contraption he'd recently built. And you might just wet your pants when you see a football-playing Klingon's celebratory end zone dance. Interviews with cast members from all the Star Trek series (alas, no Shatner) are mostly gratuitous, but it hardly matters - the shows' fans are the real stars here. If you've ever known a Star Trek geek (or are one yourself), you'll probably get a kick out of Trekkies. "},{"Title":"Beamed Up Fans","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  If you are not a fan of Star Trek, you may want to save yourself the rental fee and skip this documentary. Speaking of documentaries don't plan on seeing another Hoop Dreams. The quality of Trekkies ranges from average to that trendy home video Blair Witch quality. Because I do like Star Trek and my expectations were low, I enjoyed Trekkies. Why? Because I had fun sharing the lives of peculiar people and Trekkies has plenty of them. As Brent Spiner says, aren't we all a little peculiar? Hearing about the oddballs in Trekkies is one thing but listening to them try to explain their lifestyle choices is even better. Coupled with this for Star Trek buffs, is a brief overview of Star Trek conventions and interviews with several cast members about their most memorable fan experiences. What struck me was the very powerful connection between a few of the actors and some of the fans. The sharing of painful moments was obviously very moving to them. In the oddball category was one producer's account of the curious mail and scripts he receives. A great finish are several stand up comedians doing Star Trek jokes during the closing credits. At times Trekkies' focuses just on what seems strange. But my impression of those people who have made Star Trek a way of life was that it gives them identity and a sense of community and that felt ok with me.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious look at Star Trek and its fans","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Trekkies is a movie meant to show the dedication, devotion and affection that Star Trek fans have for the shows and movies.  In some cases, it almost falls into the same stereotype that it hopes to prevent.  The movie stars Denise Crosby, who played Lt. Tasha Yar on The Next Generation tv show.  She goes from place to place interviewing not only fans of the show, but members of all casts up to and including Voyager.There are several scenes I found hilarious, namely the Whitewater juror who attended court proceedings everyday in her Starfleet uniform (her explanation is hysterical).  The dentist who has his employees wear Starfleet uniforms and has his walls lined with Trek collectibles, and last but not least, the Klingon language school.I am by no means bashing Trek fans, as I enjoy the series and films as well, but this movie can quite possibly only add to the stereotypes you fight every day.  Less concentration on those extreme fans such as those mentioned above and a bit more of a broader view of Trekkies might have been more warranted.Overall, this film succeeds proudly in giving those fans a glimpse into their world, and to those of us who might either not be or are only casual observers, a glimpse into the mind of some really loyal and faithful followers.  If you're a Trek fan, this is a must see.   If you're not quite as hardcore, watch it with your tongue slightly in cheek and you will fall in love with it.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Beam Me Up","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Trekkies Two years ago, when I visited a Star Trek convention for the first time I was amazed by the dedication some people have made to this universe that was envisioned by the late Gene Roddenberry.  The people I met and the creatures I saw evoked two reactions  awe and embarrassment.  I am a very casual fan of the series and movies, and I would never consider learning how to speak Klingon or dressing up in uniform.   Trekkies is a documentary about the dedicated fans of Star Trek and the lives they lead in support of it. After watching the film, I would like everybody to refer to me as Captain of the starship S.S. Ed Rooney. Thank you. Former cast member of Star Trek  The Next Generation,  Denise Crosby, hosts this look into the private lives of Trekkers.  Her participation in this film ensures deadly accuracy and the involvement of the casts of all the Star Trek shows, who usually show restraint when the subject of fandom comes their way.  Director Roger Nygaard takes us into the underworld of conventions, meeting the fanatics who dress up in Starfleet uniforms, Klingon attire, and each hold dearly in their hearts the mythology of Star Trek. We also go out of the conventions and meet some individuals who have taken the world of Trek into their normal lives.  One man runs a Star Trek themed dentist office, another complains about a homemade costume's soul-flattening inaccuracies, each speak with a spooky insistence that this is normal for them. We see homes turned into shrines to the show, men slaving over blow-torches trying recreate props, and one gut-busting moment in which a man is shown rolling around city streets in a recreated wheelchair from the program, something that truly needs to be seen to be believed. This all adds up to a rich portrait of the ways and means Star trek fans go to prove their love. Often, the camerawork is too busy and MTVish for my tastes.  The movie also has so much to say in 90 minutes that it sacrifices any real in depth look at this phenomenon.  I could sit through 5 hours of this, but all we get here is 90 minutes.  This documentary is long overdue and I hope it spawns more like it.  This is a population with so much to show us and so many stories to tell.  One film seems hardly enough. ------------ 8 "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable and Affectionate Portrait","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I attended a screening of Trekkies with the pre-conceived notion that this was going to be a film that spent eighty minutes poking fun at those die-hard Star Trek fans that always seem to be a bit on the strange end. The film certainly starts off that way, particularly when it details the story of the Whitewater Juror who attended every court session in her Federation Uniform, complete with communicator and phaser.Certainly, those extreme types always exist in every segment of our society, but fortunately Trekkies takes a higher road and paints an affectionate portrait of those individuals who celebrate Gene Roddenberry's series, as well as the three others that follow.  Most interesting are the anecdotes told by many of the cast members, describing the fan letters they receive explaining how Star Trek has changed their lives for the better (one of the best is Nichelle Nichol's story of how one modern-day superstar was inspired by her ground-breaking performance in the original Trek).Trekkies is a very enjoyable glimpse into what has become a national, albeit worldwide, phenomenon.  You will laugh out loud at the extremes some of these super-fans will take their passions, but more so, understand and delight in how Star Trek has brought so many diverse individuals together, and inspire many to pursue great ambitions. "},{"Title":"Truth-telling vs. Stereotypes","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Featured for a whopping 15 minutes of film is the Whitewater juror who went to court dressed in a Star Trek uniform, complete with phaser and tri-corder. As a fan, I was embarrassed when she did this, because when your friends and family read about her, they all point in your direction and say something like That's YOU! B. G. Burkett wrote a book about stereotypes. In Stolen Valor Mr. Burkett described the crowds at Vietnam memorial commisionings. These crowds are made up of many successful veterans. These veterans own businesses, are managers etc., and the media always walks past these smartly dressed people to the back row. In the back row sits the two stringy-haired people wearing torn GI fatigues and various buttons. These are the people that are interviewed.With Star Trek fans, the media too,  always seems to find the one person who truly believes they have green blood, and interviews them. Trekors seems to be an honest attempt to portray the fans in a different light. This movie succedes EXCEPT when it changes direction, and shows the same stereotypes that the popular media is showing.  "},{"Title":"An amusing examination of the phenomena of Star Trek Fans","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A fun, non-condescending view of Star Trek fans. Fan culture is treated with respect and only a hint of irony, as we see profiles of star trek conventions.  Included are fans who wear regalia on the job, and a Star Trek dentist's office! There is even a bit on the academic nature of fan culture and cultural-poaching Although, a word from an expert or two would have been more enlightening, rather than the comments from the Psychotherapist who uses Trek for therapeutic metaphors (!)  Even enjoyable to the non-Trek fan, and shows these folk to be no more freak than your average rowdy or football fan. "},{"Title":"Trekkies, laughing at Star Trek fans one at a time.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  What Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse did for Custer at Little Bighorn, Roger Nygard And the film `Trekkies' does for Star Trek fans.People should realize that Trekkie is not a documentary of Star Trek fandom or the phenomenon of fandom in general, but rather it's a very limited day in the life documentary of a handful of people that identify themselves as trek fans.  I've put in more time researching how to heat up a can of chili then these Documentarian filmmakers appear to have put in on the subject of Star Trek fans.  I don't think it is's possible to talk about Star Trek fandom without mentioning groups like the Star Trek Welcommittee and people like Jacqueline Lichtenberg, Shirley Maiewski or Bjo Trimble. The reality is far more interesting, but alas it's also far less funny then a house cat in a classic Star Trek uniform.Trekkies is just a fairly shallow bit of `laugh at the geeks' humor, so if you think Star Trek Fan's are completely clues freaks, you'll love this film.  and for that matter, If you wear a star trek costume 24/7, or you're stalking Brent Spiner, you'll probably love this film as well. God save us all, there's a sequel coming. "},{"Title":"Heart warming documentary","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" This film gently pokes fun at the Trekkies magnificent humanity.The film showed trekkies as obsessive fans but also portrayed them as people hopping for a better future and Star Trek has provided them with a vision for doing this. They see a world without racial or gender discrimination. They accept each and every human on this planet as a unique and justifiable entity without a hint of stereotyping - the irony is that the rest of us cant see trekkies in the same light and we stereotype these fans (obsessives)as sad and lonely. I am particularly guilty of this.Some of the fans were a real inspiration, they seemed accutely aware of what people think of them when they go about their daily business dressed in Star Trek uniforms but really didn't care. They didn't see themselves as the problem - the problem was with the finger-pointers - as anything remotly outside social conventions was pervceived as a perverse, strange and abnormal.This movie is a brillianty observed piece of social commentary and could really have been made about soccer fans, baseball fans, Beatles fans, Nirvana fans, Hip-Hop fans, Goths, Ravers..... just about anybody in the western world. "}{"Title":"A Laugh Riot","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  A beer party favourite.  This chillingly straight-faced glimpse into the darker side of Star Trek fandom.  So straight-faced it's like watching Hannibal Lecktor host a cooking show.  The  documentary host is Denise Crosby, evidently a character in the early years of the revived series, who had the good sense to attempt an escape from the world of Star Trek before it permanently destroyed her career -- too late as it turns out. A tribute to all those who can't seem to find sufficient entertainment and diversity within the confines of the known universe.  The subjects of this documentary are the truly pathetic creatures who assign themselves ranks and titles -- it's amusing that no one is ever a Private in Starfleet -- wear hand-crafted uniforms and attempt to memorise artificial languages because work, family, and community don't hold sufficient appeal to them. If comedy is based on cruelty then this film is the plynth of comedy -- a must see. "},{"Title":"Great explanation on why Star Trek is a Phenomonon","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I loved this movie. A great deal of effort was obviously put in by the creators of this documentary of Trekkers/Trekkies. Although some people may seem like they are going way too far, it's just another reminder that Trekkies believe in IDIC, (Infinite Diversity in Infinite Combinations) and treats everyone as equals, no matter what race, religion, opinion, appearance, or Trekkieness. o) Full 10 by me. "},{"Title":"Fun for the fans, and just above average for the rest","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" As somebody who grew up watching Star Trek (TOS) and who enjoys all of the subsequent series, I appreciated this documentary about the followers of Star Trek and the profound influence of the Star Trek franchise more than most. It;s only flaw, in my opinion, was its focus on the more recent generation of Star Trek writers, and the down-playing of Gene Roddenberry's role in the first three series. But this isn't a film about the franchise. It's a film about the people whose lives it changed for the better.While the film does light-heartedly poke fun at Trekkies, it also celebrates them - simultaneously noting the weirdness of people who do their grocery shopping in Star Fleet uniforms and celebrating their courage and conviction. Although this is a funny film, and one with a big heart and even some intelligent social and political commentary, I do not believe it will satisfy everybody, and I am not sure everybody will see it as inoffensive fun (some of us get a little too sensitive about our dedication to Star Trek). So, I can't really recommend this film to people who are neither Star Trek fans, nor people who do not know any Star Trek fans. Having said that, I am now wondering whether any such person could exist. "},{"Title":"This movie worries me.","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" First off, I've been a fan of Star Trek since the original series. I have a poster of the Enterprise-E on one wall above my computer. I have my own Starfleet uniform in my closet, which I wear on Halloween and the occasional Star Trek or SF convention.A friend of mine gave this movie to me on video as a Christmas gift. And, frankly, the movie scared the hell out of me. All I could think of while watching it is that there are some seriously twisted people out there who are in dire need of professional help. Okay, the dentist who had his office done up like a Star Trek facility was fun. Business is business, after all. But on the other hand we had the woman who showed up for jury duty in a Starfleet uniform.Yes, Star Trek was, in some of its incarnations, an excellent television series (though I thought Voyager was a total waste of airtime). But that's all it is -- a television show, one of several that I've watched and enjoyed over the years.Unfortunately, movies such as Trekkies only serve to work against Star Trek and its fans in the long run -- people will watch this film, see how deranged many of its fans are, and conclude that Star Trek fans are a bunch of weirdos. And those of us, like myself, who do not take it to the ridiculous extremes depicted in this film, will nonetheless be lumped into the same category as those who do.In short, movies like this almost make me ashamed to admit that I am a Star Trek fan, because of how Trek fans are depicted.On the other hand, the film was well put together, I have to give it that... "},{"Title":"Trekkies (1997)","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I do love a documentary that focuses on weird and eccentric people. Trekkies looks at the fans of Star Trek. It chooses a small group to follow, from a young SFX whizkid that has gone on to much better things, a woman that insists on being called Commander, a dentist with a decorated surgery and so on. This is all cut together with interviews from some of the stars. Where the film kind of failed was in only showing the most eccentric people, and always surrounded by there memorabilia and/or in costume. I never really got a sense of who these people were without Star Trek. This can sometimes make them seem sad and lonely and often psychologically damaged. Luckily, they are having so much fun that you kind of get swept up by it all. The actors seem to take it too seriously though,recounting stories of how the show has changed or saved peoples' lives, from suicide attempts, to how it liberated black people, to how it helped people get over the deaths of their family etc. It's all a bit much at times and it doesn't really express the kind of fun people are having. Not informative, just a gallery of interesting people. "},{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" for any Star Trek fan, known to many as the title Trekkies will amaze, amuse and make you laugh and even shed a tear or two, for those who are not Star trek fans you still will be amazed at the impact the show made on people and how it influenced the lives of many to do more then they ever thought they could, The is really a fun show to watch -and who know you may find yourself becoming a trekkie too. Not wanting to spoil it, one famous actress became who she is partly because of the classic show in the 60's, while one cast member made a man who nearly ended his life, but that changed and he want on to become a man of science, and people -one in mind turned the place where he works in trek theme because for what he does, it helps. get it see the many actors also talk about the shows and enjoy that what I did not say. it was as I said amaze all who see it, "},{"Title":"Trekkies; a humorous, good-natured ribbing of Trek fandom!","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" First off, in all fairness, I know some people in this film (one, in particular, has been a friend of mine for nearly 20 years). And as a Trekkie myself (although more of a Galactica fan of late; sorry--better show), one must never take oneself THAT seriously. The film presents Trekfans in all ranks of devotion; from the casual conventioneer to the obsessed, socially maladjusted types that ARE out there, too. For every Trekkie dentist or engineer, there's also a middle-aged nerd living in his/her mother's basement spending their unemployment checks on trading cards. There is no hostility in Denise Crosby's inquiries of the fans, just occasional (and understandable) bewilderment. It is NOT a hatchet job. Many of the takes are filmed unbroken so sentences are not cut and pasted out of context. It is thorough, lighthearted and meant as an affectionate tribute to the degrees of passion demonstrated by Trekkies. Sort of the true story behind GALAXY QUEST (and effects whiz kid Gabriel Koerner seems a direct inspiration to the Questarian Brandon). It's a celebration of imagination; those who swim in it and those who are drowning in it. We are ALL geeks about SOMETHING (football, soap operas, gardening, whatever...the list is infinite). My friend who was in the film watched it with us in a theater and we ALL laughed; at the film, and at each other. Recognizing the geek in all of us and having a good time doing so. Good job, Denise Crosby (whom I met at a convention once; she was delightful) and Roger Nygard. Also enjoyed TREKKIES 2. Since Trek fandom seems to be growing slowly again (thanks to the new movie buzz)after a long dry spell, maybe TREKKIES 3 could beam our way someday. I, for one, welcome it with parted fingers! "},{"Title":"Boldly going, going, gone.","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I'm stunned. It's hard to believe that with the cancellation of STAR TREK ENTERPRISE, for the first time in18 years there will not be a STAR TREK series on the air. I have spent an abnormal amount of time engaged in water cooler talk as to why the latest STAR TREK spin-off failed to last more than 4 seasons. I do consider myself a TREK fan but I am hesitant to use terms like Trekkie or Trekker. I see STAR TREK the same way I see religion. It can be a great source of comfort, it should be used in moderation and I don't want to associate with or be associated with its followers. These devoted fans by the way recently raised over 15 million dollars to keep this fifth TREK series on the air, forcing them to delay moving out of their parent's basements for at least... Well I guess they had the disposable income anyway. Don't get me wrong, some of my best friends are Trekkies or Trekkers. Go rent the documentary TREKKIES and you will know what I am talking about.What Gene Roddenberry pitched, as Wagon Train to the Stars became much more than what WilliamShatner described on SNL as, ...just a TV show! Roddenberry managed to address the problems of the day that would not have been addressed otherwise on TV, by using outer space as its backdrop. The show inspired many to reach for the stars by studying science. People of color and women seeing Lt. Uhura (Nichelle Nichols) on the Enterprise bridge saw a future that included them. The show inspired new technology and it's packaging. Imagine what your cell phone or home computer would look like without STAR TREK as inspiration. Gene Rodenbery's vision also showed us a future where people of all races worked and played together (including TV's first interracial kiss Plato's Stepchildren).I know that I'm making this sound bigger than just the cancellation of a TV show. I liked Enterprise and was not bothered by the multiple episode story lines. I still saw Gene Roddenberry's original intentions realized in this latest STAR TREK franchise. I liked that Captain Jonathan Archer's (Scott Bakula ) Enterprise and crew was less sophisticated than Captain Kirk's or Picard's. The bottom line is that it doesn't matter if you are battling an unknown alien threat or debating the moral implications of interfering with the development of an alien species, as long as the show is well written and well acted, that's all that matters.One of the great things about Trek is that you can never run out of story ideas. All you have to do is look at today's newsmakers, paint them green and stick them on another planet.Fear not Trekkies or Trekkers. Even though we are saying goodbye to Captain Archer's Enterprise, the franchise will live long and prosper. There is now talk about an 11th STAR TREK feature scheduled for release in 2007. I look forward to it, just don't expect to see me at the first screening and I definitely wont be in uniform because to quote Groucho Marx, I refuse to join any club that would have me as a member.Stay Tuned Tony Figueroa "},{"Title":"Trekkie Loves The Movie Trekkies","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This documentary is an excellent look at the Star Trek's extreme fans, also known as Trekkies. I'm a huge Star Trek fan and I loved this movie. It is a loving and considerate tribute to the fans by giving them their own movie. I don't know where people got the idea that this was insulting or offensive because it is neither. It is a look into the world of true Trek fans. This movie doesn't judge or make fun of anyone who is interviewed.Denise Crosby did an excellent job as the host. Like I said, this movie gives fans and non fans a like a look into the lives of Trekkies, those who live Star Trek. There is a dentist who has his entire office decorated with Star Trek paraphernalia, a radio dj who hosts a radio talk show called 'Talk Trek', and many other people interviewed. There are also interviews with many of our favorite cast members, and clips of behind the scenes of DS9 and Voyager. The interviews of the cast members are interesting, funny and at other times tear jerkers. No one has fans like Star Trek does, and this movie shows that!  "},{"Title":"click here for a klingon translation...","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you are going to see this, I think it might be better to see it with a crowd and enjoy the process of watching it with others. It's a sort of party movie. I watched this by myself, and ultimately it felt sort of pointless, which is in stark contrast to the heavy-handed morality plays of the original Star Trek. Instead here we get what feels like a series of, Look at this, isn't this weird. And hey look at this, isn't this weird...The problem for me is that even after a small number of those, the scenarios and people don't feel that weird. One could imagine that was the theme Nygard was shooting for, embracing the alien when it is next door, or in the jury pool. However, I don't think there was any such thread or intention here. You could remove whole scenes and this film would retain its humor holographically. Indeed, your friends will likely be galactically more funny than Fred Travalena.Others will find the film rollickingly funny I'm certain, and for me there were certainly a few chuckles. I probably would have liked to have heard more of Roddenberry's widow, so maybe I was looking for a more reverential documentary than one that wanted so badly to be irreverent.Certainly I don't regret watching it, but I had higher hopes for Trekkies. The filmmakers try and balance interviews with the famous as well as the fanatics. And the latter do return throughout the film to help us become more familiarized with them. I sensed an interesting dichotomy between the original Trek stars and the subsequent celebrities. It may just have been a function of youth versus age, wisdom versus whim. For actors, to portray a character and then have that character in some ways usurp your career must be quite a challenge...makes me think of the pratfalls of childhood stars. This however was not really discussed in the film.The film ends up being a sort of visual FAWQ (Frequently Asked Weird Questions). With a Trekkies 2 evidently released or already in post-production, I hope we are not closing in on a weekly reality Trekkies show. Or conventions devoted to fans made infamous by this film...Really, it's time to boldly go somewhere else...5/10 "}{"Title":"Featuring the Star Trek convention","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Star Trek- the final frontier, I don't know.  This film can be looked at by 2 different groups of viewers- 1, the Star Trek fans who will treasure this film like episode 5.12 or something, and, by the people who look at these fans at the conventions and think Not since the Pope and Cardinal O'Conner  spoke to a symposium of nuns, catered by the Amish has such little sexual congress gone on in one room.  All joking aside, this film is pretty interesting.  I mean, where else are you going to see Trekked out fans, with dental offices covered in memorabilia and a guy who walks around in a Trek like suit everywhere he goes.  As long as you don't take this film as seriously as the man who goes to every Trek convention, you'll have some fun.  Featuring interviews with Leonard Limoy, William Shatner and other cast members.  B+ "},{"Title":"A Must for Star Trek Fans","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" If you are a Star Trek fan you must see this movie.Interviews with many, many actors from the movies and TV shows.It's hosted by one of the leads in the The Next Generation.Shows the different interesting fans.Explores their obsessions.You get a nice glimpse about the personalities of the actors.But the heart of the doc is the fans.And of course the fans are a bit kookie.But no pot shots.Treats them with respect. "},{"Title":"A roller coaster documentary","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" While Star Trek is a viewpoint to a promising future, Trekkies is a delightful insight into another world of today. As a European non-Star Trek-fan it is a bit tricky to grasp exactly how important the phenomenon have been in the formation of American culture throughout the 60's and up to today. Although the intention of the filmmakers certainly is to make a movie about Star Trek fans as individuals - and not so much the phenomena itself - this aspect is also emphasized and explained to a certain degree. The characters varies wildly, from the somewhat too-much-of-a-fan-to-be-real to the more self-conscious enthusiasts with a fascinating insight both in the world in which they have chosen to dwell in and the individuals they are. The editing is often set to fast forward and is a bit too quick here and there, so it gets a bit exhausting to watch at times. Although there is a lack of traditional dramaturgy here, Trekkies is really entertaining, funny and heart-warming. There are some touching scenes such as the story of the suicide note as well as a number of disturbing ones like the family all dressed up in Star Trek-clothing and, perhaps especially troubling, the story of the q-virus. "},{"Title":"a plethORA of laughs....","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  for any sane Trek fan.  If you loved the show, but realize it isn't real, you will get SO many laughs out of this movie.  The best character is the unbelievably snotty teenager who acts like he's incredibly smart and cool, yet comes off as the biggest jerk in the universe.   Runner up is the infamous Whitewater juror who wore her Commander uniform to the trial, as she does every day to work.   But the best scenes are when Brent Data Spiner and Denise Lt. Yar Crosby are reviewing the Yar/Data sex drawings - Spiner is hilarious.  A must see. "},{"Title":"Entertaining...even if you're not a fan","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This was a surprising little film.  Although I would not consider myself a HUGE Star Trek fan...at least not to the extreme taken by some of the people featured in this film...I enjoyed this one a lot.  This portrait of the phenom of Star Trek has a lot of comedic appeal to not only fans of the series, but also to those looking for some laughs and entertainment. Some of these things I don't think I will ever forget, but instead of telling you about them, I strongly urge you to see this one for yourself...I guarantee you won't regret it.   "},{"Title":"Scary Movie!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Having spent the last 25 years going to SF conventions(not the dreck creations cons, but REAL conventions) I found this film frightening.  While I did not know any of the people personally, I know their type having met them again and again over the years. My favorite scene is where the dentist from Florida mentions the role playing his wife and he do to enhance their home life and who plays who, the look on Denise's face is truly priceless. "},{"Title":"Good for fans of all species.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"       STAR TREK is more than just a television show.  It is a way of life for some people.  The way they get captivated by the show's message.  The interest in the technology of the future.  The emotions felt by millions on the happenings of a cast of characters every week is very evident in the fan following of the popular show.  So popular, in fact, that it has managed to survive over 30 years in the form of television shows and spin-offs, movies, comics, action figures, lunch boxes, yo-yos, you name it!  And it still lingers on generation after generation... and we aren't even in the 23rd century yet!  People love STAR TREK!  And if you are one of them... if you are a Trekkie, than indeed, TREKKIES is dedicated to you.     This movie isn't just for the fans of that show.  In fact, it is more about the fans and their stories.  Stories that are sometimes more interesting than some of the episodes of the t.v. show they so admire.  Stories like a woman who dresses up in a star trek uniform every day... even when she was a juror in court!  A dentist who decorated his practice into a bridge on any star trek vessel.  A group of people who dress as Klingons just to go out.  Interesting (and perhaps strange) people who know full well that this is, in fact, a t.v. show and wish to share their love of the show with the world.The convention stories are great too.  People coming from all over the world, dressing like aliens just so they can engage in their love of STAR TREK with others in their collective.  Perhaps one of the best things about TREKKIES is the interviews and reactions from the actors who have portrayed characters in the star trek universe.  Everyone from Leonard Nimoy (who played Spock on the original series) to John de Lancie (who played Q on STTNG) documented how STAR TREK has affected their lives... and how their lives have touched the fans.  Stories of laughter, drama and a strange sense of the overall power of this television phenomenon pack their conversations.  And every one of them comes away with the enjoyment of having been a part of something that has reached so many people in such a positive way.There were parts that did seem to drag a little, usually when the documentary was revolving around the more boring stories.  And some of the people you won't like.  For example, a snotty trek kid who seemed to take himself way too seriously.  He came off like everyone around him was an idiot and he was a genius... all the while dressed up in full star trek attire.  But most of the people you will like.So, if you are a Star Trek fan and want to see a good movie that makes subtle fun of you, go see GALAXY QUEST.  But, if you want to see a good movie that will make you proud to be a Trekkie, definitely check out TREKKIES.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and multi-layered","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Despite what some people think, Star Trek(TOS) was one of the most daring and thoughtful shows on television, and it explored every issue from racism, to war, ecology to vegetarianism way ahead of its time. Though it certainly has succumbed to commercialism in an ugly way--it was fascinating to watch this doc. As I have never been to a convention, many of the fans were indeed extreme in a scary way, but then, others showed amazing intelligence and talent. That 15 year old did some incredible computer animation(he is after all--15!). And it was also interesting to see how the actors in star trek had been affected by the fans. Like host Denise Crosby keeping all that fan art(those data/tasha yar sex drawings were bizarre yet expertly rendered!)  and James Doohan's moving story about the suicidal fan. One of the best points made was the fact that a sports fanatic can waste  his life collecting junk (and can recite pointless 50 year old sports trivia) and is seen as perfectly normal and yet a fan of an art based medium is seen as stupid or foolish. The dentist didnt seem to be hurting socially or financially from his fandom and those cuties at that Klingon language camp had me thinking Where do i sign up? "},{"Title":"Lunch is supposed to stay down!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Yes, I was entertained by this film, and I almost cried when 'scotty' told his story about the suicidal fan.  But aside from that, this film is a rather nauseating and very real portrayal, shining a certain light upon the obsessed and deranged attentions of the fandom fringe. Trekkies is more of an anthropological study on the impact of television than anything else, which is the main reason it disturbs me.  I admit to being a 60's Telefantasy enthusiast, but I would never dream of sporting a Bentley and changing my name to Steed. What seems to be lacking in the average celebrity fan is a sense of individual importance, and this film shows the results of that particular mental deficiency in the form of copier clerks who insist you call them captain, dentists who urge their assistants to don Starfleet uniforms, and dozens of other examples I have all but forgotten at this point.It is a good, sinister poke and may cause a few bouts of laughter, but Trekkies is not a treasure-trove of importance.  The fact that it was released to theaters should tell you something about its true intentions. "},{"Title":"Amusing & Horrifying","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I was excited when I saw that Trekkies was available at my local Blockbuster.  I hadn't had the opportunity to see it in the theater though I had seen the trailers for it.  I'm no longer quite sure what I expected, but this wasn't it, though I suppose it should have been.  This documentary trots out Denise Crosby to interview the most stereotypical examples of Star Trek fans that they could find.  After all why should they talk to the majority when you have such a recognizable extreme to work with?I am perfectly willing to admit that I found parts of this film amusing, but I wasn't laughing at the same things a non Star Trek fan would.  I was mostly laughing at myself as I sat there thinking I knew some of the people interviewed.  In fact, I watched it with a group of my friends and some of us had actually seen some of them in person, like the gentleman who runs conventions.  I also got a chuckle out of my friends' disbelief over the whole section on the town in Iowa that claims to be the future birthplace of Kirk.  Since I'm from Nebraska, I'd often seen fliers for their annual conventions.What I did not find amusing was the way this documentary picked only extreme cases and focused so totally on one aspect of the lives of these people. We were left almost completely in the dark as to what these people did with the rest of their lives.  Instead it was all focused on how strange they were for spending so much time and money on Trek stuff.  Yes, the people shown are spending a lot of money on Star Trek stuff, but you know what?  They must be making good money at whatever it is they do in their lives to be able to afford it.  For the most part, these people were quite intelligent, despite how they were being portrayed.  The dentist who runs Starfleet Dental and his wife thought up a way to pay for their fan stuff and have it help their business.  I think it's a great gimmick.  He's going to get people coming in to see the stuff and keep them because of his ability. Oh, and the kid who is doing his own computer animation?  He's got quite the future ahead of him with that kind of ability.If you're a fan, you will enjoy this if you can laugh at yourself and you are comfortable with the fact that no matter what you do, Trek fans are always going to be seen this way.  If you aren't a fan, well, I'm not sure why you would want to see this in the first place unless you just want to laugh at people you don't understand.   "}{"Title":"Hysterical yet scary","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Place Trekkies right next to Shatner's infamous Get a Life skit on the hierarchy of Star Trek humor.  I laughed so hard at many points during this movie that I had to rewind the tape.  However, it is a little sad how these people get so wrapped up in something as insignificant as a television show. "},{"Title":"Fun....","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  When I saw this movie, my friends and I were literally the only ones in the theater. It was great because it turned into a MST3k kind of thing. The funniest thing was that I knew people just like the ones being shown in the movie. If you watch this just for fun, and try not to take it seriously, I think you will love it! "},{"Title":"Not all Trekkies are psychopaths","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Roger Nygard has portrayed many of the fans in this movie as raving stalkers. Considering that many fans of star trek are often embarrassed to reveal their passion, it is a sad day when they are punished for finally doing so. For example, Anne Murphy was criticized by many people by being a Brent Spiner maniac when, in fact, she was misquoted on many, many accounts. This movie had the makings of a classic, but the moronic directing of Nygard has turned Trekkies into the laughing stock of the fan population.Sharon "},{"Title":"Are you now, or have you ever been...?","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Alternately hilarious and horrifying, this engrossing and surprisingly balanced documentary follows a handful of hard-core Star Trek fans for several months in 1996-97 as they muddle through their humdrum lives between life-defining science fiction conventions. As presented by Denise Crosby (who jumped starship after only one season as a regular on Star Trek-The Next Generation), we meet an over-articulate Bakersfield teen, a copy-store technician who wore her Starfleet uniform to the Whitewater trial, a Florida dentist whose office is replete with Federation regalia, and a cross-dresser whose requisite alter-ego is the unseen widow of a corpse in an episode of ST-TNG. Trekkies not only reveals the everyday excesses with which these characters religiously live but their fervent devotion to a philosophy originally borne out of a beloved but short-lived television show. Peppered with commentary by cast members from every incarnation of Star Trek (with the curious exception of William Shatner, save for a brief stage appearance), this enterprise is an anthropological treat for Trekkies and non-Trekkies alike. "},{"Title":"Funny and little sad","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I always assumed, because I built the models and dressed up as Spock for halloween, that I was an over-the-top Star Trek nerd as a kid.  I went to an all-purpose (i.e., Star Wars, Trek and all in between) convention *once*.  Little did I know how tame my obsession was compared with some of the more extreme fans shown in this movie.I think the movie definitely laughs at the fans -- cruelly so, and I'm not sure that's very fair.  ST fandom is a harmless outlet for the nerds of the world, and why anyone would want to be cruel about it is beyond me.  I think Star Trek fandom is far more intelligent and productive than, say, sports team fandom.Actually, some of the fans I found to be strange but oddly admirable, like the printer who calls herself commander and lives her life according to the ideals of the Trek world -- to the point of showing up at the Whitewater trial as an alternate in her Starfleet uniform.  Her Trek-inspired philosophy seemed sincere, decent and actually not as wacko as you might expect.Then there are the rather sad cases.  For example, the woman who calls herself a SpinerFem and who bought a house just so she could gaze at the mountain at the foot of which Brent Spiner makes his home.  I felt a little sorry for her, because she was a bright, attractive, articulate woman who unfortunately has an obsession (obviously sexual) with a man who will never return that affection.  She showed the camera her photo albums, filled with hundreds of pictures of Brent Spiner in essentially the same pose -- standing on a stage with a microphone in hand.Then there's the very bright, but hopelessly nerdy 15 year old boy who plays the film's main character, as it were; the dentist and his family who dress in Trek uniforms (his daughters looked as if they wanted to crawl into a hole out of embarrassment); a man in his 40s (and his amused, tolerant wife) who has dressed his house in Trek decor and talks wistfully of having his ears surgically altered to look like a Vulcan's; the man who dresses in drag, babbles incoherently about Star Trek (to the point that you think he's putting us on) and sings Star Trek Folk Songs.And on and on...I recommend the movie to fans of documentary, but if you're an earnest Star Trek fan, I warn you that you may find the film makers' take a little insulting.  "},{"Title":"I Will Wear My Uniform","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Roger Nygard directs Denise Crosby's on-the-street interviews with American fanatics of the STAR TREK enterprise, its 33 year mission  a Florida dentist and wife showing their Federation decorated and tooled office, a committed printing employee and former Whitewater juror who lives in her uniform, a meticulous and annoying teenage boy who builds models, kooky president of the fan club The Spiner Femmes, a cat and dog in Starfleet garb, etc.  It cannot be described in words.  Balanced with convention footage, heartfelt observations, and amusing anecdotes by selected cast members from STAR TREK (Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Grace Lee Whitney, Nichelle Nichols, George Takei, James Doohan, Walter Koenig), THE NEXT GENERATION (Jonathan Frakes, LeVar Burton, Denise Crosby, Michael Dorn, Brent Spiner, Wil Wheaton, Q), and VOYAGER (Kate Mulgrew). "},{"Title":"Cute, funny, but...","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  It was very funny, but about 3/4 into this documentary a trekkie appeared on screen that suddenly looked very familiar! It was non other than Rich Kromfeld aka Dr. Sphincter a local (Minneapolis) comedian and screenplay writer. While I don't doubt Rich has a genuine fascination with all things Star Trek, I consider it a big risk putting a guy in this documentary that basically makes a living at inventing strange, eccentric characters for his stand up act! All of the sudden I began to wonder who else might have been a professional weird-o passed off as a real-life fanatic. It kinda ruined the movie for me. It was a careless move on the film makers part. Even the guy who supposedly worked at the Radio Shack was an actor. His name is Tim Scott, Rich's writing partner. What a drag. "},{"Title":"Even for a non-fan, a likable sometimes fascinating film","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  My principal experience with Star Trek is that I had two roommates (one in the late 60s and one in the late 90s) who were rabid fans.  Happily, TREKKIES is neither an expose, or an easy, prolonged Sat Nite Live sketch. The filmmaker takes the Margaret Mead approach to study this subculture, but with a sense of humor, and produces a surprisingly humane and layered documentary. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  First off, I have never seen a complete Star Trek episode in my life, including the various incarnations.  I had a gut feeling that this movie would be somewhat amusing, and I was correct.  My sides still hurt from laughing so hard.  The movie examines the various lengths to which people will go to express their love for Star Trek.  While it often seems that the movie is merely poking fun at the fans, those on camera seem to know that it is all in good fun.  During the 90 minutes of hilarity, you will witness the infamous whitewater juror, a woman's dog that is forever dressed in a Star Trek outfit, a dentist's office named Star Base Dental, and a 14 year old who knows the intricate details of each individual Star Trek outfit.  I would obviously recommend this movie for Star Trek fans, and more so, I would suggest this movie to non ST fans.  I know that it was well worth my money. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This is the movie for Trek fans who don't take it TOO seriously, because it's about the ones who DO. There are some real wackos in the film -- a dentist who remade his office into Starfleet Dental a 14-year-old who knows WAY too much about the specifics of the Starfleet uniform, a guy who payed $1400 for a piece of Klingon makeup from a DS9 episode... It's fun to watch these guys. For a Trek fan it's a there but for the grace go I feeling. But it also shows that there are normal fans, people with jobs and lives, and it shows some of the good Trek has done. The best segment in the film is Jimmy Doohan explaining how he saved a woman from committing suicide. It's pretty deep. Enjoy this movie, guys. Oh, and sit through the credits. It's worth it. "}{"Title":"Great film, if you don't take it too seriously","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This film is actually a documentary about the world-wide phenomenon known as Star Trek. Narrated by, and with a great deal of involvement from, Denise Cosby (Tasha Yar from STTNG), the movie examines the lives, motivations, and sometimes the sanity of those people known as Trekkies (Some prefer the word Trekker and the difference is discussed as well). From the Whitewater juror who wore a Starfleet uniform to the trial, to a dentist whose office is known as Starbase Dental, all the way to the guy who would have his ears surgically pointed if he had the money, this runs the gamut from casual fan to over-the-top geek. Sometimes it can seem a little like it's mocking the fans, but it really is a loving homage to those of us who live and love the Star Trek idea of infinite diversity in infinite combination. If you are a fan (or a fanatic) of Star Trek, and you can laugh at yourself, you will enjoy this film. Guaranteed to replace William Shatner's Get a Life! sketch from SNL as the must-have tape of the rest of the world's view of Trekkies/Trekkers.  "},{"Title":"A funny, sad, and strange film","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Sometimes I've felt sorry for my  fellow trekkers, you know, the  one's who take the show too seriously.  This is their story. What's really  pathetic is how some of these people  have shaped their entire lives  around this series, forever  indulging themselves in make  believe. Granted, I am not privy to  imagination and fantasy, but come  on! Ordering a hamburger in Klingon!  This is a big reason why fans like  myself cannot lead a normal life,  because we will forever associated  with the detritus of these types.  Overall, the film was funny and  generally entertaining, but it feels  like an Errol Morris film as he lets  these particular individuals live  out the oddity know as the space-time  continuum. Maybe I should just claim I am only a Star Wars fan. "},{"Title":"This is for star Trek fans only","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I was really looking forward to watching Trekkies being a massive Star Trek fan myself but i have to admit i was left a little dissappointed with this. Trekkies is a documentary about the lenghts that Star Trek fans will go to follow their favourite show. The fans dont come out to good in this movie they come across as being weird (and there are some weird ones in this) and a bit sad and do themselves no good at all by apearing in this. The best bit's for me are the interviews with the Star Trek actors and how they cope with the over enthusiastic fans. 7 out of 10 .....just. "},{"Title":"it was awesome","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" i don't know what you are talking about, that movie was hilarious. those nerds deserve to be made fun of, definitely a quality movie. i especially liked the part where that one guy shaved off the hair from one of his figurines with a razor blade because on the show he didn't have hair. also, he built that little robot, which is one of those things that you keep to yourself even though it might be kinda fun, and demonstrates what a dork you are. triumph the comic insult dog sums it all up pretty well, when he does the interview with the start-wars geeks (star wars and star trek are pretty close in terms on movies in general). he is pretty straight forward telling them that they are all a bunch of sad, sad people. trekkies is very similar to that, but is based on facts... -\ "},{"Title":"I do feel a bit offended by this","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I'm already 7 minutes in the watching of this movie and I just feel that this is more of a mocking the people than actually promoting love behind the Star Trek.It's just painful to watch something like this. I don't know what the editing crew thought about what they want to achieve, but... Denise, why???If you want to know how this looks like. Well it's a slice between a 5 minutes of mocking people, and 10 minutes of cast talking about the fans, and repeating it over and over.I know this is all out of sync because Nimoy and Stewart both told that this is not a true depiction of what it was supposed to be.I'm a bit a shamed of Paramount releasing this under their name. "},{"Title":"very entertaining and sad but true","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  _trekkies_ is a very good indie documentary. very funny. AND interesting if you actually like _star trek_. if you are interested in filmmaking, i think this is a good exercise in student editing.also, i think the user comments on this one are very interesting, perhaps revealing a slightly controversial aspect to this film. "},{"Title":"Come on,own up","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsTrekkies is a very amusing slice of real life,depicting over-the-top Star Trek fans,and the lengths some will go to for their art.Why it's been held back for five years is a mystery,as,aside from being hilarious,it also has a compact running time of 80 minutes,and,among others,features interviews with real life cast members of ST,from Data to Captain Janeway,even the original Captain Kirk,William Shatner.Above anything,it's really worth watching just to get you inquisiting how many of these types of people must exist in society,and how they could be anyone,from a dentist to a radio show host.*** "},{"Title":"Sweet Memories","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Ah! To be young (at heart) again... This enjoyable little docu/mockumentary is at once entertaining and befuddling. It brings to mind my own memories of watching the original Star Trek reruns as a very small child with my Pop whilst my Mother worked the graveyard shift. I would sit playing with the tall, mobile action figures that have long since disappeared. As I grew up, Star Wars replaced Trek for me and I had all but forgotten how involved I had once been in it's journey. However, between my Trekker brother-in-law, The Next Generation and Trekkies I have reacquainted myself with the Star Trek phenomenon. It is a fun film, filled with fascinating AND weird (literally) examples of fans' devotion to the various series, movies and characters. A must for Trek fans and a capable vehicle of entertainment for anyone who is slightly interested in the Trekkie mystery or just needs a night of light-hearted escapism. The glimpses into these peoples lives provide unexpected insight into how we should perceive our own eccentricities and to consider how seriously we take our own work--and our play. "},{"Title":"The producers should be ashamed....","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  The poster in the theater for this movie said something along the lines of As many laughs as There's Something About Mary.This is a blatant attempt to sell a movie.There were laughs -- but most of them were the I'm so embarrassed by your actions kind of laughs.I thought it really was a very good film that attempted to mine the emotions and frailties of the fans of Star Trek.I think the people in the film were used -- and used badly.In spite of my feelings about the film and it's producers I really did enjoy it.It became clear to me that the people that follow the Star Trek phenomenon really do hold themselves up to a higher standard.They believe what Gene Roddenberry was presenting about diversity and treating all people as equals -- and who can argue with that?The film was BADLY photographed and edited; with extreme closeups of the people being interviewed.  Who wants to be able to count the pores on Leonard Nimoy's nose?The best part of the film were the interviews with the actors from the original Star Trek.They told great stories of how the television series and they as actors had touched and changed people's lives.  Some of it was truly moving.Unfortunately, this movie really exploits people -- I felt bad for most of the fans that appeared in it. "},{"Title":"Hooray for Trekkies!  Great movie!  Great music!","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Once again Roger Nygard has done an excellent job!  The movie's score is also quite extraordinary! A very inventive work all around! "}{"Title":"Where are the insights or the humor?","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":" I didn't particularly enjoy this documentary, as it neither provided great insights into the most die-hard Star Trek fans (other than to disingenuously say they are normal people although their actions say otherwise) nor does it use parody to make the documentary funny--either way of doing it would have worked better. Instead, the film shows the Trek fans and lets them talk and then says what nice folks they are,.....BOR-INGGG!!! Where's the excitement or the tension? Nowhere,...that's where. The film is just dull and I really wish they had interviewed some of the strange Trekkies I've known--ones who kind of give you the creeps. Such as the ones who would kill another Trekkie in an argument over who was the better Enterprise Captain (believe me, these arguments can get heated). Or perhaps the ones who would skip their mother's funeral if it coincided with the release of a new Trek film--these are the folks that I wanted to see and hear more about in this film.Despite what some other reviews say, the film did NOT make fun of or hurt the feelings of the Trekkies--quite the contrary, it was so bland because it said NOTHING.By the way, I am a Trekkie myself. Not a 100% die-hard one or one who spends my cash on Star Trek memorabilia. But I have seen all the movies and every episode of all the Trek series and I stood in a very, very long line when the first Trek movie debuted--and I STILL wanted the movie to be edgier and actually say something! Step on a few toes or be brave to try to say something philosophical--take a few risks with this film. Instead, this documentary seems like it was only written for the Trekkies and not for a wider audience.UPDATE I am NOT anti-Trekkie (or Trekker) and just saw and enjoyed William Shatner's documentary Get a Life--and strongly recommend it because it DOES ask deeper questions. Also, surprisingly, I saw Trekkie's 2 and liked it MUCH more than Trekkies--probably because it does ask 'how much is too much?'. Both these films, in my opinion, are superior to Trekkies and are worth seeing. "},{"Title":"They had no right to do that","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  Making fun of people and presenting it as comedy, is just plain terrible. It doesn't matter if these people seem weird to you, no one has the right to ridicule them in a movie like that.I wanted to see 'Trekkies' because I wanted to see the craziness of the fans, just like watching a documentary about a rock band. Perhaps the telling of a selected number of extreme incidents. What I saw was a very specific number of people, becoming an object of ridicule.Even though it might appear otherwise, I don't care for political correctness - I believe it's fascism, but 'Trekkies' is beyond that. It's about lack of respect for other people's lives, when these people are completely harmless. I don't care if my neighbor is a trekkie, because it doesn't affect me at all.Making a 14 year old boy become the leading guy, in a movie that portrays him as the village idiot, is at least irresponsible. By the way, his little project 'Nemesis' is now the title of the new Star Trek movie. How funny is that?I am totally shocked that this film was promoted as 'the funniest movie since There's Something About Mary'! Anyone who laughs at those people is a heartless, uncaring idiot, with no life at all. Because let's face it who says that being a fun of a TV show is ridiculous? This means that the rest of the world is serious? Have you been outside lately?It is obvious that this movie is another product to satisfy the hunger for voyeurism of some sad individuals. Watching other people's lives and laughing at them, since the viewers' lives are even sadder and scarier.I am quite sure that these people were tricked into appearing in the movie, probably being told that this would be a documentary. No animals were harmed during the creation of this movie. Well, what about people?Didn't anyone care about these people getting hurt, after they watched their lives being told as a joke? These fans didn't cause any harm, but still Hollywood had the nerve to make fun of them.They should be ashamed...0/10 "},{"Title":"Would've been a good half-hour show","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I don't know Star Trek from Monday Night Football, but the 1 1/2 second clip of this film in the Oscars documentary montage (March 2002) intrigued me enough to get the DVD.  After 30 minutes or so the subject was exhausted. And so was I. "},{"Title":"Painfully Slow","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  This movie had such rich subject matter and I was really surprised that it sucked as bad as it did.  There's nothing worse than when a documentary's subject matter is painfully explored from every angle, but fails to sustain more than 30 seconds of entertainment value.  It's like watching a spider trying to climb out of the toilet -- you sort of cheer him on, even though you know he doesn't have a chance.It's not that I solely wanted to see Trekkers getting made fun of...cause there could have been more of that. And it's not solely that I wanted to see the extremists...cause there could have been more of them. It's that I wanted a purpose to the film...I wanted the subject matter to go beyond Star Trek and make a statement about fanatics or about television or about something. Instead I just ended up watching about 80 minutes of this and then giving up to go out and do something better.  Oh well. "},{"Title":"Garbage--No stars","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary","Review":"  I actually saw this film in theaters when it first came out. Why did it take me so long write a review? Because I am getting sick and tired of the attitude Paramount seems to have for fans of Trek.It seems the sole purpose of this film was to show just exactly how Paramount feels about the fans, and it is mission accomplished. Trekkies (or Trekkers, if you prefer) are meant to be seen as people outside the constraints of what is considered normal.Where are the serious fans of Trek, like Bjo Trimble? They are nowhere to be found here. Instead, the *only* people profiled in this film have taken Trek fandom to its extremes. People like Barbara Adams, a woman who openly wears Trek paraphernalia every day of her life, and actually asks people to address her as Commander(!). She was the one who showed for jury duty in Arkansas a few years back during the Whitewater scandal in a red TNG costume. And things do not improve from there.What I find most shocking about all of this is the fact Paramount has taken the position Trek fans are crazy and stupid by releasing this and continuously tossing out substandard trash under the Trek banner thinking the fans will beat a path to it anyway and never see the contempt.And they may be right.One of the worst documentaries of all-time. Avoid. "}]