[{"Title":"Nothing short of miraculous.","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"53 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals is a somewhat misunderstood film. The setting on an Indian reservation leads viewers to believe that Smoke Signals is about Indian issues or Indian philosophy. To be sure, the presence of Indian values and culture make this movie decidedly more enjoyable, but the movie is more transcendent, more universal than a purely Indian film. And, while this was heralded as the first movie to be written, directed and co-produced by Native Americans, there is something here for everyone, regardless of ethnicity.More than anything else, this movie appealed to me as a writer. Taken from Sherman Alexie's brilliant collection The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fist Fight in Heaven. it is beautifully written and expertly crafted from beginning to end. The first scene, narrated lyrically by Evan Adams as Thomas Builds-the-fire, sets the tone for a story handed down, as with Native American culture, in true oral tradition.The French title, Le secret des cendres (The secret of the ashes) more accurately describes the book and the movie, both of which must be experienced to fully appreciate Alexie's genius. With multiple allusions to fire and ash, each having different meanings, as well as a well integrated use of Native American lore, Smoke Signals requires more than a little thought for the average American viewer.The story revolves around two young Coeur d' Alene Indian men dealing with loss and the end of childhood innocence. The two men cope with loss in very different ways; Thomas though mysticism and legend, Victor through stoicism and denial. When Victor Joseph, brilliantly played by Adam Beach, learns that his estranged father has died, he and Thomas embark on a journey to claim the ashes, another allusion of the french title, and on the way get in touch with their identities as adults apart from their parents.Evan Adams is stupendous as Thomas Builds-the-fire. His storytelling scenes are pure magic. By imbuing simple memories with mystical reverence, he elevates them, and thus both himself and his listeners, to a new spiritual level. His exaltation of the ordinary is the core of this delightful work of genius. It culminates with a reading, slightly modified, of Dick Lourie's poem Forgiving Our Fathers. Lourie, who is a self-described unreconstructed beatnik poet, brings a fragile and elegant beauty to the film's emotional climax. The final scenes, driven by Adams' narration and haunting Native American chant and music, are nothing short of miraculous.Adam Beach, strapping and stalwart as Victor Joseph, managed to parlay his appearance in Smoke Signals into a respectable film career. Evan Adams, diminutive and shy as Thomas Builds-the-fire, was not so lucky despite his masterful performance. Perhaps Admas' aspirations ran along different lines, as these days, even after starring in what is basically a sequel (The Business of Fancydancing, also by Alexie) Adams can now be called Dr. Adams, as he has become a respected and accomplished physician in British Columbia. The supporting cast was equally magnificent, and each lends credibility and energy to the movie. An interesting sidenote is that Irene Bedard, who appears as Suzy Song, was the physical model for Pocahontas in the Disney animated feature. I have seen this movie many times, and will undoubtedly watch it many more. Each time I am left in silent awe as I reflect on my own life, family, and philosophies. "},{"Title":"A refreshing road film","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The eyes of cinema has always seen Indians only as the bad guys. The ones that shoot their arrows, wear feathers on their heads, and yell as they chase the heroes down. Finally, after 100 years of movies, we get a film that honestly portrays the Native American culture.  And man, it sure is refreshing.The story opens on the Fourth of July, 1976 in a small Idaho Indian reservation. A small infant named Thomas Builds-the-Fire is thrown out of the window of a burning house and is caught by Arnold Joseph (Gary Farmer), a neighbor with a drinking problem, who is later kicked out of the house by his wife, leaving behind his son, Victor (Adam Beach). Arnold eventually settles down in Phoenix and his family never hears from him again.20 years later, a phone call comes. It's from a woman in Phoenix, she says that Arnold is dead. Victor, who had developed a resentment towards his father over the years, decides that he should travel to Phoenix to pick up his ashes. Unfortunately, he has no money to get there... but Thomas does and offers to pay if he can come along with Victor. This is a tough decision for Victor since he never really liked Thomas, but he finally agrees and the two set off on their journey.It's during their journey that we learn about the characters, Victor and Thomas' conversations reveal their attitudes towards Americans their views of Native Americans. In one scene, Victor accuses Thomas of learning everything about being an Indian from watching Dances With Wolves. In another funny sequence, the two begin talking about cowboys and end up singing a tune about John Wayne's teeth! Victor's resentment for his father is also revealed to us through flashbacks depicting the early years and the memories (some good, some bad) that the two shared.They do eventually arrive in Phoenix and find the woman that called with the news of Arnold's death. Victor talks with her during the night and finds out how much his dad cared for him and how he never wanted to leave the reservation in the first place. The events that follow drastically alter Victor's perceptions of his father forever.Smoke Signals is a great film and one that can teach you a lot about a culture so often misrepresented on the screen. There is a feeling of ease and casualness in the conversations between Victor and Thomas... slowly they reveal more and more of themselves to us, in a way that is so nonchalant that we understand their feelings it without even noticing it. Smoke Signals is well worth your time and offers a refreshing alternative to the big budget, special effects driven crap this summer.  "},{"Title":"One of the most unique movies I've seen","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals is one of the most unique movies I have ever seen. From the combinations of stories, characters, and filmmaking. The acting in this movie was witty, funny, serious and heartbreaking all at the same time. Even though this is a movie about Native American culture, it is a movie that talks to everyone no matter what there ethnic background may be. I am of Italian heritage but this movie still got to me. It tackles issues of family, culture, and tradition as well as friendship. The acting is this movie is superb and the filmmaker's shots and different ways of filming scenes and how each one flowed into another was amazing. In school we had to read some stories by Sherman Alexie and then we watched the movie. If it weren't for my English teacher I may have missed watching one of the most brilliant independent films ever made. "},{"Title":"A movie not to be missed","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals (the efforts of Sherman Alexie, Chris Eyre and the cast of  fabulous actors) shows in rich, humorous detail what life is like for young  Indians today.  It is an insider's view of reservation basketball games and  the rituals of frybread. Its characters don't bring themselves (and the  story) down with self pity. Instead they look to the lighter side of  history with references to Columbus and Gen. Custer.      The story is simple.  Two young men, Victor and Thomas, embark on a trip  to Phoenix to retrieve the ashes of Victor's father.  Victor is angry at  his father for leaving his family and angry with himself for the grudge  that he carries.  Through the help of Thomas and his father's final friend  Suzy, Victor is able to find resolution and peace.    The acting, particularly Gary Farmer as Arnold Joseph (Victor's father)  and Evan Adams (Thomas Builds-the-Fire) are outstanding.  In fact, I had to  see it a second time to catch all the plot because Evan Adams completely  stole the show for me! "},{"Title":"Overlooked masterpiece","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film did not get the attention it deserved. When I first heard about a film made by Native Americans, I was afraid it would be an exercise in political correctness. But the ethnicity of the characters took a back seat to the universal themes of friendship and learning to come to terms with one's past. This is one of the greatest buddy movies ever made. A couple of years after I saw it I drove through the American Southwest for the first time, and images of the film kept coming into my head. This is a film which really stays with you. "},{"Title":"Amazingly misunderstood","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"31 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have read some of Sherman Alexie's work, although admittedly not The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven.  I don't want to ruin a movie that I enjoyed so thoroughly by loving the book more.  In any case, I think that this film is largely misunderstood.  Non-Indian people tend to look at this film as a coming of age story about finding Victor finding not only his father, but himself as well.  Yes, that's there, but there is so much more. For example the very real and very sad quality of life on the rez.  The ones who are fortunate enough to have a car don't care if it drives in reverse only.  The kids watch their parents drinking, and often grow up to drink with them.  Alcoholism is a very real disease that affects everyone associated with an alcoholic...and it runs rampant throughout many reservations.  Imagine knowing that once you had so much, and now are only allotted a certain patch of a certain number of acres; imagine knowing that more than half of your history was oral tradition and people made you stop speaking your native language.  Imagine the elders watching the children grow up to try to be white and fail, and imagine them watching their history slip away with every word or nuance forgotten.  Imagine the desperation of a people as a whole and individually to have so much and really have nothing at all.  That, I believe, is the underlying theme in Smoke Signals.  The title alone is a cryptic message from Alexie smoke signals were used to communicate across open plains, plains now destroyed and whithered as though a fire raged across them, which it did in the form of the white man. Victor's father died in a fire, perhaps sending his spirit up in the form of a smoke signal to his gods.  And Thomas' narration at the beginning is about children born of fire and ash.  Watch this movie again and again, and see how so many suffer... "},{"Title":"Nice movie!","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My young grandniece and nephew were visiting with me during the Christmas holidays several years ago and we rented this movie from the local library. Without a doubt, it was excellent. I wanted them to see a movie with various role models, and as I had never seen this movie, I thought it would be a treat for all of us. I especially liked Thomas and his stories. Stories are an important part of growing up in all cultures. We can learn about customs of various groups through them, as well as learn a lot about ourselves, as human beings. I felt that the problems that the young man was encountering with his father are relevant to all people, young and old, and if they are not resolved, unfortunately, those problems hinder personal growth. This film was not only entertaining, but thought-provoking as well. Well done! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about just being Indian, from Indians.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I lived where this was filmed and really enjoyed the movie for the content and the location. The inside jokes about being Indian were great and since I no longer live on the reservation it reminded me of home. The story was believable and the actors brought it to life. I had to call my brother and tell him to watch it again and look closer at the end credits and background of the film, it is wonderful. Congratulations to the Cast & Crew. "},{"Title":"A Caring and Poignant Look into Life on a Reservation.","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals, the first film written, directed and starring American Indians, delineates the contemporary Native American experience with a soulful wit and an incisive attitude. It's setting is the Coeur d' Alene Indian Reservation in Idaho where the K.R.E.Z. disc jockey(Broadcasting live from his trailer) proclaims the morning 'a great day to be indigenous'. The film's focal character, Victor(Adam Beach) is a closed-off youth with indiscernible ambition. He languishes around the expansive grounds dwelling over the absence of his father and a perceived lack of opportunity. Smoke Signals details the strange dynamics of Victor's friendship with childhood pal Thomas Builds-a-Fire(Evan Adams) who frequently regales the locals with his practiced storytelling skills. Victor is stoic and athletic, with an affected warrior look. Thomas is unnervingly talkative with a smiling naivete and a decidedly bookish appearance.(Thomas also serves as the film's narrator) Novelist Sherman Alexie wrote the script. It is based on stories from his book The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven. He uses a casually irreverent humor to help tell his tale of personal and national identity. In a brief scene with his mother, Victor kids- 'What do you want a contract? You know how Indians feel about signing paper'. And later Thomas recounts how Victor's dad almost spent time for protesting the vietnam war only to have the charge plea-bargained to 'being an Indian in the twentieth century.' The movie's interesting cultural details(Fry bread, the significance of long hair, etc.) and salient dialogue accentuate it's themes of truth, self-acceptance, and the capacity to forgive. The cinematic structure is equally impressive. Director Chris Eyre employs several unsuspecting flashbacks to reveal the film's central secret. Victor and Thomas's present journey for answers alternates seamlessly with the lyrical recollections of the past. (Possible spoiler) In the end, the determined Thomas helps his friend come to terms with his father, his ancestry, and his exclusive place in life. The understanding Victor gains enables him to liberate the persistent bitterness and disappointment from his world. Smoke Signals deserves a look for those who missed it's theatrical run. It presents viewers with a caring and poignant glimpse into life on a reservation and the unique perspective of today's Native Americans. Kurt "},{"Title":"Culture, religion and being human","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was fascinated by the fact that this film was written, directed and acted by Native Americans.  As a mixed blood, this was a major draw.What I found in this film was culture, religion and what it means to be human regardless of our racial heritage.Watching this movie as a seminary student I was drawn to the concepts of sin, alienation and reconciliation as seen through Native American eyes. What predominately spoke to me was how Thomas seemed to incorporate Christianity into his storytelling.  I'm happy that Eyre and Alexie were not afraid to portray a character in this film as Christian.  With all the current information, it seems there are no Christian Native Americans.Perhaps the format of this film is overdone, the buddy road-trip, but this film is a beginning toward understanding between two cultures that share a common land. "}{"Title":"One of the most enjoyable motion pictures I've ever seen,","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies and it's just wonderfully acted, directed, produced, and scored.  What can I say except don't rent it, buy it!  This movie is all about human emotions and Adam Beach and Evan Adams did an unforgettable acting duty as Thomas and Victor.It's a film for the ages.  A classic and one that is unfortunately, missed by many.  Don't be one of those folks that pass this movie because of its lack of explosions, cgi, or american actors... Smoke Signals makes you open up your mind, body, and soul.At least for the 100 or so minutes it's running... then the rest is up to you.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film by a great writer","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sherman Alexie's screenplay and the book from which it is taken, The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven, are incredible prose that translate well onto the screen.  The movie is a brilliant accomplishment in direction and in editing.  The actors put out outstanding performances and the movie gets better every time I see it.   Adam Beach is awesome, as well as the rest of the cast.  It is a definite must see movie for any age. "},{"Title":"The Seattle Premier","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I flew up to Seattle on the '98 July 4th weekend to see the matinee premier on the Friday.  Sherman Alexie is a, of course, a well known poetry and prose writer in the Northwest, but this was his first step into cinema with a screenplay based on his short story, 'The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fist Fight in Heaven.'The premiere was at an old, Egyptian-themed cinema in Seattle and the house was half full for the 430 matinee.  The audience was predominately Native American.On exit, Sherman stood on the sidewalk in the late afternoon Seattle light and waited nervously like a child, to see the reaction to the film (which had ended with unanimous applauds from the half house audience).  A film crew was there for exit polling.A diminutive Native American female elder slowly approached Sherman. She moved forward and extended her arms around him into a hug and spoke softly, Thank you.Sherman was mush.Don't miss this film.  He's not 'the Spike Lee of Native American film making' as the Time Magazine of that week put it.  He's an independent, regional film maker, whose background is the 'Rez.' "},{"Title":"Deep, affirming film","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite Leonard Maltin's comment that Smoke Signals is basically unexciting film-making,  I found this movie deeply spiritual without being heavy-handed.  The aspect of the film that captured my interest and has stayed with me is the story-telling of Thomas.  The stories mingle simple, real-life recollections with fantasy, and the voice of Thomas subtly gives the movie a transcendent quality.  Thomas is a modern-day medicine man, grounded in reality yet open to possibilities.  He marvels at the beauty of the creation that surrounds him and dreams of what new wonders the future might bring.  He is hope.I intend to view this film many more times.  It deals with tragedy without being tragic.  It recognizes the sometimes brutal facts of reality without allowing brutality to define.  It reveals sadness but not as an end in and of itself.  It asks questions but leaves the answers to the viewer.  And it affirms that there are answers and hope. "},{"Title":"This is a bad movie for Hollywood and almost all the industry because","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The main trouble with Smoke Signals is that after you see it you will be disappointed with not only the rest of the movies or television you are likely to see but also with most of the films you have seen before it.Since too many people haven't seen it you will have to listen to people talk about what dreams may come,or some such. You can't tell people that a guy sitting on a van giving a traffic report when there is no traffic,is more humorous than most sit-coms.But that is the trouble when a true 10 picture comes out, it tends to drop many of the others a point.If you haven't seen it rent it or better buy it. but be warned that you may be watching another movie and you will think who needs this ---- i could be watching Smoke signals "},{"Title":"Literally Unparalleled Native American Comedy","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Through the history of American mainstream cinema there has been a both surprising and disturbing lack of Native American influence. Too often, filmmakers rely on half truths, fabrications and demeaning stereotypes to portray the Native American on screen. In the golden age of Hollywood, actors such as Clint Eastwood and John Wayne were made into prolific, American figures, while Native Americans were made out to be savage and bloodthirsty enemies. This is a trend that has carried over from the past and into the present and is truly disappointing. Thankfully, Chris Eyre and Sherman Alexie's Smoke Signals reverses this trend and creates a heartwarming and engaging tale about two modern Native Americans and their unique struggle with personal demons, conformity and the constant, overbearing, white culture that dominates them. The film is amongst the most notable Native American productions and of the most successful. The productions is also amongst the few films to be fully written, directed and produced exclusively by Native Americans.The Film, based on a collection of loosely related short stories written by Alexie entitled The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fist Fight in Heaven, centers around Thomas Builds-the-fire and Victor Joseph. Both characters are members of the Coer D'Alene tribe and reside on the tribe's reservation in central Idaho, though the characters are marginally different. These differences both inhibit and enhance the journey they must share. When Victor, the more aggressive, athletic and conflicted of the pair, must travel to Arizona to retrieve the ashes of his estranged and deceased father, he must rely on Thomas for both unwanted support and extra money to supply funds for the trip. While on their journey, Thomas acts as narrator, both adding to scenes and fabricating stories about both his and Victor's pasts.The film relies heavily on a specific type of humor to drive the plot. The humor is almost exclusively Native American in its dry and sarcastic tone. The humor is offset by the shocking reality of the situation faced by the two main characters. Located in Idaho, the reservation is isolated from the rest of the world. This is illustrated in the opening scene as the reservation's radio station, K-REZ, reports on local happenings and non-existent traffic conditions. As it is seen, both characters rarely leave the reservation and it is apparent that contemporary, predominantly white American culture is almost completely foreign to them. What average American citizens see as day to day society is both strange and new.The film, although humorous, tackles many issues faced by modern Native Americans. The issue of identity is of the most prominent. Victor is in constant conflict with who he actually is and where he has come from. He is aware that he holds a certain amount of aggression toward his father, but he does not understand this aggression until the very end, and it is at the point where he understands why his father ran away that he can accept his father's mistakes and celebrate his spirit. This is also the point where the idea of running from problems is also resolved. Running from problems is a constant in the plot. Arnold Joseph, Victor's father, is in constant guilt after being responsible for the fire that kills Thomas's parents. Although he saves Thomas from the fire he must live with the guilt until it becomes too much for him to handle. At the movie's climax, rather than running away, Victor literally runs toward the issue at hand and ends up saving the victim of a drunk driving crash. Additionally, alcoholism, a problem which faces both Native and Non Native Americans, is constantly examined. It is the reason why Arnold Joseph burns down the Builds-the-fire home and the reason why he leaves his own home. At first Victor is unwilling to accept his father's change after death. However, after coming to his father's home and seeing that his father still did care, even after leaving, he is able to come to terms with his father's struggle as both an Alcoholic and a Native person in American society. Victor leaves Arizona with a new understanding of his identity, a new found appreciation for his friend, Thomas, and the ability to face problems head on without inner struggle or violence.The identity of the Native American is studied deeply in Smoke Signals. Alexie's unique style creates a story that is one of a kind and completely different from the average American conception of Native life. Although it is entertaining and down right hysterical in some parts, the story evokes an important messages about inner struggle, understanding the family dynamic, addiction and acquiring the ability to cope in a less than acceptable setting. "},{"Title":"I was looking for another film with Adam Beach in it and this one had a high rating.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so fun to watch, I watched it about four or five times before I returned it. I haven't done that with a movie for a long time. Face it! Not many movies are worth watching more than once, and the big budget movies feed you what you should think along with the storyline.This movie had you thinking about things that were said and done after the credits roled and made you wonder whether you took it in the right context or not. That's what made me watch it again the second time.The third time was to go back and enjoy the eclectic aspect of many of the characters (and to try and get some of the jokes that were clearly for insiders). What an incredible strong cast this movie had! I could just go on and on about it!  "},{"Title":"Road movie with charm and attitude.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With a belly full of tucker I slump into the chair, awaiting some mystical forces to come and sweep me away. Chris Eyre's first impressive feature almost did with its charm and humour. Set in the Salmon Indian Reservation where Victor, a hard nose young Indian, journeys to collect his dead father who disappeared when he was a child. Joseph goes along because only he can finance the journey. So the two hit the road for some soul searching and cleansing. This is a road movie with heart as the quirky Victor pesters Joseph with repetitive stories and other irritating nuances. It has charm and two strong central characters who carry the film to its final ending of wisdom. The music soundtrack is a plus.  "},{"Title":"Exceptional","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I especially enjoyed this movie as there are so few movies showing the modern Native American way of life.  There should be more movies like this. The movie concerns two Couer d'Alene Indian guys who have to travel to Phoenix to collect the ashes of the father of one of them, and the ambivalent relationship between the two friends and Victor's struggle to come to terms with his father having moved away when Victor was still a child. The scenery and ambience of the movie is magnificent, and the movie is full lf light hearted jibes at the white man's way of life.  Since the Native Americans are the most neglected group in America today and considering the way things were forced on them in the previous centuries, it's good to see movies in which things are seen from their perspective.   Don't switch off till the haunting last soundtrack of the movie is over,  and all the credits have run through! "},{"Title":"One of the best in the last few years of viewing","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm prejudiced as I am from Spokane where the little boy goes onto the bridge for his vision. This city is dense with Indian legends. You can't stand somewhere in this place where incredible things have not happened in the past.A story of young men clinging to each other in a nervous way during their fight to grow up and straighten out their attitudes with people, done in a serious way.This movie accomplished some nice things in in the beautiful region that it was shot in.I recommend you spend some of your valuable time looking at this movie, and then visit Spokane someday bringing your mountain bike with you.  "}{"Title":"Oh, I agree!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just this evening I saw this film a second time.   I live in the Czech Republic.  Unfortunately, while Czechs are obsessed with the Native Americans, they failed to catch many of the jokes I've been lucky enough to laugh at twice.  I really wished I could translate the humor sometimes but then I thought, If they aren't getting something I wonder if I'm catching less than a Native American will?  This film deserves multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Accessible & not too arty. Level-headed but real. May change your life.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let me set you straight on one thing I'm an action film guy. I like it when stuff blows up, and I'm not into dramas, because well, you know how it is. Some of the classics are classic, and some of the classics are pretty boring with overly subtle themes that go over my head.Smoke Signals is an accessible classic. You absolutely must dare to see this movie, even if you normally avoid dramas. I have written IMDb reviews for about 100 films now and don't believe I've said that yet. It's highly original, and emotionally moving without becoming melodramatic.It is a film about the Native American Indian culture in modern times. It was fast-paced enough to engage me, despite being a drama, and there is plenty of comedy, which is a refreshing change for a guy like me who's always wanted to see past the one-dimensional Indian stereotype of suffering and learn more of their culture.But there's plenty of pain and suffering in the film, too, and I got to learn something about the plight of the Indians without sensing a hot-headed we-good-you-bad attitude. Instead it was quite level-headed and had something to say about life that affects us all.I'm not kidding. Even if you're not a drama fan, if you liked Dead Poets Society, or Contact, go out and rent Smoke Signals.Who should see this film-- Everyone, even if you're skeptical, including kidsI'll give Smoke Signal a well-deserved 10 out of 10, and now I'm looking around for the book the film is based on, too. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved the acting in this movie.  I loved the way they seamed together the past with the present. It is well written and beautiful. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, not very coherent, but worth watching more than once","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The only problem I had with this film was that it seemed like it was trying to convey several different messages but it never seemed to glue them all together.  When I started watching this film, and from what I had read from the back of the movie box, it seemed like it was going to mostly be a film about the unlikely friendship between two people, about how two very different individuals can share many things in common.  As I continued watching the film, more themes creeped in, such as the nature of oral tradition and exaggeration/lying within it, what it means to be a Native American in the middle of the nation that oppressed your people, and the nature of fatherhood and forgiveness.The film ends up addressing or at least giving us something interesting to think about for all of these issues, but it just seemed like too many themes to address in 90 minutes.  It seems as though the last issue I mentioned (fatherhood/forgiveness) ends up being the most prevalent one, but it seemed like it was touched on so mildly that I didn't quite understand its resolution beyond a very basic, generic level.By far the most valuable thing about the film, for me, was its depiction and perspective of modern Native American life and culture.  It adds a great deal of insight, humor, and uniqueness to the film, particularly considering the fact that this was the first major film entirely written, directed, co-produced and starring Native Americans.  In fact, I really think the film would've been a lot more interesting if it were just about the two characters going out into America to perform some inconsequential errand, and building a friendship along the way, learning from one another's perspectives on Native American life and culture.  As it is, the whole fatherhood element really adds a lot of extra baggage to the film that didn't seem to fit well into its 90 minutes of storytelling.Much of my dissatisfaction for the film, however, could be attributed to the fact that I had very different expectations for the film when I started watching it.  Because the movie deals with so many themes, I think it's worth at least a second viewing so that one can take it all in.  Regardless of its perceived flaws, although it's not an entirely coherent film to me, it still offered a very insightful perspective to Native American life and culture, and it was very enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Deepest Knowledge, Greatest Heart, and Beyond","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just saw Smoke Signals again yesterday on the Fourth of July. I'm hoping that my intent to see it on the 4th every year from now on is realized. This film is as good as any scripture, and it has the deepest knowledge of reality possible. It gives us silence first, poetry second, and a soaring spirit always.I'm wondering if anyone else has this view of the film.Obviously the film is loved by millions, but I wonder Is the film merely an affair of the heart to most in the audience? How many see, that intellectually, the film is as valid for its philosophical depth? It reaches not only into the marrow of the indigenous bone but shows us all to have the same spiritual core. The message is not I am indigenous, hear me roar, see my pride, feel my soul, know my journey. It is We are. Our story is. Everything is sacred. There is no other. The loudest laugh is a silence shared across a table after a knock.Obviously I'm dangerously bonkers from a narcotic obsession with this film's encapsulation of the Way of all paths. "},{"Title":"Smoke Signals - Fire and Ash","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Victor, a young Native American boy, is asked by his parents who is your favorite Indian? His response is nobody. They think he is kidding; they hope he would at least say his father is his favorite Indian. After asking him a couple more times he yells NOBODY! When he grows up he feels that no one can be trusted and carries the hopelessness and bitterness of a displaced people. This film ultimately becomes a journey film where two Native Americans try to overcome generations of displacement by placing their hope in a better tomorrow.Themes and Images Fire and Ash. The film opens and closes with fire and ash. Thomas, Victor's nerdy friend, says they were both born from fire and ash. I feel the need to re-watch this film with more understanding of the four elements because I do not think that I have fully grasped the symbolism of fire and ash in this film. The fire and the ash imagery represents their heritage but in a very real sense it also represents Victor's Father, Arnold. It is Arnold who burned the house down to ash. He hit Victor at times but one time he saved Thomas from a fire which gave them different ideas about Arnold and subsequently their heritage. They are also headed on this journey to retrieve Joseph's ashes.The Road. The how long will it take till we get there scene encapsulated the Native American plight. Thomas appeared to be rambling but he actually gave us a spark notes version of Native American history and ended it with Arnold. Great scene! Director Chris Eyre uses the road movie genre magnificently. The Road movie only requires one goal and permits poetic scenes like this to symbolize a generation at a crossroads.Phoenix. Their journey ends at Phoenix, Arizona. Due to the fire and ash imagery, I cannot help but think that this film also alludes to the mythical Phoenix bird as they come to retrieve Joseph's ashes. The myth originates from Egypt and tells about how an eagle like bird burns into ash and is reborn every 500 years or so&#x85; The Phoenix crest shows a bird surrounded by fire but unharmed. The Phoenix woman matches this image when she sets Joseph's place on fire; she's surrounded by flames but unharmed. This cross cuts with Victor on the bridge; out of Joseph's ashes Victor is reborn.Forgiveness When Victor throws the ashes off the bridge and into the river, he not only lets out a primal scream but he also lets out all the bitterness and hopelessness he carried with him since he was a child. The last line of the movie is Thomas asking if we forgive our fathers, what is left? Like the road scene, Thomas poetically asks a general question about forgiving the atrocities perpetrated on the Native Americans by past generations. If you put the questions together they sound even more poetic if we forgive our fathers, what is left&#x85; how long&#x85; till we get there? http//parablestoday.blogspot.com/2010/01/smoke-signals.html "},{"Title":"Smoke Signals Film Review","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For years, thousands of the movies that produced by Western filmmakers presented Native Americans in a stereotypical way. They showed them a as warriors who are in a constant conflict with white people. These movies depicted Native Americans as savages, murderous defectors, and robbers. In general, these stereotypical movies showed the Native Americans in bad images, and the whites are always heroes. Yet, in 1998, a movie called Smoke Signals changed the style of Native Americans movies. It showed Native Americans in a more realistic way. The secret behind this movie is its cast. In fact, Smoke Signals written, directed, acted, and co-produced by Native Americans. The writer of this movie is Sherman Alexie who grew up on an Indian reservation in Washington. Unlike the writer a white family in Oregon adopted the director of this movie who is Chris Eyre. The actors of Smoke Signals include Adam Beach, Evan Adams, Gary Farmer, Tantoo Cardinal, and others. Comedy and Drama are the main genres of this movie.The story of Smoke Signals is about two young Indians men grew up together on an Indian reservation in Idaho which is Coeur d'Alene. Although they grew up together, they have totally different personalities. Victor (Adam Beach) who is a son of an alcohol addicted father (Gary Farmer). His father vanished from the reservation to live in a trailer near Phoenix while he was a little boy. Actually, Victor has a tough personality. However, Thomas (Evan Adams) is the other Indian young man who lost his parents in a fire that caught their home on the 4th of July 1976 while he was a baby. In Fact, Victor's father saved Thomas from the fire. Thomas has a very kind personality, and he always annoys Victor by telling stories about the live on reservation and about Victor's father. After about ten years from the day that victor's father vanished, Victor heard that his father died in his trailer in Arizona. He wanted to travel to Phoenix to bring his father's ashes back, but he did not have enough money for this trip. His friend Thomas decided to help him with the money, but in return he wanted to join the trip to Phoenix. After Victor accepted Thomas' offer, they started their trip to Phoenix that was full of surprising events.There is no doubt that Chris Eyre was very successful in directing this movie. He was able to present the story by adding the sense of humor. The movie contains many funny scenes that convey messages. For instance, the scene that showed the two ladies who were in the car, that moves backward, asking Victor and Thomas if they got their passports to enter the states. Actually, this scene makes the viewer laugh. At the same time, it conveys how Native Americans feel about their reservations as an isolated part form the country. In addition, Evan Adams was amazing in his performance. The character of Thomas adds an important value to the movie, and helped in placing the sense of humor. Thomas' appearance and cloths were very funny especially his over-sized glasses. Beside his appearance, his accent played important role in attracting viewers' attention. Especially, the way he used to call Victor, Hey Victor. However, this movie has a lot of flashbacks. In fact, all of them were well used. The character of Thomas as storytellers made the use of flashbacks vital in this movie. One of the interesting flashbacks is when Thomas was telling a story about how Victor's mother was able to feed one hundred Indians by fifty fry bread. Beside Thomas' stories, the flashbacks were very useful in showing the life of Victor's father in Phoenix, and how he felt about his son Victor.In general, Smoke Signals is a unique movie that produced by Native Americans. It shows the modern life of Native Americans on reservation, their values and beliefs. It also stresses on some issues that related to the history of Native Americans. Actually, Smoke Signals is a very enjoyable movie that must to see at least one. It is well written, acted, directed, and edited. On scale of five stars this movie deserves four stars. "},{"Title":"A Truthful, Challenging, and Dramatic Lifetime","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals, film directed by Chris Eyre, is one of the greatest drama productions. The film, first presented in 1998, represents the current life of the Native Americans. The actors of this drama effectively embodied the different characters. For instance, Evan Adams as Thomas has inimitable ambiance and a great sense of humor which lids him to play a key role in the film. On the other hand, Adam Beach as Victor is one of the film stars who play the opposing character of Thomas, a serious and formal man. Smoke Signals is the first Native American film production, including actors, writer, and director. In addition, the film received several awards between 1998 and 1999 from different organizations. The film mainly focuses on Thomas and Victor, who are the key characters of the movie, and their life in a Native American reservation in Idaho. Victor is a basketball player and Thomas is a storyteller. Both of them are linked with Gary Farmer as Arnold who is Victor's father. In the beginning of the film, Arnold rescues Thomas when he was a baby from a house fire that killed his parents. After that, Thomas start treating Arnold as a father or a role model, but Victor and his mother were suffering from Arnold since he was alcoholic and he treated them violently. As a result, Arnold leaves his house and the reservation to go to Phoenix and complete the rest of his life there. A couple of years later, Arnold dies and leaves his properties in Phoenix. Therefore, Victor headed Phoenix in order to get his father's possessions and Thomas asked him to be his travel meet. At this trip Victor and Thomas faced many adventure events which make them closer than their childhood. Victor started to convince Thomas in order to change his appearance to be more as Native American and Thomas accepted. When they arrived to Phoenix, Thomas and Victor met Suzie who was Arnold's friend. Suzie tried to change Arnold image in Victor's mind by telling him the truth about the fire that Arnold made when he was drunk which caused the death of Thomas's parents. The film Smoke Signals is highly qualified production in all aspects. One of those great aspects is the film main story. The film was written by Sherman Alexei who writes the story in a logical way that makes it greatly reliable and simple. The well linked events of the story serve to a greater understanding of the Native American issues. A good example of these issues is the trouble relationship between father and son. Although this movie was filmed in the late nineties, the effects are quite surprising. Another interesting aspect of the movie is the cast. The cast were not Hollywood stars, but they preformed their parts well. Instead of hiring regular actors, the director chose to hire Native Americans to play the role or to simply to be themselves. Smoke Signals is a great film since it has carries a message, something which current movies lack. I believe that Native Americans are living in sort of limitation since they are living on a reservation that is under developed comparing it with other American civilization. The movie reflects a different kind of life style with a mix of values which shows us that people with different values can still live together and perhaps the differences are makes us more united. Considering the date of production and that it is the first movie made by Native Americans, I believe they did an overall good work that is why I would rate it with 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Different Point of View but Universal Impression","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are sick and tired of Hollywood movies, Smoke Signals might impress you and makes compelling watching. Even though it seems a simple drama film, this film is special. I do not mean that this film shows us huge spectacle visual image or is acted by super-star. It describe Native Americans' point of view well, by Native Americans themselves. Original novel of this film was written by Native American author Sherman Alexie, and the film was also directed by Chris Eyre, Native American. It made the film describe their real story on their view. Not only them, but also including two protagonists Victor Joseph (Adam Beach) and Thomas (Evan Adams), all actors who acted as Native Americans is real one of them. Describing their real life, the film shows us two guys' journey to recognize father's love.Arnold Joseph (Gray Farmer) had family and little son &#x96; Victor. He had lived with his brother's family on in reservation. One day, a big fire broke out their house. Arnold could save his family, but his brother's family got stuck in the fire. Arnold's brother threw his baby &#x96; Thomas to save him, and Arnold barely caught him. After that, the two boys had grown up completely different home environment. Arnold had alcoholism, and sometimes used to be violence, so Victor became to feel resentment against him. On the other hand, Thomas has grown up by his grandmother, so he became resemble with her. He became to wear big glasses, braid his hair and even talk tiresome story always. One day, Arnold got big conflict with her wife and son and he impulsively left his family. After some years, the two boys grow up to two guys. Victor's resentment against his father made him critical manly guy, and Thomas always talking stories Victor does not like. They were having a monotonous daily life, but Victor's mother suddenly got a call about Arnold from Arizona. It was Suzie Song (Irene Bedard) and she told that Arnold died so someone should get back his stuff. Thomas was embraced about it. He did not want to meat even remind. Also he did not have enough money to go Arizona. When he got a inner conflict about it, Thomas came to him with little bit money.One of the most remarkable points of the film is well-mixed memories and present scenes. For example, before Victor and Thomas leave reservation, Thomas came to Victor and asked to go Arizona with him in a store. After that, Victor went out the store. Then, a camera's viewing point is changed to outside of the store and there was boy Victor. This change of time makes memories naturally connected with present scene and prevents audience to feel bored from memories. Also they tell us connections between the present and the past. For example, when Suzie tells Victor about Arnold, the film shows us his soliloquy. Then, he threw a basketball and Victor caught the ball in the present. This scene makes not only good visual but also implication. The ball thrown by Arnold is symbol of truth and his real mind for the son. Victor caught the ball so it means he will accept his father. These kinds of framework make the film not only interesting but also worth as art.Other remarkable point is each role of two protagonists. Victor and Thomas have totally different personality. This point makes the film well-organized. Their journey is for Victor to get truth about father and understand about him. This kind of plot can be boring but Thomas prevents it. His role is assist for Victor to accept his father. He encouraged Victor to start the journey and makes him remind his father and even mother. Victor is always serious and critical so make element of drama, whereas Thomas is optimistic and makes the mood funny. If there were protagonists who have different personality in the film, it would not be great like this. Even though these kinds of characters are used to be in so many literature and movies, truth is that the film successfully adapted a composition of the characters.This film is simple drama but not usually. It described Native American's real life from their point of view. It gave us totally different impression and can be motivation to understand and think about them. However it does not mean that 'difference' is all good point of the film. Impression about this film is universal. Even though the film made by them, it can make us feel sympathy. Remarkable frameworks and well-organized character composition also contribute making attraction of this film. After considering all element, I want to give 8.5 score to it. If you want to understand Native American, feel impression about father's love and enjoy light humor, Smoke Signal might be pretty good choice. "},{"Title":"Pure Poetry, touching our hearts with humor and tears.","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The journey of Thomas Builds-the-Fire and Victor Joseph is told through a combination of social commentary, dreamlike tales and images, and a sensitivity for human emotion that sometimes takes your breath away. From the earliest tale of Thomasflying through the air during the harrowing and heartbreaking aftermath of July 4th celebrations, straight through to the stunning denouement with the powerful poem of Forgiving our Fathers accompanied by the haunting music of Ulila and the drummers and chanters which lifts us up to the Heavens, this film is a small masterpiece. It is very much a depiction of contemporary Native American culture--but it is told with such a keen understanding of universal human emotion, that everyone can relate to it. Love, regret, pain, forgiveness--all of these great enduring issues abound in the film. At what point do our lives turn out a certain way do to society, luck or misfortune, inner strength or lack of it--that final poem sums up the film brilliantly. The characters are so richly drawn--even those who appear ever so briefly in the film--that a rich tapestry is created as their lives and stories are woven together. Ultimately director Chris Eyre's and author Sherman Alexei's film celebrates forgiveness, understanding, acceptance, human compassion and perseverance. This is not to say that the film is somber or purely philosophical. My Heavens, no! There are a wealth of intriguing events, characters--moments of surprising humor, moments of very real sadness, the past woven seamlessly with the present, the reality woven seamlessly with Thomas' tales of dreams and imagination. The photography is glorious, the American West a place of great beauty--sometimes a desolate beauty, but beauty never-the-less. The music score is powerful and riveting. And most importantly we care about the characters--we want them to be happy, their lives to be fulfilled...we laugh with them, knowingly nod our heads in understanding with them, and in many instances, our hearts break right along with theirs. For anyone who has lost their parents--this movie can be unbelievably sad, but it can also be unbelievably cathartic and comforting. This is one for the ages! "}{"Title":"A touching, funny movie about forgiveness, fathers and fry bread. Should we die or have breakfast?","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The more you try to describe a movie like Smoke Signals the likelier it is that you'll kill it. The story basically is about a son who eventually reaches some understanding concerning his father, who left the family years ago. The discovery and acceptance by the resentful Victor Joseph of his father's own unhappiness plays out in a road trip Victor and his friend, Thomas Builds-the-Fire, take from the Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation in Idaho where they live to Phoenix to pick up the father's ashes. This sort of story has been so often turgidly overplayed by film-makers searching for truth that it's a surprise to find just how touching and humorous Smoke Signals turns out to be. The story may be about a search of discovery, but it's played out against the friction of reservation life in a white world. The humor carries a lot of irony but the dialog and situations are so gentle and natural that the inherent messages don't slam us about. There's no victim card being played here, just some truths told with the kind of underplayed honesty that makes ethnic humor, delivered by those same ethnic people, work not just for them but for those in a white world who are overhearing. Victor Joseph (Adam Beach) is a big, good looking young man who barely gets along, plays basketball and carries a chip on his shoulder. Thomas Builds-the-Fire (Evan Adams) is a scrawny, glasses-wearing young man who tells stories and talks about almost everything. Thomas has been raised by his grandmother. A fire killed his parents and it was Victor's father, Arnold Joseph (Gary Farmer), who caught Thomas, just a baby, when Thomas was tossed from a second floor window. Arnold Joseph was a big man, quick to laugh and quick to hit, maybe not a drunk but close to it. He denied being a hero. One day, when Victor was about 12, Arnold Joseph picked up and left. Victor never forgave him. When word of Arnold's death reaches Victor's mother. Victor decides he must get the ashes, but he doesn't have enough money. Hey Victor! Thomas says, I'm sorry 'bout your dad. How'd you hear about it? Victor asks. I heard it on the wind, Thomas says, I heard it from the birds. I felt it in the sunlight. And your mom was just in here cryin'. Thomas has some money in a jar and offers it if he can come along. Off they go, hitchhiking, taking a bus, walking. Along the way, while Victor wrestles with his feelings about the father who left him, screenwriter Sherman Alexie and director Chris Eyre give us the kind of edgy smiles that are rare nowadays. You gotta look mean or people won't respect you, says Victor to Thomas on the bus to Phoenix. White people will run all over you if you don't look mean. You gotta look like a warrior! You gotta look like you just came back from killing a buffalo! But our tribe never hunted buffalo -- we were fishermen, says Thomas. What! says Victor, you want to look like you just came back from catching a fish? This ain't 'Dances With Salmon' you know! Yes, they return to the reservations with the ashes. Victor winds up learning a lot about himself as well as about his father. He learns a good deal about what Thomas reaches for with all the stories Thomas tells. We learn a lot about the value of a quiet movie with a fine screenplay and skillful direction. We learn about fry bread. And as Thomas says, when the going gets tough, Sometimes it's a good day to die, and sometimes it's a good day to have breakfast. All the actors do commendable jobs, but Evan Adams is a standout. When he closes his eyes and starts to spin one of Thomas' stories, you don't really want him to stop. Adams has the challenging job of bringing us to the movie's close, emotionally and thoughtfully. Do we forgive our fathers in our age or in theirs, or in their deaths, saying it to them, or not saying it? If we forgive our fathers...what is left? Smoke Signals is based on Sherman Alexie's book of stories, The Lone Ranger And Tonto Fistfight In Heaven. "},{"Title":"Touching and humorous movie!","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was really good movie, although some scenes were very sad and touching. This movie showed some problems such as alcohol abuse in the Indian societies and it made me think about such problems seriously. However, at the same time, the humor played a big role in this movie. There were a lot of funny scenes, and it was hurt warming.It was actually made by Indians, so, I thought, it was authentic and different from other movies about Indians. They challenged the stereotypes of Indians and showed a real feeling or characteristics of them. For example, from this movie I realized that they are very humorous and not always serious and silent as our image. Moreover, we could know that oral tradition is very important in their culture. Thomas, who is one of the main characters, told a lot of stories in the movie, and it showed the importance of oral tradition.Not only it can be educational movie, because it shows real Indians' life and characteristics, but we could also enjoy this movie in terms of story itself. I liked this story in the combination of touching scenes and humorous scenes. "},{"Title":"Love the movie...love Adam Beach...","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sherman Alexie noted in the published version of the script that you get a more authentic portrayal by using NATIVE actors for NATIVE characters. I couldn't agree more. The subtle nuances that your average white actor can't carry off. Plus, having lived in the Spokane/C'D'A area, it was very familiar to me. When the bus reached Phoenix, Arizona, I sat there staring thinking...'that looks SO familiar!'...It's the Spokane Greyhound Station!!!! I'm thinking, Oh, Anj lived across the street there in that haunted apartment...wonder if it's still there.... And Adam Beach...what can you say? Mmmmmm.... Interesting to note that at the time of filming, Evan Adams (who plays Thomas Builds-the-Fire) was studying medicine, and was eventually doing his internship in ER med at a Vancouver, BC hospital! I was ready to go up to Canada and injure myself...Owie, doc! Hey, you look like Thomas!!! Much better looking without the glasses, goofy braids, and goofy teeth. In online native chats, we're always getting on the mic and quoting lines. Every Native American seems to own it and has seen it hundreds of times! Just an awesome film all around! Did I mention Adam Beach...mmmmmmm???? "},{"Title":"Yeah, what is the deal with John Wayne's teeth?","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For years, Hollywood movies portrayed Indians as bloodthirsty savages who deserved the genocide that the white people committed against them. Then, there was the Little Big Man and Dances with Wolves mold going a little overboard on portraying them as virtuous, even if they showed what the white people did to them. With Smoke Signals, Native Americans finally got to speak for themselves on the silver screen. The movie portrays young Victor Joseph (Adam Beach) traveling to Phoenix to retrieve the ashes of his deadbeat father (Gary Farmer). He has to travel with Thomas-Builds-The-Fire (Evan Adams), with whom he has never been particularly friendly, but they realize their friendship along the way.Overall, this movie is like a kick in the groin to the John Wayne mold (the Duke even becomes the butt of jokes in one scene). Around the time that I saw this movie, I read Sherman Alexie's novel Indian Killer; it had the same sort of humor that this movie has. Strange that even after the indigenous people see their land stolen and most of their people exterminated, they can still laugh, but they can.More than anything, it's just great that the Indians are finally getting their say in movies. Also starring Irene Bedard, John Trudell (happy birthday, John!) and Tom Skerritt. "},{"Title":"This movie surprised me...","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" because I didn't expect it to be very good. In fact it looked to be just a B type movie, but figured I'd give it a view. My assumption was wrong, wrong enough to take the time to write this anyway. My only complaint is that the story line left me hanging a couple times as to what was happening. But then again, that may have added to the dark secret of it. I don't know why it is tagged a comedy. There was humor to be sure, but there was more drama than anything else and some disturbing aspects as well. The acting was top notch. To think that real talent like these actors are not, as yet, appreciated when there are so many that have it made but are empty headed nitwits stumbling around Hollywood, is a bit disturbing. I have no axe to grind for American Indians, oops Native Americans, sorry, I'm an old geezer from the old school, I just enjoy quality work on film and this movie has it. Talent is talent, regardless of one's heritage. I wish this group of actors and crew much luck, because we need more of that kind of quality on the screen. "},{"Title":"Wonderful adaptation, beautiful film","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful film, especially after reading the short story collection. This film is taken mainly from the short story So This is What It Means To Say Phoenix, Arizona and several others from Alexie's collection, The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight In Heaven. I was afraid that my preconceptions about the characters and their appearances, mannerisms, etc, would cloud the story, but it was such a wonderful adaptation, so true to the tone of the book, that I was amazingly pleased. In fact, at one point during the film, a friend of mine turned to me and remarked; Man, this just feels like an Alexie story, doesn't it? Some of the aerial shots were breathtaking in their simplicity, and the transitions between time periods were simple but remarkably effective.A very touching and human movie, the proof that a great story is what makes the film. Funny, sad, uplifting, exciting, and overall, beautiful. I recommend it to anyone. Now that's enough, enit? "},{"Title":"The best film about native Americans since Pow-wow Highway.","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is, for my money, the best film for and about native Americans since Pow-Wow Highway, which also featured the much-underused actor Gary Farmer. It is a touching tribute, not just to these vanishing Americans, but also to the idea of fatherhood, which likewise appears to be an endangered concept in the closing years of the 20th century.  The young men who play Victor and Tommy are inventive actors with good professional prospects, if only Hollywood would cast more Native Americans in major films.  As it is, this sleeper film should make cult stars out of them both.  I want the soundtrack! "},{"Title":"From tears to laughter and back again","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals is a tragi-comedy that touches the heart of the viewer. Filmed on the Couer d'Alene Reservation and featuring a very talented American Indian cast, this film presents a contemporary view of a people usually discussed and portrayed in the past tense. The screenplay was written by Spokane author, Sherman Alexie, on whose short stories the film was based.  The Cheyenne, director, Chris Eyre, perhaps because he, too, is Indian was able to bring out the remarkable abilities and talent of the cast by permitting them to show a full range of emotions; something often missing from Indian movies.The plot is a universal one; a road buddy tale dealing with the estrangement of a father and son and a young man coming to terms with the loss when his father dies.It is a superb film for use in a high school classroom, especially in those communities where the Indian population is not very evident. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good slice-of-life movie, even managing to show reality behind cliche. The producer, director and cast MUST keep it up - American (no pun intended) film NEEDS this life!  "},{"Title":"A movie about modern Indians, by Indians, for everybody.","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being a Chickasaw, I am not familiar with reservation life, so Smoke Signals was a delightful revelation for me.  I followed Adam and John Builds-The-Fire's everyday life with rapt fascination.  The scenes of the reservation were so real.  This movie was the first time I've ever seen the underlying hint of the discrimination an Indian experiences (or thinks he experiences)told from an Indian's point of view.  Adam's bittersweet homelife, his relationship with his father, his cynical personality, was a strong counterpoint to John's sweet homelife, loving relationship with his grandmother, and John's open, happy personality.  I plan to see this movie several more times and get friends to watch it.  The music is great, too!  I went out and bought the soundtrack CD -- Stay for the end credits because the best music of the movie occurs there.  "}{"Title":"A beautiful portrait","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was seriously surprised by this movie. It was simply a beautiful experience, one that opened a whole culture for me.The movie grows in you! When I remember scenes from Smoke Signals I have the feeling that I actually travelled with Victor and Thomas to Arizona, that I learned about their daily lives, and like Thomas, that I learned to forgive and heal the wounds of the past.Wonderful script, outstanding acting, and careful direction.Now, can someone tell me where can I find fried bread in Boston? Thanks!  "},{"Title":"Perspective matters in viewing Smoke Signals","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've heard this movie described in various ways, but the description always revolves around the perspective of the young son of Arnold.  Frankly, I viewed it from the perspective of Arnold, himself.  What I took away from it was the great pain Arnold goes through when he cannot forgive himself for his part in a terrible accident.  He complicates this by later separating himself from the very people who could have helped him heal, and he dies a very lonely man.Gary Farmer's acting in this film was superb.  It was moving...powerful. "},{"Title":"Outstanding treatment of a sensitive and timeless topic.","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film succeeds on too many levels to list. Its main theme of parent/child relationship is handled beautifully, and the acting is superb. Hollywood could learn a lot from a film like this, but probably won't. "},{"Title":"Excellent Indian Film","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the film I have waited years to see and was not disappointed in the least. Excellent acting, excellent story--Loved all of it. Must see more films written, acted, directed and produced by Indian people. "},{"Title":"A witty and touching journey to learn to forgive 'fathers' for weakness.","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to comment on such a powerful film; it really does speak for itself.  Everyone ought to see this film.  The cinematography and direction are superb, the acting is poignant and real, and the story-line is one that touches not only American Indians but everyone with a father or 'fore -fathers.'  The story centers around the universal problem of forgiving one 's father or even ancestors for being weak.  A weak father can hurt his child in two ways not dealing with emotional pain or suffering and thereby misdirecting it at the child, or simply by succumbing to an early death.  "},{"Title":"Indefinably genuine","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the most moving and authentically human films I've ever seen.  Something about this movie that I cannot articulate makes it special in an unique way.  The emotions of the characters are complex but remain entirely lucid, and the innovative editing creates a seamless blending of past and present.  An incredible achievement. "},{"Title":"","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is a refreshing view of indigenous people. It is good to see that while they have unique problems, they have many common to us all. A quality movie about an often ignored community in our country. "},{"Title":"","Date":"29 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny and moving.  Visually beautiful.  I will see it again with my children. "},{"Title":"One of the best I've seen for a long time.","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't say enough good things about the movie.   The fact that the masses would rather see things being blown up, really is too bad for them. This goes without saying for many great things in life. I'll get off my soapbox now. "},{"Title":"Young Native American guy sets out with his weird friend on cross country trip.","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Best film I have seen since Breaking the Waves. Where has this Chris Eyre  guy been while I have had to watch one lousy movie after another for the  past year? I want more! "}{"Title":"excellent","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals was an excellent film.  From what I could observe, it has  not been well attended.  This is too bad.  But, it seems that the American  public wants to see the violence of so many of the other typical films out  there instead of thinking their way through an emotionally enlightening and  sensitively produced film. "},{"Title":"Road movie for the politically correct 90s - with a twist of fry bread","Date":"2 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Magical, poignant, funny, clever, memorable characters, superb acting - one  of my favourites so far this year! "},{"Title":"Smoke Signals is a great movie","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals is the first and most exquisite feature film involving the talents of Native Americans foraying into the American culture of filmmaking. This is a truly good and moving film about the life and culture of the Native American indians rarely seen from the perception of the other superior races. I was one of the first to see this movie and loved it with my heart; my prediction of it winning the prestigious audience award at Sundance '98 was impeccable. Close-minded critics like Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly should get a life. Smoke Signals is an enjoyable and uplifting movie with spicy humor and poignant story concept about the fatherless Indian son who left the Idaho reservation with the goofy sidekick to travel to Arizona to retreive his father's ashes. Ode to Smoke Signals' screenwriter Sherman Alexie and director Chris Eyre, not to mention the acting emsemble of Adam Beach, Even Adams, Irene Bedard, Gary Farmer, Tantoo Cardinal and Tom Skeritt. If you need the break from crappy movies Hollywood churns out nowadays, here's your chance to enjoy the magical movie moment once again. Definitely the breakthrough indie movie for the native American indians!           "},{"Title":"Yes.","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals is a prime example of how a great movie can be made on a low budget. One can describe Smoke Signals as the story of two young Native American men, Victor and Thomas, setting out on a road trip from Idaho to Arizona to bring the ashes of Victor's father home. However, it is much more than that. Smoke Signals is a film with an enthralling and complicated story. It has a good sense of humor and a flair for the dramatic. The personalities of the two main characters, Victor and Thomas, are mirrored in the ever-changing tone of Smoke Signals. Victor (Adam Beach) is often sullen, bitter, and quiet; while Thomas (Evan Adams) is usually happy-go-lucky, kindhearted, and loquacious. This movie touches on almost the whole range of human emotion. Every time I see this film I am engrossed by it. In fact, I find something new to love about it with every viewing. Smoke Signals always leaves me happy, hungry for fry bread, and singing about John Waynes teeth. "},{"Title":"Lovely Exploration of Native American Families Via A Road Movie","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals was touted at Sundance as the first completely Native American written, produced, directed etc. film or some such. I thought it was going to be a plot less road movie, but it turned out instead to be about family and had a very specific story and plot line that avoided clichés. In that way it reminded me of the New Zealand Once Were Warriors - with about 1% of that violence about aborigine families struggling to have dignity within the confines of a white-restricted world. Like that movie you virtually don't see whites at all. I very much liked how the flash backs were handled (in the context of the past is never dead, it's never even past type evocation). The title is used for several layers of meanings about smoke and fire.Dar Williams's road song was used in an ironic road way, but I think it was added on afterwards. The passenger is bopping along to the song on the radio saying over and over that it's her favorite song, which would be odd for an obscure song. But the joke is also that the car can only go in reverse.John Trudell (he's the DJ at KREZ) and Elaine Miles (Marilyn from Northern Exposure) have teeny parts. The music is appealing --though none by Trudell and very little traditional. The closing credits have a Walala (the trio with Rita Coolidge and sister) tune that I thought it would be cool if it got nominated for an Oscar, if it's not previously recorded, as I thought it would be something different at the Academy Awards. The other music mostly also comes ostensibly from KREZ and is by Native Americans but in the singer-songwriter mode (no Bill Miller used). Other than Ulali (I thought was Walela, but I was corrected) and Dar when I tried to read the credits as they quickly went by I didn't recognize any of the names.I almost immediately caught Powwow Highway on cable and was surprised to see how much it must have influenced Smoke Signals as a Native American road movie.(originally written 7/2/1998) "},{"Title":"Pushes all the quirky indie film buttons but is charming and enjoyable nonetheless","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As babies, Victor and Thomas survive a housefire that kill many others; their bond appears to be born of fire but years later they have drifted apart. They both still live on the reservation but Victor has become more of a jock and Thomas is the bespectacled geek that he has been since childhood. When Victor's absentee father dies, he plays to travel to the funeral but has not the resources to do so. Thomas offers to help pay for the trip on the proviso that he is allowed to come along with his friend. Victor accepts but prepares himself to be annoyed for the whole journey. However for every moment where their nonexistent friendship is stretched, they grow closer.Although it is an independent film and produced entirely by an ethnic minority, the plot for this film is fairly straightforward and not anything that is worth hunting out just for that. However it is the delivery, writing and charm of the film that makes it worth seeing and makes it as enjoyable and engaging as it is. Never taking itself too seriously and even poking fun at the ethnic stereotypes we would expect to have found the film's charm relies heavily on its characters to bring it off. The natural writing helps and produces dialogue that flows convincingly even when the story isn't all you could have hoped for. The direction is equally as assured and aids the film by giving the whole thing an accessible and down to earth story.The cast are a strange mix of people I've never seen and Indian actors who are in everything. Beach is impressive and natural and he makes his character more than just a jock sort of role. Likewise Adams is enjoyable even if he is a little annoying and he is more than just a geek. Bedard is as charming as the film itself and is gorgeous with it &#150; she carries a lot of the emotional weight of the film and she does it well. Farmer is a presence as usual and does well in flashback while support from people like Skerritt adds something if not a lot.Overall this is not a flawless film but it covers any problems by being charming and enjoyable. The cast take to the writing and deliver natural and likable characters who become the focal point of the film and carry the audience along. Sure it pushes all the quirky independent film buttons but it is no less enjoyable for it. "},{"Title":"Embraced it despite its flaws","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just watched this film again after several years, and it's as good as I remembered. Sure, the  script stumbles from time to time, and the synthesized score grates a bit, but it's the kind of  film you can embrace with your whole heart despite its flaws.The largely Canadian (yay!) cast does a beautiful job -- Adam Beach, Gary Farmer, Tantoo  Cardinal, and ESPECIALLY Evan Adams. His Thomas ranks among the screen's most  indelible characters. He delivers a sly and nuanced performance, filled with wisdom, warmth,  humour, and a thousand delightful little surprises.An indie classic!  "},{"Title":"Beautiful use of language.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful use of language.  I loved the picturesque speech.  The bit of comedy was nice.  It is nice to see Native Americans in a film that exposes a bit about their lives in present day.  I loved the way that they went back through history citing different characters on up to today and even beyond. "},{"Title":"Deeply moving, funny and alive!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with everything the previous reviewer said. Smoke Signals is the kind of film that i go to the movies for. Emotional, insightful, poetic, well acted, written, directed and scored. An incredible story about friendship, coming of age, fathers, forgiveness and more. Thank you for making this film. It helped me see the futility of blaming parents. "},{"Title":"The Native American Citizen Kane","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  first of all a film of great lyrical power. Second a very important film since all of its cast and crew were native. As a Native American this film is very close to me, and is very realistic, I knew people that had cars like that, and the great shots of the NW made me homesick. An overlooked masterpeice.  "}{"Title":"Terrific !","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everything an independent film should be. Smoke Signals is an original with a great cast. A low budget film, Smoke Signals leaves you with a good feeling. Starring many familiar faces from the movie POW WOW HIGHWAY, Smoke Signals is a winnerCheck it out ! "},{"Title":"Away from Hollywood","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anything's that don't have millionaire stars and big budget production and publicity is for me a mirror of the true cinema of the USA.  This is a road movie, not very original, but well done. It is sensitive and funny.  It had sincerity. Young actors are pretty good and I'm a big fan of Tantoo Cardinal.  Small is so beautiful! "},{"Title":"Should be required viewing for all men.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Should be required viewing. A must see. I bought 6 tickets for my friends to see this film. It had a greater effect on my male friends than on the females. They in turn took many of their friends all of whom have given it a 10. If you have any feelings about your father it will change them for the better. Prepare to grow because this film has stayed with me longer than any other film I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"The first movie to make me cry in a long time...","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals literally won the coin toss against Armageddon as our choice of movie to see on a Saturday afternoon. That was the luckiest coin in my pocket (I wish now I hadn't spent it on popcorn.) I felt like the characters were actual people that you could meet within minutes of entering most reservations (and some small towns I've been to.) The movie was touching and funny  and the scenery and music were worth the price of admission by themselves. And as someone who has unresolved issues with my dad, the lines from Forgiving Our Fathers at the end had me  in tears, still in my seat through the end of the credits. "},{"Title":"Pretty neat drama flick.","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie in an English class in college. For an independent film, this is pretty entertaining, a story about two Native Americans in a reservation. Thomas is a nerd who tells stories in his reservation that no one wants to hear. He was saved in a fire by friend Arnold, who's son Victor is a tough, non-nonsense man. After Arnold dies, Thomas and Victor both hit the road to claim his remains.This movie has a pretty fast-paced plot, providing some exciting scenes. It is fun to see how Thomas would drive Victor crazy with his stories and his nerd-like characteristics.A drama mixed in with comedy and adventure, this is not a bad movie to pass the time on a slow day.Grade B "},{"Title":"Awesome experience.","Date":"6 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals was released in 2008 and is a great taste of modern Native American culture. I didn't love the movie, but I was very taken into the story and each of the characters lives. I thoroughly enjoyed watching the movie and being able to experience all that occurs on today's Indian Reservations.The acting was by far the weakest point of this movie, but frankly there is some excuse for that considering the entire cast was made up of Native Americans. Not that Native Americans can't act very well, which they can, there just aren't too many who are interested in making a movie. The two lead roles are perfect examples of this. Victor Joseph is the first lead of the movie, played by Adam Beach, and is a very stoic person who has lived a hard life with his father leaving while he was a child. Thomas Builds-the-Fire is the second lead, played by Evan Adams, who is a very nerdy young man who desperately wants to be Victor's friend. Adam Beach does a very poor job in his role with every line being dry, which some could say matched his character, but not once did I believe that it wasn't an actor I was watching. Evan Adams, on the other hand, did an excellent job in his part, playing the nerd of Thomas almost perfectly. There is one particular point in the film, that I especially like, where he has lost his dorky braids, clean suit, and big glasses and is walking very coolly towards the camera; his hair blowing in the wind while he is walking in slow motion, and you begin to think that this is a really cool character. Then slowly he puts on a smile and immediately the nerd is back within an instant. Aside from Evan Adams' though, the acting in the entire film is really lousy, but in a way it sort of fits with the film, giving a taste of that rich culture even more.Chris Eyre directed this movie, and actually did a surprisingly good job for his first full-length film. Even though the film was very short, and the story even left open at times, each scene transition was very smooth. I was especially fond of all the different cultural aspects he included, from the bored radio announcer and radio meteorologist, and the long car trips in reverse because normal drive doesn't work, to the wide love of fry bread. This was just a great learning experience to what's going on right in our, or more accurately their, backyard that we know so little about. Acclaimed writer Sherman Alexie wrote the screenplay based off of a short story of his. Frankly, I thought this is where there was some of the greatest fault. The dialogue was alright, but mainly it was just the story and even some plot holes that brought down the movie a little. Nevertheless, it was a great film.If you decide to watch Smoke Signals, don't watch it for the movie. Watch it for the good story and great cultural experience that lies behind it. Then go out to one of the many Indian Reservations nearby and experience that culture firsthand, since it is the real root of the great country we live in. I give Smoke Signals a culturally informed 7.7/10 "},{"Title":"A Gem of a Movie","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a road movie, a comedy, and Indian film all in one. Surprising were the great performances of the actors, especially Adam Beach. Although characterized as an Indian Film, it is universal in theme, execution and message. The story is well developed, with an interesting twist at the end. Also, it is one of the funniest films ever. Through humor it challenges the way people view Native Americans, in real life and on screen. As an important feature of the movie, worthy to be mentioned, is the cool soundtrack. Sherman Alexie himself, wrote some of the song lyrics (!). It is a gem of a movie and recommended for everyone, who wants to have culture mixed with entertainment and pure art. A 10/10 "},{"Title":"One in a million and this is a real jewel","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Excellent film funny poignant beautifully filmed well directed. An excellent film worth watching, worth owning. Some have criticized the dialog. It was written by Indians. Some have stated it is not a very good movie. It is an excellent work. Well edited, well directed, well acted. I am not going to go through the list of naysayers. I will just stay they do not understand .Now lets get down to it. This is an Indy film totally made by Native Americans. That said there are things that will be lost on most of the audience. It is well scripted, well acted, and has a great sense of humor. Evan Adams is truly amazing he actually took and portrayed his character from someone that he knew and made the character believable, Frankly, he should have been given an award. For me he is the true or the epitome of an actor. He brings his character, which could have remained a flat story teller, to life. Excellent job Evan.For the direction, the characters were believable, the film flowed nicely, with the changes from one time period to present day flawless. Excellent! The actors knew the story and knew their characters and portrayed them well. Again with Evan Adams being excellent.For those that had low opinions please read the book, then get to know real Indians. You may learn something interesting. For those of you that know me, then you know that I truly believe that this is an excellent film and that I would not steer you wrong. It is a film worth watching. It is a film worth going out and spending 20 bucks for. It is a film that belongs in any collectors library, because it is that epic and that well done.My reaction to this film, if you haven't figured it out now is in one word, EXCELLENT. It has it's 5 stars and deserves more. John "},{"Title":"How Do We Forgive?","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spoiler ALERTHow do we forgive our fathers? Maybe in a dream. Do we forgive our fathers for leaving us too often, or forever, when we were little? Maybe for scaring us with unexpected rage, or making us nervous because there never seemed to be any rage there at all? Do we forgive our fathers for marrying, or not marrying, our mothers? Or divorcing, or not divorcing, our mothers? And shall we forgive them for their excesses of warmth or coldness? Shall we forgive them for pushing, or leaning? For shutting doors or speaking through walls? For never speaking, or never being silent? Do we forgive our fathers in our age, or in theirs? Or in their deaths, saying it to them or not saying it. If we forgive our fathers, what is left? Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Good Idea, Bad Execution","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The material here has real potential, but the execution leaves something to be desired. It is easy to point out some amateurish flaws in the production -- the obvious wigs, some spotty acting -- but the problems run deeper than these superficial imperfections. At times the movie is compelling, and it points to some profound issues. But too often, it pulls its punches, opting for a feel-good approach reminiscent of made-for TV movies. It covers the brutality, pain, and loss in its subject matter with a gauze of sentimentality and empty humanism. The inevitable redemption that resolves the troubled, troubling story feels too easy, merely the result of the genre's formula. It doesn't feel true to life. Notably, the director chooses to try to pull the viewer's heart strings at moments when the script seems instead to be calling attention to hard realities. Thomas's boring tales are treated as though they are genuinely entertaining, when in fact they seem to reflect the oppressive tedium of reservation life, the need to escape its futility, and to shroud the past in fantasy. Similarly, the characters' fondness for flatbread is portrayed as touching, when it seems more a comment on their grinding poverty -- baked bread is so cheap that to forgo it for homemade bespeaks a perilous level of want. On the other hand, the characters' sense of dispossession and victimhood is overplayed. The script seems to point to a somewhat more problematic sense of Indian identity, matching the overwhelming sense of having been wronged with a concomitant guilty doubt -- something like, Did my ancestors blow it like some of my other relatives? Why weren't they strong enough to fight the white man off? Why couldn't they provide us a better life than this? This would seem to tie in with the central theme of the movie, the difficulty of grappling with the absurd, of grappling with the inexplicable, senseless past; the way in which history weighs like a nightmare on the minds of the living; the way history is a nightmare from which we're trying to wake up. But the movie's impulsive softness pushes this hard element to the periphery. Of course it must be possible to forgive one's father for years of abuse and neglect, and it must be possible to make peace with a culture and people that once tried to eliminate yours, and that still treats you with indifference and casual cruelty. But surely it needs more than flashback accompanied by adult-contemporary guitar for this to happen. The unfortunate thing about this is that there is an untold story here that screams to be told, that the world needs to know. It deserves a more mature telling than this. "}{"Title":"Friendship and love for family","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is 1998 in Idaho. Victor has hated his father who deserted him ten years ago. One day he hears of his father's death in Arizona. Although Victor refuses to pick his father's ashes up in Arizona, he is persuaded by Thomas who is a childhood friend. The two young men start the trip and leave the reservation in Idaho. It is the first time for them to leave their reservation.The two men's characters are very contrasting. Although they sometimes quarrel with each other, they deepen their friendship during the trip. When Victor visits his father's Arizona home , he learns about his father's worries and the truth. He tries to understand. He decides to accept the whole of his father and live positively. The trip helped him to grow up. I was moved by their friendship and love for family.Both Director Chris Eyre and Screenwriter Sherman Alexie are Native American. This movie is different from other Western movies. They don't describe that Indians are silent, stoic types, that we've been used to. If you want to know about real Indian life and problems, I recommend this movie to you. "},{"Title":"Surprise movie.","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was really a surprise. Great story and excellent acting. I was expecting a so-so movie, but still wanted to see it after reading a few reviews. Well, I'm sure glad I did see it. I enjoyed this film very much. Adam Beach, Evan Adams and Irene Bedard were wonderful in this film. The characters were well developed and Sherman Alexie wrote the screenplay in such a way that you were involved in these people's lives. Thomas' character is presented as a nerd at the beginning of the movie, but you begin to understand his emotions and wisdom as the movie rolls on. Victor's character starts out as seeming arrogant and a bully, but evolves into someone you would want to be acquainted with. This movie was a pleasure to see. "},{"Title":"A movie about two Natives that  travels together an develop on the road","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first heard about this movie from my 11th grade class, and I feel that the movie was pretty good for a movie about Natives. I really like the character Thomas in the movie. I feel that he had played an important role in the movie in the development of Vicktor. I liked how the movie was true to a single goal and had great scenes in the movie. Like Thomas's storytelling parts. Those scenes really made the movie epic in way. I had learn a lot about the Native American culture watching this movie. From this movie I had a great image of what real Native American are like. I am a fan of how the rest of the movie played out. I highly think that you should watch this movie and learn more about the Natives. "},{"Title":"Smoke Signals Review","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Moving, inspiring, and authentic are all words used to describe Sheman Alexie's 1998 critically acclaimed Smoke Signals, starring Adam Beach, Evan Adams and Gary Farmer. It was one of the first films to cast actual Native Americans to play the Native American roles. The story will make you smile, laugh and possibly cry, but overall it is a heartwarming story of two young men trying to find their way as Native American's in modern America. The setting is the Coeur d'Alene Reservation and it's the 4th of July. Arnold Joseph saves two infant boys from a fire that breaks out. Unfortunately, the parents of Thomas Builds-the- Fire, whom he saved, do not survive. Arnold is never the same after that tragic day. Victor Joseph becomes strong and stoic when his father leaves him and his mother when he is a child. When he gets the news that his father has past away he continues to be angry with him. It's not until he and Thomas go on the journey to recover the remains does Victor realize his father leaving him wasn't because of him, but because of the drunken disaster he had become and the mess he had created. Throughout the film many historical and traditional Native American facts are brought to life. On the reservation, people do not use much money, but often barter or trade for goods with stories and favors. Also, cars do not always get fixed and because laws on the Reservation differ from state laws, one could even drive their vehicle backwards around town if the transmission went out. As for the stories, Thomas does an over the top rendition of someone using the oral tradition of story telling by telling them whenever he gets the chance and going on and on and on. At the end of the film when he and Victor have returned from their journey, Grandma Builds-the-Fire asks Thomas to tell her how it's going to end. He then goes into my favorite and the most touching part of the movie. The quote is as follows. How do we forgive our fathers? Maybe in a dream. Do we forgive our fathers for leaving us too often, or forever, when we were little? Maybe for scaring us with unexpected rage, or making us nervous because there never seemed to be any rage there at all? Do we forgive our fathers for marrying, or not marrying, our mothers? Or divorcing, or not divorcing, our mothers? And shall we forgive them for their excesses of warmth or coldness? Shall we forgive them for pushing, or leaning? For shutting doors or speaking through walls? For never speaking, or never being silent? Do we forgive our fathers in our age, or in theirs? Or in their deaths, saying it to them or not saying it. If we forgive our fathers, what is left? "},{"Title":"Deserves more attention","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Writer Sherman Alexie's new book, Flight, is his first in ten years, and would be another terrific movie (my review is at http//lakeconews.com/content/view/2580/42/ if you'd like to read it) and ten years between films is quite long enough. -)Smoke Signals gives us an aspect of Native Americans most of us rarely see, their wonderful humor--possibly what saves us white folks from the kind of violent retaliation we see in other occupied lands. Road movie, rez movie,coming of age--it's all that. It would be perfect for discussion in film classes or community groups, especially if there are native people in the group to talk about their reactions to it. "},{"Title":"Good Insight, Good Movie.","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The best thing I'd have to say about this flick is just the down right emotion of it. It digs deep into our relationships with family members and friends. It makes you think more of YOUR home life with your OWN secrets and built up anger towards your Mother or Father. It also questions the very boundaries of true Alcoholism. When do we draw the line & quit? When do we start loving those around us more than the bottle? But the movie has lotz of color! Some of the Landscape Shots in this film are really just remarkable. Lots of BEAUTIFUL scenes. Comic relief from the bitterness & tension comes from the character, Thomas. His long braided hair and big wide grin are a classic portrayal of an American Indian/Native American. Thomas is insightful & wise. Yet Goofy and just a bit on the gullible side. Making him an extremely lovable & unforgettable Character.SMOKE SIGNALS A Movie is only made good by it's underlined Emotion. Smoke Signals offers a tremendous amount of pure, untapped and utterly raw emotion. "},{"Title":"A Cultural Journey","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Smoke Signals in my American cultures class. Seeing it from that point of view may have heightened my enjoyment of the film, but on its own merits it is still a fine film.Two young men, Victor Joseph and Thomas Builds-the-Fire, who grew up on a reservation together, set out to obtain the cremated ashes of Victor's estranged father, Arnold. These two are very engaging and fun to watch, thanks in no little part to the inspired performances by their actors. Like in any good film, their journey develops into something greater than picking something up. The ride director Chris Eyre takes us on is enjoyable and does not overstay its welcome.The entire cast and crew of Smoke Signals is Native American, giving it an interesting perspective, similar to movies like Thunderheart and Dances with Wolves. The audience is presented with contemporary life on the reservation, simply as it is. We get not just caricatures, but what feels like real people interacting with each other, living their lives. That alone merits a viewing of this film.Smoke Signals is a very solid, entertaining film that should be watched by anyone who wants to be aware of cultures in the United States or at the very least entertained. "},{"Title":"Movie Review","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals written by Sherman Alexie and directed by Chris Eyre is based on the story The Lone Ranger and Tonto fistfight in heaven. This movie portrays Native Americans as they really are. It enables the viewers to see Native Americans in a new way, the way Native Americans view themselves. Unlike most movies in the past, in Smoke Signals Native Americans are not seen as savage or as one with nature. In the Disney movie Pocahontas we see Pocahontas with the birds and otters Pocahontas is singing and dancing along with her animal friends. This creates a stereotype of what many people believe Native Americans relationship with nature is. The movie, Smoke Signals, shows Natives Americans relationship with nature as well as each other. It also eliminates most stereotypes normally connected to Native Americans. The movie, Smoke Signals, deals with issues such as alcoholism, loss and love. The story is centered on a young man named Victor who is trying to find himself while saying good-bye to his father. He also wants to regain the relationship he once had with his mother. In Thomas and Victors relationship Alexie shows important bonds and friendships that can mean everything even when you think everything is lost. In Victor's desperate time of need his only true friend, Thomas, comes to his rescue and helps force Victor to see the reality of what he is losing as well as what he has already lost. Together through their friendship the viewers watch the journey of two young men regain their friendship as help each other through the struggles of growing up and moving on. "},{"Title":"great portrayal of Reserve Life","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals is an excellent movie. Not only was it entertaining and fun to watch, it contained hidden history lessons and taught me a lot about Native American point of view. Sherman Alexie and Chris Eyre really pull the viewers into the minds of Victor, Thomas, Suzy, and Allen. Smoke Signals tells the story of Victor and Thomas's journey to Phoenex, Arizona, using flashbacks from their childhoods to tell the story and weave everything together so that it makes sense in the viewers minds. The film is unique in that it shows modern day Indians, their hardships, and the simplicity of their life rather than portraying the typical hostile Indians in the Old West. It really breaks away from those stereotypes creating what I believe to be a realistic portrayal of Indian life today, one that mainstream America is not very familiar with and needs to see. This is why I highly recommend watching Smoke Signals. "},{"Title":"review","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Are you sick and tired of watching western movies that portrait the Native Americans as blood thirsty savages? Do you want to watch a movie that is more down-to-earth and realistically portraits Native Americans' lives today? If so, Smoke Signals is exactly what you are looking for.This film portraits two very different young Native American boys living on the Coeur d'Alene reservation in present day. One, Thomas Builds-the-Fire, is a rather nerdy boy who uses story telling as a way to entertain and also teach others lessons. The other, Victor Joseph, is a strong, rather popular boy who takes life too seriously. When Victor is young, his alcoholic father leaves both him and his mother and goes to Phoenix, Arizona. This experience changes Victor. He becomes very cold and angry because he greatly resents his father for leaving.Years later when Victor's father Arnold dies, Victor and Thomas make the journey to Phoenix together to pick up his remains. On this trip, both Victor and Thomas realize that they need each other and they get to learn a lot about themselves on the way.What makes this movie so different from other movies with Native Americans? First of all, this film, unlike a lot of others made in the past, is written, directed, and acted out by all Native Americans. This means that they can better portrait their lives because they live them everyday. Although this film is entertaining, it also is very realistic and gives its viewers a better insight into life on a reservation.Well, if you answered yes to the questions at the beginning, consider watching Smoke Signals. It's definitely unlike any western you have seen in the past. "}{"Title":"Smoke Signals","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A well made movie that shows how a person can truly find himself. It gives hope to people who feel like there is nothing worth living for. Victor is not a victor in the movie, but is a victim. He is the product of the events around him rather than making the events around him a product of his actions. Even though his life is not necessarily a happy one, he finds what true happiness is all about. The movie is not just about the Native American culture and how it is different from the stereotypical Dances With Wolves Indians. It is about how, with the help of a true friend, a young adult goes from being a boy to becoming a man. "},{"Title":"A good film to watch!!","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals is the first film I watched about Native American. Most of the film-makers are Native American, including screenwriter, director and characters. It dramatically increases the credibility of it.The film-makers made the use of simple methods to convey the different cultures, beliefs and values between Native American (Indian) and mainstream American (White) by telling a story happened in a tribe. But it conveyed a very strong message by using smoke at the beginning and water at the end of the film to show how a permanent and painful fault happened like a smoke and how to forgive the one who made mistake by water respectively. It is a story full of love, family relationship, friendship, and forgiveness and culture differences.The fault made by Victor's father caused the death of Thomas's parents. In my point of view, it's like the mistake made by the White people to Native Indian in the past. It was a permanent and painful wound to all Indian American. However, the film used water as a symbol of forgiveness to represent that Victor forgave the fault of Victor's father. Does it mean that we should forgive the fault made by White people to Indian American in the past? Smoke Signals is a great film to watch and to think of&#133;&#133;&#133;.. "},{"Title":"This is about Native American culture and lives.","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Many people are interested in something different such as different culture, opinions, and thoughts, and want to experience them, but at the same time, we are afraid of facing new things and different things. Sometimes, these kinds of fears prevent us from trying to know something new. However, when we overcome these fears and face them, we can get a more valuable view to understand different things. I realized it after I watched this film, for this film gave me an opportunity to think about Native America culture in their point of view which was very new and different for me.In this film, I can experience Native American culture and lives through their eyes, ears, and voices. These special features of the film make huge differences comparing it with other films. For example, it breaks my misconception of Native Americans, shows me what real Native Americans look like, and makes me sympathize with their culture. Native Americans in the film are very humorous, emotional, and content with what they have. They are not aggressive at all. When I saw the scene which was that Victor tried to teach Thomas what Indian should look like, it was not scary. It was very funny and made me laugh. From the scene, I realized that I had misunderstood who Native Americans were and what I had seen was a very small part of their lives. Also, I really enjoyed listening to Thomas' stories in the film. His stories show that they are optimism, enjoy laughing as much as they can, and try to keep who they are. I think they know the importance of laughing and living through their tragic history, so they keep laughing although they do not have many things they need.It was the first time to watch original Native American film. It was really interesting and made me consider other possibilities to see one thing. I hope I can enjoy experiencing new and different things. "},{"Title":"Real Native Americans","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals is a film about two young Native Americans who live on a reservation. Thomas and Victor have known each other since they were babies and as a result have a very complicated relationship. Thomas lost both of his parents in a fire when he was a baby and Arnold Joseph, Victor's father, saved him. As a result, the two families were forever linked and bonded to each other. However, they have a strained relationship because they both have different beliefs on what a real Native American is. Victor believes it is stoicism but Thomas is always telling stories and making jokes. When Victor learns that his father has died, the two set off to Arizona and this is when the real journey begins. This is a classic tale about two young men discovering themselves on a road trip. However, it also involves several misconceptions about Native American life. For example, the Native Americans in the film used humor in almost every situation. They are always quoting today is a good day to die, whether it be today is a good day for pancakes or today is a good day for basketball.Adam Beach, who plays Victor Joseph, does an amazing job portraying the stereotypical Native American. He remains stoic throughout the majority of the film. Victor has a difficult time coping with the fact that his father left and as a result he is serious and in denial for the greater part of the film. Evan Adams, who plays Thomas Builds-a-fire, has a very shy character with a remarkable ability to tell stories. Thomas tries to connect with his ancestors and tells stories in a very mystical way. Thomas uses jokes and his stories to try and connect to Victor, who is always pushing him away. Adam Beach and Evan Adams are not the only good actors in this film. The whole cast is talented and bring different special elements to the film. The fact that the entire cast is Native American adds to the authenticity of the film.Director Chris Eyre and screenwriter Sherman Alexie did an incredible job representing Native American life in a new light. They shattered several stereotypes about Native Americans and opened the door to real reservation life. The Native Americans in this film portray humor which is rarely seen elsewhere in the cinematographic world. Sherman Alexie wrote a compelling storyline that keeps the audience absorbed in the world of a Coeur d'Alene reservation for the whole duration of the film.Overall, this film was well written and acted. It changed Native American films forever by breaking stereotypes and opening the audiences' eyes to how Native Americans really are. At the same time it was a classic road trip story about two young men discovering who they really were and what was important to them. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and was glad that I took the time to see it. It was enjoyable and surprising from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Hooray!  A real Indian movie!","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I cannot say enough good things about this movie. Kudos to Sherman Alexie and Chris Eyre. They have brought Indian culture to the masses through this excellent movie. I have just completed a course about Native Americans in film, and boy was that an eye opener. I knew that Indians have not received their fair shake, but I did not know how bad it really was. We cannot change the past evils that were done to these people; but the future is not written yet. By having intelligent movies that depict Indian people as they really are instead of offering us stereotypes is the first step in honoring and acknowledging Native Americans. Chris Eyre and Sherman Alexie have changed the future with this movie. This is the first film made by Indians that stars real Indians. Adam Beach, Evan Adams, Farmer, and the rest of the cast were excellent.The whole tone of this movie is enlightening. It educates without offending and humors us within the drama that unfolds. I highly recommend seeing it! "},{"Title":"modern Indian life","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Smoke Signals describes modern Indians life to audiences. Almost of all movies appearing Indians is about fighting against white people. Indian faces are painted by ink. We feel they are violent and not intelligent. However, Smoke Signal talks about modern Indian life which is separated from modern white people life. It is acted by many real Indians. Indians live in a reservation in countryside. Their life is not rich because they don't have high technology and enough money to use high technology. Indians have an own culture which continues from generation to generation. For example, Indians have an oral tradition. They don't write down how to make fry breads and sign up on a piece of paper. There is a reason they use oral tradition. In ancient time, Indians couldn't write English letters. They could tell other people only to use their word. When white people established a reservation in United States, they demanded Indians to sign up on the piece of paper. Indians signed up it without understanding a meaning of that piece of paper. Indians don't trust to sign up on the piece of paper. In conclusion, Smoke signal is different from other movies appearing Indians. We can know modern Indians life and what they think about white people and a reservation. It is good for us to change our P.O.V. about Indians. "},{"Title":"Somke Signals', a milestone","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie Smoke Signals seems to be a special movie about Native Americans, Victor is a suffering guy, who thinks his life sucked before, because both his parents are alcoholics, which make him do not trust anything even sometimes they are true. The leaving of his dad improves this kind of feeling much, he becomes to hate his dad, and hate hearing anything about his dad. But there is contradictions in his mind, the love is more than the feeling of hate, and also hate results from love. Sometimes when someone loves others so much, but can not get return, he/she will be confused, and change from love into hate. At his dad's leaving, his explosion and throwing beer bottles directly results in his dad's leaving, but when his dad want to leave, he just chases up and cries, Donot leave. At the other side, his dad loves him, too. He is always mean to his dad. Including the guilty to set fire years before, even that was an accident.To Thomas, his parents died in the fire which happened years before, and later he know who is the person set the fire, but actually it is the same person whom also saved his life in that fire. When he realizes this, it is not meant to him that person is his enemy, but his saver. He regards him, loves him, and also is one of the most sad person when that person passes away. Maybe his a person who always does not care so much and remember enmity for ever, maybe there is much stronger idea in his mind Alive always more mean than the person who passes away. In Thomas' mind, Arnold is his father, for ever. "},{"Title":"Journey of Acceptance","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw Smoke Signals when I was much younger and, unlike other movies that I liked in my youth, this one held up over time. I'm always weary about watching movies that I have a good memory of from my childhood because I don't want to ruin the good memory by realizing, with my now critical eye, that the movie really is not as good as I remember it being.When I watched Smoke Signals for the first time after 7 or so years I was pleasantly surprised. It is touching but not over the top and maintains a great amount of humor that is interspersed throughout. Victor and Thomas embark on a journey, traveling from Idaho to Arizona, to collect the ashes of Victor's father. This is not just a physical journey to Arizona but also something that Victor must go through emotionally in order to come to terms with the past and the broken relationship he had with his father. This film is very powerful and sends a strong message of forgiveness. Watching this movie I was reminded of how holding on to past grudges can stunt an individual's emotional growth and ability to connect with others.Thomas provides great comic relief with his melodramatic storytelling (that is not always based on absolute truth), quirky mannerisms, uninhibited friendliness and desire for Victor's friendship. He is the exact opposite of Victor who is the sullen, too cool type. Victor starts out viewing Thomas as ridiculous but by the end of the movie he comes to understand him a bit better and opens up a bit, allowing himself to learn that kindness and vulnerability are not always weaknesses. "},{"Title":"A Fine Day To Be Indigenous","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those rare movies that pushes a lot of my buttons without resorting to cheap clichés to do it. It is beautifully filmed around the Coeur d'Alene Reservation in Idaho and the Arizona desert, with a bit of Pacific Northwest thrown in. It is often funny both from obvious stuff that everyone can understand and much more subtle stuff that sneaks up on you. The characters are multi-dimensional and the acting is excellent. I often recommend this movie to friends but find it really difficult to respond to the inevitable, So what's it about question. It's about a lot of different things that are all intimately connected into one thing that everyone recognizes. (Try explaining that to some of my friends!)On the surface, it's a coming of age movie and, although the characters deal with issues common to most coming of age movies, they do it within the framework of a modern Indian Reservation culture where tradition and pride are strong, and, for many, all they have left. It is not an Indian movie but it has a strong and pleasing Indian flavor. It's a movie version of lunch at the Tuba City Truck Stop. I am especially impressed with the Thomas-Builds-A-Fire character played by Evan Adams. Thomas' unfailing good humor and magnificent smile light up the whole movie. His determination to carry on the Native American oral tradition allows him to maintain a constant stream of observations, parables and stories about everything - many of which are funny, most of which are strangely deep and poignant, and all of which are unfailingly honest. Although these unending observations drive his would-be buddy Victor nuts, they constitute nothing less than true wisdom. Keep an eye on Gary Farmer, too. He does an excellent job in the difficult role of Victor's alcoholic and overwhelmed father. If you like movies that are about a lot of real things, I recommend Smoke Signals. Like lunch at the Tuba City Truck Stop, it isn't fancy but it is great fun, very real, and you will leave feeling not only warm and satisfied but that you've learned something that you probably need to know. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Fresh take on road film","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story of two guys on a road trip has been done umpteen times but this is a fresh take on the story. The situation is novel and the characters are novel, IMDb informs us that it is the first movie in which American Indians' role is so prominent. This movie is a good story well told.The action of the film surrounds two young men of the Coeur d'Alene tribe and their trip from Idaho to Arizona following the death of one of the guys' fathers who lived there. This guy was very stoic, but his companion was talkative. Part of the reason the first guy was stoic was that he felt rejected by his father, who had left when the son was about 12. Initially he regarded the trip to settle his father's affairs as a mere chore. On the trip, the stoic guy came to grips with his relationship with his father. Once in Arizona the two meet the young women who had been the father's companion at the end of his life. She told how the father talked and bragged about the son, even though the son had never felt his father's approval. A key reason was that the father had once caused a fire that the son and his talkative friend were caught in. Unbeknownst to the son, his father went back in the burning building in an attempt to rescue the son, but he learned this from the companion. On the return trip the son is involved in an accident, and performs a valiant but unsuccessful rescue attempt. At this point, the father's attempt really sinks in, and he makes peace, with his father's memory in lieu of the father himself.The film exemplifies the imperfect way in which we love our children, and the imperfect way in which our parents loved us. The father had his flaws and ultimately failed to live up to his responsibility to his family, but loved them nonetheless. The talkative companion reinforced the father's brusque but loving ways, as he was a storyteller in the best of the oral tradition common in American Indian culture, as he had stories of his own encounters with the father. His tales and the woman's recollection flesh out the portrait of the father, and helps the son discover who his father really was, and who he really is. "}{"Title":"A gift","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two Coeur D'Alene Indians, Thomas and Victor, go on the road from the Coeur D'Alene Reservation in Idaho to Arizona to get the ashes of Victor's father who has recently died. This is a unique movie in its giving us the story of present-day Native Americans without stereotypes or bitterness.Victor has spent a decade trying to resolve feelings about being abandoned by his father when he was a young boy. By the time they return from their trip, both Thomas and Victor have learned a lot about themselves and Victor has come a long way toward resolving the issues with his father. The two protagonists are immensely appealing and they play off of each other very effectively. Thomas is a talkative nerd who annoys the more self-contained and physically strong Victor, but Thomas is not cowed by Victor and he has important things to say to him.One of the most appealing qualities of the movie is its gentle humor. See some of the entries in the memorable quotes link for examples. And just when you think things are going to lapse into cliché, the movie does a fake and runs right around you.The story gently builds to a powerful culminating scene that is a piece of pure poetry. While the camera scans scenes of a river from a meander to full flow to gentle rapids to fury below a bridge where Victor is scattering the ashes of his father, Thomas reads Dick Lourie's poem How Do We Forgive Our Fathers while an Indian chant is played. This scene is uniquely cinematic (no other art form could do this) and it is a knock-out. Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Remarkable film about a man's journey to uncover the truth of his past.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unique road trip movie about a young Indian man who must confront the demons inside him by taking a journey into his haunted past.One day he receives a phone call from someone he doesn't know who asks for him to come and take the remains of his father, who had abandoned him when he was a boy.Hopping onto a bus, he leaves the safety of his reservation to enter a tough world he knows little about.  The journey is even more traumatic in his head, where his subconscious battles memories, desires, despair, hatred and love.One of the things that is amazing about this movie is that this Indian man is subtly guided by myths that were created by Indians of eons past.  See the movie and you'll see what I mean.  It works.Very moving and uplifting.  Showed me a whole other way of looking at things.Great acting.  Great Story.   Great production.  A little masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Good flashbacks","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Flashbacks can destroy a movie. Especially flashbacks when the people are of very different ages or if there are a lot of people in flashbacks. The Divine secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood flashbacks are the epitome of this, involving 4 characters, at old age, young adults, and children, leaving the viewer with 4*3> 12 actors to keep straight and match to characters.Smoke Signals does the flashbacks well. The same actors are used for the adult characters, while the child actors look so much like the adult actors that there was not doubt who was a flashback of who.I loved Thomas's stories - even if they are a load of crap. "},{"Title":"Highly sensitive film","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The struggle Victor undergoes in trying to face and conquer his past is displayed in a highly sensitive manner. The long journey he and his truly misunderstood young friend under- take, is also a journey back in time for him back to childhood days and to a father who has abandoned him. Both young men come to terms in the end and recognize not only their past but also their own true values. Excellent work by Chris Eyre with well placed funny scenes. "},{"Title":"Near genius","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The question is can you handle it? cos you aint seen nothing like it. Even better is the soundtrack John Wayne's Teeth is so moving i nearly cried. But why does the film make no sense? it's rubbish. Dont pretend to like it. I couldve watched the phantom menace. And that bit where he saves that girl from a car crash and then cant be arsed to run anymore? still john waynes teeth is good. Best film ever. Hello Reidy "},{"Title":"In my opinion, one of, if not the best film of 1998.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an aesthetic masterpiece of dynamic proportions. There are few, if any, stereotypes depicted in this film; one of this film's many strengths is that every nuance of reservation life, how it truly is, is perfectly captured.I've received feedback from those who know it from first-hand experience (and immersion), and, seeing the film, themselves, they were both impressed and amazed by the intricacies conveyed (for example, the image of a vehicle being driven backwards because it can no longer be driven forwards, is illogical to many cultures, but not here; getting maximum use out of something is deep-rooted in cultures like the Blackfoot and the Sioux, carried on for centuries, if not millenia; here, it seems to be continued, at least at a subconscious level; it's something those of the disposable urban world have lost touch with, or have simply never had).To many, a bus trip is nothing, a routine, but for two young men, brilliantly portrayed by Adam Beach and Evan Adams, with fixed (or limited) income, it is more, and they make it more Every event in their lives are maximized (usually by Thomas); the basketball game, the trip to Denny's, the stories of frybread, stories trivial and mundane to many, but to them (mainly Thomas), are sources of wisdom and reflection and inspiration (Thomas).This journey they make together has echoes of 'Midnight Cowboy' within, in that it is the story of two lost (or misguided) men that learn from one another, that teach and care for one another, but the plot is presented in a different context, not to mention a pleasant, more relatable one (no gigolos here, folks; sorry).Eyre's directing was remarkably impressive. Intricate without being elaborate, inciteful despite (or because of) its simplicity. After its indeterminate, but fulfilling ending, one leaves the world of the Coeur D'Alene laughing, thinking, empathizing, and wanting more.I hope that the Academy's omission where this film was concerned (in, if not Best Picture, for I know there some good ones in 1998, a directorial or writing nod would've been more than deserving, the latter for the perceptive Sherman Alexie) was a reluctant one. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, one of, if not the best film of 1998.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an aesthetic masterpiece of dynamic proportions. There are few, if any, stereotypes depicted in this film; one of this film's many strengths is that every nuance of reservation life, how it truly is, is perfectly captured.I've received feedback from those who know it from first-hand experience (and immersion), and, seeing the film, themselves, they were both impressed and amazed by the intricacies conveyed (for example, the image of a vehicle being driven backwards because it can no longer be driven forwards, is illogical to many cultures, but not here; getting maximum use out of something is deep-rooted in cultures like the Blackfoot and the Sioux, carried on for centuries, if not millenia; here, it seems to be continued, at least at a subconscious level; it's something those of the disposable urban world have lost touch with, or have simply never had).To many, a bus trip is nothing, a routine, but for two young men, brilliantly portrayed by Adam Beach and Evan Adams, with fixed (or limited) income, it is more, and they make it more Every event in their lives are maximized (usually by Thomas); the basketball game, the trip to Denny's, the stories of frybread, stories trivial and mundane to many, but to them (mainly Thomas), are sources of wisdom and reflection and inspiration (Thomas).This journey they make together has echoes of 'Midnight Cowboy' within, in that it is the story of two lost (or misguided) men that learn from one another, that teach and care for one another, but the plot is presented in a different context, not to mention a pleasant, more relatable one (no gigolos here, folks; sorry).Eyre's directing was remarkably impressive. Intricate without being elaborate, inciteful despite (or because of) its simplicity. After its indeterminate, but fulfilling ending, one leaves the world of the Coeur D'Alene laughing, thinking, empathizing, and wanting more.I hope that the Academy's omission where this film was concerned (in, if not Best Picture, for I know there some good ones in 1998, a directorial or writing nod would've been more than deserving, the latter for the perceptive Sherman Alexie) was a reluctant one. "},{"Title":"This is movie is about 2 young men who go on a road trip to retrieve Victor Joseph's father's ashes","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this story about 2 young men living on a reserve.The story line of this film is simple and straight to the point , it is also very funny. I love Evan Adams portrayl of Thomas builds the fire is hilarious and I found  Adam Beaches portrays Victor as a very strong , but bullheaded young man.  Irene bedard  stars as susie song a neighbour of Victor's father, Gary farmer as Victor's father and Tantoo Cardinal as Victor's mother.There are moments in this film where the viewer can't stop laughing and the friendship between Victor and Thomas makes the viewer smile.The references to the fry bread making, the weather man who doesn't say much and the reference to the US being as foreign as it gets off the reserve ring true for these two young men who are on a journey that gives them an eye opener to life outside the reserve.If you haven't sen this film , it is definately a must see. It deserves 10 stars   "},{"Title":"Its emotional impact reminds me of Field of Dreams.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals is about Native Americans to the same extent Field of Dreams is about baseball. The father-son relationship continues -- and can grow -- after the death of the father. (I believe it was Freud who said that the most important event in a man's life is the death of his father.) The recognition of this truth is what makes this little film so powerful. "},{"Title":"Life on the reservation","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Family problems and life on the reservation - with humour ! The film flicks from the past to the present are excellent and illustrate that we cannot separate past from present - there are always reminders. The young indian's relationship with his father is tenderly revealed throughout the film as are the father's own difficulties with his past. A gem of simplicity. "}{"Title":"3 out of four stars","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A touching and funny film. I liked it, but a part of me has to say that it is not the great film that a lot of people claim it to be. I'd have no problem sitting down and watching it again (not much of a review, I know, but compared to what's already been said here, there's no point in going on). "},{"Title":"Top-Notch, intelligent film.  Connects at several levels.","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Have recommended movie to my whole crowd as one of the best I've seen. Really helps you connect with Native American characters, their situations and feelings.  Intelligent and artistic flow - I loved it.  It's a shame the powers that be did not open this movie at the major theatres from the start - when the print ads were being run.  Better than anything Hollywood has put out in quite awhile.  Can hardly wait to see it again or on video.  Powerful ending - closing music captivating - sat through the ending credits for the first time in a long time. "},{"Title":"Not just for Native Americans","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is great and you don't have to be a Native American to appreciate it. The humor is wonderful. I don't want to give too much away but it is a story of two young men, Victor Joseph and Thomas Builds-the-Fire, who leave the reservation for the first time on their way to Arizona. My favorite part has to be where the men are just starting on their way and a couple girls give them a ride, thats all I'll say. Lots of footage from the Coeur D Alene Indian Reservation and some of the Spokane River in Riverfront Park in Spokane, WA. Its based off the book written by Sherman Alexia called The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven. There are few stars like Tantoo Cardinal (Legends of the Fall, Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman) who plays Victor's mom, Tom Skerritt (Pickett Fences) has a small role as a police chief, Adam Beach (Windtalkers) plays Victor, Irene Bedard (Lakota Woman Siege at Wounded Knee) plays Suzy Song, and Cynthia Geary (Northern Exposure) plays one of the two girls mentioned above. "},{"Title":"Great Road Movie","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie should make me feel depressed but it's very uplifting and full of vigor. Victor and Thomas, the two Native Americans who hit the road to retrieve the effects of Victor's dead father (played by Gary Farmer (Dead Man)) are a great pair and bring happiness to my face. Every character in this gem is fleshed out and full of life, more than can be said of most of the Hollywood stuff currently floating around, and you get a great soundtrack (e.g. John Wayne's Teeth!) to boot. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"A good start for indians","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals was entertaining and well made, and, for better or worse, a little bit soft around the middle.  Sherman Alexie is the great Indian writer of our time, but his work is not radical and neither is this film. The horrible plight of Indian people and culture is touched on in the film, but the story revolves mainly around Adam Beach coming to terms with the memory of his dead and estranged father.  But maybe Indian films don't have to be radical, or maybe this film simply stands as a good start for Indians to be able to tell their stories with their own voices to main-stream America.  Windtalkers is of course the anti-thesis of that hope.  I hope Adam Beach is able to get back on the right track. "},{"Title":"A refreshing alternative to the mainstream","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When describing Hollywood, Sherman Alexie has oftentimes said They want loincloths, and that's not what I'm about. True, loincloths have clout in Hollywood, pun intended, which is probably why there was so little advertising for Smoke Signals.Instead, Smoke Signals portrays Indians as human beings. In it, Victor has to recover his father's ashes and return them to the rez. However, he doesn't have much money, so he goes to Thomas, who he normally won't have anything to do with, because Thomas is always telling stories. But Thomas is the only one who can afford a bus ride to Phoenix. There's a catch, however Victor has to take Thomas with him.There are many references you have to be Indian to get, like the passport joke, but even if you're not Indian, I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Shoulda been the Academy Award winner for Best Picture.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An amazing film, a great story -- what else could you want! Fathers and sons, mothers and sons, and an odd-sort of male-bonding all take place during the course of this film. I was already a fan of Alexie's writing -- and had met him and talked with him for quite a while at a book-signing party in Berkeley, a year or two before the film (only loosely based on the book, as other people have commented). People are quick to categorize films, especially as to the ethnic group or religious group featured, what country it was filmed in, etc -- what about simply judging on the characters, how engaging they are? This film should be seen by all people, not just Native Americans. It was very funny, but also had its bitter, angry, and sad moments, as well as a little poetry -- and lots of visual beauty. My only problem, a big one, with this film is the poster used to promote it. Irene Bedard does wonderful work in the film (she's most famous, at this moment in time, for being the figure-model for Disney's Pocahontas -- and also doing the voice of Pocahontas in the film). But on the movie poster, Bedard looks like a ten-year old girl. So it's my guess that most Americans looked at the poster -- immediately registered the phrase kid's movie in their heads and weren't interested in seeing it. Since so many movie-goers are teenagers or people in their early twenties -- the poster must have done a lot to destroy what could have been a huge box-office for this film. It could have been, and deserves to be a monster hit. When you see Bedard's character in the film, it's immediately clear she's a woman; she carries herself with the grace and maturity of a woman in her mid-twenties to mid-thirties. She's clearly more mature, if not in actual age, then in her self-possession and wisdom than the two young men who've come to visit her. She'll probably look 15 or 20 years old when she's 70; here's hoping she does! But what a disaster to give the impression on the movie posters, and video box art, which makes her look like the much younger sister to the main characters. It's not a love story, so it wouldn't be appropriate to have her posed in some sort of romantic embrace with one of the figures. But maybe she could have been shown in some photograph with the father, kissing or embracing him -- some way which would convey that she's a lovely lady, worthy of great romantic interest and intellectual respect. This is a movie for teenagers and adults. Yes, kids will enjoy the film too -- and the child stand-ins for the adult characters during flashback scenes do very professional work. But a film breaking new ground like this needs all the help it can get to be well-received; most reviewers I looked at in newspapers and elsewhere loved the film and couldn't say enough nice things about it. But I saw the poster before going into the theater (and I'd also seen it in newspaper ads), I already knew what to expect from having met and read Alexie's work, so seeing Bedard's face on the poster just made me curious who the kid sister might be. Then when Bedard's character shows up 2/3rds to 3/4ths of the way through, I did a double-take -- a little like Tim Meadows' Ladies Man of SNL -- Whoa, it's a lady!  Not a girl at all. (She may be about 5 feet tall, if that, but all the more a lady.) Alexie's next novel or movie project should be about who falls in love with her, now that the father's gone. Bring back Irene Bedard to play the role, write another first-rate script, and do a proper poster -- and you've got a hit! "},{"Title":"Papa was a rollin' stone (and his name wasn't John Wayne)","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It ain't Dances With Wolves- it's REAL- it's FUNNY- it's an ATTITUDE- it's a HUMAN message of forgiveness for ALL PEOPLE! It dances you outside to the Pow Wow Highway- it's one of the BEST films ever made!  "},{"Title":"One more road movie; nothing new under the sun..","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Overly earnest, overly obvious, but beautifully performed tale that does offer the viewer a chance to peek into a world that is not often seen on the big screen. Early scenes on the reservation have a nice rhythm, but the story deteriorates once our protagonists hit the road; we've seen this all before. Terrific performances by Gary Farmer, Tantoo Cardinal and especially Evan Adams as Thomas-builds-the-fire. "},{"Title":"Excellent film making","Date":"23 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals is about a young man's quest and the help he gets from people along the way.  It's about how the actions of an individual can create ripples that push others away.  It's about the magic in relationships and love.  It's about finding wisdom in unlikely places, and people.  It's funny and moving and one of the best films you'll ever see. "}{"Title":"this movie changed my prejudice against Indians","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie because it gives me ideas how the Native Americans think and live in the contemporary world. I like stories about fathers, friends, and forgiveness. I enjoy jokes between Thomas and Victor. John Wayne's song touched my heart.When I saw this movie, I focused on the lives and the thoughts of the Native Indians. Victor asked Thomas, You watched 'Dances With Wolves' more than a hundred times. He meant that the movie didn't portray an Indian's life exactly. The auteurs said, Dances With Wolves is not an Indian movie (Reel Spirituality, 198). Movies are powerful because they show how people unknown live and think. Movies are sometimes dangerous because they produce stereotypes. The Native Americans are sometimes victims of stereotypes made by Hollywood movies.M*A*S*H was meant to teach its contemporary viewers about the irrationality and inhumanity of the Vietnam War (Reel Spirituality, 32), but Korea and the Korean people became victims of stereotypes the TV drama created.I liked Smoke Signals because this movie changed my prejudice against Indians. I thought they were stoic and like warriors, but I found that they were like everybody else. And I felt for the Native Americans because they were put onto reservations. They are like one of the lost sheep. "},{"Title":"Catherine Keener","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Is Catherine Keener not in this movie? C'mon. She's the friend of the woman in the car wreck. She has lines in the hospital telling Victor and Thomas that the cops think they are responsible for the crash. C'mon IMDb. Where you at? Catherine Keener. For reals. Anyway, since I have to write ten lines of text apparently, I think this is a good movie. More discourse about Indians similar to that in this film should be presented to the public. This challenges what we expect (i.e. commonly held stereotypes) of Indians in positive ways (far more positive than the primitivistic authenticity exhibited in, say, Black Robe). But, as a side note, do you think Indians really talk about being Indian so much? Surely this movie is consciously self reflexive, but it's a wonder nonetheless. Ten lines yet? "},{"Title":"A good start for indians","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals was entertaining and well made, and, for better or worse, a little bit soft around the middle.  Sherman Alexie is the great Indian writer of our time, but his work is not radical and neither is this film. The horrible plight of Indian people and culture is touched on in the film, but the story revolves mainly around Adam Beach coming to terms with the memory of his dead and estranged father.  But maybe Indian films don't have to be radical, or maybe this film simply stands as a good start for Indians to be able to tell their stories with their own voices to main-stream America.  Windtalkers is of course the anti-thesis of that hope.  I hope Adam Beach is able to get back on the right track. "},{"Title":"Nicely Done","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie about the two young Native American men living today in a reservation.  The flashback scenes were great, and the way they were integrated into the movie was fantastic.  The characters make a lot jokes and bring a lot of humor into the movie, which stands out all the more due to the poverty that they live in.  The writing in general was quite good, although I felt that the scene were Thomas and Victor visit the trailer community where Victor's father lived was ended too quickly, and that in doing so it left part of the movie empty.  But perhaps doing it that way worked the best and was more logical for the character of Victor.  "},{"Title":"Near-perfect film","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my new favorite films.I was sort of shocked at how I might not have seen this film.  A friend had recommended it, and I lived in a house for 4 months with the VHS patiently sitting on the shelf waiting for me to watch it.A tenderly written, alarmingly well-acted, seemingly flawless, and deeply moving tale of familial love grown twisted and numb, then faced and felt.I guess I should say  It's another offering on the cinematic theme of emotional abandonment by one's father.  But it's not a blubber-fest; it's a primal crying out for self-reconciliation.  And the movie does it so well that it coaxes your response from your mythic self.All that, and (of course) it's funny, quirky, warm, complex-yet-direct, unaffected.I saw (in some other comments) the gratuitous characterization of Smoke Signals as low-budget.  It's is a perfect example of a movie that just might have the power to induce everyday movie-watchers to completely abandon any mental linkages formed between financial/technical resources and esthetic effectiveness.  It is the antithesis of the Aldous Huxley feelie.  It is complete form and content with a modicum of pointedly deployed technical resources.It's a fantastically good movie.  Watch it.  "},{"Title":"If you think it's uninspired, you've never danced on the Rez!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was wondering how Sherman Alexie would've taken on this movie if he based this movie on his awesome book Lone Ranger and Tonto, Fistfight In Heaven. Well, he only took one story from his book and turned it into a film that translates Indin' Rez culture as well as he does in his book, I do have problems with the fact that it is slight, but the movie's poetic fluidity that Alexie uses overshadows this massively. There's several things that weren't understood here Indin's making fun of everything is an alternative to drinking in a way,and the fact that there are many elements that couldn't be worked upon in this movie would convey the confusion and unabatedness of the Rez. My problem with this movie was that Sherman Alexie set this movie around one story in his book in this movie, which makes the reality of the Rez less biting to the viewer. Let's just say the Indin's are still good-humoured even though this movie didn't convey the listlessness the characters in the book and what they really endured. Oh well,  he's getting a sequel under way from what I understand... I had to give it a 9, it's too good to be true! P.S. I almost made it to the theater in Seattle to see Sherman the Man himself, but I had to drift East....      "},{"Title":"too much smoke, not enough fire","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For all the acclaim Smoke Signals apparently received in terms of positive reviews as well as awards, I did not find the film (1) poignant in its discussions nor was it (2) entertaining for entertainments sake.  First off, minus a few gags like 'Frybread Power' and the car that only drives backwards, the film certainly is not the sidesplitter that reviews boast it to be.  However more importantly, with a running time of less than 90 minutes, relatively short by feature film standards, the leanness in length is glaringly apparent.  The last act feels rushed and wraps up quickly, without a feeling of completion to the story, as if there were originally scenes that told more about the story, but were edited out for some reason. The interesting dynamic and contrast between Victor and Thomas seems to resolve itself just in time for the end of the film and Thomas' fascination and appreciation for Victor's father, as the father he never had, is hardly explored or discussed by either character.  I think that something of that magnitude would be a defining part of their relationship and how they view one another.  Conversely, the relationship between Suzy and Victor's father feels completely unbelievable and seems to work only as a means for Victor to better know his father, although I am never convinced that happens.The most solid section is probably the first few minutes, which present vivid images of reservation life to viewers who might be puzzled about how Native American culture and community operates within the modern world.  The answer to their questions is poorly.  The ramshackle houses and repeatedly failing car engines tell of how low income these developments are. Audiences get a distinct impression that these people are truly cut off from the rest of the world, both in the films setting of a barren, empty land and the humorous use of the lonely traffic reporter with no traffic to report. The town is run through by seemingly endless stretches of road leading out of town, and hardly anyone coming in.  These are both good illustrations of an awkward living situation and effective cinematic tools.  However, the screenwriting promptly lapses into poor form when Victor and Thomas start to explain away every conflict that involves their heritage. It is an unfortunate undermining of the audiences observational ability because they are shown and then told, rather than just shown - accenting this with strong visuals to enforce what is being said.  The opening act sets the stage for a compelling road movie, with a heavy emphasis on exploration of identity and heritage.  But because of consistent plot holes, or rather underdevelopments, the audience must take great leaps of faith throughout the entire film, hardly any of which pay off.  "},{"Title":"A wonderfully sensitive story about friendship and dealing with the death of a father.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals is one of those rare films that can touch your heart from the very beginning. It gives you a feel for Indian life probably because it was made by Native Americans. You will laugh at its wonderful humor and you will cry as a young man must confront the death of his father after many years of separation. Don't miss this movie!! It is on video now. "},{"Title":"Award winning?!?!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Review of Smoke Signals I did not find the film (1) poignant in any way or (2) entertaining for entertainments sake. I found Smoke Signals to be rather uninspiring, there was a lot of hype, and not a lot of substance. The storyline is disjointed and the acting is well below average and unfortunately, the sad performances from the actors did nothing to propel the extremely weak plot. I found Sherman Alexie's story to be lackluster, trying to prove a point which is quite unclear. I wasn't sure if this was a comedy about two opposites thrown together (because there were very few humorous moments, this film certainly was not the side-splitter that reviews boast it to be) or if it was a drama about a man discovering who his father really was. Too many themes are attempted to be covered, leaving the viewer confused and uninterested. Unfortunately, because of the poor script and unskilled actors, this film was not moving or compelling at all, no emotion was evoked, except disdain for everyone involved in the making of this film. Additionally, the Native American accents sound incredibly bizarre to me and resemble a strange mix of Irish, Indian (from India) and American English dialects. In addition to the film's disjointed feel, many scenes felt rushed and contrived. The somewhat interesting dynamic and contrast between Victor and Thomas seemed to resolve itself just in time for the end of the film. Also, Thomas' fascination and appreciation for Victor's father, (as the father he never had) is hardly explored or discussed by either character. Conversely, the relationship between Suzy and Victor's father feels completely unbelievable and seems to work only as a means for Victor to better know his father, although I am never convinced that happens. Because of consistent plot holes, or rather underdevelopments, the audience must take great leaps of faith throughout the entire film, hardly any of which pay off. "},{"Title":"Native American Value, Friendship and Family Love","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have two reasons to recommend for you to watch this movie. One reason is that you can see the real life of Native Americans. While most of the Native American movies are stereotyped and idealized by white filmmakers, this is based on a true story and made by a Native American filmmaker, a director and actors. Therefore, you can see the true Native American culture and values in the film.Another reason is that this movie is impressive and touching. You will be moved by friendship between Victor, the main character, and Tomas, an old friend of Victor. Victor finds Tomas as a real friend through the long trip to find his dad who has died recently. Also, family love is a very important concept in this film. Although Victor could not have noticed his father's love for him until he died, he finally finds it when he meets his father in ashes. It took long time for Victor to notice it but that makes the father's feeling deep. To sum up, you can learn the real Native American culture and be impressed by friendship and family love by this movie. "}{"Title":"Dysfunction on the Reservation","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some critics raved about this movie so I saw it. The best that I can say about Smoke Signals is that it is the first film I have seen about present day Native Americans and that is an accomplishment. The skill of the film makers is good. The acting is sometimes above average but often is more performing like in Clerks. The story is pretty heavy and rarely gets out from under the terrible events that have happened in the film. The plot also feels disjointed hopping from one location to another especially at the end. The two main characters who travel in search of a healing of the past often get on each others nerves. After a while the irritating one, Thomas, got on my nerves.  The best part of the film for me was Irene Bedard. Besides her talent as an actress, she has confidence, strength. She had her act together! But she is left behind and the heavy story continues. There is a minor realization at the end and the poetry and photography were nice. But I'd like to see a movie about the strength of the Native Americans as well as their problems. Smoke Signals does not show enough of that. But the talent of director, Chris Eyre and writer, Sherman Alexie make me look forward to their next film.  "},{"Title":"this should have won an Oscar","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not only was this the best thing I saw in '98, it was the best thing I saw in several years.  The use of real story telling made this film something beautiful.  The acting was splendid and the writers should be commended for making a strong point seem light and easy to digest.  A 10 for sure. "},{"Title":"On the road with tonto and tonto","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a gem I saw at a film festival. Like Alexie's book, the film brings an unglitzed up look at life for Indians today. I found the understated acting just right for the story. I also liked the humor about Columbus and John Wayne.  Its also a great look at human relationship between father and son and friends. I wish there were more movies like this shown in general cinemas and I didn't have to wait for the annual film festival.  "},{"Title":"I expected to love this movie","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was disappointed in the film.  I saw Sherman Alexie interviewed on a television news magazine program and was excited to see his film.  However, I didn't find it funny and found the characters to be rather cliche'. I will give Sherman's books a try, however, because I expect that his stories are better digested as vignettes rather than pieced together into a full feature film. "},{"Title":"A lumbering, mediocre story","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Reportedly the first movie written and produced by Native Americans, Smoke Signals is an intriguing but ultimately dull piece of movie making. The storyline is disjointed, the acting is below average and the characters - especially Thomas - are irritating.I suppose the movie will capture the hearts of the politically correct, since the characters go out of their way to express disdain for white people, but there really isn't a consistent message here. The movie is too slow paced and doesn't arrive at a satisfying conclusion.In the end, I wasn't sure is this was a comedy about two opposites thrown together, a drama about a man discovering who his father really was, or a mystical allegory, a la Dances With Wolves.There were, however, a couple of good lines. My favorite was in the scene in which the girl at the hospital told the two young Indian men that they were heroes. You're like the Lone Ranger and Tonto, she said. The reply We're more like Tonto and Tonto. That's funny stuff. If the film were treated more like that kind of comedy, I believe it could have worked. "},{"Title":"good film!","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Smoke Signals' is a film that I watched at university as being a representation of the portrayal of Native Americans in films today. The film is about a group of Native Americans living on a reservation, and it portrays their society and their style of living, which conflicts with the way that they were portrayed in films in previous years. The film even pokes some fun at these portrayals. The film is about a couple of friends setting off on a bus where they come in to contact with non-Native Americans. They learn a little but about non-Native American culture from this trip from meeting these people. The performances are good, and the film has charm and it contains its comedy. It's a light film for those who want some light entertainment. "},{"Title":"Cliche after cliche","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This earnest coming-of-age movie is unique only in that it is set amidst the poverty and tragedy of contemporary native American life.Two boys search for their fathers and themselves.  Old news.Good performances, a few clever moments, but not worth two hours of my life. Rated 5. "},{"Title":"A Sundance best?","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Smoke Signals to be rather uninspiring. Just like another so-called Sundance Gem, the Blair Witch project, there is a lot of hype, and not a lot of substance. Smoke Signals was noted for its realistic portrayals of Native Americans since the film was written, directed and co-produced by Native Americans. However, the main characters spent a quarter of the films making Indian jokes, trying too hard to play into the audience's hand. Now if Native Americans truly do spend a quarter of their time making fun of themselves, this film is really a true portrayal.The performances in this film were less than I expected. The Victor character seemed uncomfortable in his role and a few times makes a good example of bad acting. I found Sherman Alexie's story to be also lackluster, trying to prove a point which is quite unclear. Is this a tale about a father-son relationship or a comedy/drama of two opposites becoming friends or some kind of search looking for completion. Too many themes are attempted to be covered, leaving the viewer confused and uninterested. I still don't understand why the whole car crash sub-plot was put in the film and the abrupt waste of an interesting character (Song). Oh, and by the way, the music reminded me of an episode of Walker, Texas Ranger.If anything good came out of this film, it would have to be the flawless intertwining of the two stories. The director did a good job at this making the shifts subtle but still quite effective.Smoke Signals tries to hard to become your friend when all it really needs is to be what it is, very much like the Victor character - lost in its own identity.5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"I Have Some Reservations With This Movie","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was broadcast on channel 4 at the unlikely time of 2.30 am and since this is the type of time slot that TV guides under report I visited this site to find out what the movie was about and what sort of reception it received . It got fair critical acclaim from the views on this page so I sat back to watch it expecting a good movie but after seeing it I was left feeling disappointed Being an independent movie ( Am I allowed to make puns about  Indie cinema  ? ) there's not much cash to build a story upon but even so the story is rather threadbare . Two Native Americans Victor Joseph ( No I don't know what he's doing with a Jewish name either ) and Thomas Builds - The - Fire get some bad news about Victor's father so depart on a journey . SMOKE SIGNALS is essentially a road movie that's character driven and as for characters Thomas steals the show . He is an ubergeek who keeps the art of American Indian storytelling alive , except for the fact no one likes his story . Perhaps this is a comedic turn on Indian stereotypes . I remember a few years ago during the Isle Of Bute International Folk Festival we had an Native American chief tell the legends and history of the Native American people . From what I read in the local paper not one single person left the venue without tears in their eyes , so poignant were the tales . Listening to Thomas you'll similarily burst into tears after hearing his stories - Tears of boredom that is ! The dialogue works very well . Thomas mentions that the worst cowboy was John Wayne because he never smiled and you can never trust anyone who never smiles . If you've seen a John Wayne movie you'll know this isn't true though perhaps you should never trust a cowboy who can't act ! The acting is fairly good and as you might expect Evan Adams has a peach of a role as Thomas and he plays his part to perfection . Unfortunately the Native American accents sound bizarre to me and resemble a strange Irish dialect to my ears and there's no escaping the fact that there's not much happening plot wise . I should also point out that I'd seen MIDNIGHT COWBOY a couple of days previously and since that movie starts with a wild west parody character catching a bus this might have caused some conscious comparisons "},{"Title":"Solid indie entertainment with reservations","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Smoke Signals is just another low budget indie comedy/drama with one huge difference. It is about contemporary Native Americans by contemporary Native Americans. Its thin story is worthy but only nominally interesting. However, the telling of that story and the pervasive sense of Native Americaness about it conjures a unique charm which speaks volumes about the American Indian culture to those with their ear to the ground and it does so with a grand sense of humor. A fresh and fearless film worth a look especially for those interested in Native American people, ain't it. (B-) "}{"Title":"Pretty much an all star cast in this one","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I liked this film because it gave a good depiction of modern day Native life as it would have been in real life.  Like anyone else, when they travel on the road they love to meet other Natives doing the same and pretty soon they all become close.  I don't think this film depicts Natives the way that the mainstream Hollywood films do.  However.......... anyways............. that's why I gave this one a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This undoubtedly one of the worst films I have ever seen!  One bad thing about it is that it lacks drama!  Another bad part about it is that characters don't display emotion for the audience to feel sympathy towards them.  They are also always bellyaching about being stuck on the reservation.  If they hate it so bad, why don't they leave and make something better out of their lives.  But the worst part of the film was Thomas!  He reminded me of a Native American Steve Urkel, and the way he smiled he looked like a squirrel on crack!  Take my advice don't see this movie! "}]