[{"Title":"Could have been very good","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I got the feeling when I watched this that someone had written a nice script about minor league baseball, and somebody got a hold of it and said, Hey, let's just make this a 'Major League' movie!  I got the feeling the characters from the previous two movies were just tacked onto the existing story line.  Which is bad, because there were some good things in this, like the old (actually, ancient) minor league outfielder who was converted to first.  And the young phenom hitter.Not Bull Durham, but could have been good. "},{"Title":"My take on what happened between the two movies...","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Some have wondered why the Cleveland Indians are not even mentioned in the third installment of the Major League series. Here's why, plus my notes on this movie 1) Between 1994 and 1998, when this movie was released, the real Cleveland Indians made the playoffs every year and went to the World Series twice. There's no fun, and really no point, in making a movie about underdogs when the real-life team is one of the best in baseball. This is why the producers did not focus on the Tribe, but partially on the then-hapless Minnesota Twins. The only scene where you even see a reference to the Indians is in a Sporting News article Gus is reading while riding the bus, describing the Tribe as contenders.(a side note I've been a die-hard Indians fan for 30 years, so I may sound a bit prejudiced here) 2) I wish we would have known whether the Tribe won the World Series after Major League 2 ended. My guess is no, because I think it would have been mentioned if the Tribe had come out on top. None of the principals (Pedro, Rube, or even Dorn) sport rings in this movie, but even the pennant winners get smaller rings (I've seen the ones the Tribe received for winning the AL pennant in 1995 and 1997...they are very nice indeed).3) We know that Pedro left baseball and came back, now seeking Christianity, apparently with some voodoo mixed in, since a ragged looking Jobu makes a cameo here. Dennis Haysbert, who played Pedro Cerrano in all three movies, could win five Oscars and be hailed as the greatest actor ever, and to me he will ALWAYS be Pedro Cerrano.4) It is mentioned that Rube Baker (Eric Bruskotter, who to me will also be one of Ronald's friends from Can't Buy Me Love), who had a home run and an important double in the ALCS in MLII, had been playing with the San Diego Padres before being released. This indicates that the Indians finally got fed up with his throwing problems and invested in a real catcher.5) Wild Thing and Jake Taylor are nowhere to be seen. My guess is that Ricky Vaughn would have still been with the Tribe, with Jake Taylor as the Indians' manager. They did win a pennant, after all.6) Gus Cantrell (Scott Bakula) must have played with some of these players in the Tribe's minor league system at one time. That's how Pedro, Rube, and Dorn know who he is.7) Roger Dorn (Corbin Bernsen) recovered from having to sell the Tribe in MLII, resurfacing as the owner of the sad-sack Twins. His character is much more mature and likable here. I couldn't stand Dorn in the first two movies.8) Harry Doyle's (Bob Uecker) drinking problem finally caught up with him and forced him out of the Indians' broadcast booth, probably after cursing the Tribe out for losing the World Series. He tells Gus on the bus, after they pull up to the Metrodome, that it had been a while and what a year to quit drinking. It seems that Doyle had finally licked his alcoholism.9) Tanaka apparently took his World Series share and opened that mini golf course you see in the movie. Don't forget, he was a veteran of Japanese baseball when the second one came out, and his part was mostly played for laughs. In 1994, the only player of Japanese origin in the bigs was Hideo Nomo. Now, with Ichiro and others becoming stars, it's almost commonplace. Even the Tribe has Kaz Tadano, a pretty fair relief pitcher, in their system.10) Finally, this movie is better than the second one. It's not as good as the first one, but MLI oozes so many curses and obscenities that I wouldn't let my kids watch it, if I had any. The second one is much cleaner, but halfway through seeing it the first time, I knew it was a bad movie (even though seeing my beloved Cleveland Indians win the pennant on celluloid covers a multitude of sins). This one is a good Sunday afternoon time waster. It's not that bad. "},{"Title":"Solid Single","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I enjoyed this movie quite a bit and find myself watching it when it comes on TV. I'm not sure why several other 'reviewers' are getting so fired up about why Charlie Sheen or Wesley Snipes are not in the movie, or why the Indians have been replaced by the Twins this is the Major League franchise, friends, not the Godfather trilogy. Just accept this as a nice little movie focused on minor league ball, jokes, and Ted McGinley's overacting. It's not going to save the world, or win an Oscar, but it's certainly enjoyable. If you have to compare the 3 movies, the first one is the best, then I'd put this one because it's not trying so hard to repeat the original, then the 2nd one, because, well, that one's just very bad worse than drinking Jobu's rum. (Although the look on Berenger's face in the second one when he has to say okay, Rick, let's get nasty is priceless, I have to admit). Major League 3 doesn't try to do too much, so don't expect much out of it, and you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a spin off","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I think of Major League Back to the Minors is a pretty good spin off of the first two Major League movies. Writer-director John Warren has put together a film that has the same feel as the first two. He has also done a good job of having some familiar faces, as well as introducing us to some new ones.In the beginning, we are introduced to Gus Cantrell, played by Scott Bakula. Gus is a professional baseball pitcher who has spent a lot of time in the minor leagues. Gus knows that he is too old to be playing professional baseball. That is when Roger Dorn (played by Corbin Bernsen, reprising his role from the first two films) comes along with a job offer. Roger offers Gus the job to be the manager of his AAA team, the Buzz. It is up to Gus to turn this group of guys into a legitimate baseball team.With this Buzz baseball team, we have an interesting group of players. We have a bunch of new faces. One of them is Hog Ellis, a pitcher who only has a fastball in his repertoire. Carlton Doc Windgate is a starting pitcher who is good at locating and controlling his pitches, but has the slowest fastball in all of professional baseball. Frank Pops Morgan has been playing minor league ball for two decades and never made it to the majors. Twin brothers named Juan Lopez play second base and shortstop. Lance Pere is a third baseman who was once a ballet dancer. Finally, we have Billy Downtown Anderson as a young up-and-coming hitter who needs some fine tuning.Along with the new faces, we have some familiar ones. Rube Baker, who was an Indians catcher in the second Major League film, is back as the Buzz catcher. Voodoo man Pedro Cerrano is back to help Gus make the Buzz a good team. Along with Cerrano is his crazy Japanese buddy, Taka Tanaka.The story focuses on one season where at first the Buzz is the joke of all AAA teams. But under Gus's coaching, they become a team good enough to compete with its major affiliate, the Minnesota Twins.I think the story and film are fun and entertaining, especially if you are a fan of the first two Major League films or even just baseball at all. The only thing I still can't get my mind past is how is it possible for both the Buzz and the Twins to find time out of their seasons to play against each other. "},{"Title":"Series hits trainwreck point.....now","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Hey Mr. Berenger! Would you like to play your character Jake Taylor in Major League 3? No thanks. Please! Nope. Mr. Sheen, would you consider reprising your role as Wild Thing in Major League 3? Nope. Please! Nope. Mr. Bernsen, would you like to reprise your role as Roger Dorn for Major League 3? Why not? Yeah, we can make an unnecessary sequel! That my friends is quite possibly how Major League Back to the Minors got made. Or was it the fact that around the time this film was made the Cleveland Indians were winning and making a film about a group of misfit underdogs on the same team that is really doing well in real life would be a curse? Regardless, it should've been left alone. Now we got a nice, nearly unrelated sequel leaching off of the Major League.David S. Ward, director of both previous films, as been docked down to co writer of this mess. Something told me that even he wasn't fully on board with this film. Back to the Minors turns the tables from the Indians to the Minnesota Twins, the team Roger Dorn (Bernsen) now owns. The film focuses on Gus Cantrell (Bakula), a minor league pitcher for a team called the Fort Myers Miracle.Roger offers Gus a job coaching the Twins' minor league affiliate the South Carolina Buzz. Two of the members from the Cleveland Indians team return. Those are Pedro Cerrano (Haysbert) and Taka Tanaka (Takaaki Ishibashi). Wonderful because I wasn't too big of a fan of Cerrano and couldn't stand Tanaka.When you can't get the two leads who made a film what it was, don't make a sequel to a film without them. Don't think a crappy spin off is treating the fans to something special. It isn't.Thank the lord Bob Uecker reprises his role as the alcoholic Indians announcer. But this time he is announcing the Buzz? The film doesn't even provide an answer to why Cerrano, Tanaka, and the announcer are now with the Buzz. They all looked great last season, why did the Indians trade them? Is Jake Taylor still the manager of the Indians? Did the team trade Wild Thing? Did they win the World Series? The film doesn't provide the answer to questions fans are asking.Major League Back to the Minors is now the big wart on the entire franchise. There never needed to be a third film. The idea should've been scrapped when Berenger and Sheen said they wouldn't return. But of course, the money is what matters. Not even James Gammon comes back as a cameo. This film is one of the most tasteless and lackadaisical sequels I've ever seen.Though it was this film that made me realize Corbin Bernsen, Roger Dorn in the film, would later go on to play the father in I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus, my favorite holiday film. It was good for that.Starring Scott Bakula, Corbin Bernsen, Dennis Haysbert, Ted McGinley, Takaaki Ishibashi, and Bob Uecker. Directed by John Warren. "},{"Title":"I speak the truth.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Man, this is Scott back to his best. Even more polished than the famed and acclaimed Quantum Leap. Pure class!! This film had me in stitches. Both times I watched it!!! Wow, and he is more than abley backed up by his arch enemy Leonard Huff. Pure genius.  "},{"Title":"surprisingly funny","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I must admit, I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. Sure, the original is the best and the second had it's fair share of moments. But I found this one to pretty entertaining and my favorite of the three. It has a lot of humor and (unlike most comedies of the 90s) doesn't result to insulting the audience's intelligence. It's a movie that wants nothing more than to make you laugh, and it does a great job at that. Scott Bakula (as always) is good, and Ted McGinley is appropriately weasley as the coach of the opposing team. I won't give it away, but the scene involving McGinely, a baseball, and the wall of the dugout is one of the funniest gags in the entire movie that had me laughing long after the scene had ended. Bob Ueker (who was hysterical in MAJOR LEAGUE and MAJOR LEAGUE II) gets a little stale this time around, but still gets in some funny moments. If only the lovely Jensen Daggett had been given a bit more to do. But the film is funny and worth a look if you're in the mood for a fun movie the whole family can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Back to the Drawing Board.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League 3 Back to the Minors (1998) Dir John Warren / Cast Scott Bakula, Corbin Bernsen, Ted McGinley, Jensen Daggett, Bob Uecker Comedy about starting over, which should have been done with the first draft of the screenplay. It continues the ever declining baseball storyline that was old in the 1920's. A down and out coach will train a bunch of hopeless yuppies that will defeat the rival team so that everybody will respect them for giving it all in one of the worst films of the year. Throw in a little voodoo and a bunch of misfits who draw attention to themselves by simply being morons and you have this film in a nutshell. Director John Warren is labouring under leftovers and not a shred of originality to be found. Scott Bakula plays the struggling coach who will bring the team to the championship thus making everybody proud save for the audience. Others whom were led into believing that this was a career high point are Corbin Bernsen, Ted McGinley and Jensen Daggett who will no doubt be recommended to leave this off their resumes. Bob Uecker pops in as a sports reference and had Andre the Giant been alive, he may have choked out Uecker a second time for this. This is among the worst of its kind but that list is also very long. It is riding on the success of the previous two films and it strikes out within the first ten minutes. That is, if you happen to stay awake that long. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Could have been a home run, but was always going to go foul.","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The one lesson Hollywood has never learnt, is to give up on something when it's been done to death. For instance, the 1st 3 Police Academy movies were good, the remaining 3000 of them weren't.The same thing happened to the Major League movies, the 1st was brilliant, the 2nd was mediocre with some excellently funny moments dotted about here and there and the 3rd was terrible.This is not because Major League 3 - Back to The Minors is rubbish, far from it. I found it to be a very entertaining movie. What killed it dead, was the decision to make it part of the Major League franchise.This movie could have easily stood on its own two feet as just another great baseball movie. Instead, in a bid to tie it in with the two movies that came before, we have a movie that just tries too hard to live up to a reputation that had already been destroyed by Major League 2.With the exception of 3 or 4 cast members, most of the original actors did not return for this outing and what we're left with is a contrived plot for the actors that did just to tie this in with the franchise.Roger Dorn, (Corbin Bernsen), now completely retired from playing, is now the owner of the Minnesota Twins and all the affiliated feeder clubs associated with them. He hires his old teammate and washed up pitcher Gus Cantrell, (Scott Bakula), to manage his AAA team The South Carolina Buzz, who like in the 1st movie, are a bunch of no talent misfits until Cantrell licks them in to shape. Already with the Buzz are Rube Baker, (Eric Bruskotter), who is later joined by old Indian's Teammate Pedro Cerrano, (Dennis Haysbert). Just to give that very much unneeded link to the past.On a visit to see Roger, Gus is reunited with another old team mate of his, the vain and extremely arrogant Leonard Huff , (Ted McGinley). It is evident that these two men detest one another and have done for years. Huff is always ready to belittle Gus regarding what he perceives as his failed career and his minor league status, and Gus despising Huff's brutal and arrogant style of baseball management.More out of rivalry than for entertainment, an Exhibition match is set up for the Buzz to play the Twins at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, (Sadly now demolished). Realising the Buzz are on the verge of winning, Huff fakes a power cut to try to save some face.However, the press have latched on to the rivalry and tension between Gus and Huff and require a definitive winner to the grudge match and both sets of players are merely pawns in a private war between the two managers. Only this time, Gus insists that the Twins play at their ballpark.ML3 is a really entertaining movie, ruined by a desire to shape it in to something it didn't need to be. Whilst I won't begrudge any actor their pay cheque, The Roger Dorn character didn't need to be Roger Dorn, Cerrano didn't need to be Cerrano and no character from the previous 2 movies needed to be revived for this to be a good film. In fact, it would have been better had they not done this at all.However, one character that did return that I was genuinely glad to see, was the brilliant Bob Uecker reprising his role of wisecracking sportscaster Harry Doyle. Most of the movie's belly laughs come from his droll commentary and his rivalry with his stuffed shirt Minnesota counterpart.One annoying aspect of the movie is the annoying Guitar riff that's played every time a cast member utters the name of the Twin's star player and resident psychopath Carlos Liston, played well by Lobo Sebastian.Bakula is really good here and so is McGinley. McGinley is often given a lot of stick by some for overplaying his characters. His character here is worthy of some overplay as he should be a figure of dislike and ridicule and McGinley made the character of Leonard Huff exactly as he should be.For the guys, Jensen Daggett plays Bakula's love interest and very pleasing on the eye she is too and it's a shame she hasn't done a great deal since.A great little movie, but sadly, one only created to sit in the shadow of it's big brothers. However, sometimes even the runt of the litter can stand up for itself.Enjoy!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite baseball humor movies!","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I can't speak for the franchise it's based off of. I saw Major League, the original movie, once and to be honest, was rather disappointed that it wasn't as good as Back to the Minors, which I had seen several times at that point.Since other reviews have done a good job describing it, but may contain spoilers, I'll try to give the flavor in this one without the spoilers. BTTM is a great baseball movie for sitting back with some popcorn and having a laugh. It's a bit like The Sandlot except geared more towards adults in terms of story-line and humor. That's not to say kids can't watch it. There isn't a ton of swearing (one or two words) and nothing over the top sexually (unless you count a woman wearing a nice bathrobe.) I'm perfectly fine with letting my 9yr old baseball playing son see it, but some of the story might be a bit over his head.The movie has lots of unique/memorable characters, a solid underdog story-line, and lots of humor sprinkled through-out. The humor is largely visual gags and some verbal word play. It's light on mean-spirited and crass humor. This was something that I found less than appealing about the original (from what I recall, it was over a decade ago at this point), it seemed to rely more on that sort of humor, which I'm not a huge fan of in those kinds of doses and would certainly not let my son watch at this age. Good movie for former baseball and fastpitch softball players who may be reminded of former coaches (both good and bad) and crazy teammates. Might even be a good family movie for parents with slightly older children, but you'd want to view it first to make certain it's a good fit for you. "}{"Title":"Losing contact with the original movie","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Gus Cantrell (Scott Bakula) is an aging minor league baseball pitcher who knows all the tricks. Roger Dorn (Corbin Bernsen) hires him to manage his minor league team with a great prospect in over-confident Billy Anderson (Walton Goggins). Rube Baker (Eric Bruskotter) is back with the same problem as before. Pedro Cerrano (Dennis Haysbert) returns to baseball after spending time away searching for something. Taka Tanaka (Takaaki Ishibashi) has opened a putt-putt golf course but he's tired of the business. He also joins this ragtag AAA team. When faced with old nemesis Leonard Huff (Ted McGinley), he gets into a challenge between his minor league team and Huff's Minnesota Twins.I love Scott Bakula as an actor, but it's a mistake to put him in the lead. If Dennis Haysbert is willing to come back, then it would be much better to have Cerrano as a new coach. People love the franchise because of not just baseball but the characters as well. It just makes sense to have an original character as the lead. I also didn't find Walton Goggins that believable as the new young prospect. He's not that young looking, and he needs more muscle to be a big hitter. And losing the Cleveland Indians doesn't help although that may be beyond the filmmakers' control. That's not a rub against The Twins. It's just that the franchise started with the Indians and there's a history. "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Not bad for the third in a series based on the same concept. Scott Bakula appears as the out of options old man manager for a minor league team. He has a great approach to managing his team. The roping of the two Juan's together to shorten their range so each covers the appropriate range for their respective positions is priceless. He turns Downtown in to a complete hitter after he returns from his shot at the majors where he couldn't hit any thing but a fastball. Pops Morgan is a pretty much washed up player who just can't let go of the dream. I like it when they find Tanaka at a mini-putt putt golf course with his family. He is convinced to return to pro ball. Dennis Haysbert returns for the third time as Pedro Cerrano, the power hitting but superstitious player. Corbin Benson is back as the smarmy owner of a major league team that plays the minor one on a dare. I like the face down between Liston and the pitcher. This results from a little talk that Bakula had with him about the mechanics of pitching. Ted McGinley plays the manager of ther Twins and he just can't understand why they get beat. This is a decent follow up movie for the series. "},{"Title":"It's fun, and funny....but no Oscars.","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" It's not as good as Major League, but considerably better than Major League 2. It has good humor for some good laughs, and has it's own charm. Good for a Saturday or Sunday afternoon fair.Scott Bakula was a good choice and has that veteran smarts and laid back way that makes him likable.Tell him to throw his fastball -That WAS his fastball. Funny.Don't take it too seriously and you may find yourself enjoying it. It follows along similar fair like Necessary Roughness. Good humor that sometimes gets lost when people look for too much. Grab some pop-corn and a soda and just enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"Not A Major League film, but still enjoyable.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Perhaps not the big names as the first two installments of the series, but an enjoyable movie that teaches that you don't have to be biggest or the best, as long as you give it all you've got and have fun. Scott Backula gives a great and convincing performance as a minor league coach, Ted McGinley does what he does best, play a self centered egotistical, overbearing idiot. He has been brilliant with the same type character in vehicles like Married With Children. Who else could have pulled this character off. This movie delves into some of the situations faced by both major and minor league players. There are good players who spend their entire baseball careers in minor league. In the days we live in of multimillion contracts, and players who think they are gods, it might be better to see men who play the sport more for fun than money. Perhaps if some of the Major League stars in real life would learn to have fun playing, then we as fans would get a better game. "},{"Title":"Major League Back to the Minors","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Silly film about a minor league owner and manager who prepare their team of underdogs for a confrontation with formidable opponents. Awful performances and a weak story tarnish the image of the original 1989 comedy. Uecker tries hard for the laughs, but even he's run out of steam.  "},{"Title":"Jersey on Dorn's office wall","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" OK, I don't know how many people have noticed this, but in the scene when Gus and Maggie are in Dorn's office in the Metrodome there is a framed set of Twins home and road jerseys. the number on the jerseys is 4 and the name on the back of the road jersey is Collins. At the time, Minnesota only had player names on the backs of the roads jerseys. Anyway, Collins 4 is the name and number of Timothy Busfield's character in Little Big League. Also both movies were made by different studios, so Someone either placed the jerseys in there to see if anyone was paying attention, or it was just a fluke. Also, Little Big League also centers around the Minnesota Twins. "},{"Title":"The Minors are not quite boring","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Major League 3, in my opinion, far exceeded the first 2 Major League comedies with humor and a good story.   I had a hard time staying awake while watching the first 2 but this one had me laughing almost the whole time.   This is the kind of humor that fans of movies such as UHF, Bill and Ted's Exellent Adventure, and Monty Python The Search for The Holy Grail should thoroughly enjoy.   If you like watching a movie that has 'mostly' clean humor that you don't have to think about why or what happened, this is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Ok baseball movie... (May contain spoilers)","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I have experience with baseball players.  Who cares if they were on high school level?  I managed my high school's Varsity Baseball team for 2 years, keeping track of pitching stats.  My best friend and I, who helped out with pitching stats my second year, dubbed our team the Cleveland Indians of the first two Major League movies.  Now that I've seen this, that comparison has changed to the South Carolina Buzz.Washed up minor-league pitcher Gus Cantrell (Scott Bakula) is given a chance to manage after his minor-league career abruptly ends (apparently a frozen baseball is illegal...).  Gus is given the South Carolina Buzz, a minor-league affiliate of the Minnesota Twins, with a crazy assortment of oddballs (much like the other two films).  Gus is told to turn the sad-sack team into winners, but this is made more interesting by the Minnesota Twins coach (Ted McGinley) who wants his losing Twins to play the fighting Buzz.  Can Gus make his team winners?I saw this film on New Year'e Eve during the New Year's Comedy Cure on the Superstation (I'll admit I was one of the few college freshmen who was home on New Year's Eve, but I was sick).  Scott Bakula gave a sunny performance in a film that was otherwise cloudy at times, and utterly rediculous.  I'm not saying that it's Oscar calliber material (neither are the other Major League films--when you think about it, screwball comedies will never receive that kind of appreciation), but it's funny.  I wasn't expecting much out of this film, but you can't expect much.  Scott Bakula, who is one of my favorite actors, was fun to watch, and he had some great lines and moments.My favorite parts were when Gus took a baseball to the back of his head (watch the look on his face--you can't make this stuff up) and the immediate scene where he is coming to, when Pedro Cerrano arrives.  Another great scene--when Gus and the Twins coach are shaking hands before the game starts, and Gus tells him My team says you were a toupee, and the Twins manager replies angrily I DON'T WEAR A TOUPEE! and messes his hair up.  Gus just laughs and says Whatever you say.With an interesting cast, and appearances by several familiar faces from the Tribe, including Rube, Tanakai (sp?), Pedro Cerrano (Oh no!  Cerrano kill a living thing!), Roger Dorn (Corbin Bernsen), and everyone's favorite Tribe broadcaster, Harry Doyle (Bob Uecker), now a Buzz broadcaster, this film makes for an interesting watch.  Go into this without any expectations, and you'll have a great time watching.  If you don't like silliness, then by all means avoid this.  Otherwise, batter up!  "},{"Title":"a poor movie, yet watchable","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is so bad it's funny.  It stars Scott Backula as some coach, but that's not important, what is important is the large black fellow who plays 1st base.  First off he has to be at least 75 years old, yet still plays minor league baseball, second he starts out the movie in the outfield despite not being able to walk, let alone run.  Coach Backula brilliantly moves him to first citing the fact that when he attempts to run he stays in the same place for too long a period of time.  Backula shows more brilliant coaching strategy in the end of the film, (SPOILER), he tells his star player downtown to hit a home run, clearly downtown viewed this as a good move.  He hit the home run and won the game for his team, a minor league squad playing the Twins who were the class of the majors in the movie.  Now if only Tony Muser, manager of the Royals, would be as smart a coach as Backula and tell his players to simply hit a home run in every at bat, the Royals would never end an inning let alone lose a game.   "},{"Title":"Best movie about how to play baseball","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  While the previous Major League movies dealt with a team of incompetent players, Back to the Minors deals with a group of hard-headed players re-learning the fundamentals, and in some cases using their shortcomings to the teams advantage(i.e. Doc's 35 MPH fastball).  While some baseball movies focus on Home Run hitting, this is the first baseball movie where I can remember a pull hitter being mentioned. "}{"Title":"Not the majors","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film did nothing to help carry on the success that Major League's I & II started.  As a matter of fact they didn't mention the Cleveland Indians once during the whole film.  What happened to the Comeback Kids? Did they finally win the World Series or did they just give up?  I understand that the story was about a minor league team but come on.  What was their motive for winning?  I hope it wasn't to see if they could beat the Minnesota Twins ( the way those guys are playing now anybody can beat them ).  After they finished their season in first place did they go on to the championship or did they  just go to Disneyland like everyone else? The only highlights of the film was seeing Pedro Cerano and Tanaka return to baseball ( although it was a bit cheesy learning how they quit the majors only to return to the minor league later on ).  Bob Uecker was great as always (did he get fired as the Indians head announcer?).  I hope that if a  fourth one is on the horizon that it is not a repeat of this awful season. "},{"Title":"A sequel that nobody wanted and nobody remembers","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I think that the first &#x84;Major league movie is seriously overrated . It's a nothing special comedy with cliché story and flat slapstick humor. It's watchable and somewhat funny if you're in the right mood comedy. I'm surprised that it became a hit and classic for some people. So Hollywood made a sequel that was pretty much just as uninspired as the first movie , but this time nobody liked the movie . I guess however that it made some good money. So , here it is &#x96; Major league 3.It doesn't matter you didn't wanted it at all. Let's milk some money from that cow , even if it's long dead.No star from the first two movies return here &#x96; No Charlie Sheen , Tom Berenger , Rene Russo , Omar Epps or Wesley Snipes. Sure we have Cerrano , Tanaka, Roger Dorn and Harry Doyle ,but that's it. The only known person from the cast is Ted McGinley (Married with children). The hero here is&#x85; I don't remember. He is played by&#x85; I don't remember. The story is about&#x85; I don't remember. The movie is completely lame and forgettable. Oh yes , that I remember.Avoid it , even if you liked the first two movies. Avoid it especially if you didn't liked any of the first two movies. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Awful Sequel With No Laughs","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Major League Back to the Minors (1998) BOMB (out of 4)The third and to date final film in the series is without question just a poor attempt to make some cash on a popular film. This time out a washed up pitcher (Scott Bakula) is hired as a AAA coach to try and turn some losers into winners. They eventually get their chance when they get an exhibition game against the Minnesota Twins. MAJOR LEAGUE BACK TO THE MINORS is without question one of the worst sequels in the history of sequels. Throughout the 100-minute running time there wasn't a single time that I laughed and even worse is that there wasn't a single smile on my face at any point during this disaster. Most sequels are just watered down or poorly-written versions of an original that makes money but this here even gives those types of films a bad name. There's really not a fresh or original idea to be found here and what's worse is that the film simply runs so long for no reason. Every single thing that happens here is nothing more than a cliché of a cliché and to make matters worse is that you'll see every predictable moment coming from a mile away. Bakula has had a few decent moments in his career but this here isn't one of them. Clearly this was a paycheck as he walks through the role without much energy. Corbin Bernsen and Dennis Haysbert are on hand for a connection to the previous films but they do nothing in their roles. Even Bob Uecker is wasted in his bit. Ted McGinley of 'Married...With Children' fame is given nothing to do as the Twins head coach. This film here really had no reason to be made unless the goal was to become one of the worst films ever made. "},{"Title":"Do not watch this movie!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is a disgrace to the Major League Franchise. I live in Minnesota and even I can't believe they dumped Cleveland. (Yes I realize at the time the real Indians were pretty good, and the Twins had taken over their spot at the bottom of the American League, but still be consistent.) Anyway I loved the first Major League, liked the second, and always looked forward to the third, when the Indians would finally go all the way to the series. You can't tell me this wasn't the plan after the second film was completed. What Happened? Anyways if your a true fan of the original Major League do yourself a favor and don't watch this junk. "},{"Title":"Major League 3","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I am a HUGE fan of the first MAJOR LEAGUE. It is a fantastic movie! The first film in this trilogy has a very witty script, great performances from a stellar cast, and is just a well made, funny, exciting and entertaining film.A big reason the first film succeeded was because it was rated R. It had (oh my gosh) swear words. It was believable. The sequel, which I've seen twice and both times fucckking hated (censor that IMDb people) failed for the same reason the first film was a hit. The third film, which I'm sure was Direct-to-video, had a chance to be something special. No pressure from the studio to produce millions of dollars, it could have been a mini-Bull Durham, but just a tad more silly. It started off well, but then they started with the recurring characters. If it's not Snipes, Sheen or Berenger, to be honest, no one gives a shhitt (Censor that too)Again, everything must come back to the budget. It's hard enough to make a quality film, and even harder with no money and a shittttty script, but someone on the set must have just given up halfway through. All the checks were cashed and they said, Well, the first film was great so let's just think about the next project.The main roles were well acted, and the direction was fine - but they just had NO F-ING STORY. "},{"Title":"Passably entertaining... thanks to some familiar crooked cops","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I've never seen the first two Major League movies, and I have no interest in seeing them. Also, I'm not the biggest fan of Scott Bakula. So why did I watch Major League Back to the Minors? Why did I go so far as to BUY it?! Because of an actor named Walton Goggins, that's why. Familiar to most people as Shane on 'The Shield', Goggins appears here as an arrogant baseball player named Billy 'Downtown' Anderson who proves to be the true talent in his minor-league team (the Buzz). Bakula stars as the coach of said team (downgraded from the major leagues). Also appearing (although I wasn't familiar with him at the time I purchased this) is Kenny Johnson (Goggins's co-star on 'The Shield' and former real-life housemate). Johnson portrays, rather hilariously, a team member named Lance The Dance, who uses his former ballet skills to help him play ball.Other team members include a pair of twins with the same first name, a guru-type guy who wears a black hood, a surfer dude, and a geek named Doc who looks quite a bit older than most of his teammates. They're misfits, to be sure, but they have heart and spirit and all that good stuff, and throughout the film it's up to Bakula's Gus Cantrell to put these things to good use. Will he? I'll just say guess (and something tells me your answer will be correct).Major League Back to the Minors doesn't quite make it up to hilariously bad caliber; however, it does manage to pass the time. I was quite amused by Johnson, and snickered at silly aspects like subtitles when a foreign man was speaking perfectly understandable English. I would like to have seen more of Goggins, but his few scenes with Bakula are genuinely good for a movie such as this. (However, Bakula's character tended to annoy in his other scenes, particularly by making dumb statements like the one about his large white buttox. I also didn't care for the scenes where his tertiary Love Interest tried -- and failed -- to have a personality.)All in all, worth a look if you're a Bakula fan, or a fan of 'The Shield', or just a Major League completist. "},{"Title":"some ?s","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  First of all I enjoyed this film despite the bad reviews it got. I actually own this movie, don't ask me why. I am still wondering why this movie didn't follow the second movie better, who is Gus Cantrell and how does he know the guys from the first two films without being in them? I assume this is supposed to be Jake Taylor's character an old washed up ballplayer??? Why is Bob Uecker announcing for a minor league team, I assume he might have got booted down for being a drunk? What happened to the Cleveland Indians and how did the Minnesota Twins get involved here? I liked this film, but was disappointed by the lack of effort to attempt to follow the first two films, it leaves alot of questions unanswered. I would watch this if I haven't seen the first two Major Leagues, but there aren't many people who haven't seen those somewhere on Tv or on video by now. WAR Ted McGinley and his ridiculous hair.   "},{"Title":"Errors In The Film","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  There are two main, glaring errors in this film.1. In the managers cinderblock office, when Gus tells Downtown that he is going to be benched for 3 games, the player storms out, slamming the door. If you watch closely, the cinderblock wall moves when the door is slammed.2. At the end of the second game against the twins, Downtown hits a homerun. If you watch the replay, Downtown never touches homeplate. "},{"Title":"A wannabe can be after doin' time in the Minors.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A washed up pitcher(Scott Bakula)gets the chance to manage a sad-sack minor league team. He is also to groom a young long ball threat 'Downtown' Anderson(Walt Goggins). The South Carolina Buzz shuck their losing ways when they get the chance to play their parent team, the Minnesota Twins. Pretty funny stuff. Bakula is in top form in this baseball comedy. Bob Uecker as announcer Harry Doyle is priceless and funny as ever. Oddly enough Corbin Bernsen is likable as Roger Dorn, former shortstop turned executive.Also in the cast areEric Bruskotter, Thom Barry and Ted McGinley. "},{"Title":"Best of the three","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  In my opinion this the best of the three. Gus Cantrell is hired to manage the Twins fictional AAA affiliate. He brings the concept of team play that the Buzz was lacking. The parent club has one of those cancers in the clubhouse that appears here and there in Carlos Liston. Because he's the most dangerous force on the team he wants everyone to love him and worship him. Typical of Ken Griffey, Jr. Leonard Huff is one of those drill sergeant managers who eventually get what they deserve. Vern Rapp is an example is real life. A good fourth movie would be Dorn getting rid that a**hole Huff and bringing in those guys from the Buzz team. "}{"Title":"Forget logic","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Ok, forget all logic in this once. First of all, the characterof Gus comes out of no where. He was never seen in the first twomovies, but all of the sudden he's the main guy in this one, andall buddies with the few returning characteres.Also, this movie in no way follows up the first two. We haven'tthe foogiest idea what happened to the Indians after the ACLS ofML2. (as if we really cared). Bob Uker is also back-- believe itor not, as the announcer for this AAA team. I don't know howthat could be possible unless he got the pinkslip from the majorleague Indians. Anyway, who needs logic when you have a story aswonderful as  "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I'm both a big baseball fan as well as movie buff and was in a way shocked that I enjoyed this third(!) installment of the 'Major League' series. All performances were admirable except Ted McGinley's role which could be attributed to shallow/weak writing. The prior sequels had casting which was more in essence caricatures as opposed to the reality expressed in this sequel. It was also nice how the previous players blended into the script and made the story come full circle. "},{"Title":"Returning to form...","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  OK, so no one likes to see ANOTHER sequel, with ML II being so bad. But...'Back To the Minors', was, in my opinion, a pretty good movie.  Now of course, there are the same antics from ML and ML II, but the story and feel of the movie were different.  Scott Bakula, I thought, did a fantastic job in his role.Maybe it's something about minor league baseball, but this movie had that different kind of edge.It seemed to have a little Bull Durham, Bad News Bears, Major League I, and the Comrades of Summer, all rolled into it.  If you're thinking that this is just another Major League movie, it isn't.  This is another movie about minor leaguers looking to make The Show.There are appearances from the old Major League II cast.  And in some ways, their being re-united with baseball is far-fetched and silly.  But if you look beyond this, you might enjoy a movie that you probably would have passed up. "},{"Title":"Do not watch this movie!","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie is a disgrace to the Major League Franchise. I live in Minnesota and even I can't believe they dumped Cleveland. (Yes I realize at the time the real Indians were pretty good, and the Twins had taken over their spot at the bottom of the American League, but still be consistent.) Anyway I loved the first Major League, liked the second, and always looked forward to the third, when the Indians would finally go all the way to the series. You can't tell me this wasn't the plan after the second film was completed. What Happened? Anyways if your a true fan of the original Major League do yourself a favor and don't watch this junk. "},{"Title":"Bad News Bears is Bad News","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Yet another team of castaways led to improbable victory by a troubled coach who discovers himself in the process.The only novelty here is the drama of the announcers. More energy was expended on their dialog than on anything else, with all the rest of the story is automatic. But this is actually done well. The first problem in drama is how to place the viewer. The oldest trick is also the most effective create a chorus to stand as surrogate and leader for the viewer. A distance from the action is established, but since it is within the play, that distance is vastly less than between the screen and me in my seat.So here we have a screenwriter working to put new life into a tired cliche. Probably it is not enough, but it is interesting to watch the struggle. "},{"Title":"Better than II, but not better than I","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was better than ML II, but it wasn't better than ML I.  I liked having at least some of the guys come back (even though none of them is Charlie Sheen, darn).  I thought it was cool how Roger Dorn (Corbin Bernsen) went from a baseball player (Major League) to the Indians owner (Major League II) and now finally to the Twins owner.  You'd think Pedro Ceranno had been playing baseball for so long that he'd retire, but instead go back to the minors?  And how could Harry Doyle get caught announcing baseball for the Buzz?  There's no telling what happened that got him booted from the Indians. Plus some of the names in the movie were pretty corny, like Leonard Huff.  Although some of the comments I'm saying are bad, this movie wasn't quite that bad.  There's a lot of humor and such in this movie that I like it.   "},{"Title":"STE-E-E-E-RIKE THREE!!!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  How did I ever appreciate this dud of a sequel? All it does is throw balls! Worst of all, it doesn't compare to even the first installment of the series! The comedy suffers from not being funny. Where did all the unintentional laughter go? Enough slapstick on-the-field action goes on too long. Bob Uecker literally saved this one from a complete nine-inning shutout. What's next, MAJOR LEAGUE 4 RETURN TO THE LITTLE LEAGUE? Ehh, could be! Leave this one on the shelf and plan a trip to the All-Star Game. This one's had three strikes too many.  "},{"Title":"Bad Sequel","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If this were it's own film, devoid of any returning characters and the Major Leauge name, it would have been better. But suddenly we go from Cleveland Indians to Minnesota Twins???? I mean its not evan the Tribe's AAA team!!!!! Corbin Bernson looks a million years older than in ML1. Cerano went from Vodoo to Buhdist to Vodoo again??? The Japanese guy changed his name??? Those 2 gave up good big leauge careers for the Minors??????? Wheres Vaughn and Hayes and Taylor?????? Who is Gus Cantrell and how does he know the guys from ML1 & 2 without being in those movies????? Why isnt Bob Ucker with Cleveland?????** out of ******* "},{"Title":"Not that good of a movie","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is not that good. It's the least in the series. A few laughs, but not much entertainment in this movie, but it was sort of ok. I give this movie ** out of **** "},{"Title":"the best of the trilogy","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" in my opinion this is the best of the trilogy.i laughed out loud a few times in this one.but more than that,i just thought the story was better.there were some great lines delivered in this one,many courtesy of Bob Uecker,who played Harry Doyle,the goof ball play by play man.again there are some oddball characters with some strange rituals.i also thought the movie flowed more smoothly and it was better paced.there was also a love interest for one of the characters in this one,although admit it wasn't a substantial part of the movie.but at least there was one.as far as i can recall,there was no love interest of any consequence in the previous two.if i'm wrong,please tell me so.anyway,overall a pretty good movie.for me,Major League 3Back to the Minors is a 7/10 "}{"Title":"Major League Back to the Basics.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Horribly unfunny comedy that jumps through all the hoops of a misdirected and miswritten comedy sequel. Everything that made the first film amusing and funny is lacking here, and so is the cast - in fact, the only returning castmember is Corbin Bernsen. And no wonder - just look at his film profile.One to skip.1/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"very awful sequel","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is by far one of the worst movies i have ever seen, the poor special effects along with the poor acting are just a few of the things wrong with this film.  I am fan of the first two major leagues but this one is lame! "},{"Title":"Three Strikes...You're Out!!!","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Major League Back to the Minors is probably the end of a far from impressive trilogy.  The first was above average, the second was fair, this one is a total waste of time and money.  It follows the minor league syndicate for the Minnesota Twins and has a few familiar faces from the first two installments.  The laughs are sophomoric and the plot is non-existent and somewhat annoying.  There is no direction and none of the actors do anything to help out the weak material.  Very few will get anything out of Major League Back to the Minors.  2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Not worth a penny of your money, or a second of your time. 1/2* out of ****","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  MAJOR LEAGUE BACK TO THE MINORS (1998) ½* Starring Scott Bakula, Eric Bruskotter, Corbin Bernsen, Dennis Haysbert, Jensen Daggett,  Written and directed by John Warren   100 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for language and some violence) By Blake French 	Believe it or not, in the new John Warren comedy MAJOR LEAGUE BACK TO THE MINORS there is one funny scene. It consists of a sequence where an infuriated coach throws a baseball hard into the wall behind him only to have it hit the cement and bounce back and smash him in the face. It's not much, but with the exception of a few one-liners, it's all this film has to offer...enough said. This movie is not only structurally impaired, characteristically undeveloped, predictable and badly written, but also just plain bad. Even non-critical audience members will hate this movie with all that they got. It is so familiar it just isn't funny.  How many times does the same movie about sports have to be made?  Last years we saw this same material in Air Bud Golden Receiver, and as bad as that film was, this is even worse. At least Air Bud was family oriented. Major League Back to the Minors is too vulgar for a wholesome family to view together on a Sunday afternoon. It is too childish for adults. So who is this film for? Teenagers? Elderly? People who are so desperate for entertainment they would rent something like this?	The film, like many others like this, has one basic point it tries to make teamwork conquers all. Yes it does, and what a great moral to try to prove. Too bad we have already seen and excepted it so many times over and over have such little talent and intelligence that their cheerleaders are men in a ballerina costumes. Where the silly announcers form their own buddy comedy routine muttering one liners to themselves like They suck, This kids fast ball is timed with an hour glass, This guy dropped out of ball for a while to find something he lost--maybe it was his mind, Somebody needs a nap, and ever see a sunset as beautiful as that play. Where the characters have such little significance to each other that we never know them by name. And where the only heartfelt lecture scene about teamwork is so unknowledgeable that it is almost funny.	Major League Back to the minors is so bad; it stalls its trite ending right in the middle of a good closing sequence. The good baseball team is on a comeback, they are about to win and--the power goes out. I was thinking for a minute that this piece of trash had come to a conclusion, but in reality, its false final scene exists only to add minutes to the running time. The movie basically consists of a series of unrelated sketches that throw in so many putrid jokes it is are not funny. There is another kind-of-funny line of dialogue that has a coach and a player talking to each other about why a long time outfielder is not wanted in that position any longer. The coach's answer You're too old, too slow, and too fat. The player's reaction is to die for. But that scene certainly does not make this movie noteworthy of you time, and certainly is not worth a cent of your money. So here is another dreadful entrée into this genre of film, another that is doomed with its own script, which is failed before seen, and another which is so familiar it seems like deja vu all over again. "}]