[{"Title":"Fun action adventure with a dose of magic.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed this film.  It was nice to jump PAST the point where Tarzan was discovered, to a point where he had left the jungle and returned to England for socialization.  Casper is an intelligent, grunt-free version of Tarzan who returns to the jungle after getting a psychic call home from his shaman friend.  The movie remained focused on the goal set at the beginning, to save the Lost City from a power hungry treasure hunter.  I didn't feel lost or that any of the events were fluff. There is a nice display of magic which was presented well by the special effects team.  All of the acting was well done and not overdramatized.  I would very much like to see the story continued by this team of creators and actors. "},{"Title":"I love this cheesy fun popcorn movie !","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I can't complain at all about this movie. It gave me everything I was hoping for. It's cheesy and fun! I grew up on classic Tarzan flicks and jungle movies. I watched various classic Tarzans including Ron Ely and Johnny Weissmuller. I never missed a chance to catch a Tarzan movie on TV as a kid. Tarzan and the Lost City recaptures that type of childhood magic. It entertained me from start to finish. Its flaws are part of its charm and only add to the fun. All classic Tarzan movies have flaws. So what!? That's part of what makes 'em GREAT FUN! Tarzan and the Lost City is no exception. It provides this classic jungle movie fan with plenty of entertainment value. It's great fun with a big bowl of popcorn and a cold beverage! "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it.","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Being something of a Tarzan fan, it really isn't that hard to entertain me with the man in the loin cloth (except for the awful, near pornographic, movie with Bo Darek). And in todays world of cgi crapfests, this was a welcome return to real world adventures. It takes place in a real place the jungles of Africa. Has a real cast, no JarJar Binks to be found. And most importantly has a plot that goes somewhere. I think Casper Van Dien did a great job as Tarzan, and Jane March was excellent as Jane. The only drawback at all was the use of magic at the climax, it sort of negated any need for Tarzan to even show up (except to give us a few pics of eye candy). This film's drawbacks are minor when compared to those of other adventure films. It's got a lot of beautiful, and genuine scenery, which only helps to inspire the imagination. It is extremely family friendly, you can watch this with little kids and not worry about giving them nightmares or rotting their brains. Well worth getting on DVD and having an exciting Thursday evening with your kids, or parents as your own age my determine. "},{"Title":"One of the best Tarzan movies to date.","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I liked this version of Tarzan and I think that it is closer to the book than any other movie that I have seen. This Tarzan is quick on his feet and very quick witted. He is smart,just like the one in the books. Jane is supposed to be an American, why everyone puts her in England is beyond me. I liked this Jane very much and felt that her portrayal was right on the money. I even liked the bad guys and the natives, especially the singing and dancing. Overall it was a plus except that the scenes with Tarzan and Jane were too short and seemed to be cut too soon. "},{"Title":"Was the time right??","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Yes!! In the age of so many films that slap you in the face with so many f/x, it was refreshing to watch a movie with real people and real actors. The new TARZAN and the LOST CITY brought the character to a new level for a whole new generation.Casper Van Dien was an excellent Tarzan and most important, Mr. Van Dien's performance was on target. I enjoyed the film and I am sure that you will too! "},{"Title":"Not so bad.","Date":"20 November 2008","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Jeez, this is a hard bunch to satisfy. As my screen name indicates I am a stone cold Edgar Rice Burroughs freak and, for ERB fans, Tarzan flicks are less to be enjoyed than to be endured. Our suffering has been great and it has been long. When you have paid hard wampum to sit through At The Earth's Core....when you have an actual opinion as to whether Buster Crabbe was a better actor than Johnny Weissmuller....when you can explain the difference between Nyoka, Sheena and Rulah....then you can tell us what a lousy Tarzan movie this is.For those Happy Few who fit the description above, you are going to like this film just fine and, in fact, you have probably already seen it. It's not the real McCoy, but you've doubtless given up on that by now. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Tarzan Movies Made","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie is truer to the original Tarzan of E.R.Burroughs than almost any other one I've seen and I've watched them for over 40 years and have read 10 of the original books.   Although the acting may not be first rate the story line isn't too far from the City of Opar book.  I'd prefer more of the savage, but civilized side of Tarzan to be portrayed, along with less chimp and fake gorillas. "},{"Title":"The Eternal Jungle Man","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Casper Van Dien joins a long list of actors/athletes to essay the part of Edgar Rice Burroughs famous man of the jungle. As far as looks go he certainly fits the role, loincloth and all.Tarzan is as eternal on the screen in his history as Sherlock Holmes. Both of them if you remember were brought up to date during World War II to aid the Allied effort. And Tarzan had several modern adventures through his many films and television roles right up through the nineties.But on the cusp of a new millennium the Ape Man is returned to the period in time where Edgar Rice Burroughs set him in, clearly in British colonial Africa. Tarzan in fact has returned home to claim the title of the Earl of Greystoke and he's going to marry Jane March as Jane Porter.But Van Dien gets one of those instinctive feelings, the kind that Chuck Norris gets when his Cherokee people are in trouble on Walker, Texas Ranger. He postpones the wedding to an exasperated Jane and heads to Africa. Some of his native friends are indeed in trouble. A scientist who's hired a bunch of what would be called trailer park trash now is on the verge of discovering a lost city with untold wealth. It will make things worse than ever for the natives under colonialism if this archaeological Holy Grail is discovered.Casper tries to reason with the scientist and then takes the more Tarzan like approach to the problem. But things do get real complicated when Jane follows him to Africa. Tarzan and the Lost City is an old style adventure story with the benefit of 90s computer graphics. It's also politically sensitive, not portraying the natives as they were in those old Tarzan films from the studio days. And of course it's filmed entirely in Africa, certainly not done by MGM or RKO back in the day.In the jungle Casper's great to look at and a wonder to behold. But why did he try to adopt that English accent. He sounded silly when he used it. You notice Johnny Weissmuller never even attempted one. Of course they did keep his dialog to a minimum.Despite the accent, this latest big screen Tarzan is a good film and Casper Van Dien is a worthy successor to Johnny Weissmuller, Lex Barker, Gordon Scott, etc. "},{"Title":"The Fake Gorillas ...","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Since there was so much comment on the fake gorillas, I think it is worth pointing out that these were not in fact intended to be gorillas but rather the fictional race of great apes that raised Tarzan in the Burroughs novels. They were supposed to be something closer to humans, with a language developed enough that it could be translated into English - in fact Tarzan was a word in the great ape language meaning white skin. You can quibble about how successful the movie portrayal of these creatures was, but any Burroughs fan will recognize what they were trying to do. In any case, it was a brief sequence.I thought this movie was surprisingly good and came closer to capturing the flavor of Burroughs' later Tarzan novels than anything else I have seen. Burroughs, after all, was primarily a fantasy writer and there is no point in holding his fiction to any realistic standard. The production standards were quite good and I liked the principal actors. In fact, Van Dien may be my second favorite Tarzan, after Gordon Scott. "},{"Title":"Some may not agree, but here's my thought's","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I loved this Tarzan movie, as it goes right away from the normal Tarzan movie.   I liked that it has the same type of features that Tarzan of the past has had, but with a new look to head into the next generation. Casper Van Dien really shines in this movie, he has an amazing amount of energy, which this film needed.   This Tarzan movie has a new twist, with old ways of life meeting the new way of life.  I think it is a great movie. "}{"Title":"1940'S Adventure with 1990's Production Values!","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I just love it when classic pulp-styled heroes get the big-budget treatment from Hollywood. The Phantom, The Rocketeer, and The Shadow are all personal favourites of mine.Now we have Tarzan and The Lost City, and while it is nowhere near the quality of the other films mentioned above, it is a fun little Saturday movie.The acting is never terrible, but never above acceptable either. Also, a lot of the sets, special effects, and cinematography, while service the film well enough as it is, feel more suited for an above-average TV movie, and not the major blockbuster the filmmakers were hoping for.Also, a lot of the ending does not make sense Why does the Snake god need Tarzan, or even helping him out? His warriors were useless! A very simple-minded and fun PG Adventure film for the kids, and those who grew up on Ron Ely, but not much else.6/10 "},{"Title":"Casper Van Dien to the rescue","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Casper Van Dien, the hot young actor who starred in Paul Verhoeven's hit, Starship Troopers, is Tarzan, who, on the eve of the wedding to his beautiful fiancée, Jane (Jane March), is confronted by a vision of the destruction of his childhood home. Torn between staying in England with Jane and returning at once to Africa, Tarzan, Lord Greystoke, returns to his adopted home, where he squares off against European soldiers of fortune, led by the Oxford-educated Nigel Ravens (Steven Waddington), bent on discovering and looting the legendary and mythic city of Opar.When Jane decides to follow her fiancé Tarzan (Casper Van Dien) into dangerous territory, not only Tarzan must protect the city of Opar but must protect Jane also, while trying to stop Nigel Ravens and his men. "},{"Title":"Strictly family fare","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Well, there've been worse versions of Edgar Rice Burroughs classic hero but Tarzan and the Lost City is certainly far from the best, whether you think that's Johnny Weissmuller or Ron Ely. This is a thoroughly wholesome and family-friendly version of the Lord of the Jungle, except for a disintegration at the end, and there's a decent amount of mostly G-rated action. There frankly haven't been a lot of great live-action versions of Tarzan since the TV show of the late 1960s, so this isn't a bad choice if you're looking to introduce your kids to the Ape Man and his lady love. Even if your children love it though, this is one of those movies they'll look back on as adults and say Boy, that really wasn't that good, was it?Picking things up after the character's origins, Tarzan (Casper Van Dien) has been restored to his hereditary roots in the landed gentry of England and is about to marry Jane (Jane March) when a magical vision summons him back to Africa. A ruthless explorer, or at least as ruthless as you get in something suitable for the littlest viewers, is rampaging through the jungle in search of the lost city of Opar. Ravens (Steve Waddington) and his abnormally large band of mercenaries are plundering villages and poaching animals to make enough money for their expedition. Tarzan starts mucking up their plans and Jane quickly arrives to join him. But he also has to try and protect a friendly tribe led by a mysterious shaman (Winston Ntshona) and a headstrong warrior (Rapulana Seiphemo) from being mowed down by Ravens' 20th century firepower. They all wind up in Opar, which turns out to be a giant pyramid instead of a city, some magic stuff happens and everybody gets what they deserve in the end.A Tarzan movie or TV show pretty much begins and ends with the quality of your Tarzan. On that score, I'm really not sure how to judge Casper Van Dien. That's mostly because his Tarzan spends most of this film running around Central Africa is what appears to be a fat guy's dress shirt and a pair of Capri pants. By the time Van Dien loincloths up, the story is essentially over except for a very, very extended chase scene. He has a noble countenance, is surely buff enough and seems comfortable with the more outlandish aspects of the character. But Van Dien is also a little young for Tarzan in this context and doesn't quite have the physical stature the role requires. A short Tarzan is a bit like a fat Sherlock Holmes. It just doesn't feel right. Van Dien is also trying to pull off an English accent here and it's one of those accents that is so bad, you wonder why they even bothered. I guess I'd call this a competent and relatively appealing Tarzan but not an exceptional one. Even if this is the first rendition of the Ape Man you encounter, you'll probably wind up preferring one of the others.The star of the cast is probably Steve Waddington. He plays the bad guy as someone whose motives aren't necessarily evil but who is totally indifferent to the damage he does to the world and others in the pursuit of his goals. Jane March is a very English-looking beauty and plays her part with all the resolve and composure a proper gentlewoman of the early 1900s would possess. Rapulana Seiphemo as the intractable tribal warrior and Ian Roberts as a riverboat captain and friend of Tarzan also manage to inject a little flavor into their small roles.The plot of this thing is okay and stuff mostly makes sense, except for the whole thing about why Ravens and his men getting to Opar would be such a bad thing. There's a line that references the discovery of the lost city bringing more rapacious whites to the Dark Continent to ravage its countryside, but when we get to Opar there's nothing there to justify that. And considering how much magic is used to zap the bad guys away at the end, it's also not clear why Tarzan and company ever needed to get involved.As an inoffensive adventure tale for the whole family, Tarzan and the Lost City mostly works. However, that's the only level it succeeds on and with a Lord of the Jungle who's only average, I'd hate for this to be the only exposure someone has to Tarzan and his world. Given the paucity of great or even good live-action Tarzans in the last 40 years, this isn't terrible. It does really make me wish that late 60s TV series was out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Much better than other reviews would suggest","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is by no means a classic Tarzan flick, but it is certainly not worth the drubbing the critics and IMDb reviewers have given it. Casper Van Dien does a respectable job in the lead role. Jane Marsh plays a pretty good Jane, with prominent dental features ideal for tearing into raw animal flesh (sorry... that was a bit mean).I am also a bit puzzled about criticisms of the film's cinematography. It is not up to major award status, but it is hard to miss with the more breathtaking African locations. OK... so the plot is a bit pedestrian, but there are only so many ways to tell a Tarzan story without going over a fair bit of revisited ground. Toss in some more-than-passable special effects and the result is a reasonably good-looking movie.As others have noted, the film's run-time is brief by modern standards. At least it doesn't have time to put you to sleep. All-in-all, not great, but certainly not a thumbs-down turkey. "},{"Title":"Like an Irish Spring commercial","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I checked my watch as 'Tarzan and the Lost City' was wrapping up and I halfway expected another development to take place. If you cut out the opening and closing credits the movie is actually only about 70 minutes long. Ironically, even at that, this movie still overstays it's welcome.Not that it has much welcome to wear out mind you. The movie is actually a low-level sequel to the well-made 'Greystoke The Legend of Tarzan Lord of the Apes' and finds the ape man returning to Africa on the eve of his wedding to Jane nevermind that 'Greystoke' ended with out hero giving up civilization for Africa anyway.The title role is played by Casper Van Dien who has worked out, he has a proper tan, his teeth are brushed but I didn't buy him as Tarzan anymore that I would have bought him playing Jane. She by the way is played by Jane March (of 'The Lover' and 'Color of Night') playing a very rare role in which she keeps her clothes on.Anyway, just before he hears the ringing of wedding bells Tarzan has a vision of African people being plundered by bloodthirsty Englishmen and feels that he must go and save them. Jane feels that she must be by his side mostly because if she didn't Ms. March would draw a short paycheck.'Tarzan and the Lost City' was directed by the producer of 'Greystoke' and it shows. Everything that director Hugh Hudson fought to eliminate from the earlier film (the vine swinging; the yell; the chimp sidekick) in the name of giving true vision to Burrows indomitable hero is put back into place, not for literary sake but because it's the staple of all other Tarzan movies.All of this in the service of a movie that is over before your popcorn gets cold. There really isn't anything new here, we've seen it all before in every other Tarzan movie. Perhaps 'Tarzan and the Lost City' might work if you have in fact never seen a Tarzan movie. Or Superman. Or Batman. Or Indiana Jones, or Star Wars, or Star Trek or James Bond or The Wizard of Oz or The Lion King or . . . ah heck, just skip it. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but too routine","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Tarzan is my favorite fictional hero, so I was sure to see Tarzan and the Lost City after it was released to video in 1998. I was underwhelmed by the experience but, at the same time, it was okay and had some good points. Seeing it again, 15 years later, I feel the same way.Believe it or not, this is actually a sequel to 1984's competent and near-epic Greystoke The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes (surely one of the longest titles in the history of cinema), but it doesn't measure up, not even close.For one, Casper Van Dien (Tarzan) and Jane March (Jane) can't hold a candle to Christopher Lambert and Andie MacDowell. Although Casper has the necessary noble look, buff-ness and ape-like agility for the role he has too much of a pretty boy thing going on, not to mention he's a little too short at 5'9, which may be average height for a man, but too short for Tarzan, especially when you consider that Tarzan spends a lot of time in his bare feet, which makes him look even shorter. At the end of the day, Van Dien isn't bad, but he doesn't measure up to the best Tarzan actors, like Lambert, Weissmuller and Ron Ely. Jane March is decent and spunky as Jane, but she doesn't do much for me. Still, while unexceptional, these two are acceptable in the roles as semi-interesting alternatives.My main beef is the mediocrity of it all. Unlike Greystoke, this is clearly a small film -- nothing more than a quickly thrown-together sequel (I put that in quotes because it came out 14 years after the other film and features a totally different cast, and understandably so). Maybe the studio gave it the go-ahead because they caught word that Disney was going to release the animated Tarzan the next year and wanted to steal some of its thunder, I don't know.At only 84 minutes, the film lacks the nigh epic nature of Greystoke and the depth thereof. Scenes briskly jump from one sequence to another without allowing the viewer to catch his or her breath. It's like they were saying, Hurry up, we gotta get to the next scene! The sequences needed more breathing-room; the dramatics needed to settle in with the viewer; the dialogs needed to be deeper. This is unfortunate because the film delivers with exceptional locations (beautiful South Africa) and a great assortment of animals (lions, elephants, etc.), including the ape-tribe that Tarzan grew up with (played by humans, of course). Plus, the lost city of Opar does appear in the final act, which mostly consists of a huge -- and I mean huge -- pyramid. This was evidently created via special effects, but looks convincing. Unfortunately, the lack of depth makes the story un-compelling. It's okay, but never captivating.All this points to the probability that the film was aimed at kids (ya think?), but this is contrasted by the film's ultra-serious vibe and lack of cute kid characters. But, don't get me wrong, I'm definitely not complaining as both of these factors are huge pluses in my book (for a Tarzan film, at least).Another problem is the addition of magic via the black tribe's shaman. I can take or leave this element, but the shaman's powers seem so great (by the end) that one wonders why he desperately sent for Tarzan in the first place -- a definite plot hole.FINAL WORD Tarzan and the Lost City could've been a strong Tarzan movie but it needed more time in the creation process. It has great locations and other pluses but it was thrown together too quickly, and it shows. It's mediocre, but worth a look if you're a Tarzan fan and appreciate similar films, like Congo and Sheena.GRADE C "},{"Title":"Good opportunity wasted","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's a sad opportunity missed that this movie is not a lot better than it is. Some of the production values are high - the costumes and locations all look great, but there are failures. This could have been not just a good movie, but a great movie if it had been given more space, some long lingering panoramas, time to fill out the characters. Instead it is edited so everything is too quick paced like a Disney movie that allows no depth at all.Van Dien makes a fair effort, though comes across more as a boy in a man's role. Jane March looks pretty, but adds nothing extra to the part. Overall, a watchable effort, but still a good way down the long list of apeman movies. "},{"Title":"This is NOT Tarzan!","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't know how it was released elsewhere in the world, but when Warner Brothers released Tarzan And The Lost City in North America, they didn't do it in a very enthusiastic way, with a theater count somewhat less than average and not screening the movie for critics. Seeing the movie for myself, I can understand W.B.'s reluctance. This is a pretty shabby-looking movie. Although I learned at the end credits that this was shot in Africa, the locations looked so unspectacular that I was convinced during the movie that this Australian co-production had been shot in Australia! The CGI is pretty low-tech, even for a movie for this era. The action scenes are incompetently shot, relying on blurry slow motion and extreme close-ups that don't give us a good look as to what's going on. The script is pretty silly, relying on stereotypes instead of characters with real personalities. As for Van Dien, he's not a very convincing Tarzan, not coming across as a big wild force as in other Tarzan movies. "},{"Title":"Well, it was a good try...","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Tarzan and the Lost City was a failed attempt to bring the Lord of the Apes into the 90s.  Caspar Van Dien was physically imposing as John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, and his loincloth-clothed alter ego, but he is just not a good enough actor to bring Burroughs' real character to the screen.  The special effects were well made, but trite and really not needed, and the villains were never a good match for Tarzan, a man physically capable of doing just about anything.  Jane March is attractive, but in a more British sort of way, which really doesn't translate well to American movie-going audiences. "},{"Title":"This isn't any Disney film.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film was quite mediocre, which is okay, because I didn't expect much from it and so could not be disappointed.  I have certainly seen worse movies, but I've certainly seen movies a lot better too.Problems with this film include 1) Incredibly fake-looking gorillas.  They looked about as real as the gorilla in Murders in the Rue Morgue, and in that film, the gorilla was supposed to be a guy in a suit. 2) Lame acting.  I've seen worse, but I've seen a lot better too. 3) Jane March.  Please go put on some weight, and make sure some of it goes into your head.  You have the dreaded face pull.  Women of the early 20th century may have worn corsets, but they were not that thin. 4) Too much magic.  As another reviewer pointed out, if the witch doctor guy can make soldiers and turn himself into a giant snake that's immune to bullets, why on earth does he need Tarzan's help? 5) Fake gorillas. 6) Lame computerized special effects.  Come on, I know people who can make graphics that good, and they could never get hired at a place like ILM. 7) Fake gorillas. 8) Tarzan making that stupid yell all the time.  We know you're Tarzan; please just run around in your loin cloth and shut up. 9) Fake gorillas. 10) Tarzan's changing accent.  Is he British? Is he American? It reminded me of Kevin Costner in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves. 11) Fake gorillas.I don't know how the book goes, so I won't complain about the storyline or characters too much, though I have to say those bad guys were incredibly lame and paperthin.In relation to the ads for the film, you can tell how big a star is when they have to refer to him as Casper Van Dien from Starship Troopers.  I can say I actually knew who he was anyway, because he was on One Life to Live and Beverly Hills 90210, although perhaps I should not admit that I ever watched those shows.Good things about this movie? Well, the credits are really easy to read, and are clear even on a 14 inch television screen.  They scroll nice and slow too.  The scenery was also nice, and the single real chimp they used in the film was a better actor than many of the humans were.  Casper Van Dien also had a nice body, which is always a bonus; it unfortunately does not make a movie good.In short, this was a predictably bad movie, okay to watch if you're having problems sleeping like I was, but don't waste your money. "}{"Title":"Tarzan, after becoming civilized has to go back into the jungle","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Although Casper Van Dien was very fun to look at in that loin cloth, it was  accompanied by a scary hair piece, but oh that gaze... Anyway not much here at all.  Also they could have picked a better Jane,  preferably one without buck- teeth.   "},{"Title":"More like TARZAN AND THE LOST OPPORTUNITY.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie turned out to be a disappointment to me although it was not quite the turkey that the reviews made it out to be. The problem lies in many areas not the least of which is the lifeless acting (except Steven Waddington who makes a good villain) from all concerned especially Casper Van Dien who is the worst Tarzan since Denny Miller and Jane March. The movie plays like an elongated episode of the dire Joe Lara TV series TARZANTHE EPIC ADVENTURES and the last 20 minutes are almost exactly the same as the climax of Mike Henry's TARZAN AND THE VALLEY OF GOLD;if they had to pilfer from a previous apeman adventure they could have picked a better one than that.The action scenes never really come to life either and there is one truly ridiculous moment when the hefty heavy Waddington lands a punch that would fell an elephant in the delicate face of Jane March who shows no evidence of so much as a bruise.The gorillas are pathetic too as are the ropey CGI giant snake effects;all in all this is more like Rice Pudding than Rice Burroughs but at least it was more fun than the turgid GREYSTOKE. I still maintain that the best Tarzan ever was Ron Ely in the terrific and now rarely seen (in the UK anyway)60's TV series. "},{"Title":"A good try that didn't quite make it","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Anyone who voted 1 for this must have missed the Bo Derek strip-a-thon Tarzan the Ape Man. In Tarzan and the Lost City the producers made an attempt to give their story a sense of innocence - which is the very thing that made the Weismuller, Barker, Scott, etc. films work. The action scenes are decent but too often the makers fall back on special effects and magic to solve the hero's latest problem. I kept asking myself, with all the magic that the Medicine Man can do, why does he need Tarzan to take out these inept bozos? This film is a good alternative to the nightly dose of sit-coms and an OK selection if you went to the video store only to find that all the copies of Bug's Life are out. "},{"Title":"A gay man reviews this piece of fluff","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Ok, first off I am a gay man who can appreciate a Tarzan film because of the appeal of that loincloth, and though Caspar is attractive...it's some time before he dons the costume.  This film is silly, disjointed and only fluff.  The snake man is sort of fun and the film looks like it might pick up when they head for the lost city...but toward the end I thought it was almost a STARGATE retread and highly unoriginal. Why not make more of the sets you were in the end guys?  Casper...keep working...take your shirt off all the time...and make sure you get plenty of closeups...and PRAY FOR A SEQUEL TO STARSHIP TROOPERS YOU CAN STAR IN. Loincloth gets a 8...movie a 3...but Tarzan you were so much prettier than Jane! "},{"Title":"Wow! Was this ever terrible!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit to being an old fart who grew up with Tarzan as a grunting Johnny Weisemuller. But I also read all the books some 40 years ago and should have a fair grasp of the character.It started okay, with Tarzan being called back to Africa and doing a few cool things to harass the bad guys. Then the downhill slide began and ended in a bottomless pit. Let's see... Tarzan was needed because a medicine man who can turn himself into a swarm of bees and create warriors out of thin air needed help. Uh, ever consider stinging the bad guys to death? It was nice to hear the old yell again, but not worth sitting through this.Has anyone mentioned that the gorilla costumes were on a par with the one the Three Stooges used? "},{"Title":"insults everyone under the sun","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" Africans can turn themselves into swarms of bees or giant snakes and back so why can't they easily win a fight with human whites? I was shocked at how stupid & incompetent Africans were portrayed as, and I'm not even black. Monkeys invented kung fu and taught it to Tarzan, insulting Asians. It's nice that an actress with a strong facial resemblance to a monkey gets work but surely the film-makers were making fun of Jane March by casting her as the girlfriend of Tarzan the Apeman. An object thrown at a bad guy was so heavy that it knocked him over, yet Tarzan was strong enough to toss it across at him, defying the laws of physics and insulting all us viewers. Tarzan taught himself to read, insulting everyone on the planet. "},{"Title":"Tarzan goes Indiana Jones","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Right after I saw this movie, I was thinking NOW WHAT INDARNATION DID THIS HAVE TO DO WITH TARZAN????? It seemed morelike a very corny Indy rip-off. But apperantly it was made afteran original Tarzan-book.Anyway, of course this movie is bad. The acting totally sucks,the special effects are bollocks, Casper van Dien is in it(which would make any movie drop a few rates), the much pointedout fake gorilla's, cheap storyline etc etc etc etc. And Ienjoyed it all!!! This movie is so lame it turns fun again. Andthe ending is not that bad, the Dead warriors coming to lifebit is kinda cool and looks pretty good. And of course we've gotlovely Jane March, a girl you Americans obviously are not veryfond of, but I think looking at her for 1,5 hours isn't apunishment. Here's my advise rent this movie for your 11 year old kidbrother. he'll probably like it a lot. Watch it together. Inthis way, if you hate it, you can still tell your friends aboutit and tell them how much you HATED it, but you do have anexcuse for having ac "},{"Title":"Stay Lost","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I saw this one in the movie theater. Yeah, it was me, dad and about two other people. For some reason the filmmakers thought the world was ready for a new PG rated Tarzan flick. I am not a big Tarzan fan and the PG rating didn't thrill me but I thought I'd give Casper Van Dien the benefit of the doubt. Surely he could make a decent jungle action movie.I was wrong. So terribly wrong. This sucker is one goofy Tarzan movie. The Lost City needs to stay lost. The PG rating turns this flick into a lame kiddie adventure movie. Even B-movie king Van Dien couldn't save this one from the elephant compost heap.  2/10.  "},{"Title":"I have to say,this was the first BAD movie, I've ever seen in the theatres...","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  THANK YOU,Tarzan for ruining my 13 year streak of never seeing a bad movie in the theatre. Wow..this one just SUCKED. With the exception of a few well done action sequences this one had no hope of being good at all. Awful acting and just a generally dumb plot really ruined the name of Tarzan for me..  "},{"Title":"Hanging with the apes.","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie tries to be too many things at once.  It tries to be a romance and really fails.  It tries to be mystical, but manages cheesy.  Some of the animal scenes are okay, but most appear too contrived.  "}{"Title":"Plain and boring","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS ** Recap So called explorers threaten to plunder and pillage the land were John Clayton, aka Tarxan, once was raised. He is summoned by a vision, leaves his fiancé and returns to save his home. The prize that everyone searches for are the lost legendary city of Opra. Now the explorer Nigel Ravens believe he has found the way. But Tarzan is determined to stop him. Matters become more complicated as Ravens has the technological edge and Jane Porter, Clayton's girlfriend, suddenly turns up.Comment Boring and uneventful story. For the most part the most exciting event is Tarzan's trademark and ridiculous shout. At the end however the movie goes from dull and boring to pathetic, turning the story in another silly way using really bad computer graphics. Evidently some violence has been cut, the movie appears like a family movie, but there still are some violent moments, were people are killed (mostly off-screen though). Hmm... anything else? Nope, don't think so. You could probably find something better to watch or do...3/10 "},{"Title":"Bad...after 25 minutes","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  One of the most worst movies of the year, of the past five years. Casper Van Dien is not a good actor because he play the co-star of the bugs in the box-office deception Starship Troopers. Jane March plays in his third movie in 7 years. What's the problem for her? Maybe producers think she's bad....If you want to rent this movie, prepare yourself to watch only 25 minutes. The rest is not important to see. When a bad script came out, nothing can stop it.My vote No star out of 10 "},{"Title":"Five Star Awful","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Why was this movie made? Surely it was sold as a tax write-off to some sap investor. It's hard to say that a movie has NO redeeming qualities, but I certainly missed any that were here. The acting is flat. The characters are completely uninteresting. (Will poor Burroughs never get a break in the cinema world?) The story is a recycling of old Johnny Weissmuller material, and the gimmicks are just tired.There must be a venue for Casper Van Dien somewhere, but this ain't it. He looks (all buffed and shiny) and acts like a lifeguard at some Beverly Hills hotel where pretty boys hang around hoping to be discovered and showing his girlfriend the cool place where he works. Jane March is a bore, and the villains are decidedly un-menacing. Even the Cheetah substitute is a bust. Wearing Jane's clothes, come on! How old is that? And the camera-work can't even make an interesting palette out of the most photogenic continent on the planet.Tarzan gets some primal Vulcan eco-mind-meld from a Witch Doctor to return to Africa, and, alas, we're back into a plot involving the overused 'Atlantis' myth pushed way over the edge. (Try 'She', with the not-so-boring Ursula Andress, if you want a sort-of interesting 'lost city' movie.) The special effects are pathetic, even by 1998 standards. The apes look like refugees from the Crosby/Hope 'Road to Zanzibar.' The forty year-old effect (courtesy of Ray Harryhausen) of making soldiers out of bones suggests that the makers of this film were completely bereft of original ideas of what to do next. When Harryhausen used this device in his pioneering efforts back in the sixties, he had the stunning scores of Bernard Herrmann to back up the effect-sticks, percussion and muted brass clicking a menacing little jig as the skeletal soldiers fought Jason or Sinbad. This movie tries this trick with nothing visually or musically to underpin it. It is just sad padding.Supposedly some of the 'violence' was removed so that younger kids could see the movie. Unless they had been raised in a cave, even they would know what would happen when the bad guy tried to sit in the throne-it happens every time the villains get their comeuppance in an Indiana Jones movie. I regret to say I paid money to see this movie in its theatrical release. When I saw it again on cable, it was every bit as bad as I remembered, if not worse. If this is 'a new Tarzan for a new generation', then it is a generation missing a chromosome.'Danger, Will Robinson! Avoid, Avoid!.'  "},{"Title":"Not Very Good","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This wasn't a very good movie. The special effects were really bad. Pay me twenty bucks and i'll watch it again. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" At least someone, somewhere, involved in this disposable Ape Man entry bothered to read the famous Edgar Rice Burroughs books on which the character is based. What was done with that information, unfortunately, amounts to nothing. Tarzan (vacantly handsome Casper Van Dien) and Jane (nondescript Jane March) head back to the jungle homeland and encounter pillaging baddies led by Steven Waddington (used better as a more complex nasty in The Last of the Mohicans). Director Carl Schenkel's film gives Tarzan back his long-absent status as an articulate gentleman, and it contains elements of Burroughs's feverish imagination, but it dully ticks off the adventures without any thrilling sense of fun. Schenkel is so inattentive to detail that he would have us believe no one raises an eyebrow at the sight of a man morphing into a humongous cobra (not that the Xena-level effects help). It's blandly amusing watching Van Dien plug away ineptly at both his heroics and English accent, though this is ultimately an empty diversion for completest only. "},{"Title":"A New Tarzan For Some Generation (other then mine)","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Well, let me put it this way... it started out pretty good...But then the previews ended.To be perfectly honest, I wasn't awake for 90% of the film.  And let me assure you, that I never fall asleep during a movie.  After all, considering myself something of a cinema buff, I usually duke it out with even the most inane of plots.It seems that one is not allowed to add any comments to this particular film without mentioning -- FAKE GORILLAS.I woke up in time to see some sort of snake thing being zapped by lightning by a witch doctor.  That pretty much sums up my thoughts of the movie confused.All-in-all, it might not have such a bad feature, after all it is based on one of the great classics of English literature.But then I wouldn't know.  I was too busy wiping drool from my chin to pay attention.  ^_^ "},{"Title":"How does it feel to be Cheetah'd?","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":" It's difficult to tell exactly when the sucking starts in this movie. I think - although I'm not sure here - that I heard faint slurping sounds during the opening credits. At any rate, about half-way through the first scene you can discern the telltale, unmistakable signs of profound suck-icity. Now... in the credits posted here at the IMDb site, there are 10 producers listed. Ten! Almost an even dozen, folks. And evidently, not one of them, at any point, looked around to the other nine and hollered Let's jam a foot on the brake pedal right now! This monkey pic is suckin' the big banana! There's a scene late in the movie - when you're about as slack-jawed and banged-up and dulled into insensibility as you're gonna get - that pretty much sums up the nature of suckdom in its universal state. The bad guys walk down a long promenade lined by these... weird... demon drummers. They arrive at the foot of a pyramid thingy and see a frightening looking guy with a big cobra crown on his head. One of the bad guys, suddenly jolted by a lucid realization, yells, It's a trap! That's about when I got REALLY angry that this thing had 10 producers.One of the few diversions you have, as this Tarzan grinds to the final credits, is look at Jane March and try to figure out how such an astringently starved, painfully thin woman could have such a big mouth. I mean, her mouth looks like a full-sized Peterbilt 12-ton tractor trailer with an 18-wheel cargo rig could fit in there. As long as she opens real wide, of course.It doesn't help the movie along that she can't act worth a deee-AM! But then again, everybody tries real hard to piggyback the script along by punching the ham button real hard. There's a lot of IT'S THE GATEWAY TO HELL! lines delivered with consummate commitment and praiseworthy straightfacedness. (Is that a word?) But nothing can keep Tarzan and the Lost City from sliding right off the vine. "},{"Title":"Casper the Friendly Ghost","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Casper in a loin cloth can't save this turkey from its ineptscript and terrible acting "}]