[{"Title":"Evergreen film, well directed with engaging performances","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Heartwarming story with real values for family viewing. Well written script is faithful to the Phyllis Reynolds Naylor bestseller which won the Newbery Award. Scott Wilson excels as Jud Travers bringing a palpable menace to the character while at the same time making him a fully believable human being with his own back story. Blake Heron shines as the boy who falls in love with the dog and fights to keep him. An engaging performance from a young man with promise. Rod Steiger adds distinction to the film and emotional weight in his portrayal of the kindly store owner. Anne Dowd is the perfect Mom, gently chiding and always loving. Michael Moriarty lays down the law as the father with a sense of humor and engagement with his children. Dale Rosenbloom wrote the screenplay and directed the film with a finely tuned sense of the heartbeat of the story. A film that will be evergreen for the generations. "},{"Title":"Very good film- important story","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" kids who say this is a corny film may want to watch it when they get older- they will appreciate seeing the good side of human nature which is only brought out by a dog.(Hint when you are an adult, kids, you will not will not be in such a hurry to grow up and be cynical).Shiloh is a beagle who was abused, and adopted by a boy who gives him a good life. The father is portrayed by Michael Moriarty; the veterinarian is empathic, as played by Rod Steiger.Please watch this film. It is great for younger kids- but also for adults who need a lift. The film was very highly rated by Siskel and Ebert, who also highly recommended it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Cute movie for most children...","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  I think that this is just the cutest little movie!  It is about the special relationship between a boy and a stray puppy that he finds, the little floppy ears are the most irresistible thing in the world.This movie was well done, especially with the casting.  Michael Moriarty (Bang the Drum Slowly and Law & Order) plays a believable discipline-oriented father.  He turns out to be the character that you both love and hate.I saw this with my two nieces (4 and 6 years old) and we all cheered.  I might warn though that there are some scenes which imply abuse of animals, so be sure to watch this movie with your children. "},{"Title":"Good and Cute Movie for all ages","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie was a cute movie about a boy and a dog that absolutely love eachother but the dog's owner is very, very protective of all of his dogs and doesnt want Marty(the boy) to have Shiloh, its a touching story and movie, i personally thought the book was better but dont take my word for it, go out and watch it for yourself!!! "},{"Title":"Shiloh is one of my favorite movies.","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I can't remember the first time I saw this movie, but it's a great movie for anyone. Be warned; there's animal abuse in this movie, though. The scenes where Judd Travers (Scott Wilson, I think?) is abusing Shiloh will wrench your heart; it did mine. I literally cry every time I see them. The first time Judd abuses Shiloh is at the beginning of the movie Judd's out hunting with his dogs. Judd hits him with the butt of his rifle for barking and scaring a raccoon, then he kicks the poor puppy, then he tries to shoot him, then he yells at him to come back.'Come back' to someone who's abused you and tried to kill you? If anyone thought a dog would do that, they'd be crazy.I like the end of the movie. Marty gets to keep Shiloh. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but if you like the novel, your opinions may vary","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" To begin, Shiloh is a very well-written novel. It deals with a boy who does what he believes is right in order to save a runaway dog from its abusive owner. It also deals with honesty, loyalty, friendship and standing up for what one feels is right.The movie, while a lot is changed, still worked for me. Despite some awkward editing (some shots last for about a second before cutting to another, but I'm sure I'll see worse), the movie was still good for me. Sure, they made finally getting the dog from Judd Travers much harder than in the novel.As many put it, even though Judd Travers is a very cruel character, he states that he had been abused by his father during his childhood and never understood or got sympathy and anyone with a dark past can relate to him (not me, but I am against child abuse so I understand).Another good point is the acting, Blake Heron acts like he cares about the dog, Scott Wilson really puts effort into acting like a man who never understood sympathy, kindness, love and nurturing and Rod Steiger's performance as Doc Wallace is also well-done, especially during the scene where he encourages Marty to stand up for what's right by recounting a memory from the past.I bought this film and Shiloh Season from a secondhand store, but I have yet to read the second novel and watch the second film, so I'll see how they are.I know this film is not 100% true to the original novel, but I have heard of worse book-to-movie adaptations. As someone who is against animal cruelty, I loved this movie and the novel to the point where I recommend giving both a try. "},{"Title":"Sophisticated Morality Tale","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" If you look at the jacket, you would expect Shiloh to be about a cute dog that has an I.Q. of 150 who saves the day, or who perhaps accompanies some children on a long hike, fending off wolves and cougars. Or perhaps a dog that makes messes. It is nothing like that at all. Shiloh is a cute, but completely ordinary dog, who does nothing more exciting than licking people's faces and gobbling food.It is a morality tale. There is the evil Christian who believes God gave us animals to use as we please, including sadistic pleasure.There is the postman father who equates right with legal.Then there is the hero, a boy about ten, who argues articulately again and again for a higher heart-centred morality motivated by his loving caring for the young dog Shiloh. He gradually wins over his mom, his dad and even the evil Christian. There is plenty of ambiguity and conflict. It is not a totally black and white tale.Even though the boy is only ten, he is one of the most heroic figures in movies.The sudden happy ending did not ring true for me. A more plausible ending would have had the villain eaten alive by his dogs, or some such bad karma. "},{"Title":"Too many Clichés","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Everything about this film is clichéd. From the one dimensional nuclear conservative family values to the animal rights message, this movie reeks of something that is 50 years past it's best viewed by date. From the characters to the plots, this film puts me in mind of a long Leave it to Beaver episode with a little more edge.But it's cliché after cliché after cliché... simply horrible. Even my 5 year old didn't like it.Acting, especially Blake Heron, was great, but the cast was let down by the plastic screenplay.I would have liked to have seen a little more subtlety, let the viewers discover things instead of just throwing so many clichéd images and lines of dialog at them. Kids are smarter than some give them credit for. Let them discover gravity by watching an apple fall, not by smacking them on the head with an anvil. "},{"Title":"Don't Let Sleeping Dogs Lie","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" From the 'Newbery Award'-winning book, proclaims the Warner Bros. synopsis, Shiloh, an adorable beagle, runs away from his neglectful owner, and is found by young Marty (Blake Heron). Marty knows that Shiloh belongs to someone else, but is determined to save the dog from more neglect. Against the wishes of the dog's owner (Scott Wilson) and his father (Michael Moriarty), Marty risks everything to make the dog his own. Good summation of a great film for young children, based on a classic novel.If memory serves, there was no incongruously flirty tomboy girlfriend in Phyllis Reynolds Naylor's original story; this character was played up to give the film greater appeal, probably. Still, Dale Rosenbloom does well in capturing the essence of the novel, which thoughtfully plays up the issue of animal rights. Shiloh and the humans perform well, with Mr. Wilson (as Judd Travers) adept at conveying the villainous owner of Shiloh is actually a wounded man. He has the right to kick Shiloh around, or does he? ******* Shiloh (11/10/96) Dale Rosenbloom ~ Blake Heron, Scott Wilson, Michael Moriarty, Ann Dowd "},{"Title":"Boy meets dog, boy protects dog","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I really liked this movie. It was believable, and the message about standing up for what's right is always worth repeating. No special effects or explosions, just a simple, poignant story told in straightforward fashion.Marty, a boy of about 13 who lives in the country with his family, one day discovers Shiloh, a puppy who has run away. It turns out that Shiloh belongs to an ornery hunter named Judd who lives nearby. Judd only sees Shiloh as a tool for hunting and doesn't believe animals have any rights. For Marty, however, Shiloh quickly becomes a friend and companion. The story unfolds around the struggle between Marty and Judd for ownership of Shiloh. That may sound a little corny, but issues of family, honesty, respect for other species and the importance of keeping promises soon become involved. As an animal lover I found the story compelling and I'm going to watch it again soon with my grandchildren. "}{"Title":"Heartwarming family film","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" Shiloh is a very sweet and charming film, and I guarantee that the whole family will love it. It has nice music, good acting and an above average script. Of course the pace is a bit slow, and the story rather thin in places. On the other hand, the music is absolutely beautiful, and Shiloh was absolutely adorable. The script was very touching and beautifully crafted, making this very gentle and moving to watch. Blake Heron is wholly believable as Marty, and I felt the connection between him and Shiloh. Scott Wilson gives a very good account of himself as the hateable yet sympathetic Judd Travers, and David Moriaty and Rod Stieger also give nice supporting performances. The cinematography was fantastic, even looking at it made the film twice as engaging, and the song Are There Angels? was sung by the ever lovely Sheena Easton, who has done some soundtrack singing before on FernGully, Pebble and the Penguin and the sequel to All Dogs Go To Heaven. Overall, a charming and heartwarming film, that the whole family will treasure. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"All I had was your word. Ain't that worth something to you?","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" (There are some Spoilers) Very moving family movie having to do with the this little sweet sad sack looking beagle named Shiloh, after the bride where he found the puppy, by 12 year old Marty Preston,Blake Heron.Little Shiloh is taken home by Marty who's parents Ray & Dana Lynn Preston, Michael Moriarty & Shira Roth, are anything but thrilled with him. The poor dog is suffering from a number of injuries including a vicious gash over his left eye and the veterinary cost to bring him back to good health are just too much from the Prestons. Having re-financed his home to pay the family's bills another mouth to feed is the last thing that the hard working and money strapped Ray Preston needs.As Marty tries to convince his parents to keep Shiloh as the family pet the matter of keeping or not keeping the cute little beagle is suddenly cleared up with local hunter Judd Travers, Scott Wilson, showing up in the film. It turns out that Shiloh, or dog # 5 as Judd calls him, ran away from Judd's kennel where he keeps his pack dogs that he uses to hunt game; raccoons possum and rabbits.Marty is forced by his dad to give Shiloh, who's since become very attached to him, back to the hard driving and abusive Judd Travers where Shiloh ends up being again brutally beaten and kicked around this time within an inch of his life. Shiloh escaping for the second time from the Judd house has Marty, whom Shiloh came limping back to, now more determined then ever to keep the dog no matter what it takes! Even if he has to work himself to death to make enough money to buy Shiloh off of Judd Travers' hands.The film Shiloh is far better then your average Boy and his Dog Walt Disney-like flick in its depiction of the grown ups as well as young people in it. Everyone in the movie including the at first despicable Judd Travers have their good as well, especially with Judd, as bad points in how they deal with the realities of life. In this case the treatment of the star of the film sweet little Shiloh. Marty as kind and as loving as he is toward Shiloh really has no answer to what he'll do if he ever gets the dog as a pet!It's when Marty is given the chance, by Judd Travers, to work off Shiloh's price, $40.00, that he's willing to sell him for that the 12 year-old Marty Preston soon realizes that not all is right in the adult world of business and finance. That's especially true if you, or in this case Marty Preston, don't have the legal papers to back your business transaction up.In the end even the cold hearted and all business-like Judd Travers gives into both Marty and his parents, who have since fallen in love with the sweet little pooch, in keeping Shiloh as the Prestons family pet. I found Judd who at first was by far the most unlikable person in the film the most, after Shiloh of course, sympathetic person in the movie.It didn't take that much to get you to like little Shiloh, you fell in love with the cute and sad-eyed little beagle as soon as you saw him, but it took a lot, a hell of a lot, to change Judd Travers around. Travers not only let Shiloh, who legally belonged to him, go back to the Prestons but completely change his attitude about man's best friend as well. It also took the hard work and sacrifice by Marty, in working his butt off for Judd, to get Judd to appreciate what a powerful bond Marty and Shiloh had between themselves. Trying to stiff Marty out of the bargain, or verbal agreement, that he made with him in getting Shiloh back Judd tried to pull a fast one in nullifying the contract, that had no sighed witnesses, he had with Marty. It was when Judd saw how Shiloh acted as he was driving him back to his dog kennel and, with the badly injured Shiloh really no use to him as a hunting dog, curtain death Judd finally saw the light and let his heart, not his business mind, take over. "},{"Title":"Be simpler to own a water buffalo","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":"  Good film about a love starved man who heartlessly uses dogs as his means of earning a living. When one of his dogs runs off and adopts a neighbor's son, trouble begins over who will take possession of the animal. Anyone who goes for cutesy canine films will like this picture.  "},{"Title":"Horrible, clichéd, and just plane idiotic","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" In the first 5 minutes the kid works on showing us how not to use riffle by pointing it around, followed by unbelted car ride with his father. I saw nothing even remotely watchable in this move and about halfway through turned it off. A complete waste of time unless you like animal cruelty and self torture, which me and my 6 year old are not. Oh and speaking of torture the actors look like they are being torture by the script. Feel sorry for the poor guy that had to edit this, but not like he spent much time. Think I will pay the library for this movie just so I can destroy the DVD and save others from this. IF you see this movie run, run, run! "},{"Title":"Good message to work for your dreams","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family","Review":" I liked the movie as a good lesson for children in the case that if they want to get a pet they should be responsible for feeding and taking care of the animal. In this movie Marty Preston is a very responsible child. However, here my spoilers,when I rented the movie, I was moved for the little synopsis in the back that says an abused Beagle, the reason this was interesting is because I recently adopted an abused Beagle that makes us laugh and we have to be very careful in giving her discipline.Now that I am getting to know this breed, these are smart dogs that require discipline and at the same time they are stubborn and that is why she makes us laugh. So I was expecting a Hollywood dog that showed some of the funny and smart behavior of the Beagles. On the contrary the behavior of Shiloh was not the most important part of the movie, even though the movie has its name. For instance, SPOILER, When Marty and Mr Trudders are fighting in Marty's house for Shiloh, The dog Shiloh is just standing there watching his former owner and Marty fighting for him and he is doing nothing, In my mind I was expecting some king of heroic act from the dog, like biting Mr Trudders, in order to defend,Marty, but no, the dog stands there and If I could read its mind, Shiloh was probably thinking, oh please, somebody open the door of the house, I want to take a nap on the sofa.I like the movie in the sense of a lesson for life like if you want something in life, you have to work hard for it and because the dog did not impress me I Think the movie should have the name of Marty the boy that worked hard for a dream or if the title of the movie needs the name of the dream, well, if Marty was going to be working hard for a PlayStation or a bicycle then the movie could be called PlayStation or Bicycle' and believed me, you could replace this toys for Shiloh and you would not notice the absence of the Beagle. "}]