[{"Title":"Two thirds of a great film.","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bille August's Smilla's Sense of Snow starts off with great promise. An opening sequence that's a terrific hook segues into an introduction of the character of Smilla Jasperson, played perfectly by the lovely Julia Ormond. Smilla is self-isolated, deeply unhappy, and unapproachable. Her only real friend is the young Inuit boy, Isaiah, who dies suddenly under suspicious circumstances, and Smilla determines to uncover the reasons for his death. For the first two reels, this film is a terrific mystery story with good pacing, fine acting, and evocative cinematography. Characters with uncertain motives come and go as the story unfolds, most played by a fine stable of talented actors. But then in the third reel, the film collapses. I'm not talking about a slow descent into mediocrity here; I'm talking about a precipitous nosedive. Out of the blue, the story suddenly switches to an action/thriller format that is poorly written, directed, and edited. New, undeveloped characters are suddenly thrown into the mix, each a deus ex machina as the increasingly unrealistic plot requires. The film's denouement, in which the underlying mystery is revealed, is so scientifically ridiculous both in terms of biology and especially in physics that I felt thoroughly cheated. It's as if the entire enterprise were rushed to completion due to a looming shortage of time, money, and interest. What a pity. Even so, the first two thirds of the film stand up well on their own, and my rating is based on that. Rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"I really wanted to like this.","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"42 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought the trailer looked great and the acting talent involved really is quite impressive Julia Ormond, Richard Harris, Tom Wilkinson, and Gabriel Byrne. Not to mention that the story looked interesting. And the cinematography is just amazing--very beautiful, very cold. So, what went wrong? Sadly, the film is crippled by the script. It's the kind of story where the protagonist knows exactly the right bits of obscure information and knows exactly the right people who can give her exactly the information she needs to unravel the mystery. Not only that, she can rappel off the side of a ship like nobody's business. In his review of this film, Ebert said it was a triumph of style over substance. The style is definitely there, but just before it triumphs, something completely illogical is said or done that breaks the suspension of disbelief the film tries so hard to build up. As for the actors, I got the feeling that they just didn't know what to do with their characters, none of which were very well-rounded. Even Smilla, a unique female protagonist in that she is very intelligent and independent, is not given enough of a personality or a background to inspire the viewer's compassion. And anyway, it's not her intelligence that gets her to the end of the story, it's the fact that she's got more guts than any hero I've ever seen in a movie, male or female. The only truly likable and memorable character is Isaiah, if only because he's just an impossibly cute little kid. In the end, while the movie is aesthetically pleasing, not enough attention was paid to developing a plausible story, well-drawn characters, or a satisfying ending.P.S.--I almost forgot to mention that Vanessa Redgrave does a very nice job but has to say the line There is no Mr Lubing. I am the bride of Jesus, which just cracked me up, even though I think it was supposed to be a serious moment.P.P.S.--The absolute highlight of the movie is a little speech Smilla gives about numbers. It's actually very unique and insightful and, fortunately, it's in the Memorable Quotes section. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric Thriller","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" n a cold December day in Copenhagen, a young boy named Isaiah falls to his death from the roof of the block of flats where he lives. The official police view is that he slipped and fell while playing on the roof. Smilla Jaspersen, a neighbour of Isaiah and his mother, does not accept that his death was an accident. Isaiah had a fear of heights, so was unlikely to have been playing on the roof; moreover, the footprints in the snow do not support the police version. Smilla therefore decides to start her own investigation to find out what really happened. Isaiah and his mother belonged to Denmark's Greenlandic minority, and Smilla herself grew up in Greenland, the daughter of a Danish father and Greenlandic mother. She is in her late thirties, and works as a freelance mathematician and expert on the physics of ice and snow, although she has no formal academic qualifications. She discovers, however, that Isaiah's father was an employee of a Danish mining corporation and that he died in mysterious circumstances during an expedition to Greenland organised by this corporation. She begins to suspect that Isaiah's death was also in some way linked to the company, and learns that they are organising another voyage to Gela Alta, a small island off the coast of Greenland, although she does not know what the object of this voyage is. Nevertheless, she believes that the key to the mystery lies on this remote island and joins the crew of the ship as a stewardess, just ahead of the police who resent her interference in the case and are trying to arrest her. This was one of those films that I enjoyed more than the original novel. Peter Hoeg's book was itself in some ways reminiscent of a film. The first half, with its urban setting, its tough, gritty investigator and its suggestion of a web of corruption and wrongdoing in high places, reminded me of a Humphrey Bogart style film noir, and the second part, set on the ship as it makes its way through the Arctic ice, of one of those filmed versions of Alistair MacLean thrillers that were so popular in the sixties and seventies. I found, however, that it suffered from an over-complex plot and was too slow moving to work as a thriller. Bille August's version removes some of the complexity of the plot and moves along at a faster pace. The revelation about exactly what lies below the ice comes earlier in the film than it does in the book- possibly August realized that the book's ending, more science fiction than science fact, was one of its weak points, and wanted to get this detail out of the way to allow the closing scenes of the film to concentrate more on the battle between Smilla and the villains. The film keeps, however, the book's atmospheric sense of place- there were some wonderful shots of Copenhagen in winter and of the Arctic ice.Julia Ormond seemed to be the cinema's Big New Thing of the mid-nineties. Her role in 'Smilla's Sense of Snow' followed starring roles in three big Hollywood films, 'Legends of the Fall', 'First Knight' and 'Sabrina'. Since then she seems to have disappeared from the radar altogether and I have often wondered what has happened to her.. Her performance in 'Smilla', however, is a good one and she makes an appealing heroine. Rather more appealing, in fact, than Hoeg's original character, who combines a strong sense of justice with a gift for rudeness and sarcasm. Of the other actors, the best was Richard Harris as the chief villain, although he was probably considerably older than the character envisaged by Hoeg.Although it is very different in its visual style, this atmospheric thriller is perhaps the nearest that the modern cinema comes to old-fashioned film noir. Despite its weaknesses it remained watchable throughout. It confirmed my view (based on 'Pelle the Conqueror' and 'The House of the Spirits') that Bille August is a highly talented director. 7/10 "},{"Title":"As evocative and poetic as the book.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Based upon the bestseller by Peter Hoeg, Miss Smilla's feeling for snow, it would have been hard for the movie to disappoint. The performances by all are exceptional, not least Julia Ormonds portrayal of Smilla, as icy as the landscape that involves (and evolves) the movie. The movie has an almost poetic feel, so beautifully is it paced, and the story draws you in steadily as Smilla searched for the truth behind her young friends death. There are enough surprises, twists and turns to keep most people happy, and the warmth of the two leads performances are in great contrast to the snow that provides the story. I couldn't recommend this story enough to fans of the book, or anyone who is interested in seeing a movie that is not your ordinary run of the mill hollywood movie, but one with depth, character and genuine emotion.Superb. "},{"Title":"Gives the book good credit","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the book before I watched the movie. Usually I am not too fond of films made after a book. This is one of the rare exceptions.The makers succeeded well in capturing the complexity of the book's characters. Julia Ormond does remarkably well as the moody, unpredictable Smilla Jaspersen. So does Gabriel Byrne in the role of the rather secretive Mechanic. The brilliant Richard Harris is in here too, one of the many movies he probably said that it would be his last. The rest of the cast fits in well. Nice to see that they didn't try to get all big names, but rather actors who can fill a role appropriately.Of course the movie isn't perfect, but in order to give that book full credit, they would have had to make a 4 hour film. Especially the second part, with all the events on the ship and in Greenland, is rather condensed. Those scenes could have used a bit more air to breathe, less pace.Nevertheless I really like this movie, I have been watching it several times already. And now I think I am going to read the book again... (8/10)  "},{"Title":"a woman takes on an evil organization","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A scientist who heads up a mining company in Greenland discovers a way to make money and garner power. However, in doing so he endangers others. After a child supposedly commits suicide, a woman who has doubts about the death begins an investigation in behalf of the dead boy. Her life is then threatened, but she never gives up. Eventually, she comes face to face with her enemies on a lonely ice floe far to the north. At times the story was hard to follow, and I felt it had a few holes in it. Sometimes it just didn't make sense. Still, it was worth the seeing.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't stand up....","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Parts were good but does not stand up on the whole. Very unrealistic and un-researched, asking the audience to swallow a lot of basic inconsistent crap, something that would get most continuity people fired in today's market. Eg. Why are they simply standing around an un-fenced off pool of deadly organisms in a pristine lab setting, not to mention that it's surrounded by slippery ice. Also, what was this GM's crime anyway? (He was likely doing what would have been done anyway by his own employees but with government regulation and observation.) The infection of the boy was not intentional. Not disclosing it was illegal but the child was treated/observed. Nowhere in this film is it mentioned or even properly implied that the boy might have been an experiment or that treatment was withheld purposefully so that they could watch the organism evolve in a human subject. It was implied though that the disease was untreatable and fatal in every case, that to disturb the worm was to invite catastrophe. That the boy was necessarily misused was not clear at all. Nor was it necessarily communicated that any kind of haste or greed was ultimately responsible for what happened, not at all. Director and screenwriter were asking a lot of the audience that should have been delivered by them. This also struck me as an exercise of moralization by people who were over their heads in the subject matter and taking their first run at it, making a lot of mistakes along the way and aimed at an audience whose level of candor/maturity was not up to the more rigorous detail and syllogisms of genuine ethical debate.Gave me a large headache. "},{"Title":"Julia Ormond's best role ever!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really, really, really liked this movie.  Yes, I know the plot was a little twisted and the ending was very confusing and somewhat unbelievable at times, but this was a great movie.  Julia Ormond's portrayal of the ice princess is absolutely fantastic.  This has got to be her best role ever. With SSOS, she proves that she is not just a movie star, but that she is also a damn good actress.  The supporting cast is superb.  All first class actors, Vannasa Redgrave, Richard Harris, and Gabriel Byrne.  I love Byrne's portrayal of the mysterious mechanic.  Yes, he could have done a better job but that didn't hurt the movie.  I have heard so much criticism from others regarding this film but the bottom line is, you either love it or hate it. I happen to love it.  This is a great thriller/mystery/sci-fi/drama.  Did I mention Gabriel Byrne, as good looking as ever?  9/10 "},{"Title":"Absorbing intrigue set  in frozen lands and satisfyingly  directed","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This mystery picture begins on a crashing-meteor opening and concerns about Smilla(Julia Ormond), a lonely scientist resident in Copenhagen. The grumpy Smilla is an half-America and half-Inuit with many problems of adaptation and her father(Robert Loggia) is a rich financier. When she returns home discovers the body of six-years-old friend named Isaiah(Miano) nearly her apartment building. Smilla believes the kid was killed and starts investigating , it leads to the Greenland mining company that is owner the magnate Tork(Richard Harris). Meanwhile she falls in love with her suspicious neighbor(Gabriel Byrne).The picture based on Peter Hoeg's best seller novel packs suspense,thrills,intrigue, tension and interesting character study. The story is well developed though its final fail to sustain the outcome and is a little bit crappy. Suspenseful and mysterious musical score by Hans Zimmer and Harry Gregson-Williams. Exceptional secondary casting mostly formed by British actors such as Jim Broadbent,Vanessa Redgrave,Bob Peck, Tom Wilkinson, among them. Evocative and cold cinematography is consistently created by Jorgen Persson, Billie August's usual cameraman.Location photography is particularly breathtaking with impressive images like a large icebreaker ship, snowy outdoors and giant floes thawing, among others. This partially successful first attempt at the thriller and tense mystery is efficiently directed by August. Billie is the Danish's best director, an expert on intelligent dramas as ¨Pelle the conqueror¨which took the best foreign-language film Oscar , ¨Twist and shout¨,¨The best intentions¨, ¨House of spirits¨, and ¨Les Miserables¨. Rating  Well worth seeing, better than average. "},{"Title":"More like Smilla's magic lipstick","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The only mystery was whatlipstick is our heroine wearing? It is a wonderful color, softly shining and lasts throughout - except at the climax when it starts to fade! Contrasts nicely with Smilla's beady eyes (admittedly quite large) as she stares at the camera. There are so many questions - why am I watching this (rainy evening), what is the role of the police in the plot (surely it is unusual in Denmark for the police to enter an apartment and sit in the dark waiting for the owner to return), how much money does an unemployed person in Denmark get (Smilla's haircut did not come cheap!), how does a worm live in a meteor, what was Smilla looking at through her microscope......... All the old stalwarts are there - Gabriel Byrne, obviously trying to remember where he is; Richard Harris, mercifully silent so just playing with his hair; Vanessa Redgrave, doing a wonderful imitation of Ingrid Bergman in Murder on the Orient Express. We have the Deus ex Machina - just like in Diva - here is it the Father - kindly, wise, wealthy, with the answer to all questions; he does however enliven his days with the only amusing character, a ballet dancer. "}{"Title":"A Bleak Frightening Movie","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not a movie about how Inuit hunt for seals. Smilla lives in present day Copenhagen. This movie is anything but formulaic. It is part murder mystery, part paranoid thriller with faceless villains like the Conversation, part James Bond, with a drop of science fiction, and like none of those all that much.The victim of a possible murder is a 6 year old boy whom you gradually get to know and care for deeply via flash backs of his tragic life.One of the themes is trust. Smilla never knows whom she can trust. We in the audience weave back and forth trying to decide who is truly trying to help her and who to kill her or at least deflect her from her quest of finding out why and how someone would harm that little boy.The movie is a maddening puzzle with clues coming thick and fast, but nothing making much sense. All you know is some very powerful people are involved and are ruthless in keeping silence. Smilla takes huge risks to gather information she has no particular reason to believe may be relevant other than others seem to be hiding it. Like a standard mystery novel, all is finally explained.One interesting twist is, you in the audience even begin to distrust the caustic Smilla with her one-pointed push for vengeance.Usually in a movie with a great many characters, I often find it hard to keep from confusing them. In this movie, the characters are all distinctly drawn, partly with a rich mixture of accents, so I had no such problem.Some of the casting choices seemed a bit off, in particular Smilla's father's new teenage wife, Benja, who was obviously much older than a teenager, which made some of Smilla's cracks about her age not ring true. "},{"Title":"Excellent Performance by Julia Ormond in well-made thriller","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Julia Ormond has been known to be typecast as the woman in between or the center of a love triangle as seen in films like Legends of the Fall, First Knight, and Sabrina. But in Smilla's Sense of Snow, Ormond is beautiful, tough, intelligent, and gives a powerhouse performance as Smilla a Greenland-born woman who has lived her life in self-isolation. She is bitter, angry, often times cold and detached and she avoids all human connection by pushing people away including her own her father (Robert Loggia) until she befriends a little boy named Isaiah, an Inuit who lives next door. Smilla and Isaiah bond and become close until one day Isaiah is found dead with what the police rule as an accidental suicide while playing on the roof of their apartment building. But Smilla knows better when she looks at the scene of the crime and notices that little boy's foot tracks on the snow go running straight to the edge of the building. Smilla begins to investigate the young boy's death and along the way she is acquainted with another neighbor and friend of Isaiah (Gabriel Byrne) with whom Smilla begins a relationship that she resists. I liked this movie with the exception of the X-Files-like ending, but this film is worth watching for Julia Ormond who should've been given an Oscar nomination for Best Actress for her performance...flawed script, but an intriguing character played beautifully by the classically lovely Julia Ormond. "},{"Title":"There's Something Rotten In Denmark","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" *****spoilers***** Long drawn out story about an Inuit/Eskimo boys seemingly accidental death from a fall from the roof of the apartment building in which he and his mother lived in Copenhagen and ending up in the icy northern waters off Greenland. With an massive explosion that put an end to a 30 year quest for an energy producing meteorite. This meteorite crashed into that cold ice capped sea some 150 years ago that carried on in a colony of pre-historic worms. These alien worm came to life when the meteorite hit the waters and some 150 years later infected and killed four men from the expedition, including the boys father. This happened when they came in contact with the melt water around the meteorite. The movie Smilla's Sense of Snow held one's interest up to a point with Smilla, Julia Ormond, a mathematician coming home one afternoon and finding out that the boy Isaiah, Clipper Miano, who Smilla befriended was killed from a fall from the roof of the building. Taking a personal interest in the boys death Smilla checks out clues that leads her to the Greenland Mining Company which employed Isaiah's father in that expedition. Smilla soon learns that Isaiah was being monitored by the company monthly to see if he was infected by the worms that killed his father and his three fellow workers. That's because Isaiah also went into the melt water himself to try to save his father but nothing seemed to have happened to him. The movie starts to get confused and falls apart when Smilla begins to overcome odds on top of odds with bodies falling all around her as she gets to the meteorite crash site with the chief villain Tork, Richard Harris. With him not having a clue to who Smilla was and what she was up to until the very end. Smilla wasn't exactly that secretive about her intentions with every one, the police the Greenland Mining Company as well as the hospital staff that attended the boy ,knowing about her intentions. With the unexpected hero, besides Smilla of course, turning out to be her wimpy and weird neighbor Mechanic played by Gabriel Byrne. It was Mechanic who in the end turned out to be a James Bond type undercover man who was both undercover as well as under the covers with Smilla during the entire movie. In the end Tork, as well as the confused theater audience, gets the story straight to what really happened to the young Eskimo boy from Smilla just before the whole expedition site exploded and with Tork himself deep sixths in the cold icy Arctic waters. "},{"Title":"Denmark is beautiful, but the movie is crap.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had first read the book on which this movie is based a couple of years ago. It started out really well, but after a point it just spiralled out of control into crapdom.The movie, on the other hand , is crap all the way. The storyline was thin anyway to start with, but the acting just layers it with more junk. The dialogue is plain stupid and cliched. For example, before kissing the mechanic Smilla says Have you heard the phrase that I did not know what I was doing after getting drunk or something like that...and this scene along with almost the entire movie has been acted with such boredom by all the actors (What was Richard Harris doing in a movie like this?)that I literally went to sleep. (Please note that the phrase literally went to sleep makes no sense...just like the movie!)The only thing that kept me awake was the beauty of Denmark and Greenland. Thanks god for that.NOTE For all of you out there...there is a new weapon that can be used against girls, as showcased in this movie. Get her where it hurts most...Her crotch!! Yeah..its disgusting isn't it...But that's the only scene that fits perfectly with the rest of the movie. Totally pointless and obtuse.Well, I can write much better than this...But just to make the point about how bad the movie was...I'll follow suit. "},{"Title":"If you blame the story, blame the book! But I like both.","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" To some reviewers here It is the typical human nature, watching and copying watched things. Like those who attack not well developed characters in movies, but - simply sad - only because they heard that characters have to be well developed in movies. Or how it fits to the book or to the trailer ... !?! Nothing has to be done in a movie. Or in any other kind of art. Look around! If you don't like the characters in this story, you may should read the book before you criticize the story of a movie which is based on a story of a book! I think some of its reviewers did not.The actors were strong, and they gave enough space for your ideas in their facial expressions to build a story behind them in your mind. It is about fantasy. Smilla is one of my favorite roles of this actress, because not every little cough gets stupidly explained for those who let the movie run while they take another beer out of the fridge. My most used rule for reviewing a movie is let the actors act, the story tell, the camera watch and the music be music. And that's what the movie makes. No actor explains the story to you, but they act great. The story is there and depends on what you make with it in mind. And the camera is awesome. I think the guys on camera and all who have influenced camera, they all have read the book! great shot! "},{"Title":"Slow at times, but a great character.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not your ordinary whodunnit. Others don't have the extraordinary character of Smilla Jaspersen, a transplanted Greenlander living in Copenhagen. She seems to know everything about snow and ice--as a little girl she couldn't get lost in her native Greenland. As you have a sense of God, I have a sense of snow, she tells a nun early on. Smilla's stoic demeanor, cool even for a Scandinavian, hides a passionate heart. When an Inuit boy she has befriended is found dead, she is fiercely determined to get to the bottom of the mystery and nothing in the world will be able to stop her. As the quest goes on Smilla goes from appearing to the viewer as simply a quirky oddball to almost a superwoman, a female James Bond.Trouble is, the ultracool personality of Smilla, the low-keyed nature of the other main character played by Gabriel Byrne, and a host of complicated plot details combine to slow this film down at many points, but towards the end the action picks up considerably, giving us some old-fashioned thrills. This movie is not really for those who only go for the standard flash-bang type of action thriller, but those who enjoy the unusual,  the offbeat, and character-driven movies may well find it worth their while.Julia Ormond plays Smilla. This is the first film of hers I've ever seen, and the picture I have of her in my mind is inseparable from the character. It makes me wonder as it did when I saw Dustin Hoffman in The Graduate or Andy Griffith in No Time for Sergeants--is this a great actress totally immersed in a character to the point where she becomes one with it, or is it an actress basically playing herself and really only capable of playing that one role? Experience has shown me that I'd better give her the benefit of a doubt! Whatever the case this is a memorable role for her, and one she can be very proud of.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't wear thin, even with repeated watchings.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like movies about finding justice against a corrupt and overwhelming system, in which the heroine is both clever and good looking, watch this Smilla in action. It's not easy to find this film for rent, so I bought a copy and hope to watch it again soon.  "},{"Title":"Moody and engrossing","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is full of surprises.  There's Julia Ormond, excellent as ever, but cast in an unaccustomed action woman role (she also seems to have done her own stunts - watch for the scene where she abseils down the side of the ship).  And there's the transition from the moody mystery of the first-half to the explosions and action of the second-half.  It's actually rather like an X-Files episode (and rather better than the X-Files movie) although, as is always the case, the mystery is more involving than the explanation. Nevertheless, I still recommend this movie and try not to miss the striking opening sequence. "},{"Title":"Julia Ormand command performance","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Seeing a film preview and Julia's and Gabriel's billing drew me to this movie.  I did not know of the book, but I found the title unique and when I said the title to others, they did not understand.  I think a different title, easier to say, would have helped draw audience to the movie, like Sense of Snow.  People did not recognize the name Smilla and especially having to say it with an s as Smilla's.  Definitely a different and very interesting setting and intrigue, as in the study of the parasite.  I did not know what Greenland cities looked like.  I was drawn because of the two main actors, especially Julia, after loving her work in Legends of the Fall, First Knight, etc.  I was disappointed that this was one of these movies that you must catch in the first week of billing or you will miss it on the large screen.  I searched for it on cable until I found it and now have a copy for myself so I can re-watch.  Memphis is building a new movie theater complex strictly to show independent films; I am excited about that; otherwise, you really have to watch the newspaper for upcoming independent and unique films that create the character portrayals that are the most interesting and dramatic.  I was curious throughout the movie about Gabriel Byrne's character's honesty to Smilla.  "},{"Title":"Wonderous...","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The sci-fi twist in this movie was unexpected, but was made semi plausible by Julia Ormond's perfect representation of a multi-faceted woman with her own demons to fight without having to deal with a corrupt corporation. Look for the gorgeous scenery of Greenland in the opening scenes. "}{"Title":"A kind of Scandinavian X-Files sci-fi/thriller.  Great!","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film.  A real sleeper, with a great cast, that I never heard of before I happened to bump into it at 130 am on HBO.  Now I'll probably be late for work, but it was worth it!  -)  "},{"Title":"In search of a screenplay...","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really have to wonder if it was advisable to adapt this novel into a film in the first place.  The film plays like Cliff's Notes from a very good mystery novel.  As such, the pace is overly frenetic and the character development is severely lacking.  It's too bad.  Smilla Jespersen is a character I would have liked to have learned more about.The ending is nothing less than a rushed, cliched mess. "},{"Title":"Great acting, good start, lame ending (minor spoilers)","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Julia Ormond is dazzling in her portrayal of an intelligent, extremely forthright woman with a chilling exterior and a big heart...big, at least, for one little boy. Watching her up against other personalities as she tries to solve a murder is fascinating for the first half of the film. But once the murky plot starts to clear, the film degenerates into a mediocre thriller, complete with fairly cliche car chases, gun fights, and even a virus from outer space. I ended up wishing that the Ormond character had been part of a different movie. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of tough novel","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Frankly, I was surprised at the amount of negative reviews this film received.  Especially considering all the bad adaptations of good thriller novels this decade, this was quite good.  The main reason is that director Bille August, writer Ann Biderman, and actress Julia Ormond do an excellent job of translating Smilla from page to screen.  Possibly the most unique heroine ever found in a thriller, Smilla is a scientist and mathematician who's unemployed because she trusts numbers and science more than she trusts human beings, and is rebellious against authority, even her father.  There's nothing sentimental about her; she even dislikes Isaiah, the six year old boy whose death sets the plot in motion, until she finds in him a kindred spirit.  She's single-minded, persistent, and aloof, and reveals herself not to those who she can trust (for she trusts no one), but those she can relate to, like Isaiah, the retired accountant (played brilliantly by Vanessa Redgrave), and even Tork, the villain played well by Richard Harris (although she becomes involved romantically with the mechanic, played well by Gabriel Byrne, she holds part of herself back, even before she finds out who he really is).  And she even fights well.I was very nervous about Ormond playing Smilla, because I didn't like her in LEGENDS OF THE FALL or SABRINA.  CAPTIVES convinced me she was for real as an actress, but I didn't expect this.  She deserved an Oscar nomination, for she fulfilled all of Smilla's qualities, and even did a convincing accent. The movie is a bit disappointing when, after the halfway mark, it stops being a character study and becomes a thriller, but it's still entertaining, and I hope this one has a shelf life. "},{"Title":"In my view, overall, better than the book!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read the book and was curious to see how such a convoluted but fascinating story could be translated to film.  I think the screenplay cleared up a lot of the irritating parts of the original story, particularly the ending, which i found to be vague and rather unbelievable.Julia Ormond's portrayal of Smilla Jaspersen (a very complex character) was quite extraordinary, however I was less than enthusiastic with Gabriel Byrne's performance as her neighbour.Overall, a thoroughly enjoyable film!  "},{"Title":"Julia Ormond deserved an Oscar nod!","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had read the book by Peter Hoeg, and  went to see the film, just to see how  this character Smilla Jaspersen would,  could be brought from narrative to  life on screen.Julia Ormond deserved an Oscar nod for  this character portrayal.  Sadly, Billie August lost his way  after leaving Denmark in the film. "},{"Title":"Exciting story brought to life","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I personally love this movie. I read the book when I was younger and although I don't think the movie does the book justice completely but I really enjoyed it.The second part of the movie could have used some fixing but it remains exciting just the same.Julia Ormond does a great job with Smilla and the story keeps you pinned to your seat the whole time. Gabrielle Byrne is a great addition and really a superb actor.The movie being shot partly in the beautiful Cöbenhagen doesn't hurt either. All the locations in this movie are all outstanding and beautiful. "},{"Title":"Totally different from the book.","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I didn´t enjoy the film at all. There was too many things in the film that didn´t match the story in the book. Bille August has taken himself too many liberties changing the story all the time. The entire book was based on Smilla´s thoughts, dreams and memories. Things which August totally failed to express.  "},{"Title":"Julia Ormond shows American tough women they're not in her league","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know what you're thinking, Not another movie about people from Greenland, Indians, murder, meteors, and prehistoric worms! Yes, it's the same old formula we've all seen a hundred times, but Smilla makes it fresh as snow. This is an odd film, constantly ducking and weaving so the viewer is off balance. Also, watching it feels extremely foreign, even though it's in English! There's a lot going on and in the end, the whole isn't quite up to the sum of the parts, but it's enjoyable nonetheless. Julia Ormond is criminally beautiful, yet manages to be as tough as a fall on ice. Acting throughout is first rate (even for famous international players who only have a few lines).  So you fans of Scandinavian mysteries concerning deaf children and new energy sources, see it! And what a great title "},{"Title":"Intriguing and underrated","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Odd title (whose meaning is clarified in the movie), and never did well at the box office, but is actually a very engrossing movie. Grabs you right at the beginning and deftly combines mystery, action and even a touch of science fiction. Different and interesting main character, too. I give it 9/10.  "}{"Title":"A game try, but this film comes up short.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I caught up with this movie on cable recently the film boasts a good director, Bille August, & a fine lead performance by Julia Ormond. But the premise of the movie proves to be so far-flung & far-fetched as to resemble The Perils of Pauline. And who cast Robert Loggia in this? A bizarre choice, to be sure. I don't think I could sit through this one again. "},{"Title":"Jagged","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A jagged and incoherent narration of an otherwise brilliant story. The movie can best be described as how children write essays, on the form... Smilla did this. Then she found out that. Then she watched this. Then she did something. etc. etc.. Really not what one might expect from Bille August who is an otherwise excellent storyteller. Peter Hoeg is an expert author who includes plenty of pause in his novels letting you wonder yourself and fantasize as to what is going on on the sideline helped by a painstakingly accurate description of the characters. These pauses must be substituted with cuts in a movie, not leaving the audience time to ponder and thus there must be subplots to support the build-up of the characters. This is exactly what this movie is missing. It has no subplots.The scenery is pretty and winter-twilighty. This could have helped show a Danish winter as it can be but failed and cast the movie with a depressing shade of grey.The intro, however, was spectacular. Not so much the wave plunging through the pack ice - but the anticipating stance of the man waiting to harpoon a seal. When filmed from behind (where we could see the meteor dropping) he looked exactly like a tupilak figure. THAT was beautiful. "},{"Title":"Starts out at ***, ends up at 1/2*.","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A strong beginning segues clumsily into a dark and confusing middle.- Plot devices spring up out of thin air, with little rhyme or reason. EG, the powerful daddy, the buddy with nautical connections, ad nauseam.- For most of the film, the lead actors seem to swallow the majority of their lines, which are anyway spoken so low as to be unintelligible.  If I hadn't had closed captioning, I wouldn't have understood half the dialogue. Is this a thing with artsy-house films?- Does Gabriel Byrne have narcolepsy here, or does he simply wish he were in a more intelligent movie?Too bad, if it had kept up with the strong beginning, this could have been an excellent film.  What a waste of talents like Robert Loggia and Bob Peck.Summary  better than any sleeping pill. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was surprised to see that IMDb users had given this movie a 7.0.  It's really pretty terrible.  I gave it a 3.0, and that was being generous. It's ridiculous, opaque and all around pretty stupid.  It's empty of any emotion or believability.  I had no sympathy and very little interest in the characters.  Every time I started to get interested or began to like someone, something ridiculous or stupid happened.  I was very disappointed in this movie.  What did I miss?  How come everybody liked it? "},{"Title":"Artistic, yet dramatic","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is really a piece of art, with a great performances by wonderfull all-star casts. Many said that book was much better, which is true to some extent, but the movie depicts very well the atmosphere of the novel. Julia Ormond was very believable as Smilla, who was half-Inuit and English, gave her best performance to date. Gabriel Byrne was excellent as always. The whole cinematographic experience was really beautiful. This work is true gem.... "},{"Title":"High Hopes Dashed By Horrible Last 40 Minutes","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a fairly low-key for a crime story, a tale about a woman trying to find out why a young boy fell from a rooftop to his death. I had high hopes for this movie but the last 35-40 minutes were so disappointing that I'd never watch this again. That ending had so many holes to it, it was mind-boggling.I like Julia Ormand, who plays the lead character, but she's a bit surly and rough with this character. I also enjoyed seeing scenery in Denmark and Greenland, not the normal sites for crime film movies. Few films, I imagine, have been made in Greenland with its brutal temperatures. (There is a fascinating very short featurette on Greenland that comes with the DVD.)Perhaps worth a rental, but only with a discount coupon, meaning don't spend more than $3 to look at this. Heck, you can buy it for $5 most places, which tells you something. "},{"Title":"Snow Job","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a replacement comment, the original having been removed because of a complaint.Ordinarily, when there is a book involved, I prefer to judge the movie as independently as I can. But in this case, the movie is so tepid, and the book so alive I cannot avoid it.Toward the end of the film, a bad guy explains that the thing in front of him is not a meteorite. They are cold and dead and this is warm and alive he says. Then the film blows it up. I felt this way about the possibilities of the novel.It was originally written in Danish I think, but the English translation I read was superb. It was fashioned as a thriller/mystery, but the journey was through an inventive inner dialog that abstracted the world of Copenhagen as if it were Inuit, and human love and intrigue as if it were snow. It was not life-altering but striking and extremely well done. In the same way that science fiction can make the world more real by slanting it a bit, this made some female urges and fears more real and accessible to me than usual. I was affected.Inner dialogs in film are hard. Shifting abstractions to a set unfamiliar to the viewer is even harder. Trying to fit squarely in the thriller movie genre makes it impossible. So the failure is easy to understand, at least superficially. But there is something in the way the book moved that could have been captured in film without stretching the vocabulary much.Apart from the clever starting point and narrative perspective, and similarly apart from the conventional ending the amazing thing was how one morphed to the other slowly, continuously, seamlessly and without the reader even noticing. There were some things carried over the book went from an inner ice to a real ice world. It went from internal mental battles to internal physical battles to simple physical battles. But these were not what was relied on. There was a deliberate evolution of the narrative stance. This is extremely rare, I believe, and it was knowingly controlled. I wish something like this had conveyed in the film.As it is, there is a mystery, then some lovemaking, then the thriller. I'm going to give this a two just based on the book.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"...read the book.","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought the film was pretty good, but it was spoilt for me somewhat because I had enjoyed the book so much. The film struggled to show us the exceptional amount of description in the narrative and the character of Smilla was never really deconstructed thoroughly. Gabriel Byrne and Julia Ormond were marvellous, as always, and were backed up by a list of big names. Vanessa Redgrave didn't get a chance to shine in her role, unfortunately, but the cast were good to watch. The book Miss Smilla's Feeling For Snow is written by Peter Hoeg and translated from the Danish by Felicity David. It is one of the best books I've ever read. So if you're feeling rather ambivalent about the film...read the book first. "},{"Title":"Very original and involving sci-fi/mystery/thriller!!!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!Although Julia Ormond looks more French than Inuit, she did a tremendous job playing a math genius who has a talent for knowing the properties and characteristics of snow and ice. Anyway, she was only playing a half Inuit woman, half Inuit and half American. Her accent seemed as British as ever, but it's excusable. She did great. She is an elegant actress who seems too beautiful for a role like this, but somehow, she just made this character, Smilla, her very own. Can't imagine anyone else in the role.Smilla Jasperson lives in Copenhagen, Denmark. She lived in Greenland until her mother disappeared and her father brought her to Denmark. Lots of other Inuit people live there. One family, a mother and her little boy, live right downstairs from her. Smilla is not a very friendly person. She is very reserved...a downright loner. The little boy, Isaiah, somehow gets this reclusive grump to interact with him and before long, Smilla is Isaiah's surrogate mom and close friend. Isaiah's real mother, Julianna, is so grief stricken over the death of the child's father that she's been drinking and neglecting her son.One day, Smilla comes home to the shocking news that Isaiah fell from the top of the building and died. Smilla is brokenhearted over the loss of her little friend and immediately suspects that something in the way of foul play has occured. Julianna knows things but is afraid to talk about them. The autopsy done on little Isaiah is performed by a famous doctor. Everyone seems hush hush at the coronor's office. Smilla studies the snow tracks on the roof from which the child fell and launches a complaint with the DA's office. It is not long before Smilla is being threatened, followed, and targeted by a ruthless group representing a prosperous mining company. The things Julianna doesn't want to talk about slowly find their way into Smilla's knowledge. She races to expose the truth about the little boy's death, dodging all kinds of deathtraps placed in her path. The cast includes Gabriel Byrne and Richard Harris. It's a very original thriller and mystery but there's an element of sci-fi here too. Watch it and find out why. Highly recommended. Oh yeah, the only annoying anything about this film is Benja. Wish Smilla would have gotten a gun and put Benja out of my misery!!! "},{"Title":"A Good One","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great atmospheric film with a haunting music score. That alone and the beautiful locations make it worth watching even if the story is a little uneven. Ormond is just great in this wonderful film that won't waste your time. "}{"Title":"She Is Dynamic","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story-line sort of petered out at the end but Julia Ormond was incredible all the way through.  Her tough mouth and angelic face keep one entirely mystified and enervated although the story is rather weak, really.Gabriel Burne was mysterious.  I was not always sure what side he was on. I would have liked to see Smilla in the snow more...watch her move in it, her chosen environment.The little boy was truly beautiful. "},{"Title":"wonderful sense of feeling","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is nothing like snow. And Smilla has a sense for it. This wonderful movie is captivating and divine. I just love Vanessa Redgrave's small part as a wannabe nun. Julia Ormond is simply divine in her search for the cause of a little boy's senseless death. Gabriel Byrne is wonderful as her lover and Robert Loggia is terrific as Smilla's father. This small film deserved more recognition. It was one of the best films of that stellar year. I love watching the final scenes on the ice but I found some of the story unbelievable. I still had questions to be answered about the plot and why a child was actually murdered. I don't want to reveal too much but this film is worth watching for any Vanessa Redgrave fan as well. The relationship between Julia Ormond's Smilla and Roberta Loggia as Smilla's father is believable. I hated her stepmother who is about the same age as Smilla. "},{"Title":"One of the all time great movies!","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the UK this fabulous unusual film had little hype, and was shown in cinemas as 'The Director's Chair' for intellectuals! However, this was incredibly unfair to the movie going UK public who, in the main, will have missed this original and breathtakingly photographed and thoroughly well pieced together gift to the cinema age. Who would have imagined our heroine could turn detective, an extremely clever one at that, purely by looking at snow!! This film is a masterpiece of the imagination. It stands the acid test - of withstanding being watched more than once. In fact, second and third viewings bring out more of the nuances you would perhaps miss first time around.  Bille August's direction is faultless. Julia Ormond was the perfect person to cast as Smilla. I really have no criticism of this film except I wish it had gone on a lot longer, or that some sequels would follow in due course. The general idea lends itself admirably to Ormond who gave a compelling and commanding performance treating cinema goers to a spectacular film like this. Well Done to everyone who had a part to play, no matter how small, because together you produced an unforgettable celluloid gem. Many thanks. Please, purrleeeeze.... make another 'Smilla' film sometime soon! "},{"Title":"The title may be preparing you for heavy art...","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...but Smila's Sense of Snow is essentially a murder mystery. And an interesting one for about 80 minutes, but with a running time of a full two hours, it seems a bit overlong and drawn-out. It also doesn't help that the story becomes less believable as it goes along, or that the villains turn out to be pretty weak. The one thing that always sustains your interest in the movie is Julia Ormond's unconventional character and performance; on the other hand, Gabriel Byrne is simply lifeless.    (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Hoped for a lot more; loses air and credibility at the end","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It could have been a lot better. The premise is great and the rest of the things people wrote here. But let's talk about the worst - some spoilers follow but I wouldn't worry too much - you're not missing a whole lotSin #1 A film that takes place in Denmark without any Danish is as preposterous as those old American films in which Russians spoke in English with a Russian accent to avoid using subtitles or difficult dialog coaching. They could have switched the story to Canada... But I'd prefer Danish any day.Sin #2 Credibility just goes out the window once Smilla gets to a sound specialist to do some work on a tape she can't understand what's on it. From there on we have a boat exploding (what was Byrne doing there?! Smilla never asks), a silly Casino scene (with Lander knowing the captain - how convenient), a tongue-in-chick discourse with the captain's son (what are the chances...), a set of conveniently ready videos for Smilla to watch and understand the motives behind the mystery and a ridiculous inside-a-glacier scene, that puts to shame some of the most idiotic James Bond scenes.Sin #3 Lack of character depth and development. We never get it why the boy died (Tork never stepped on the roof!), we keep suspecting Byrne until the end (we all have seen to many fast-twist movies lately and know not to trust anyone), and worse than all of that - can anyone tell me what was the opening sequence about? That was NOT Isaiah's father - he died by the meteor!I loved Pelle The Conqueror and House of the Spirits. I found Good Intentions and Twist and Shout to be unmistakingly Scandinavian in direction and pacing. They were great. But this?!And Hans Zimmer does one of his less-than-great work here. The guy who brought to life such great movies as The Thin Red Line and House Of The Spirits with his wonderful music just falls off with this one, though from the credits it's hard to know what was his and what was Harry Gregson-Williams' music. And Pergolesi as well... Quite pretentious and irrevocably inappropriate.Jörgen Persson continues his great work behind the camera as he did in most other Bille August' films. It's the script that fails to deliver and after learning on Peter Hoeg's reputation, I would hate to think this was one of his better works, judging strictly from the movie.Ann Biderman's talent is running out. As Copycat was a stolen combo of previously seen slasher-psychology movies (from Seven, Silence Of the Lambs to Sea Of Love to current Bone Collector), what followed was Primal Fear (co-writing only) and later the Armageddon (again, not at the helm and in a team of 10 writers - how could they still come up with THAT?!). So Smilla's was her best chance since Copycat. Not good enough, I say.And I hope August returns to making films in Danish  - Les Misérables should be a good one to prefer to this flick without basis.  "},{"Title":"Excellent first half, then loses its way","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first half of this film is excellent - moody, atmospheric, sinister - and featuring a stunning performance from Julia Ormond.I enjoyed Ormond in the British film Captives with Tim Roth, but afterwards she made rather too many glossy Hollywood movies - like Sabrina, First Knight and Legends Of The Fall.  However in Smilla she found what could have been the role of a lifetime. I confess I thought maybe Ormond was too beautiful for the role. In the book Smilla more closely resembles the Icelandic singer Bjork. But Ormond is utterly convincing as spiky, cold, somehow deeply and irrevocably hurt Smilla.Unfortunately Ormond is not best served by much of the plot and several of her co-stars. The problem of this film is that it reveals too much. When Smilla is investigating in Copenhagen, meeting various scared and sinister characters, it's fascinating because only snippets of information are given away. In the final stages on the boat and in Greenland, the film loses its way. All the subtly frightening tension that the film has been carefully building is shattered by too much action and melodrama.Some of the characters are also a problem. Gabriel Byrne, who I usually love, is miscast in the role of the nameless mechanic who becomes Smilla's sidekick and love interest. The character is supposed to be enigmatic, but Byrne just seems blank.  The scenes where he and Smilla fall in love are unconvincing, because they are supposed to be two introspective, alienated creatures who slowly break down each others barriers. Perhaps Byrne is too good looking to play this stuttering man who is overwhelmed by intimidation of Smilla.Vanessa Redgrave and Richard Harris are wasted in small roles, and the you feel the relationship between Smilla and her father (Robert Loggia) is not explored well enough as the scenes they do have together are fascinating.The mystery is always more interesting than the discovery, and if the subtlety of the first half had been maintained this would be an almost faultless film. It belongs to Julia Ormond, but another actor has almost the same impact on the film. Clipper Miano as the eight year old victim Isiah is terrific and the flashback scenes revealing the development of the relationship between him and Smilla are mesmerising. "},{"Title":"Interesting at first, but then...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Smilla's Sense of Snow captivates at first, but by the end, I found myself struggling to care. It's not for a lack of effort. Everyone here seems game, but there's too much working against them.Calling it a murder mystery would unfairly ignore the film's subtleties, yet at its heart, that's what it is. Unfortunately, Smilla's neglects the standard murder mystery practice of doling out little nuggets of information periodically to keep viewers interested. It takes a long time before you see anything substantial enough to call a development in the case. Before that, there's a lot of mood, a lot of flashback, and a lot of Julia Ormond snarling at those around her. Which brings us to problem number two.Ormond delivers a solid performance, but her character isn't very likeable. Yes, they kind of explain why, but it still didn't make me care whether she discovers how/why her young neighbor died.I think some people might really enjoy this film. I'm just not one of them. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing characters","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The accountant was all faith; the boy's mother was all incoherence (no matter whether she was drunk, sober, or just lost her son, incoherence seemed to be her only response to it); Benja was all pouty and spiteful (for no apparent reason); and Smilla was all rude. Yes, we are given a reason for that, but if at her age, you still don't have a *basic* grip on your childhood issues, you're more likely to make a pitiable hero than a likable one. While I found the plot easy enough to follow, I found it somewhat difficult to care for its heroes.  "},{"Title":"well at least it's original 6/10","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Smilla's Sense of Snow is a revenge tale of sorts, that stars Julia Ormond playing the female version of Dirty Harry.  At one point, she is so fed up with her father's wife, she grabs the girl by the neck with one hand, and by the crotch with the other, and says, leave me alone!  This is one tough babe, who is sexy as hell.  She wants to know what happened to her 'friend' (a homely child who lives next door to her, and was killed).  Where her investigation takes her is something you would see in a James Bond film.Nice acting by everyone -- especially Ormond.  The film is just so out there, and it wears thin quickly, and goes nowhere slowly.  Worth seeing for Ormond's tough girl character though. "},{"Title":"Bille's sense of show","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A recent second viewing of this film did little or nothing to dispel any previous doubts; indeed, they seemed to gang up on me. Perhaps partly due to having also seen recently for the third time, Bille August's 'The House of the Spirits' (qv), I found my mind wandering over trivial 'ifs and buts' and other vagaries of more or less similar ilk. There is something wrong with the chemistry somewhere, but I just cannot put my finger on it. Maybe it has something to do with a Danish director with British actors in a Chilean scenario; and so it goes with 'Smilla' more British actors in København in what evidently is a very Danish story.Julia Ormond is, any way, one of the most beautiful actresses to ever adorn my TV screen; however she just does not come off as being remotely inuit, however much sacrilegious make-up they might want to plaster all over her face. Frankly, they should not. In 'First Knight' (qv), where she was of course radiantly beautiful, the film is a derailed farse. Here, as 'Smilla' she plays her rôle well - but seems rather more like a gorgeous Mediterranean woman than anything approaching Groenlandic in your wildest dreams.The only way Bille August is ever going to convince me of anything like authenticity, is when he decides to cast the appropriate people in films according to the nationalities in question. Apart from those complaints, 'Smilla's sense of snow' is an interesting detectivesque story which finally just does not convince.  "}{"Title":"Fascinating snowbound thriller","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Smilla's Sense Of Snow is a fascinating snowbound thriller that you never think will end up in the places it does, based on how we enter the story. It begins with a striking, enigmatic prologue set I the north. An Inuit ice fisher witnesses a massive meteor descend upon the tundra, and races to escape with his sled and dogs. Flash to Copenhagen, where we meet moody, emotionally challenged Smilla, played by Julia Ormond in a career best for the actress, showing an icily inaccessible protagonist, clearly damaged by an unconventional childhood, who slowly melts into a warmer person through the bond she forms with a young Inuit boy, son of a drunken, neglectful mother. When the boy is found dead in an apparent suicide, Smilla refuses to accept the prognosis and feverishly hunts for clues as to what might have really happened. She's led, along with the plot, to some outcomes so unexpected and outlandish that at times we feel like we're in a pseudo Bond film, as the intimate, personal first act gives way to some fantastical, somewhat far fetched elements which I won't spoil here. This was a deal breaker for a lot of critics and confused many viewers, which could have contributed to the film's lack of success, but I find these aspects interesting, adding to the film's refusal to play by generic narrative rules and yearning to take us somewhere we truly couldn't guess. Others are drawn into the intrigue, including mysterious Gabriel Byrne as a mechanic who is more than he seems, Bob 'clever girl' Peck as a prying government operative, Tom Wilkinson aRobert an amoral researcher, Loggia as Smilla's debonair father, Jim Broadbent as a suspicious doctor, Peter Capaldi, and Richard 'Dumbledore Harris' as a shady scientific prick. It can all seem like a muddle for some people, and indeed many pan it for being too odd and unpredictable. I love it though. Ormond has never been better, we feel her pain of losing the child right when he was the only thing in her life that brought forth warmth from her, in an otherwise chilly persona. That emotion is a steady beacon of guiding light for us to grasp onto in a story that's filled with all too many icy, unfeeling aspects. A winner for me, there's nothing quite like it. "},{"Title":"Great Start, Cheesy End","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lots of films begin well. SSoS begins exceptionally well. Aside from Orman being so attractive, there's so much potential; e.g., particularly the opening moments and it's potential relationship to the rest of the movie. And SSoS is able to sustain this level of suspense and intrigue for over an hour. After that, this viewer began to see that the filmmakers were unable to translate from the page to the screen as well with the tale's action-oriented, big-setting second half. Preposterous characters and events intrude. The last fifteen minutes of the work are - with due sincerity and sarcasm aside - laughable; e.g., stock footage of glacier shelving, iceberg birthing, etc., ridiculously interspersed with a sunny day where obviously nothing is happening. It's a shame. To say SSoS fizzles out is an understatement. Evaporates would be a better description. "},{"Title":"its nice and organized well","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Had I not read the book, this video might have been good. Unfortunately I felt it fell well below satisfactory. The book is rich with many details about Greenland and the relationship between indigenous Greenlanders and Denmark. While I didn't expect the film to be able to pick up these nuances, I was particularly disappointed by the way the producer handled the necessary background details about Smilla.For example, there is no way that, given the relationship between her father and herself, they would have sat together to watch a film about her background. A voice over (such as in the novel) would have been a better solution. "},{"Title":"A well-crafted thriller and Smilla is a very interesting heroine","Date":"28 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Smilla's sense of snow' introduces us to Smilla Jasperson (played convincingly by Julia Ormond) a young laboratory assistant working at the University hospital in Copenhagen. Smilla appears initially to be well blended into the workplace and life of the city but soon we realize that she is not a city person; she has grown up in the vast and snow-covered plains of Greenland with her Inuit mother and moved to Copenhagen after her mother's death.Smilla one day after returning from work witnesses the fatal fall of a young Inuit boy falling from a terrace. The police arrives just after her and question her about the event. Despite being in a state of shock she manages to look at the scene and from the footprints on the snow she believes that the death was not accidental the boy was pushed or nudged to jump under a threat. From that day on Smilla's life will change. She is determined to find out the truth seeking initially help from her father (who prepares to marry again) and then from her neighbor, the enigmatic mechanic played by (the always good) Gabriel Byrne.'Smilla's sense of snow' is a very good thriller and Smilla is a very interesting heroine. We understand from the beginning that she does not feel comfortable in the city but at the same time tries to integrate without losing her Inuit identity. She seems fragile but her 'sense of snow' guides her to find the killer and her new identity. For her the death of the Inuit boy (that we get to know through a number of flashbacks) appears to signify the loss of her own innocence in a new world of norms and rules that she does not feel comfortable to abide by. The film is a well-crafted thriller from a good director (Bille August) with beautiful images of Copenhagen and the Arctic. A 8/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Great start; poor finish","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's rare that I don't fast-forward through a film these days. This was one film that had me riveted, though, at least for the first 3/4s of the picture. The quiet, tense thriller unfolded with perfect timing and ambiguous characters. The acting was top-notch and the characters multi- dimensional.Then suddenly the film takes a severe detour into typical action movie. All subtlety is lost, characters become flat, pacing devolves and the whole thing becomes increasingly ridiculous. Enter the fast-forward! It was such a disappointment after that sustained great beginning. Who knows what happened. The end result leaves an unpleasant taste. "},{"Title":"Great Journey....Destination?  Who Cares..the journey was great!","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just watched Smilla's Sense of Snow and, surprisingly, was quite impressed. Great characters, exceptional cast, fabulous cinematography and although the ending was curiously strange, it didn't bother me. My only complaint was in the DVD presentation. The credits were dirty with specks of dirt all over the screen, and the video was blurry and wavering in parts. When I buy a DVD I expect only the highest quality available and those that are not, I expose on my Website! Back to SSOS, Julia Ormond was so good that I wondered why we don't see more of her. Gabriel Byrne, Richard Harris, Tom Wilkinson, Robert Loggia and Vanessa Redgrave are all so dependable for a great performance (always) and they deliver here! The newcomers in the cast were terrific also and the script was crisp and biting. I was kind of stunned by the sci-fi tinge but still really enjoyed this film. Watched Siskel & Ebert's reviews and we were in agreement regarding SSOS. "},{"Title":"a little far out, but it doesn't freeze","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't tell whether or not they were trying to make a point with this movie, but it's worth seeing (if only once). After a 6-year-old boy is found dead in Copenhagen, everyone assumes that he committed suicide. Everyone except Smilla Jasperson (Julia Ormond). She suspects foul play, and intends to do whatever possible to find the truth...even if it leads her all the way to her native Greenland.Like I said, it almost seems like the sort of movie that they just made for fun (or do only Americans do that?). There's plenty of twists and turns, but I couldn't determine whether or not they were trying to make a point. Oh well... "},{"Title":"Good start","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a mystery that keeps you hooked until the last third of the film. At that point it falls into formulaic Hollywood Action fodder. But despite this the acting is very commendable and the pacing is excellent. Julia Ormand deserves special praise for keeping the whole thing together despite the odds.The problem is the story is very convoluted as it tries to combine a number of genres at once....sci fi, thriller, mystery. This tends to leave the viewer in a state of anxiety and confusion leaping into absurdity during the last half an hour of the picture.What saves this into a worthwhile afternoon watch however is a good cast trying their best to keep you guessing.    "},{"Title":"Julia Ormond becomes an action hero !!!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen better movies than this one. The first part of the movie was totally great. It was a psycological thriller, very well constructed.Julia Ormond was acting very well and all the other actors was doing good to.The last part of the movie was very poor compared to the first part. Julia Ormond is totally different compared to the Julia in the first part.If I had read Peter Hoeg´s Bestseller I don´t think the movie was so good. "},{"Title":"Wild snow drama","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The First half of the movie is very good and the actors did a good job playing the parts. Julia Ormond did an excellent job  playing Smilla she got the right character and that is what makes the movie exciting. But when she arrived in Greenland she gets more and more like an action hero and that makes the movie boring and you don't want to see it to the end. "}{"Title":"A good film and excellent interpretation by Julia Ormond","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've not read the Smilla's Sense of Snow book (but I'll do as soon as possible after having seen the film) so I can't give a comparison.What I can say is that porting a book into a movie always introduces a loss - you can't avoid this, specially for what concerns the depiction of characters.For what concerns the movie, I liked it very much. The plot is intriguing, the character of Smilla is powerful and the interpretation by Julia Ormond is excellent (I must say that Smilla together with Ormond's interpretation is today my favourite fiction female character).On the other hand, other characters are not well portrayed, and probably the conclusion is too in a hurry (it's a pity, since the plot is really intriguing). On the whole the plot is credible, but I was a bit disappointed about the worm (this reminded me of poor quality sci-fi). But this is probably also in the book, so we can't blame the movie for it.I agree with other comments seen here that the director concentrated most on scenes (however rendering very well a heavy atmosphere), while probably the plot suffers from some discontinuity. "},{"Title":"Smila is a woman who can understand the clues in the snow because of her descent...","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A day she found out that a child died. The child' s death wasn't just an accident. Secrets, frauds and murders started happening since then and Smila' s life changed. Someone is trying to kill her and some persons that she used to trust now they seem to be against her. In the very past a comet fell on earth somewhere in Antarctica. Someone nowadays wants to exploit it secretly and illegally and Smila is very close to find it out... This movie is excellent. Direction is good, screenplay is almost perfect and acting is OK. Watch it definitely. I put 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Julia Ormond deserved an Academy Award nomination","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie fades out in the end. Feels like the director lost interest in the movie. I don't know how the book goes but even if the movie follows the book the end should have been changed. The last half an hour knocks the wind out of the movie. The rest if the movie is captivating.I'm surprised that Julia Ormond did not get nominated. Her portrayal reveals the depth in her character. She is absolutely brilliant. "},{"Title":"If you're in the mood.","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely a mood film. The colors, the music, the acting tone. I confess I was in the mood for it (no pun intended). The book was a bit much, but I felt there was a good film there (I was reminded how Tinker Tailor and Smiley's People benefitted from the journey to film.) If the film had had the luxury of another hour, then the other characters (her father, Landers, even Tork) could have been fleshed out better. My major complaint lose the X Files sub-plot. "},{"Title":"A-rated B-movie","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Smilla has the best characteristics of a classic sci-fi flick wrapped up in an Hitchcockian thriller. The plot is full of twists and turns. The mood is incredibly powerful. The characters are strong and three-dimensional, even the secondary characters. The film can be enjoyed on many levels, from the simple to the metaphorical.This film makes exceptional use of strong language, using it effectively to portray characters and their relationships. While the language and subjects alluded to may make the film inappropriate for children, they are not interjected gratuitously or capriciously, which even good movies do from time to time. This makes the film all the more poignant.Ironically, for these reasons, Smilla is not mainstream, as it sports neither the massive, glitzy, overdone special effects nor the shallowness of the modern sci-fi movie. But watching Smilla was an extremely enjoyable experience for me, one that I will no doubt repeat many times in the future.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent Thriller, Well-Acted, Beautiful Looking","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I went to see Smilla's Sense of Snow as a fan of Scots actor Peter Capaldi (from Local Hero and various TV mysteries), though he only has a bit part playing a fey casino owner, and for Gabriel Byrne.The acting was uniformly good, reinforcing a noir atmosphere.I don't know why the reviews were down on this movie. I thought it an intelligent thriller and beautifully photographed and the plot wasn't any murkier than many other thrillers I've seen, Big Sleep included. I haven't read the book to see if that clarifies some confusion in the story line.(originally written 3/27/1997) "},{"Title":"A mystery unravels from within and without.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Smilla's sense of snow leads her to find her place in a world that is completely different than the world of her heritage. And her love for a small boy from a similar background leads her investigate the truth behind his death. Her knowledge of the infinite crystalline structures of snow and mathematics helps her begin to know the human heart and the invisible specters that consume it. This is an allegory of both the microcosmic and the macrocosmic worlds, and of the heart as spiritual love and as the human organ so vulnerable to attack by organic parasites as well as emotions like greed and guilt.And it's also just a good mystery film. "},{"Title":"Read the book!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you have any love for science fiction, and equal love of literature, read this book.The movie, however, is another story. It is, overall, a good effort, but there is far too much plot to make a believable or well paced movie. This, despite a superb cast. I just noticed that Tom Wilkinson has a small role, in addition to the fine stars and co-stars, Julia Ormond and Gabriel Byrne.  "},{"Title":"Just missed.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This motion picture just missed being a ten.  Acting, direction, characters and setting were superb.  It sort of ran out of gas when the characters ran into each other for the umpteenth time and then the whole set blew up.  Seven for a good try.  If you want to see Bille August at his best it's Pelle the Conqueror. "},{"Title":"Thank God for the rewind button","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some movies are made for video. When a plot turn is fuzzy (and there are a few, believe me), rewind and watch until it makes sense. I adored Julia Ormond in this part. Smilla is damaged, and trusts more out of resignation than anything else. Strong, despite her fears - she is a great heroine. Gabriel Byrne is hot as usual.Worth seeing, if you want to watch closely.  "}{"Title":"Groan . . . This Is So Bad!!!","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is so bad! Julia Ormond is so beautiful it's like sweet agony to watch her slink around in fabulous clothes, at least in the first few scenes. But then the plot begins to fall apart, and really, there is nothing going on.The story starts out fairly logical, a little boy fell off a roof -- was he pushed? But soon stunning Smilla is babbling about meteorites and worms from outer space and corporate bad guys who all look like Richard Harris, old and ugly and with one foot in the grave. You will laugh and laugh if you wait through the end to see what they really want you to believe happened to the little boy. (SPOILER AHEAD) Uh, gee, Richard Harris, 80 years old and drunk, chasing a six year old boy up six flights of stairs? How about no, Richard lurches out of his limo falls face down in the gutter and dies on the spot? What makes it even more laughable is the stupid reasons given for the great Meteor Hunt, which is a laughable premise to begin with. In actual, scientific fact, there is no reason a meteorite might not contain precious metals like platinum or gold. This has been known to occur. But no, THIS meteorite is filled with killer worms that eat people's brains! And so of course the Sinister Corporation must move heaven and earth to get the worms, and use them to . . . to . . . uh, they don't quite explain! The plot makes no sense, but Smilla looks lovely in her cute little couture outfits. You'd never know she was a rebel, the way she's such a fashion junkie. And what's the deal with the way she's always tormenting her father's luscious young trophy wife? I wanted Smilla and Benja to stop arguing and have some steamy lesbian sex, with 90 year old Richard Harris watching through the window and his breath fogging up the glass! When the movie is set in Denmark, early on, it's okay. But the plot gets less and less believable as Smilla, the stunning beauty, stows away on a tramp steamer bound for Greenland. The crew doesn't notice they have a lovely stowaway, and when they do see her lurking about they sort of shrug it off.Gee, sailors must have changed a lot! "},{"Title":"Hot and cold","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Smilla's Sense of Snow', derived from Peter Hoeg's similarly-named book (the original title was a little more arch), is nearly a great film. It's central conceit is that Smilla, it's lead character, a native Greenlander and sometime glaciologist, views the world with an icy disdain. But a young boy melts her heart and when he dies, she becomes his avenging angel. Julia Ormond is luminescent in the title role, and her intense, reserved Smilla is able to get away with lines that would seem unbearably trite if uttered by a conventionally feisty, kick-ass heroine. In fact, there are a lot of interesting faces in this film, from that of the beautiful Clipper Miano, who plays the young boy, to the distinctive visages of veteran (and now deceased) British character actors Richard Harris and Bob Peck. But despite the largely English cast (and the use of English for the dialogue), the film still feels suitably Scandanavian, Smilla may be unusually cold but she nonetheless belongs in the world as portrayed.If the film's strengths lie in character and atmosphere, its weaknesses derive from it's basic form as a thriller. All thrillers depend on a key (and essentially implausible) step in the plot, where the hero transforms from an interested bystander to one man (or woman), fighting alone against the entire power of the system. 'Smilla's Sense of Snow' can't quite avoid a certain James Bond feel at (and after) this point, for all it's introverted seriousness; and director Bille August's understated (and unmelodramatic) style works better on the quieter scenes than the action ones. As a thriller, it's a bit too low-key; but as a character study, it's way too racy. The sheer evil of Smilla's enemies is also a bit disappointing; Smilla's severity is more striking when applied to humans with more ordinary failings. In spite of these faults, the film remains a highly distinctive movie and worth watching, though also one that can't quite deliver on its enigmatic promises. "},{"Title":"Great mood but outlandish icy ending","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Smilla Jaspersen (Julia Ormond) is a loner living in Copenhagen who befriends a young Inuit boy from Greenland. He's unwanted and one day he falls off the roof of their apartment to his death. Nobody cares except Smilla. Only her sense of snow convinces her that he was murdered. Her investigation dives deeper and deeper into intrigue and danger.This has great atmosphere. I absolutely love the desolate tone of the snowy north and of Smilla's life. Julia Ormond really personify the iciness of this world. It's moodiness really pushing the story into a great mystery. But it does get into unrealistic territory. It's not so much a mystery rather as an action adventure. The ending in the ice really made the whole thing too outlandish. The mood of the earlier parts are lost. "},{"Title":"Woman faces death, love, betrayal and redemption","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie plus - the scenery - the boy - Julia and Gabriel - that a lot of the conversation was taken directly from the book. - the ending of the movie, I liked what the mechanic did - it wrapped it up a bit more than the book ending (and I had to cry while watching the final scene with the boy)Movie cons - it was attempted but still Smilla's way of thinking did not cross over from the book to the movie - the driving scenes irritated me as it was fake - the boat scenes were too short - the living thing and the worms.. NO that was not how it was in the book (sorry for repeating myself) and it made the whole story a very bad SF one.Quite a nice adaption of the book, still the book is better... the way I watched this movie was reading the book a bit while watching the movie in bits during two days.Still I give it an 8 out of 10 and wish that somewhere in the future someone will try his or her hand on it again with more time and more danish and inuit actors. "},{"Title":"An unfulfilling and mostly unfun film.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An unlikeable `heroine,' a bleak and wandering story, weak and unthreatening villains, and an ultimately unsatisfying conclusion are the hallmarks of this unstunning effort by Bille August. Julia Ormond is ice queen Smilla, half Inuit whose keen understanding of snow and direction seems to be her only redeeming quality. She questions the death of her six year old neighbor, a young Inuit boy, and in investigating, discovers a dubious operation in the North Atlantic to retrieve a scientific discovery that could provide the world with a new energy source.The investigation is lackluster. Smilla breaks into the archives of Greenland Mining and discovers that the boy's father was killed on a previous expedition to the North Atlantic. She follows the trail, hooks up with her mysterious and bleary-eyed apartment neighbor (Gabriel Byrne), almost dies in a boat explosion, and eventually worms her way onto the ship heading back to the North Atlantic expedition location.There was very little redeeming about this film. It lacked subtlety and style, and insisted on perpetuating the coldness and meanness of the main character making her investigation seem hollow and unfounded. Though she tries to open up, it seems more to be vague feelings of unrecognized guilt on her father's behalf for taking her from the wild and open Greenland to the stuffy and civilized Denmark. The root causes of her problems interacting with people in a civil manner are never explored or justified, nor is her continued conflict with her father's wife.The movie gets progressively more uninteresting and unbelievable, with the discovery of a meteor that seems to contain a mysterious energy, and pretends to threaten via the very unthreatening Richard Harris as a scientist on a quest for power, money, and fame. These hackneyed characteristics do no one any good, especially savvy moviegoers. "},{"Title":"Best part of this movie is the title","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is Smilla's Sense of Snow?That it the biggest problem I had with this film. Smilla's expertise in reading snow and ice is never really demonstrated, except in a limited sense. We have to assume the level of her skill since she is from Greenland (which as we all know is mostly ice). The opening act of the film is captivating. But the snow and cold degenerate rapidly into a formulaic murder mystery. The plot is disjointed. And who even cares about what the bad guys are trying to hide?Ormond is terrific to look at. But her character and the others seem hollow or wooden despite the fact the cast is composed of veteran actors with talent.See it on DVD if you must, for the arctic outdoor shots. "},{"Title":"Unthawable Ice Maiden","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first scene is one of the most effective and dramatic I have ever seen an innuit fisherman observes an asteroid crash to earth and must flee with his huskies from it's tsunami.Breathtaking, but quite honestly you could switch off right then, from there on it's not so much downhill as subterranean.Gabriel Byrne, Jim Broadbent, Richard Harris and other familiar (some all too familiar) faces are here, mostly playing their usual stock characters; there is really no real acting as such.  The main problem is the... er... shall we say, heroine.  She is trying to discover who murdered an immigrant innuit boy. People help her, open up and reveal their secrets and suspicions but all the time she is this cold, butch ice maiden standing there cold as ice and you really wonder why people don't tell her to take a run. How she herself came to care what happened to the boy is a mystery, this girl never cared for or about anything in her life.  One suspects the producers started with a viable script, then someone thought Hey, why don't we make her a real, hard butch bitch.   So they did, and it doesn't work.  Shame "},{"Title":"Fade to white","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Inuit people of the north are said to have a myriad of ways to say snow.There is snow in the morning, snow in the evening, snow that has freshly fallen and snow on the ground for a week. Snow seen and snow felt. Snow that has turned to ice. Just as we have many ways to say money--moola, loot, cash, dinero, lucre, wampum, etc.--because it is so important to us, so it is with snow for people who live in it all year round. Thus we have the seminal idea for this flick Snow-savvy Smilla (Julia Ormond) knows that the six-year-old boy she had befriended didn't just fall off of a roof to his death. She can tell that he was running from someone in fear of his life because of the appearance of his footprints in the snow on the roof. (If only the logic of the rest of the movie were as plausible.)In some ways Julia Ormond as Smilla reminds me of the French La Femme Nikita (1990) starring Anne Parillaud. Smilla, who was born and raised in Greenland and therefore knows all about snow, affects a snappy anti-social stance, an abiding cynicism and a foul mouth while displaying the physical prowess of a lioness. She also has Nikita's abhorrence of being locked up. But I wouldn't want to make too much of the comparison since this movie, which begins sprightly enough, soon deteriorates into a murky, cliché-enriched, murder yarn that eventually morphs into a grade B science fiction thriller gone astray. The striking sense of originality (obviously the product of the popular novel by Peter Hoeg) gives way, under Bille August's direction, to a tiresome vapidity reminiscent of bad TV.This is not to say that this movie doesn't have some redeeming qualities. Ormond does a creditable job although we can see from the shots of her running in the snow that she's not exactly a world class athlete and therefore not capable of some of the heroics of her character. She's nice to look at, though, and director Bille August keeps the camera on her interesting face as much as possible. The edgy, amusing and psychologically veracious relationship between her and her father's very young wife is one of the highlights of the movie and might have been expanded. The snow is beautiful and affecting, and the work of some of the bit players is excellent. Vanessa Redgrave's cameo, however, seemed unconnected and extraneous.Bottom line let this fade to white before the final credits and catch up on your sleep.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Okay, So It Ain't the Book","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... but it still doesn't entirely suck either. The Good Guys, the Bad Guys, their professions, even their names have all been scrambled; critical details altered; and several unlikelihoods thrown in to boot (e.g., Smilla swimming from the burning Arctic Museum with not only her clothes on, but her shoes as well). Ormond, Byrne, and Harris do a decent job of portraying both the appearance and projection of personalities sketched in their book character counterparts. Three outstanding minor roles also deserve mention Peter Capaldi as the charismatic `Uncle Landers, honey'; Jürgen Vogel as Nils `How about a quick f***?' Jakkelsen; and Emma Croft as the sulky, self-centered and self-serving Benja. Good concrete visualizations are shot of the buildings and their interiors, Copenhagen, the Kronos, and the icy seas of Greenland. "},{"Title":"Starts good, but freezes up half-way through","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one starts out well, with director Billie August establishing a brooding, moody tone that looks like it won't slip into pointless, action-oriented antics. But those hopes are dashed in the second hour, where it becomes a silly adventure movie.Julia Ormond is good in the lead- she holds a lot of the looser scenes together- but Gabriel Byrne is stuck mumbling his way through his usual Sexy loner act, and Richard Harris is far too hammy as the villan. Jörgen Persson's photography is commendable. The first hour has a good focus on character, especially in the relationship between Smilla and the ill-fated boy. But then a lot of hooey about radioactive worms (or something like that) is dropped into the story, the credibility almost completely disappears, and we're treated to predictable shoot-outs and chase scenes. The concluding action sequence is ineffective and poorly directed. "}{"Title":"Film is a great thriller despite plot holes and unsolved mysteries","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite several small flaws and several holes in the plot, I liked this movie very much. It has no small deal of mystery, suspense, action and meaning. Julia Ormond is an excellent actress, does a great and demanding job; and Richard Harris makes a superb villain. The science fiction, though being in the right track (no major scientific mistakes), is not exploited fully enough. Nothing is revealed about the meteorite's inner workings, nowhere one finds the story of how it was found (or why it was found so close to ground level). Vanessa Redgrave is listed in the cast, but I never spotted or recognized her in the film. By the way, in this article in the IMDb her name is missing, a rare oddity. I find the most puzzling character to be The Mechanic (played by Gabriel Byrne), Smilla's neighbor, friend, lover and savior (I fail to recall his name, which is further proof of how mysterious this guy is). Several times he appears out of nowhere in the oddest of places in the rooftop (the crime scene), on the shore next to the sound expert's boat, in the restaurant, casually chatting with Dr. Tork, no less; on the expedition ship (in what post or pretended mission?), and in the meteorite excavation. He has, by all recounts, unlimited means of instantaneous travel; he seems to be either either Superman or an Angel. "},{"Title":"On the surface it looks like a chick flick but its actually entertaining","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On the surface, it looks like a chick flick (Julia Ormond), but it's actually an entertaining Action/Suspense/Mystery.  Ormond also looks really hot cursing like a sailor.  It's the best bait and switch Romantic Comedy video stay at home date film ever made.  Every guy should know about this film. "},{"Title":"Refreshing location & good performances but...","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well this was a little too mysterious for me as in I didn't ever have a clear idea of the characters or their motivation. Dry, art-housie and kinda boring despite a great cast. Good performances though and refreshing location as this takes place in Denmark and Greenland.I like Julie Ormond and she does a decent job as 'Smilla' a half Inuit woman living in Copenhagen who begins to suspect that the neighbour boy she'd befriended was murdered after his suspicious fall from the roof of their apartment building. She follows the clues all the way back to her native home of Greenland, has some action scenes and an awkward romance with Gabriel Byrne before uncovering a sci-fi-ish conspiracy. 8/16/14 "},{"Title":"Intriguing thriller turns into Lara Croft","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really liked the main characters - a strong but seemingly cold-hearted woman and her strange neighbor who manages to be attractive and pitiful at the same time. One of the rare movies in which I was as much interested in the characters and their development as in the story line.Unfortunately half-way through the movie the events become more and more unbelievable and convoluted. People get killed, stuff explodes and our half-Inuit heroine goes through it like Lara Croft, with the difference that she keeps surviving not by skill or guns but by pure chance. The ending seems taken from an 80's James Bond movie. Disappointing for those of us who are not fond of evil scientist / mysterious forces clichés. "},{"Title":"From the people who brought us AGW and third hand smoke","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Totally idiotic watermelon (green outside red inside) attempt at a thriller with evil mining (of course) corporation and unethical power hungry doctors.Julia Ormond in this feminist masterpiece is about as appealing as a bear trap despite her looks and expensive designer clothes. Any man who would go after her after a bout of her crotch snatching and razor slashing verbal rudeness would have to want to be neutered.....but that is what feminist movies are about I guess.It starts out fairly good but the story becomes more and more stupidly unbelievable.....at the end it is just an insult to anyone's intelligence. What's wrong? The whole story is unbelievable and as lame as a very bad Hollywood B sci-fi movie from the 50s.The Copenhagen police are searching for her so she goes to stay with her Dad and enters one door as the police leave by another...gee they are dumb and easy to fool I guess. This is just one of an endless stream of things that get worse as the film progresses.Don't get me wrong I care about the environment and the $32 million worth of West Greenland and Copenhagen scenery are actually very nice. I was actually glad the Inuit seal hunter got tsunamied in the beginning.....but I suspect in this twisted PC thing that was not what the director intended.It reminded me a lot of a movie The Hunter about the last Tasmanian Tiger who is killed to keep some evil corporation from finding out the poison it uses to kill prey---both movies have idiotic completely distorted ethical compasses.In this movie a possible non-radioactive perpetual source of energy unknown by known physics is deemed evil??? Can't have that because some prehistoric tapeworms in the melted ice water near it have killed a few people??? Worse yet a Mining Corporation might get rich of it. Dumb dumb dumb I can't find the words. As one viewer stated it is like the dumbest science fiction movie from the 50s. However at least in them you didn't have to put up with feminist agendas...just giant radioactive ants...No, they were better than this story when I think about it.Cost $32 million grossed $2 million (in US).DO NOT RECOMMEND "},{"Title":"Could have been good, but......","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie promises to be great but fails to deliver. Julia Ormond is gorgeous and her character is intriguing. It starts out as a tight suspenseful thriller, but comes completely unraveled at the end. A lot is made of Smilla's knowledge of snow but it's only used once. She has a deep interest in mathematics that is not used at all except to make a neat little speech about numbers.The film becomes implausible towards the end and the finale must have been grafted on from a tawdry B science fiction movie. I can't remember a more ludicrous explanation in any movie ever. Very disappointing after the good start. "},{"Title":"Repulsively pure","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Personally I think this movie would achieve a far greater impact if casting was done differently. The surroundings provide excellent atmosphere for an uneasy, tensed and yet slow movie narration. White, sterile landscape with lot of light makes a strong contrast for a vicious experiment of exposing people to organisms of unknown origin, which in the end drove a little boy to a fatal dove of a building. White settings for a suspense had their saying in White Reindeer (Valkoinen peura &#150; 1952 Finland). The very slowness of the movie makes it even stronger emotionally. I simply don't approve Julia Ormond for a leading role. Her Eskimo background just isn't convincing. The boy and Gabriel Byrne did a god job thou. "},{"Title":"An ok movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like most people I think the beginning is pretty good, but I think it seems so unbelievably stupid that everyone in Denmark speaks English. Even the police speaks English to each other and so does the rest of Copenhagen. If you took a walk in Copenhagen you would find that most people are speaking Danish. Besides that the beginning was really interesting but the end is really confusing. You have no idea, what people are talking about. It is not at all the actors fault 'cause they all did a great job,especially Julia Ormond and Gabriel Byrne, but they are talking so fast and then suddenly they shut up and expects us to understand the plot. I didn't.I would give ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Smilla is a vunerable, complex character, deep and clear. She is an excellent actor, she identifies herself into the role.Gabriel Byrne (the neighbour) is a cunning, strange man.The Movie is good, exciting, beautiful and sometimes boring. The effect in the film is very old fashioned and poor. Esajas (the little boy) seems to be a scared boy, they have many problems with the greenlandic mother. Smilla just wants to know what happened to Esajas. For once Bille has made an excellent, really touching and thoughtfull movie.  "},{"Title":"One bad adaption.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It´s pretty obvious that director Bille August doesn't quite know how to handle screenplays. He never seems to be able to focus on a plot, but instead, he tries to create as many scenes as possible, regardless to the fact that the films become pointless and blurry. "}{"Title":"Seriously dull, which is a pity.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I get the impression this was probably quite a good book, but as a film the script was lousy and the directing so flat when glaring logic holes appeared in the story, there was nothing there to deflect attention away from them. It started out like a very engaging classic thriller but kind of ended up like a James Bond movie without the budget, shot in slow motion. A magnificent ice cave - but they could only afford to put three people in it. "},{"Title":"My Sense of Despair","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I go to a screenwriting class once a week.  Last night we were told to watch this film with an eye to writing a report as a piece of coursework.Two hours of my life.  Gone.  Forever.It tries to be a thriller; it isn't thrilling.  It tries to be a love story; it's neither romantic nor sexy.  It tries to be an action film; the action sequences would be bad even in a straight to video.  As for the script...we are told everything rather than shown.  The scene where Bob Peck sits opposite Jula Ormond and reads out her character and background from a file is laughably bad.The very worst scene though.  Julia Ormond takes an undecipherable cassette tape to a blind Chinese man living on a boat.  It includes the lines - and I kid you not - You're the best ear in Copenhagen and the old classic, When you lose one sense, the others sharpen.Get the picture?It's like watching paint dry.  No.  It's worse than that.  It's like watching paint that's dried already.  Imagine doing that.  It's that bad.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Cartoon-like tale of an ice queen","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film starts off promisingly with a dazzling display of nature at its most powerful. However, the extreme unlikeliness of the plot makes this movie a bit of a joke.I'll admit that Julia Ormand's performance is strong, and, for me, that Gabriel Bryne can never do any wrong. The premise about an innocent young boy getting killed is genuinely heartbreaking.However, the connection between the asteroid and the rest of this saga isn't clarified until the end, and one must put up with far too much ponderous dialog to make it worth the wait. (Why was it necessary to show repeated spats between Smilla and her stepmother? Who the hell cared?) The Gabriel Byrne character saves Smilla's butt so many times he practically personifies the literary device deus ex machina. (OK, we get it!)Was this film intended for grown-ups or for the teenage boys who read superhero comics? "},{"Title":"That's not snow you're sensing... it's disappointment","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't read the novel, though I'm afraid I can imagine it being superior to this. Honestly, I've been putting off watching this for years. It's cool that a Dane wrote it, and that another one directed it. And it was actually partially filmed here, as well as, unusually, up in Greenland, and a little bit of Inuktitut is spoken. It just doesn't feel like much of anything was beefed up for the purpose of putting it up on the silver screen, and the fact of the matter is, it has to be bigger than it does on the page. As far as what is translated from the book goes, the mystery does work well. It is fairly engaging, and keeps you guessing to an extent. With that said, you know who's behind it the moment you see him, since *the score instantly becomes ominous when the camera shows him*. This has its entertaining moments, and occasional humor. The performances are great, though these talented actors have all done better work elsewhere. Ormond fails to make the character particularly likable, and her accent does not convince. Editing and cinematography are nice enough. There is infrequent strong language, some violence and a sex scene in this. I recommend this to big fans of those involved in its production. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Compelling Concept That Lost Its Way.","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Julia Ormond can be a chameleon in her different roles. She can change her looks and persona until you don't seem to recognize her from role to role. Here she has rather short straight black hair and lots of eye makeup to make her pass for half Eskimo (sorry P.C. Police, Inuit).I was fascinated by her character, Smilla Jasperson, a socially inept mathematician and researcher who cares for no one until her neighbor's young child awakens her maternal instincts. The fact that Smilla is freakin gorgeous never seems to occur to anyone but her creepy neighbor who lives in her apartment building on the floor below.Smilla walks home from work one day, doubtless to avoid contact with anyone on public transportation. An ambulance passes her and stops at her apartment building. Her young friend Isaiah has fallen to his death from the roof of their apartment building. Smilla instinctively knows that this was no accident and sets out to find out who caused his death and why.Smilla needs financial help to pursue her investigation. She turns to her father Moritz Jasperson, a prominent and wealthy physician. The horribly miscast Robert Loggia portrays her indulgent father who enjoys the company of a wife younger than his daughter. The two women detest each other intensely. I suspect that the reason Moritz gives Smilla money so readily is to get the two women apart as soon as possible.The film offers some very interesting background scenes from Copenhaven as Smilla pursues her investigation. When Smilla calls on Elsa Lubing, a former accountant for Greenland Mining Corporation, she starts to see where to concentrate her efforts.Here we are treated to the typical Hollywood hatred and disdain for Christian belief. Elsa Lubing is a total whack job who only reveals what she knows after accidentally reading a passage of scripture that seems to indicate the justice of Smilla's quest.Smilla always seems to meet strangers that are willing to provide any required information or other support to prevent failure in her quest. This just-in-time altruism occurs repeatedly in the plot and quickly becomes grating. The screenwriters have obviously become too lazy to generate a more plausible flow of events.The plot quickly falls into the tired path of a virtuous investigator battling sinister and mysterious forces eager to silence them. I enjoyed seeing Julia take on the unfamiliar role of physical action heroine. She is involved in bomb explosions, car chases, break-ins, and many narrow escapes from capture or death. I especially enjoyed her confrontation with her snotty younger-than-her step mother. Julia did a lot of these stunts herself, you can always tell when they sneak in a stunt double.Smilla's quest takes her to Greenland aboard a ship chartered by the sinister Greenland Mining Corporation. She has managed to land a crew berth on the mess deck. It was interesting to watch Julia actually scale the side of the ship on a rope ladder. You can tell it was really her doing this fairly dangerous feat. The crew of the ship seems strangely indifferent to the presence of a gorgeous young woman aboard. After a brief confrontation in the crew quarters, no one takes much notice of her presence. Sailors have changed a lot since my Navy days!Well, they actually filmed in Greenland rather than faking it on a sound stage. That was about the high point of the last half of the film. The plot was so weak, contrived, implausible, etc. that it was hard to sustain any interest in watching the pitiful climax.This film lost its way about 1/3 through the runtime. I must rate this film the second worst Julia Ormond film role I have seen. The worst has to be her portrayal of a con artist in 'The Prime Gig'. "},{"Title":"Potential Packed","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" From what must be a fascinating, intriguing novel from Peter Hoeg came this potential packed thriller from the under-achieving director of Les Miserables, Bille August. Smilla's Feeling for Snow starts off as a most interesting riddler about the suspicious death of a young boy that wreaks of a cover-up. An intuitive neighbour, Smilla, starts snooping around looking for clues to the mystery's solution.After painstakingly laying out the juicy premise, director August does nothing with the rest of the film, aside from tell the story, plain and simple. This same error ruined his version of Les Mis as well. His characters remain under-developed, and the plot is left to its own devices.Julia Ormond does reasonably well with her part and her accent. Gabriel Byrne gets to do very little, and his character remains an enigma throughout the film. The support cast don't get much of a go either. Some nice cinematography and a good music score save some face.Sunday, January 17, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"Good material for a video game. (spoilers)","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Smilla's Sense of Snow is quite a unique thriller. Set in Copenhagen, Denmark, it is the story of the mysterious death of a young Inuit boy who falls from the roof of his apartment building in Denmark. His closest friend and neighbor, who has a keen sense of snow since her days growing up with her mpther among the native tribes in Greenland, is sure that the boy did not simply fall from playing on the roof. (Note In watching this movie, I have to agree with one viewer who wrote that Smilla's Sense of Snow is never really demonstrated. She does make a comment about how the tracks of people who are used to running in snow--like the Inuits--are different from those who only walk in it on occassion, evident from the type of tracks that are made. But most of her conclusions that lead her to believe that this boy's death was no accident are mostly based on forensic science.)Her suspicions lead to quite a dangerous game of cat and mouse, which force her to risk her own life to investigate what exactly happened, which involves a top class arctic scientist working with a company that the young boy's father was working for when he was killed. And the motives are wholly unique, and quite riveting. However, this thriller aspect only seems to really grip us more towards the second half of the film. The first half plays out more like a weary drama as we learn about Smilla's background and her relationship with others in the story. When her mother died, she was transplanted into the unfamiliar modern (and considerably less snowy) surroundings under her father's care in Denmark. She never felt quite right, nor quite at home, and seemed to develop quite a bitter outlook on everything as a result of it. Needless to say, arctic science became her interest (note the part about mathematics being used to measure abstract feelings like beliefs which Smilla explains to her friend, The Mechanic was pretty interesting). But this first half of the movie is mostly the picture of a woman in mourning. We see flashbacks of her time spent with the young boy, eventually becoming more of a protectorate of him than his own mother. As Smilla tells The Mechanic (Gabriel Byrne in typical ambiguity), she is heartbroken. We can understand why she would risk her life just to find some answers about what happened to him. That is where the suspense begins as Smilla is willing to delve deeper and deeper into investigations that involve a top class arctic scientist who performed the autopsy as well as the owner of the company that the young boy's father worked for in Greenland when he was killed. There are not too many people that Smilla will trust to help her out, since the Danish police detectives had made it clear that they don't want her intruding on their investigation, and they willingly make it quite difficult for her to follow her leads too closely and openly. The Mechanic, Smilla's friend, neighbor, and eventually, lover, is a sneaky fellow who always seems to arrive at some unusual location that Smilla has wondered off to in the course of her own investigating. This second half of the movie provides some great action sequences and some unusual suspense and characters. I think because Smilla is such an awkward, misunderstood character, we're never sure if she is able, much less willing, to take her grievance all the way to the top, and face those powerful people who know the truth behind the young boy's death. The movie is great material for a video game, reminiscent of popular Playstation role-playing mystery games like Metal Gear Solid. Smilla seems to travel around like a professional spy, and is very careful (though sometimes not careful enough) in this tricky game she plays with those who will stop at nothing to make sure all loose ends are eliminated, those who can expose more than just the death of a young boy, but something much more devastating. Aside from a unique thriller plot, sometimes the dialogue as well as some of the unusual places Smilla winds up (from the bowels of a large cargo ship to the glaciers of Greenland) seem quite good for a video game setting. It is a decent thriller worth trying. I did, however, find Gabriel Byrne's character rather confusing, thanks to lack of dialogue and emotion (and the fact that Smille and his character act like uncomfortable robots around one another). I know, his character is purposely unrevealing of certain things, as is it a necessary plot point, but I don't think his character was developed much either way. When you finally discover his true nature, it just doesn't seem very gripping. It actually comes off as nonchalant.Tom Wilkinson is Professor Loyen, the doctor who performs the autopsy and is working with the company that the Inuit boy's father worked for. However, he's hardly much of a nemesis because he barely talks much and for the most part, hardly appears in the film. The two main characters of this movie is essentially Julie Ormond as Smilla and Richard Harris as Tork, the owner of the company. Smilla is the strange, detached heroine while Harris is the greedy, but optomistic villain.It is worth a try, even just to see a suspense movie that has nothing to do with the mafia, crooked cops (there are cops here, but they're not central figures), or serial killers, as are the tired plot points of so many thrillers out there today. I like this movie best just because it was something different (different settings--I've rarely seen anything based in Denmark or Greenland; different characters--not the impulsive, arrogant or wimpy, insecure female heroine; and different story).  "},{"Title":"THE WORST TITLE FOR A MOVIE IN HISTORY","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I AGREE THE MOVIE WAS A REAL SLEEPER.  ONLY DUE TO THE CAST DID I GIVE IT A TRY AND WAS VERY SURPRISED.  TO MAKE IT MORE COMMERCIALLY VIABLE, THEY COULD HAVE COME UP WITH A DIFFERENT TITLE. "},{"Title":"Good plot, ruined by poor directing and editing.","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers???)It has a fantastic plot,  everything was shot very well.  Everything looked just fine on the surface, but there was something that nagged at me and I didn't like it.  First off, there's way too many cuts.  Cut here cut there, flashback to this go to that.  Don't give a darn.Acting is very good.  Though Julia Ormond overacting, especially when she choked her advesary that her father is married too.  (reminds me of Deep Impact)  but in this case...  Julia really really grabbed this woman's crotch.  Was that really necessary?  Did the director get off doing that?  This movie needed more backstory I think.  Julia's character needs more building that what is shown here.  I must admit that I haven't seen Richard Harris in many movies.  Only in Harry Potter, so it came as a bit of a shock that he kills a kid.  Oi... not one of his best works.6/10QUality 4/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 5/10 "}]