[{"Title":"Charming","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If this quirky British comedy could be summed up in a word, that word would be charming.The story is a simple, low-budget British one two orphans scam as many people as they can for as much money as they can in an effort to buy the stately home they always dreamed of as children.Everything is going swimmingly, until they join forces with a typist, Georgie (the perfect Kate Beckinsale), and the plot leads on from there...The acting is perfect for the film, neither overstated nor low key, and suits the plot and style very well.  The direction is quirky, but makes no new ground, and also fits the script to a tee.This film would be great viewing for a date (perhaps not for a lads night in), and has the simple comedy you might expect from such classic British TV series as Only Fools and Horses, or Last of the Summer Wine.It doesn't require much brain power, but is one of the best homegrown (British) comedies of recent(ish) years. "},{"Title":"How can anyone hate this film?","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this at the cinema, believe it or not, purely on the strength of the fact that it uses 'Me And You Versus the World' by Space as the title music. I'm so glad that I did.The film is a lightweight romp with implausible but thoroughly likeable characters. It isn't a thought provoking piece of angst, but then it never ever professes to be.I now own this on dvd, and after several watches it still remains fresh and engaging and never fails to put a smile on my face.There's no individual outstanding component in this film, but it's one that I just *keep* coming back to. Superb fun. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended Viewing","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this film so many times and never get sick of it. The casting is brilliant with Dan Futterman and Stuart Townsend in fantastic performances.The plot is quite original following Dylan and Jez - two English con artists who are tricking people out of their money by selling voice recognition computers and other false devices. They need two million dollars to buy the house they never had - having grown up as orphaned children. On one of their scams they employ a secretary and medical student named Georgie, who is convinced they are raising money for an orphans project. This adds romantic themes into the story to make it even more entertaining. A stand out is the interesting relationship that Dylan and Jez have with each other, Dylan being the fast talking American and Jez being the British techno genius.I recommend 'Shooting Fish' to all movie-goers. It has a great soundtrack, is funny, romantic, creative and a great achievement for British filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Engaging Comedy from Stefan Schwartz","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  	Take a couple of con men who see an opportunity to separate a mark from his money in just about everything, throw in an attractive young woman with an altruistic agenda, blend together for about ninety-three minutes and the result is `Shooting Fish,' an amiable, entertaining comedy, directed by Stefan Schwartz.  It's the story of two guys who grew up in orphanages on opposite sides of the ocean, Dylan (Dan Futterman) in America, Jez (Stuart Townsend) in England; and who, by the time they had reached the age of consent, had each been endowed with a particular talent Dylan has the gift of gab, Jez is a technical wizard.  Dylan's gift has quickly gotten him into hot water with the wrong kind of people, however, and to stay healthy (read  `Alive') he flees to England, where he meets Jez.  And it's a friendship/partnership born in scam/scheme heaven.  If there's a way to make a fast buck, they know it-- from selling bogus computers, to selling insulation for homes that's never installed, to entering any and every contest that comes down the pike.  If there's a nickel in it, they're in.	Then one day they hire a girl from the temp pool to help them out with one of their scams.  Georgie (Kate Beckinsale) is beautiful, smart, and has a cause she's trying to fund, so she needs the job; but from day one she's on to what Dylan and Jez are trying to pull.  She stays on board, however, when Dylan convinces her that they are something like modern day Robin Hoods-- that the money they're `raising' is going to orphans.  What he doesn't tell her is that the `orphans' he's referring to is them.  And Dylan is a born salesman-- not to mention the fact that he's a real charmer-- and the three of them become a real team.  	Schwartz delivers a film that is in no way exceptional nor particularly memorable, but it is entertaining.  It's exactly what it promises to be  a diverting hour and a half or so that provides some laughs and a good time.  It's pleasant fare that's inoffensive and features some engaging performances and a story that will keep you involved.  There are a couple of scenes, in fact, that are downright hilarious.  And Schwartz has good timing and sets a pace that keeps it all moving right along, which, when you add it all up, makes for a satisfying, enjoyable experience.	Futterman has a winning personality and a resonant, mesmerizing voice that fits his character perfectly.  Dylan is the salesman you hope you'll never meet, because if you do, chances are you'll walk away with the deed to the bridge.  He's a likable heel, convincingly brought to life by Futterman (who is probably best known for his role of Vincent Gray in the `Judging Amy' TV series).  It's a good performance, and one of the strengths of the film.	As Jez, Townsend does a fine job, too, and though he's overshadowed a bit by Dylan-- intentionally the flashier of the two-- Jez is the one who secures the sympathy of the audience.  After all, this is the guy who at least seems a bit remorseful as he's taking other people's money and trust.  And it's interesting to compare Townsend's fairly reserved performance here with his role of the vampire Lestat in the more recent `Queen of the Damned.'  He's a fine young actor whose style contrasts nicely with Futterman, and along with Beckinsale they make quite the team of scam artists.	The one who draws the attention, however, is the lovely and charismatic Kate Beckinsale, who is beguiling in the role of Georgie.  She makes her character accessible, and plays her with a savvy, rather than naive sensibility, and it's a portrayal that works well.  Most importantly, she makes Georgie real, with a winsome appeal that makes you care about her and what happens to her.  She's the most grounded of the trio, and it's her character that keeps the story within the realm of credibility.  This may not be the stuff Oscars are made of, but it's an enjoyable, engaging performance that will win you over, without question.	The supporting cast includes Rowena Cooper (Jez's Teacher), Myles Anderson (Jez, aged 8), Jacob Macoby (Dylan, aged 8), Jane Lapotaire (Dylan's Headmistress), Tom Chadbon (Mr. Greenaway), Phyllis Logan (Mrs. Ross), Peter McNamara (Geoff), Arabella Weir (Mrs. Stratton-Luce), Nickolas Grace (Mr. Stratton-Luce) and Claire Cox (Floss).  An easy-going comedy with enough twists and turns to keep you on your toes, `Shooting Fish' is a solid, feel good film that will put a smile on your face and provide a pleasant evening's entertainment.  And in the final analysis, that's not such a bad deal; and it's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"Witty Contemporary Comedy, Don't miss this","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Shooting Fish was something I got out on a risk, you know.....no other film in video store, take a chance.It proved to be a wise decision as the film was very funny, two great opposites for the main male characters and the stunning kate beckinsale acted the part wonderfully.The film has no slow points, but does not rush things, the accompanying music is very good and acting first class.I would recommend this film to anyone "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Normally when it comes to voting for movies on the IMDb, I'm quite liberal. I don't set very high standards for movies. I always tend to rate films based on how much I enjoy them and this means that most of the time I always rate films highly cos I try and find something good in every film I see. I saw this film when I was vacationing in England. BBC One actually transmitted this at 11 PM, since they believed that The Peacemaker was a film more deserving of the 900 slot. Unlike the Peacemaker, Shooting Fish is a film that almost anybody would enjoy, unless he/she was the kind of person who found simple effective storytelling a turnoff.Everything about this movie seems in perfect harmony. The chemistry between Dan Futterman and Stuart Townsend is perfect, word for word. And Kate Beckinsale is a perfect third piece to the puzzle; When the conversations in the movie occur, you never get the feeling you're watching a contrived conversation written by someone else, you get the feeling you're watching real life unfold. That's a hallmark of a good scriptwriter and the people who wrote this deserve credit for the story.As for the story itself, it never lets itself become too complicated and lends itself to a lot of funny situations. Fast-talking Dylan and socially naive Jez (Futterman and Townsend) are two con men trying to raise money to build their dream house. They end up enlisting Georgina's (short-haired Kate Beckinsale in a beautiful role from her pre-Hollywood Glamourpuss days) help on a particular scam. Soon she discovers what they're up to and the story unfolds from there, with both Dylan and Jez seemingly falling for Georgie. Here again, the movie doesn't nosedive and morph into a conventional love story; rather, the romance builds in a backdrop to the main story and culminates in a heartwarming finale. As for Dan and Jez, some of their schemes may not be very believable and yet you cant help but be amused by the way they go about implementing them. This film is a good reason why small budget comedy romances are popular - simply put, they work. On every level. Watching this film gives you the same kind of feeling as watching While you were Sleeping, for example. For the sheer sweetness of the film and for Kate Beckinsale's performance, I'd give it 7 on 10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite British comedies","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is brilliant. The scams these guys pull are  genius and the comic timing is superb. The first scam  deals with artificial intelligence and the exaggeration grows  as they scam more people. The lead American actor is  really handsome, too.  This one is right up there with Lock,  Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels, except without the violence. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, predictable - But fun!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  So I just caught this movie, years after it first came out.... and loved it! The lead characters are perfectly cast, complimenting each others performances wonderfully throughout. Ok, so I knew from scene one that it was all going to turn out for the best in the end, but it was the sort of movie where I didn't care! Great comedy situations, and strong writing ensured a thoroughly enjoyable experience. N.B - No review of this film would be complete without a mention of the fantastic soundtrack. From 60's American, past 90's Britpop, and culminating in the utterly magical workings of Neil Hannon - it was a joy to listen to. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!  Sweet, funny and intelligent...","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is simply great.  While it perhaps lacks a larger social message, other than the simple do good with what you have, it is a smart, funny movie which definitely has its moments, both cinematic and dramatic.  The rags to riches story of two orphan con men one, a genius Brit, the other, the American spin doctor.  Together they engage in shooting fish, or fleecing rich people of their extra cash, in order to buy themselves the lavish house they've each coveted because of their simple upbringing.  The story is fun and engaging, the characters seem very very real, and the different cons they pull off together are extremely funny.  I won't give away any of the story, except to say that the has a nice, unexpected twist. An excellent date movie, or even to take in with a couple of close friends. You may not laugh out loud the whole time like you did at There's Something About Mary or other slapstick comedies, but you'll definitely be smiling the whole time, and by the time the credits role you'll simply be in a much better mood than you were when you started. "},{"Title":"Ealing-type comedy","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie by Stefan Schwartz (co-written with Richard Holmes) thinks it is cleverer than it actually is, and comes out as an odd hybrid of crime caper and romance.Two conmen - the charmless Dan Futterman as American Dylan, and geeky Stuart Townsend as Jez - have long-standing dreams of making lots of cash by any means to fund their very own stately home.  Posh totty Kate Beckinsale as Georgie (a doctor-in-training with secretarial skills) joins them as the beauty and brains of the team and causes havoc between them.Involved in this semi-engaging brew are voice recognition computer systems, cremation, loft insulation, blow-up dolls, light sabres, a tatty old racehorse, £50 bills, and the music of Burt Bacharach.  Glimpsed in the cast are Phyllis Logan, Annette Crosbie, Peter Capaldi, Jane Lapotaire, Nickolas Grace, Nicholas Woodeson, and (in a small but wickedly funny role as Georgie's boyfriend) Dominic Mafham.'Shooting Fish' is fairly enjoyable but tends to shoot itself down quite early on, without much chance of recovering.  Does it know what it is supposed to be?  An idea with potential and some laughs, but this movie doesn't know which way to jump.  "}{"Title":"What a nice movie!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I really like this movie. It is a very clever movie and has a great sense of humour. I can't compare it to any American comedy. This kind of humour is completely different. This movie is for those who want to use their brain while watching and not only laugh. I really like European cinema and this movie as well as Run Lola Run prove that European cinema can go on. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is practically my all time favorite. At least favorite comedy. It is absolutely brilliant, with lovely actors hilarious script, everything really.Jez (Stuart Townsend) is very cute and just incredible. Georgie (Kate Beckinsale) is almost like I would have wanted to be if I could choose.I love this movie so much, and I laughed just as much when I'd seen it three times as after the first. "},{"Title":"I loved the movie","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so funny and entertaining... The actors were great, especially Stuart Townsend. It was one of the best movies I've ever seen. The funeral scene was very funny. The scene where two of them were sitting on the roof was so romantic. I can watch this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"Fun, fast, modern, and in a nutshell; cool","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  First of all, the film begins with the two main characters, Jez (a confused geek) and Dylan (a money mad, suave businessman) as children. This gives you an idea of just exactly what they are really like within two minutes of film. As the film progresses, clever scams and tricks ease their way into the comic running of the film.Loaded with humor and 'English wit' this could possibly be one of the finest light hearted English films for many years.  "},{"Title":"Delightful romp ***possible minor spoiler***","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is retro in everything. It is a lighthearted romantic comedy in the old mold, with two mismatched con-men, falling for the same girl, the dopey one eventually gets her, and his buddy gets the sister! While the plot is occassionally disjointed it never fails to keep moving along and is throughly charming along the way - helped greatly by the winning main characters. I was very surprised to see the mixed reviews, it is hard to work out what there is not to like in this thoroughly likable movie - occassionally clever, sometimes sappy, possibly a little predictable - but never unlikeable. As for the title, if you can't work it out, you don't have enough intelligence to be allowed out of the house by yourself. My vote 7/10 and a fun movie for some light-hearted entertainment. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I missed this when it was in theaters...","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a really fun film with story and actors that make you feel their joy and their pain.  I was surprised to catch pieces of this on cable, laughing so much that I had to look up the schedule to catch the whole movie the next time it was played.It was an intelligent movie with good intercharacter relationships.  I really would like to find more movies by the writer/director Stefan Schwartz, but there doesn't seem to be anything recent on IMDB.  The three main actors (Dan Futterman, Stuart Townsend and Kate Beckinsale) really seemed to enjoy working together on-screen.     "},{"Title":"Fluffy, but in a good way.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Well that's odd, I thought as I picked up the June '98 issue of CMJ monthly. There's this ad in it for a movie called Shooting Fish with Kate Beckinsale in it (I love Kate Beckinsale... well did in the other two movies I'd seen her in before)with a soundtrack that's got music from Dubstar and Space and The Supernaturals and... Dionne Warwick.  So anyway to make a long story short, I searched (in vain) for the soundtrack for nigh on a year but to no avail.  Anyway, then one day I was at the video store (Major Video, before Blockbuster decided to buy that too) and I saw it and thought Jaysis, there's something I need to see!  It had that snazzy-looking retro box, too, and I was in a happy mood, so I gladly went home and popped it in.This must have been the cheeriest movie I'd seen in years.  It made me think of Bringing Up Baby it was so happy (and that's a good thing, by the way). Kate Beckinsale is absolutely charming, the American guy is lots of fun, and the English guy has the great sense to be charming AND insanely cute in that odd way that the British have.  The movie has a plot, sure, but it doesn't matter.  You should just watch it and be hap-hap-happy!  Revel in the retro-kitsch set design and the goofy dialogue and that English guy's striped t-shirt.  It's the best pick-me-up since Bounty (or, you know, whatever). (By the way, I warn you... after I saw it I caught myself singing that Dionne Warwick song for weeks afterwards.) "},{"Title":"Aptly titled","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The charming con men featured in this film have found that the easiest way to make money is to part fools from it.  It's so easy, in fact, it's like shooting fish in a barrel--hence the movie's name.  Excellent acting and quirky characterization make this flick really fun to watch.  Dialogue is sharp and witty, with some truly memorable lines.   "},{"Title":"Delightful, hip, charming & wacky","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  As I was watching this charming import flick, I couldn't help but think back to those classic B&W screwball comedies (any Preston Sturgess, Midnight, His Girl Friday, etc.) This film tells the story of two misfit con men (a Brit and a Yank) whose plans from childhood have always been BIG! Very close to fulfilling their collective dream, Georgie (ravishing Kate Beckinsale) enters their lives and romantic hijinks ensue. Although I was always one step ahead of the plot 75% of the time, I still had a wonderful time going on this energetic trip.  P.S. If you're a fan of Britpop music, the soundtrack will take you to cloud 9! "},{"Title":"A nice movie","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I rather enjoyed watching Shooting Fish on a hot, humid summer night, when there was nothing better to do than rent a video. It's a nice film, and has some very funny scenes, but it's also a very light one, and doesn't require too much attention. If you're looking for a light and breezy comedy, you can't go wrong  with this one.  "}{"Title":"Don't miss this one","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I must say, after I've watched this move, I now consider it my all-time favorite. Everything is just awesome! The casting - perfect. The story - so cute and funny you just have to love it. Don't miss this awesome piece of art, or you'll regret it! "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily well written, hilarious dialogue","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I was blown away by this flick. I have never heard of this movie until one of my friends had purchased the DVD. The movie has no one very famous in it, but the acting, dialogue and story are terrific. It is a hilarious movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest, wittiest movies I've ever seen","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  You can't go past english comedy.  And this movie only strengthens that statement.  A hilarious collage of comedy, love, and just down right silliness.  If you're feeling a bit on the down side, or you're inviting a couple of friends over for a flick, this is the movie for you.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie People Haven't Seen.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After viewing Apt Pupil the other night - and being sorely disappointed/distressed...I wanted to view a lighter movie. Well I must say this is one of my favorites now. I'm not one to remember every actor/actress name but the whole cast did a great job. I especially love the con with the computer - seeing as how I work in the IT Field - it was great! When you see the movie remember the very first scene. It is important because it is the reason for everything they do. And sometimes things work out...for the good. "},{"Title":"A good chuckle","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Shooting Fish is hilarious with two great male leads and a charming female lead as well.  The clever and witty writing is wonderful to the very last drop.  The many adventures of Jez and Dylan bring many laughs especially the LofTeck experience.  I recommend this to anyone in the mood for a good chuckle. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Great movie, great cast. Why an American and an English actor? Screenplay-reasons or actors-reasons? "},{"Title":"I don't care, I like it!","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" There's something wrong about dropping an American con-artist into London, but somehow here it works. There are lots of potential reasons not to like this film, but most of them don't seem to really matter. It just works, anyway.Maybe it's because this was the first time I ever saw Kate Beckinsale, and I was just stunned.Anyway, I was hugely amused when I heard that there was a boycott organized against this film by some people who thought it was going to be about someone shooting at fish (bang, bang). Poor fishies. No, of course, it's no such thing.If you haven't seen this, then I can pretty much guarantee that you will not waste your time if the opportunity comes up. "},{"Title":"Funny comedy about how the easiest plan can fail, if a third person walks into it.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jez & Dylan are a very diferent pair. Maybe that's why Georgie finds in them a gold mine. Stefan Schuartz's Shooting Fish ( 2001 ) is a funny comedy about two con artists who, without a family, start to save for the house of their dreams. Of course, they define them selves as the 90's Robin Hood, telling Georgie ( played by an unknowned Kate Beckinsale ) they're saving for an orphan's housing proyect. Jez ( Stuart Townsend, a rising british star ) wants to tell the truth, but Dylan ( the american Dan Futterman ) thinks they should go for what they've always wanted.The plot is probably common, but that doesn't stop Shooting Fish from being funny, romantic, and, in some way, human. Of course it has it's failures, but, if you like it, it's good.Jez is a computer geek, a wizard with a degree... and social incompetence. Dylan is dislexic, but he can convince anyone with his endless charm. They grew up in public homes, and now they want a house of their own. Georgie is an inocent medicine student, and she needs the money to save her retarded brother's school.As I said before, the plot is common, but it's original at the same time. It's cleary a Masterpiece, although for some is lack of sense or it should be more adult. But that doesn't stop Shooting Fish to become one of the funniest UK comedies, among with East is East and Trainspoting.Shooting Fish is a british expression for the action of stealing, to defraud. And that is what they do, only the orphans mentioned before are them.When the law catches them, they'll have to tell the truth to Georgie, But Will she forgive them?This tells us all even the easiest plan can fail, if you fall in loveSHOOTING FISH Dan Futterman, Stuart Townsend, Kate Beckinsale Directed By Stefan Schuartz Written By stefan Schuartz & Richard HolmesVERY GOOD    8 "},{"Title":"Likable and Amusing.","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Daniel Futterman and Stuart Townsend are raised in an orphanage. They go on to a career as cheerful con men and thieves until reformed by the intervention of a good woman, Kate Bekinsale.I had a feeling it would be a decent, low-key, but successful comedy when one of the orphans is being questioned about his plans for the future. What kind of house would he like to live in? The orphan comes up with a picture of a mansion. Condescending smile from the manager. But that would cost hundreds of pounds and you're an orphan -- no offense -- and have nothing. No offense. That piece of PC in a scene taking place in a scene from thirty years ago struck me as an artful touch.I called it low key and that's not exactly the case, but neither is it a farce, with everyone shrieking and slipping on banana peels. It's more -- well, believable isn't quite the mot juste either. Let's say it adheres to possibility about as closely as The Lavender Hill Mob. The cast work well together. Futterman is the smooth-talking con man half of the team. Townsend is the tinkerer who majored in the psychology of electronics. He doesn't know how to fix a toaster but he knows how they feel when they break.Futterman, an American, looks the part. He has a long straight nose that overhangs his lips and bisects his features. Townsend is given a bowl haircut and is easily unnerved, which is supposed to make him less attractive to women. Beckinsale of course can see through the shyness to the rabid assemblage of hormones roiling beneath. Beckinsale is appealing too, more than in the dismal Pearl Harbor. She's wan and fragile, along the lines of Geraldine Chaplain. And any normal dentist would be dazzled by her teeth.It's fast. Sometimes so fast that I lost the track of where the 50 million pounds were. But it is a successful comedy, and its success doesn't depend on teenagers making fools of themselves around a lot of rotting zombies. There's little in the way of pounding percussion. Much of the musical score is from Burt Bacharach's popular and innovative tunes of the 60s. This may turn some people off but I think I got a little high from listening to it. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable British comedy","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is the tale or two orphans with ambitions; as children geeky Jez dreamt of living in a stately home and brash American Dylan was already thinking of ways to make money. When they get together it looks as if they might just accomplish their dreams. Their methods are less then legal though as they plot to scam the wealthy out of their money. To help with one of their scams they employ the beautiful Georgie as their secretary; inevitably she quickly realises they are conmen but falls for their story about raising money for a home for orphans&#x85; to be fair it is true but she doesn't realise the orphans concerned are Jez and Dylan. Inevitably the two of them eventually caught and while inside they learn that all £50 notes are being recalled and their ill-gotten gains will be worthless&#x85; they will have to trust Georgie with the money&#x85; not realising that she has a pressing need for two million pounds; just what they have!I first saw this film years ago and couldn't remember much about it but vaguely recall enjoining it so decided to buy the DVD when I saw it at a bargain price. I'm glad I did as it was a lot of fun; it may be silly in places and the ending is overly sentimental but there are some laugh out loud moments along the way&#x85; the inflatable dolls in the crematorium were priceless!!! Dan Futterman and Stuart Townsend do fine jobs as Dylan and Jez and Kate Beckinsale is a delight as Georgie. The rest of the cast features quite a few well known British actors; including the new Doctor Who Peter Capaldi in a small roll. I like the fact that the creators didn't feel that just because it is set in London they would have to show all the landmarks that so many films do. Overall this film is a lot of fun&#x85; I'm glad I decided to watch it again. "}{"Title":"A clever British Comedy about a couple of con-men","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Ahh, British Comedy, it is in a category of its own and generally always gives what it promises. As you can tell, I liked this movie for its clever wit and simple intelligence of the main characters and the cunning schemes that they pulled. As Baldrik would say in Black Adder, I have a cunning plan. And their plans were very cunning, very clever, and quite amusing at that.Shooting Fish is about a couple of orphans, one from New York and one from England. The one from New York was a con-man who was very clever at getting money. At the age of 8 he was caught by the IRS putting money into a bank account in the Chase-Manhattan Bank. The question was, what was he doing with a bank account. The other, Jeremy, is an electronic genius and when both of them get together they are able to fleece money out of everybody.The movie opens with a little scheme where they are demonstrating a talking computer to a lot of businessmen and manage to gain lots of money off of them. The girl that they hired, a medical student, is a but suspicious but they convince her that it is all very Robin Hood - steal from the rich and give to the poor. The thing they don't tell her is that they are the poor that they give to. After they finish this scheme, they catch thieves breaking into their car and stealing a computer. At first I thought they were simple thieves, but when we visit their house and see that it is extremely opulent, I realised that they were in fact industrial spies.They live in a huge water tower in what is a home of clever gadgets and secret rooms. They are trying to save up two million dollars to buy a mansion and they salvage anything to use in their schemes to make money. Some of them are for ten thousand at a time, while others are simply fifty pound jobs where they move insulation from one house to another. It is interesting that during the insulation scam, they leave the poorer lady alone while they fleece the richer ones.Shooting Fish is a great little movie. It is not one of deep themes, it is a simple enjoyable movie where those cast out of society take back what was theirs in clever little schemes, and even though they spend a few months in gaol, it does have a happy ending. The thing I really liked is that the judge was dressed in purple. That simply shows me that they bothered to research the English courts and do a decent job at it. This movie is cool. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  After reading some of the comments about this film I just had to express my view. This is one of my favorite films. I admit for some it may be an acquired taste. You'll either love it or hate it. I love it and have recommended it to many of my friends. I lent the video to a friend and she loved it so much she kept showing it to her friends and family and I never got it back. I ended up buying a second copy. Maybe not the best of movies but certainly one you may need to see a couple of times to get the whole picture. (and little things like the wallpaper in the guys place). I think the idea and premise is very imaginative. If you like this film you may want to check out Cold Comfort Farm. Another quirky British humor movie with Kate Beckinsale.  "},{"Title":"Bulls Eye!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Ha! What a romp! Although not as funny...'Shooting Fish' is in the same tradition as 'Saving Grace' and 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.' Very silly and very entertaining British humor. My daughter and I enjoyed several belly laughs with this one and she even figured out the title without having to be told. And added feature was the delightful sound track!It's rare to find a modern movie you can watch with a 14 year old and both enjoy! And I have to say, Kate Beckinsale, 'Emma' (1997) (TV) series fame, is a winsome doll. It won't work to try and make much sense of this movie...just think of it as The Odd Couple (Dan Futterman, Stuart Townsend) on Virgin Atlantic. "},{"Title":"The film with the happy ending","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you are the kind of person who likes happy endings, with themes of comedy and romance throughout, then this is a film for you. It was definately not a boring film, as i was engaged throughout, with the unusual storyline. I would recommend watching this film because I know that at certain parts, you will laugh your ass off. ***POSSIBLE SPOILER***(the funeral and the blow up dolls), people who have seen it, you know what i mean. "},{"Title":"It's all Beckinsale","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie three times since its release, but if I'm to be honest the last two times were mostly because of miss Beckinsale. To quote Dylan in the movie I can see it now, she is a stunningly attractive woman.The other actors make a good appearence as well, both Futterman as Dylan and Townsend as Jez are well casted, and they make well balanced duo. The movie is funny, though maybe not as laugh-out-loud-hillarious as a pure comedy would be, and allthough the plot is pretty crap (with some really far fetched sollutions), all in all it's a movie well worth seeing (unless you have a thing against pretty female faces...). "},{"Title":"brit comedy","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the cutest films i've ever seen. The actors are great and their characters absolutely loveable. Jez (Stuart Townsend - one can only feel sorry for his haircut in the movie) and Dylan (Dan Futterman) are two little crooks who try to make enough money to fulfill their dream and buy themselves a house. While doing one of their swindels they get to know Georgie (played by Kate Beckinsale) and happen to both fall in love with her. From that point on it's getting real chaotic, but you can bet on a happy ending. Maybe it's a little predictable, still absolutely worth watching it. "},{"Title":"Heart-warming and irrepressibly cheery","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Call me hopelessly sentimental but I actually find this film very touching! Once you totally suspend your disbelief (this is a film, it's kind of expected...) Jez and Dylan really sell the orphans concept. Here you have two lonely, needy, love-starved guys who through hard work, self-denial and sheer determination win themselves a family and a home. How can your heart not melt? The acting by the male leads is strong enough (mostly - the 'why do I have to get so technical?' scene falters a bit) to make you invest emotionally in Dylan and Jez' quest despite the fact that - all soft-heartedness aside - they are two lying, selfish, close to morally bankrupt con-merchants. By the end of the film you'll be cheering them on.What am I saying? By five minutes in you'll be cheering them on! Yes, it's full of clichés. Yes, it's pretty predictable. Yes, it's soppy. But this film proves that you can get away with anything if you have lovable characters and a fantastic soundtrack (see also Ocean's 11). Never fails to cheer me up - I'd recommend it to anyone not entirely hard-boiled. "},{"Title":"explanation","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  in response to an earlier post regarding the title of the film, shooting fish is a title derived from the expression, shooting fish in a barrel, which is meant to signify an easy act. obviously, shooting fish in a barrel is plain daft, as with the first shot you puncture the barrel, causing the water to all leak out anyway. however, you'll notice throughout the film that the characters refer to the people they are conning as 'fat fishes' and 'thin fishes'. dylan and jez only like to take money from those who can spare it, the fat fishes. what these guys do effectively, is shoot fish in a barrel. they set up a con (therefore introducing the fish into the barrel), and the ones that they fancy eating, are then shot, or in this case conned.and not eaten.it's not that kind of film.anyway, hence shooting fish. wonderful film, any way you choose to look at it. "},{"Title":"Typical English boredom","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I think I have to stop watching English movies. Apart from the James Bond-movies and a small number of comedies, they are usually pure crap. This movie is definitely one of those. The first ten minutes starts out OK, and the movie has potential at this time. Sadly, it doesn't continue in this style at all. The story is about two swindlers who tries to earn a lot of money by tricking people in different ways. None of the ways they do this are funny at all. It's supposed to be a comedy, but personally I didn't laugh one single time during the movie. In addition, the story really sucks, especially because they threw a bit of romance on top of it. Alos, the ending is very bad, and it was just what I had expected because movies like this leave you with no surprises. If you want to see a movie about swindlers, watch Dirty Rotten Scoundrels instead. "},{"Title":"Very light, surreal British three-way romcom","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" A comedy before it's time - it's all about sustainable resources! This is a brave little film, having neither big names nor obvious genre. The three principals are the latterday highwaymen Dylan and Jez, pulling scams on individuals and corporations alike to make a living. Their plans are big - they need a vast sum in order to move from their (ivory) tower to townhouse and hire - in typically unconventional fashion - a secretary to help them organise their income. Kate Beckinsdale's Georgie is far too lovely a PA to allow things to continue between the friends as smoothly as it had and soon they are on the back foot with only the fresh object of their contention to bail them out.Stuart Townsend and Dan Futterman (especially the latter) are good value and engage with the nuttiness of their ruses to the extent that you just go along with it all. I like Beckinsdale in this - acting fresh fair and occasionally feisty is nothing to be ashamed-and-run-off-to-Hollywood about. Perfect for a Bank Holiday weekend. 4/10 "}{"Title":"Watch the first half (I'll SPOIL the rest)","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Watch this film late at night, when you won't care if you fall asleep half way through.  The movie really takes a nosedive.  Everyone's gushy comments about the first part of the film are correct---it is certainly an enjoyable comedy, well done by good people.  But the final coup is idiotic and an embarrassment.SPOILER  They use a helium pack to lift the weight off the horse so it wins the Steeplechase.  Now think about it  Suppose you gather up enough helium-filled party balloons to fir under your shirt, and weigh yourself on the bathroom scale.  It might reduce your weight by an ounce or two---that'a about all the lifting power they have.  Surely not enough to reduce the weight on a glue-factory nag to propel it across the finish line ahead of other fine steeds.  At best, the helium trick would have gained about a nose at the finish line.  Even YOU knew that, didn't you?  Really, how many paper-clips can a helium-filled party balloon lift?  Even if all their other scams would have worked prestidigitatiously, this final one is an insult. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but typically convoluted plot lets it down big time","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Just watched it. Sad. Started out decently, but deteriorated quickly. The actors tried hard, and are likeable enough, but film fell foul of typical British film nonsense of making things too complicated, rather than having a good story. Final resolution was predictable, just a matter of details, with no regard for the intelligence of the audience. Felt like they wanted to finish it as quickly as possible - ran out of steam. Can't believe some people regard it as their best film ever. We obviously have vaaaaaaastly differing tastes. "},{"Title":"Spare the fish, take me instead (2/10)","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Not very interesting by my standards, Shooting Fish starts off alright but towards the middle bit, I found my interest waning. The cast is actually pretty good, but thats not enough to save this one - it just got wackier and wackier towards the end. You'll probably like this if you're into romantic films of the sappy type. And is it just me or was the female lead's character really stupid? Did she *actually* believe that those two clowns stole two million quid to give it to the orphanage? "},{"Title":"A great plot, but soon falls into cliché...","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Shooting Fish has a very promising story, two poor guys pulling off scams on rich, greedy people; sort of a modern-day Robin Hood. But it soon becomes clichéd, losing its visual flair and snappy comedy for more of a sappy love story...  "},{"Title":"Never Mind the Fish, Shoot ME!","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This film has a promising First Act.After around 20 minutes, you begin to suspect that things will go wrong.Then they get much worse than that, they get terrible.The Third Act is in slow-motion, with nine too many plot twists and no pace at all. By this time you are clawing the stuffing out of your couch.I hate these people for having wasted a night out of my life.Dan Futterman, a kind of low-rent baby Richard Gere, plays the American the English love to hate - smug, glib, an updated version of over-paid, over-sexed and over here. Stuart Townsend plays a shambling English wonk, good hearted and socially undeveloped. Hey, there's something new in films! Kate Beckinsale's charm is unable to salvage the proceedings, and she projects none of the intelligence one would hope to find in a budding doctor. Totally implausible. And there are some very good character actors who are completely wasted in unrewarding roles.I suspect the script was written using one of those screen writing software programs, as the characters, twists and paradoxes are all arbitrary, every single last blinking one of them. Including the blow-up dolls.If the Surgeon General's Office could place a Health Warning on this film, the world would be a safer place.I can't imagine where the positive reviews for this film originate - probably in a misplaced sense of charity. As Jay Sherman, of The Critic, would say, IT STINKS! "},{"Title":"Stefan Schwartz Shoots Himself In The Foot","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" As many people have mentioned on this page SHOOTING FISH had a lot of potential as it centered around loud mouthed American Dylan and geeky Englishman Jez who are a couple of scam artists . We British have a sort of sneaking respect for these type of con artists ( As long as they con other people of course ) and there's a lot of room for explosive comedy potential as we see Dylan revealing a new type of computer word processor that has a volcabury of hundreds of thousands of words in its database so I sat back ready to enjoy this British comedy but halfway through I was bored senseless It's very obvious what went wrong . Director and co-writer Stefan Schwartz has decided that a laddish comedy will only appeal to 50% of a potential audience so has made a movie that will also appeal to fans of soppy romance by introducing a love triangle featuring Dylan , Jez and Georgie . Unfortunately SHOOTING FISH will ONLY appeal to fans of soppy romance which probably makes up 3% of the audience . This actually seems to be a problem with Schwartz as his future films like THE ABDUCTION CLUB and THE BEST MAN also feature soppy romance in abundance. Fair enough if you want to make a gooey rom com then go ahead but make sure the central premise allows it . Watching very patchy funny scenes like  LESLEY IS DEAD MAN  convinced me that this would have worked without the lovey dovey stuff which seems to have been shoehorned in and it's this that brings the film down Interesting trivia point about Stefan Schwartz  He once had a walk on part in Battlefield , my least favourite DOCTOR WHO story "},{"Title":"A really bad film","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I remembered this film being popular when it came out, and after seeing it for the first time yesterday, I couldn't believe how bad and embarrassingly unfunny the script and story were. This film falls into the trap which other British comedies like Sliding Doors have made. It panders to outmoded unrealistic stereotypes about what Britain is like - a quaint world of red telephone boxes and bumbling, nervous Hugh Grant-like men where everyone is white and middle or upper class and speak with plums in their mouths (posh accents). This is absolute rubbish! Where's the vibrant edginess and hectic buzz of London with its multi-culturalism and ethnic diversity, and why do British film makers have to perpetuate these stale myths? I personally find it sad that British film makers think that making these kinds of patronising films is the only way to appeal to the foreign market.  "},{"Title":"Who wrote the script of this movie?","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I got this movie because of Kate Beckinsale, after I saw it, I was very disappointed of the script. I was actually uplifted after watching this movie because considering the plot, even I can write a script and have someone buy it and call it a movie. Who wrote the script? a high school student? it seems like they just rush the film and not even consider the intelligence of the audience. I like Kate Beckinsale but this movie was a bad choice for her, she shouldn't have signed up for this. Although, she was cute with very short hair, nice; but that can't compensate the disaster that this film created.If people call this one of the greatest British Comedy of all time, then British Comedy sucks big elephant balls. "},{"Title":"Bad enough to make me go through the IMDB registration process, just so I can save you from seeing it.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Poor acting. Poor directing. Humor that is weakly attempted and trite, not the English wit that I am used to - not once did I laugh, although half the lines in the movie are intended to make one do so.  The plot is ridiculous, which I assume is intended to make for a zany romp, but it's not creative or inspired enough to justify its lack of plausibility.  The charismatic actors are without charm and give uninspired performances to roles with good deal of potential.  The music in some scenes is almost as dull and inappropriately chosen as the female lead, who is about as dull and inappropriate as you can get.All in all, the whole thing seems thrown together by a pair of adolescent males who were told by their $60-for-three-weeks scriptwriting class instructor that they were talented and so decided to go off and write and direct their own movie.  This flick tries and fails at every turn to be cute.  It is so bad it made me go through the IMDB.com registration process, in the hopes that I can save just one of you from having to watch it.Remember, just because your girlfriend tells you she thinks your script is cute, and that you're so creative, you should become a filmmaker, it doesn't mean its true! "},{"Title":"Worst film I have seen in a long time!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Luckily I didn´t pay to see this film on video. After reading the comments on the front of the box I should have been warned that it would be awful as it is compared to The full monty and 4 wedding..etc, both of which I despised. Nevertheless I sat through this agonisingly juvenile claptrap for nearly 2 hours. To be fair it starts off OK although hardly originally with the 2 main characters attempting to defraud companies by pretending to have invented a talking computer. Silly as that seems...believe me it gets much, much worse as this sordid little number descends into the realms of stupidity that even a 2 year old would find embarrassing. Of course I like to suspend disbelief when I see a movie, but of course the amount of suspending I am prepared to do depends very much on the context of the plot and the characters therein and safe to say this film falls short of both those markers. All in all....DON´T WATCH THIS GARBAGE!!!!! "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Shooting Fish is the most appallingly bad film I've seen for a long time. The acting is terrible, the plot totally implausible, it's not funny, the pace is inconsistent, the low budget is screamingly obvious throughout. Don't bother if you haven't already.  Really, this is a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Why was this even made?!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Movies like this should not be made. Shooting Fish is dull, boring and just not interesting at all, which I guess is down to the downright awful screenplay as one of the main reasons. Kate Beckinsale is a good actress, especially in movies like Pearl Harbor and Serendipity, but here I can't even say she's good. The rest of the cast are just as bad. Just do not see this movie. "},{"Title":"Doesn't have much of a structure to it--too bad, it has a cute premise. ** out of ****","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  SHOOTING FISH (1997) **Starring Dan Futterman, Stuart Townsend, Kate Beckinsale, Nickolas Grace, Claire Cox, Ralph Ineson Director Stefan Schwartz   running time approximately 100 minutes   Rated PG (for mild language, thematic elements and some sexual suggestions)By Blake FrenchIt is never a good sign when a movie's title has nothing to do with the movie itself. I still have no clue of why this film is called Shooting Fish. No, it isn't about hunters, fisherman, or people that shoot fish, but about two con men who have a hard time dealing with stolen money, romantic relationships, and their friendships.The film stars Dan Futterman and Stuart Townsend as the con men, Dylan and Jez. They used to be orphans who have had dreams of building a mansion of their own for years. But where are they going to get the money? They start out with a business fraud in which they convince high stakes corporate owners that they have a talking, digital computer system when actually it is a regular machine with a microphone built into it and a friend from the other room gabbing away. Then Dylan and Jez go to false instillation where they walk up to a random house and tell the pedestrian that their spouse has told themThe film then takes a rapid, conventional turn for the best and concludes with a sappy ending in which everything turns cheerful and all of the characters live happily ever after. It does realize the emotional aspect of the characters, but so many movies today end with such beatitude instead of being gutsy and feverish. There are exceptions, (Arlington Road), and Shooting Fish is not one of them.	The production has a cute and interesting premise, but it doesn't get anywhere with it. It is Robin Hood territory in many ways, but that doesn't mean the concept can't work again. The cleaver ideas are dragged on way too long, and to much of the film rely on them. There are a few funny scenes. The characters do have a charming chemistry together. And what better to do than investigate personal and work life of appealing characters. At least the director gets that much right. 	Most of Shooting Fish does not have a whole lot of a structure to it. It was kind of all over the game board&#133;at random points in the script. Thus, the overall production was hard for me to understand...and I study film, and screen over 100 movies each year. About half way though Shooting Fish, the story let go of my interest and I began to day dream about what I needed at the grocery store, what movie I was going to screen next, what review will I post next etc...I wanted a break from all the hustle bustle the characters created for themselves. To generalize the failure of Stefan Schwartz's comedy-drama, I'd have to say that Shooting Fish lacks a dramatic purpose. The scenes only exist, never actually concluding any kind of an impact to the audience. They don't have inspiration or meaning to them and I don't recommend the film. 		 "}]