[{"Title":"Not impressive","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This was a great plot, but this filming really missed something for me. As a romantic comedy, it can be enjoyed, but it doesn't blow me away like the big ones do. The cruelty was out of place, particularly the scene after Sam's and Max's first date. Individual scenes made sense and ran smoothly, but the whole film didn't have much cohesion for me. I found it difficult to believe Jay really had a relationship with the model Natasha, so much so that he was quite despondent after the breakup. I did actually like the sliminess of David Schwimmer's character. His Band Of Brothers role is the only one I can remember in which he performed even better. Mili Avatal as Sam showed no warmth or sincerity, I'm sorry to say. This movie always leaves me wishing I had chosen another film to watch. "},{"Title":"I was the fool for watching this...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The story opens with a bride and groom kissing at their marriage service but you only get to see the face of the bride. This is a clue for us. We are going to have to figure out as we watch the film which guy is going to end up being the groom. The picture on the front of the video box has already showed us a bride being kissed from one side by Schwimmer and simultaneously from the other by Lee so we know the race for romance is going to be between the two of them. (This release, with Dutch subtitles, has a different picture to the US video/ IMDb picture.)Yet in the first five minutes Linda the publisher tells us, not once, but twice that she introduced the bride and groom.  We cut to a flashback of her introducing the two of them to each other, just in case we still don't get it. Then within another five minutes Jay the writer (Lee) is introducing Sam, his editor (Avital) to Max the sports caster and general foul-mouthed ignoramus (Schwimmer). IF the publisher is telling us the truth, doesn't this just kinda rule Max out of the contest for the first person to kiss the bride? Or have I missed something here?This film is about as predictable as trying to guess which kind of white meat will feature most often on Thanksgiving dinner tables this year. I'll tell you; it will be turkey. And this movie sure is one.But it is not just the plot and direction that are hugely lacking. Schwimmer is totally unbelievable and badly miscast as Max. His mouth moves, the words come out, but they lack any conviction whatsoever. The character of Jay the writer is such a whiney loser (with possibly the worst hairstyle in recent movie history) that I began to dread every screen appearance he made. He seemed to communicate in a series of whinging questions What are you doing here? So what?? And?? I have absolutely no idea why the two of them were friends; they had nothing in common and were always bitching at each other. The script was very weak in places Jay's explanation of why he had introduced Max to Sam provoked for me the biggest guffaw of the film (one of the very few). Best part of the film? The Harry Connick Jr. song over the opening credits.Overall, it gets a 3; a waste of my time and money - it was I who was the FOOL for not reading Roger Ebert's review BEFORE going to the video shop. If you are looking for a nice romantic comedy get While You Were Sleeping, The Philadelphia Story, As Good As It Gets or anything else on the IMDb list of top 50 Romance films.  "},{"Title":"Sweet... but ultimately nothing else...","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" by Dane YoussefNow here is a movie that wants to be something successful by combining everything successful. Kissing A Fool wants to be too many things. Can you mix successful ingredients and get the best of every world? Kissing... tries to be a '40's-style romantic comedy, a modern sex comedy and a sit-com at the same time.Co-writer/Director Doug Ellin is a friend of Schwimmer's and Schwimmer has gone on and on about exactly how great it feels to shed his Ross-image and play the complete anti-Ross. Jason Lee stars as Jay Murphy, a sensitive nice guy who's a romance novelist and is recovering from his latest breakup with a model named Natasha (played by TV's Weird Science Vanessa Angel). He has a sweet boy-next-door demeanor about him and his real problem is he's too nice and sensitive for his own good. The worst part about being sensitive is that the world is so full of crap and garbage, people are such assholes that your feelings get hurt too often, too easy, too much. Better to be as cruel as the world or even more so and give worse than you get. Believe me, I know of what I speak of. David Schwimmer co-stars as Jay's best friend Max Abbitt, a sportscaster who's a womanizer who plays the field more than the teams reports on. A total creep and always with a dumb expression of his face, a self-satisfied drawl and his own cool-guy salutation What' up? Always a toothpick and a too cool drawl dangling from his lip. Mili Avital is unfortunately given the second-to-weakest developed character in the whole film. She's sweet, perky and photogenic... but nothing else, really. She and Lee could have some great chemistry if only the film allowed it. But this movie is written in a way that's so made-to-order, it's embarrassing. Bonnie Hunt plays the narrator that is publishing Lee's book. She's also the narrator. Why does this movie need a narrator? The narration actually manages to make the movie even less suspenseful, if that's possible. And Vanessa Angel, who broke through in TV's Weird Science and almost stole Kingpin, is given the least interesting character. She plays a model and Jay's heartless ex-girlfriend who has dumped him and left him a pathetic neurotic mess. Hers is not a character, but a plot device. The heartless bitch who is so cruel and horrible to the sweet-hearted hero so more of our sympathy goes to him. I groaned at her scenes. The movie's dialog is not always plot-driven or cutesy-poo, like most romantic comedies are (although sometimes it is). Most of the script is written in an observational sit-com kind of way. Like Seinfeld or Mad About You (or yes, even Friends). But the dramatic/romantic scenes are embarrassingly maudlin. Is it just me or is the entire cast of Friends been trying to mimic Kevin Smith?* The Object of My Affection * Kissing A Fool * Three To Tango Smith's groundbreaking romantic comedy Chasing Amy was revolutionary, insightful... and made big waves for Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Lee and Smith himself. A romantic comedy, a sex comedy and a relationship story. Not merely a love story, but a life story. Lately, Hollywood has been trying to make Smith-like slick Hollywood movies. So far, they failed terribly. Smith's movies are great because they are daring and avoid formulas. And they master the art of sparkling conversation. This film does neither. Nor do any of the other Kevin Smith-wannabes. Lee's character has been through the ringer and things are looking bleaker. I really liked him here and felt for him. And identified with him more than I wanted to.I knew guys like Max in high school, but in the outside world? Who knows? I was kind of like the Lee character myself. In a way, I still am. Too sensitive. Too easily vulnerable. Such a whipping boy. I did understand what Jay meant when he said, You know, I wish I had your heart. Then I wouldn't have spent so many sleepless nights.... The plot seems cruel and creepy, yet too sit-com-like at the same time. Test my fiancée''s fidelity? Almost seems like a sick ploy to throw Jay & Samantha together, doesn't it? Oh wait, it is...Anyone who has ever seen a movie will know what the ending will be. It's almost like waiting for the coyote to fall off the cliff. Schwimmer's Max Abbit character seems to dumb and dull and annoying to be interesting. He must be sick of playing the same type (The Pallbearer, Six Days, Seven Nights and TV's Friends), but this movie will do nothing for him. Still, at least he tried. I kept (back in 1999 when I first saw this movie) seeing a mad Ross trying to be bad whenever I looked at him, but now looking back on it and putting Ross out of my head (I really dislike the show anyway), Schwimmer does an effective job... however he doesn't really have dimensions and depth. He's just not an interesting womanizer. Apparently, a lot of Schwimmer fans felt confused by his role here. It feels like Schwimmer wants to play someone completely different without risking losing his hard-core audience. Schwimmer does do a much better job breaking typecasting in the forgettable Since You've Been Gone and the memorable Band of Brothers.MEMO TO Hollywood If you're gonna keep making bad Kevin Smith-knockoffs, at lest quit putting Friends actors in them.--Kissing Off This One, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Fairly entertaining.","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I didn't have expectations for this one. I watched it on LATE local t.v. But the cast really had me intrigued. David Schwimmer, Jason Lee, the beautiful Mili Avital, Vanessa Angel, Mili Avital among others deliver a great performance. The cast is really good and seems that they had great chemistry between them.The movie had the occasional funny situations and some smart dialogs. Then I thought I was watching an episode of Friends. The acting, dialogs, and even direction made this look like a sitcom.Still I have a good time with this movie. It's funny and romantic at some points. Of course, with the typical American humor. Give it a try, I can see why it's considered to be an underrated comedy. "},{"Title":"David Schwimmer Stud??","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The story is told as a flashback from Linda Streicher (Bonnie Hunt) at their wedding. Max (David Schwimmer) is a womanizing sleaze. Jay (Jason Lee) is his best friend. Jay introduces Sam (Mili Avital) from work to Max and they hit it right off. Three weeks later, they are set to marry.David Schwimmer is completely miscast as the womanizing stud who's every girl's dream. Somebody really needs to stub him with that toothpick. Maybe they should have switched his role with Jason Lee.And without any spoilers, let's just say the scheme breaks all kinds of bro code. And it's completely manufactured strictly for rom-coms. The jokes all fall flat.Mili Avital is functional as the lead, but considering they had the much funnier Judy Greer, and hotter Kari Wuhrer in the same movie, she pales in comparison.Jason Lee is the only one that does a great job. He plays a slightly nerdy lovable writer. Only he needs better partners to play opposite to. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a crappy romantic comedy starring David Schwimmer","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I quite enjoyed it, but admittedly I saw it at midday, when already p*ssed up and feeling like crap... was quite relevant to my situation... still as far as crappy romantic comedy's go its a pretty good one. And David Schwimmer was tolerable (i have previously been of the opinion that he is THE most annoying man in existence). I wouldn't recommend anyone going out and watching it, but if your drowning your sorrows and its on TV, you might as well put it on. Apparently my comment isn't long enough, so I will add that Jason Lee is great, I've only really seen him in Kevin Smith films before, which have fantastic scripts, but it make me respect him more knowing that he can do so well in more conventional and (to be honest) less funny films. "},{"Title":"totally dislikeable","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  every character in this film is totally dislikeable, I very rarely agree with Leonard Maltin but this movie is definitely awful. The David Schwimmer character is more likeable than the Jason Lee character but not very much, which doesnt work because Lee is supposedly the hero of the story. He's whining, pathetic and annoying. In reality, neither deserves to get the girl.  "},{"Title":"I gave this movie a four. why?","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Because the only redeemable quality in this film is Jason Lee. His brand of comedy is one of those who you either love or hate. David Schwimmer is the worst I have ever seen him in this movie. Go see All the rage if you want to see him as a good actor. Even his work on Friends is better. This movie is only to be watched if your girlfriend makes you. "},{"Title":"Good, Kevin Smith-ish type comedy","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very much on the same lines as a Kevin Smith movie, if you enjoyed Mallrats and Chasing Amy then you should find this entertaining enough. It even has Smith 'regular' Jason Lee in the cast alongside David Scwimmer, who is surprisingly good, and unknown beauty Mili Avital, who is very impressive in the first film I have ever seen her in. The story centres on 2 friends who have been friends since they were kids. They are constantly setting each other up with their female acquaintances, enter Avital, Lee's boss, who has a big effect on both of them!. You will have seen this formula many times before and maybe better, but if you are looking for a genuinely funny 80 - odd minutes, look no further.  "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie far more than I thought I would. Both male leads give good performances (I never doubted they were really friends, which is rare in a movie) and there were many funny moments, a lot of which came from Bonnie Hunt.  The only character that seemed underdeveloped and forced was Natasha - Jason Lee's ex.  Their scenes together didn't do much for the movie.  "}{"Title":"The Fool in Question Must be the Screenwriter.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kissing a Fool (1998) Dir Doug Ellin / Cast Jason Lee, Mili Avital, David Schwimmer, Bonnie Hunt, Kari Wuhrer One of those lame romantic comedies where one goes for snacks during the film and willingly returns to glimpse the commercials. It is a stupid romantic comedy regarding blind love. David Schwimmer plays a young sportscaster while Jason Lee plays a struggling writer. Schwimmer is constantly in the company of women so to settle things down Jason Lee sets him up with his editor played by Mili Avital. She is smart and easy going and they are soon engaged. Lee cannot understand it but then again he struggles in overcoming his previously girlfriend. Obviously Schwimmer isn't ready to settle down so he enlists Lee to hang around Avital to see whether she would cheat on him. Doug Ellin directs the material like a sitcom. All three principal actors are drenched in predictable formula that reduces them to idiots. Lee is totally reduced to cardboard, and Schwimmer overacts from the moment he first appears on screen. Avital deserves better, and Bonnie Hunt throws in a one-liner or two as narrator but otherwise she is just the bearer of bad news, which is the screenplay. Kari Wuhrer also makes an appearance but even with her stunning presence there is no life in this dreary piece of junk. This film should be placed in a trash bag for garbage day. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Gaze upon the awesome spectacle of Jason Lee's unibrow...if you dare!","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Making a movie is a complex affair when many things can go wrong and nobody may care about the things that go right. Filmmakers and studios are driven mad by audiences who embrace crap and turn their nose up at something good. Even given this difficult uncertainty, there's no excuse for the litany of plainly obvious mistakes and misjudgments of Kissing a Fool. The things that are wrong with this motion picture are so glaringly wrong that it is inconceivable how no one noticed them. This sort of fiasco doesn't just get people fired, it should actually end careers.The plot here is almost as old as fiction itself. A guy falls in love with his best friend's fiancée. The guy in this instance is Jay (Jason Lee), a passive mope who is still devastated after being dumped by his ex-girlfriend and is writing a novel about the miserable experience. His best friend is Max (David Schwimmer), a Chicago sportscaster and all around hound dog who, of course, is the exact opposite of Jay in every way. The fiancée is Sam (Mili Avitai), the editor of Jay's book. Jay introduces Sam to Max, they fall instantly into love, move in together and start talking marriage.Let me stop with the plot and explain how this movie goes into the crapper right away and never gets out. First, it opens with Sam getting married to somebody but we can't see who. We're then introduced to Linda (Bonnie Hunt) who claims to have introduced the newlyweds and proceeds to explain how they got together to a couple of fellow wedding guests, essentially narrating the story as it appears in flashbacks. The whole point of this structure is to create a mystery as to whether Sam ends up with Max or Jay. Yet before you realize there's supposed to be a mystery, Linda says she introduced the newlyweds and then we see her introducing Jay and Sam. So, anyone with half a brain has to assume that Jay and Sam are the ones who got married and absolutely nothing, not even Max and Sam getting engaged, ever causes you to reconsider that assumption. There's never a single second when it seems like Sam might end up with anyone other than Jay, but the film still carries out the non-existent mystery until the very end.Secondly, Jason Lee is playing the sympathetic guy in a romantic triangle&#x85;and he has a unibrow. It's not an ordinary unibrow, either. It's one where his eyebrows not only meet but take sharp turns and crawl down the bridge of his nose. It's so hideous you can hardly even notice anything else when Lee is on screen. Lee isn't exactly a matinée idol to begin with and here he's made to look physically repellent.Those two blatant errors strangle Kissing a Fool in its crib. It wouldn't have mattered how good everything else was, it was doomed from the start by those two awful and inept creative choices. And they're both such easily avoided problems. Simply have Linda say she knows the married couple instead of introduced them and there could have at least theoretically been a mystery. Pluck Lee's eyebrows every morning before shooting began and at least the audience wouldn't have been distracted by looking at Lee and expecting him to start strumming a banjo and squealing like a pig.It ultimately doesn't matter because the rest of the movie stinks on ice. Apparently realizing they weren't talented enough to do anything with the old two people are perfect for each other but neither wants to betray a third person shtick, they add in a twist that sounds like something Aaron Sorkin would have resorted to if Sports Night has lasted another season or two. Max wants to test the fidelity of his fiancée, so he asks Jay to see if he can get Sam to want to sleep with him. The filmmakers also include an appearance by Jay's horrible ex-girlfriend and give Max an ex-girlfriend he's constantly hanging around with for no explicable reason. They even throw in a female cousin (Judy Greer) visiting Sam and staying at her house, as though giving each main character an annoying chick to deal with somehow made it funny.Compounding the suck is that Max is a far more interesting and dynamic than Jay and also happens to be the one who pushes the narrative along. When the third wheel of your romantic triangle is the most proactive character in the film, that's a problem.Bonnie Hunt and David Schwimmer are both quite good here, particularly Schwimmer, who demonstrates the comedic skills that could have led him to an entirely different career if he hadn't been cemented in the public's mind as Ross from Friends.Kissing a Fool is a misconceived mistake that people should have seen coming a mile away. Unless you have a thing for guys with unibrows, don't bother watching it. "},{"Title":"the book that max gives Jay","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the movie, Jay gave a book to Max from which he quotes at the end during his best man speech. He said the name of the author, but it sounded like some foreign name...does anyone know who the author of that book is and/or which book it was that Jay gave Max? They said it was a classic and I LOVE that quote from the book. It said, True love can not be found where it does not truly exist. Nor can it be hidden where it truly does. I tried Googling the name of the author by inputting how I thought his name might be spelled, but I couldn't find anything. Can anyone help me? I just want to find out which book it is that Max reads from in the movie and who the author is. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Jason, Bonnie, The Mighty Blue Kings, and The Green Mill","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"    If not for these four things, this movie would be unbearable. Jason Lee is the best, and cutest, skateboarder turned actor on this or any other planet.  He brings a sweet vulnerability to every character I have seen him play. Kudos to you, sir!  When I rule the world, Bonnie Hunt will be in every movie that is made.  The woman is a comic genius, 'nuff said.  As for the Kings, modern swing does not get any better.  Plus, Ross is a hotty.  And then there is the Mill.  Quite possibly the coolest bar ever. Al Capone used to own it, what more can I say?  If you're in Chicago, you must check it out.  This is a great video to watch, cuz you can fast forward through the numerous boring parts!    "},{"Title":"Er...Jason Lee?","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film belongs to the infamous group of movies where i sit in the theater wondering should i be somewhere (anywhere) else?  That isn't a bad review. It's just a comment on worth.  The movie is decent enough at what it wants to be--perhaps a little of a stretch at times.  It does, however, have one redeeming quality Jason Lee.This man makes the movie.  He is a little more constrained than he is in his Kevin Smith films but still his desert-in-a-drought-and-more humor strikes me as the unbelievably funny.  If you like it dry, and some do, you've could check this movie out, just for Mr. Lee...well, and for the nastiest David Schwimmer i've ever seem...all i can say is what up?You should be thinking this review is lukewarm because it is. So is the film.  It's not brilliant or ground-breaking but it's funny.  Worth a dollar or two on a slow night. "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled....this is a fun film","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Max (David Schwimmer) and Jay (Jason Lee) have been best friends since childhood.  Adults now, Max is a Chicago sportscaster while Jay is an aspiring writer.  Out of admiration for his editor, Samantha (Mili Avital), Jay gets the brilliant idea of fixing Max up with Samantha. (Jay is suffering from the breakup of a recent relationship and professes not to be interested in Samantha himself). Things start off well.  Max and Samantha are so taken with each other that they move in together and become engaged.  Yet, Max gets cold feet and asks Jay for an unbelievable favor.  Can Jay please try to seduce Samantha so that Max will know if she'll be faithful to him or not?This lesser-known romantic comedy is charming and amusing.  The three leads give good performances and the script, while a little salty at times, is fun.  The scenes in and around Chicago are sure to please Midwesterners.  While the ending is somewhat of a surprise, it is satisfying nonetheless.  Fans of Schwimmer and Lee will be glad they took a chance on this film.  Recommended also for those searching for a good evening of entertainment when the hot items are all checked out at the video store or library. "},{"Title":"Not romantic and not funny","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Implausible and boring, with distracting and unnecessary profanity. Bonnie Hunt's talent was totally wasted. Maybe the film would have worked if a different set of actors had been cast.  It was really quite unpleasant to watch them going through the motions, and not caring about them at all.     "},{"Title":"Best Buddies Who Constantly Argue?","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" With those stunning camera shots of Chicago and that snappy Harry Connick, Jr. song in the title sequence, Kissing A Fool gets off to a great start. And I liked Bonnie Hunt as the story's narrator. But the film suffers from a plot that is too predictable and from characters whose behavior is not believable.This is one of those movies that you can see the end coming a mile away. There are virtually no plot twists to deflect the story's straight-line trajectory. As such, the story is almost too simple and unimaginative to be worth telling. To varying degrees, most romantic comedies are fairly shallow. But Kissing A Fool has no subtlety at all, not in plot, not in characters, not in dialogue.Lacking any complexity, the story relies on two main characters, Jay (Jason Lee) and Max (David Schwimmer) whose behavior toward each other is not believable. They're supposed to be best buddies. But they are constantly at each other's throats. Their constant arguing not only is annoying; it calls into question their friendship. How can they be best buddies?The two are not at all alike. Jay is bookish and cerebral; Max is your typical arrogant, cocky self-centered sports freak jerk. All that animosity between these two guys does not lend credibility to their friendship; yet, it is the main contrivance that propels the film's plot. Further, it renders a story conclusion that is, by extension, also not believable.The film's acting is a tad exaggerated. I like Jason Lee, but he tends to overact in this film. Mili Avital, as the girl in between, is okay, but she doesn't have much to do. And David Schwimmer's performance is something of a hyper-masculine strut-fest. Some subtlety in acting would have helped a lot.For all that, Kissing A Fool is still worth watching, once. It has credible production values, and there are occasional lines of dialogue that are funny. And I think the film's underlying concept is fine. I just wish the script and the acting could have been a little more nuanced and subtle. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable romantic comedy with great leads","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A delightful romantic comedy, told in flashback from the wedding of two of the main characters by a guest who was responsible for bringing them together.  David Schwimmer (best known as the meek Ross from the hit series Friends) is cast WAY against type as the womanising, foul-mouthed, five-o'clock-shadowed bachelor who feels it's time for him to settle down. His best friend, played by Jason Lee, is trying to pick himself up after a painful breakup from a long-term relationship, and does so by writing a spiteful novel about his experiences with his ex. His book editor, played by Mili Avital, is also his platonic confidant and one day, he decides to introduce her to Schwimmer's character.Needless to say, this is the start of a 'bizarre love triangle', with some very funny plot twists as well as some tugging of emotions.  All three main characters are excellent, and this makes for quite an enjoyable film - something like a straighter, cleaner version of Chasing Amy, if anyone's looking for comparisons. "},{"Title":"A Good Rainy Day Movie","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After reading user and external reviews of this movie, I realized that most people did not get it - so to speak. This is not a movie where Schwimmer is supposed to be some hot piece of meat, or where you should expect to be rolling in the aisles, laughing.It is the shallow and inconsiderate vs. the deep and meaningful.  Max is a fickle, self-involved guy, open to any avenue his libido directs him to, concerned only with his own satisfaction.  Oddly enough, this is usually the type of guy most women find appealing on a surface-level-only type of relationship, and Schwimmer plays the part very believably.Jay is more of a thinker, analyzing all possible outcomes before proceeding, careful and cautious and unwilling to purposely hurt someone.  Lee is quite good at pulling this off, making you tense for him when you should be, worried and anxious.And Sam is the typical woman, satisfied by Man A on an intellectual level, thus falling for Man B without realizing where the initial desire came from. In Max's statements you can hear Sam's awareness coming around, She thinks we're running out of things to talk about.The most defining moment in the movie is when Jay meets Max at The Green Mill, and Dara blows Jay off as the most unimportant person in the world. Here we have two supremely shallow and pointless people feeling superior to someone who is infinitely more intelligent and valuable in every sense.End result?  Yet another wonderful display of the differences between those who care and those who simply pretend to care, those who love and those who grasp love like a brass ring without ever understanding its nuances.  And especially, a very nice and yet extremely subtle description of the surface dwellers vs. those with substance. "}{"Title":"Surprise! I liked it.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay I admit it I'm a sucker for this kind of how long will it take them to get together romantic comedy. Sure it has problems the plot's kind of dopey, the audience is always ahead of the characters, David Schwimmer's still irritating (though oddly, in a completely way to usual) but enough of it worked to satisfy me.Jason Lee is great (despite awful hair) as Jay, who's really the lead despite billing. Mili Avital is sweet and lovely. It's nowhere near as good as My Best Friend's Wedding or The Truth About Cats & Dogs, but if this is the kind of thing you'll probably like if you like this kind of thing. You know what I mean. "},{"Title":"A true romantic comedy","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I admit it, the only reason I first watched this movie was because of Jason Lee.  Which while he does do an outstanding job in this movie as well as he does in all of his other movies, I ended up falling in love with this movie.  It's a sweet romantic comedy with a great ending.  It has a great ending quote that I now base many things in my life off of; true love cannot be found were it does not truly exist, nor can it be hidden where it truly does.   It has a great plot and perfect comedic timing done by the actors. I never get tired of this movie. In fact I don't think I ever will, it's a classic.  "},{"Title":"Say another BAD WORD!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, I am not the most easily offended, but this movie was severely detracted from by gratuitous use of words beginning with f and s and m and you get the picture!  Does Schwimmer think he is John Hughes, Judd Nelson and M. Broderick together now?  No sympathy for the characters, bad language, Chicago (again)!, contrived plot ---------- that's enough! "},{"Title":"Great romance movie with awesome characters.","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie appealed to me for one main reason.I went through almost the same situation with my best friend and now ex-girlfriend.This movie is set around two best friends Max and Jay.Max is the party type all around ladies man while Jay is an unlucky in love man still sulking over a pat relationship.I personally think the roles were givin out perfectly.David Schwimmer as the ladies man.Jason Lee as the sensitive man(a drastic change from his usual roles especially in Kevin Smith's movies)and Mili Avital give a sexy performance as the girl wanted by both men.If you like a good romantic comedy i would say see this.Heck even if your not into romantic comedys still see this movie.4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Like a long episode of TV Friends, 5 or 6 rating is appropriate.","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I can see that Kissing a Fool was made in 1998 was to try and capitalize on David Schwimmer's popularity as a TV Friends actor. I watched it today during the commercials NBC showed during the Australia Olympics broadcast. Which means I saw most of it (lots of commercials).David plays Max, a Chicago TV sportscaster, who is both insecure, and at the same time stuck on himself. His friend, Jay, played by former pro skateboarder Jason Lee, introduces him to Sam, played by Israel native Mili Avital. Max and Sam seem perfect for each other. But Max wonders if he can really keep Sam satisfied long-term and tries to get Jay to see if she can become unfaithful.  Sam and Jay have to work together on a writing project, and in the end they begin to realize they are right for each other, and Max realizes it also, and finds out some things about his personal growth. Overall a very simple and often told story, but done so in an enjoyable way. I especially liked Jason Lee's performance. I also saw him in Mumford and he was very good in that. He is a 'natural.' "},{"Title":"Jason Lee is great...","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All I have to say about this movies is that if Jason Lee was a somewhat bigger name in the industry, it he should have had top billing.  I mean this movie is all about Jason Lee, he is great in this film.  It also shows that he can play a different role then the characters he has played in Kevin Smith films.  If you like Jason Lee watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Kissing A Fool will be either loved or hated by audiences. Myself, I loved it. Jason Lee is a great actor who should be noticed more. Milli Avital is gorgeous, and a good actress, but the real star of this is David Schwimmer. I was actually surprised at the amount of swearing coming from his mouth, but after a while I got used to it. His character is obnoxious, but at the same time, interesting. The story is about as twisted as you can get. Recent husband to be Max(schwimmer) is a womanising Sports presenter on television who asks his best friend Jay(lee) to check to see if recent wife to be is a cheater or not. Things are complicated, however, when Jay falls in love with her. Schwimmer is amazing. Not only does he get rid of the Ross shadow on Friends, but also manages to plunge straight into a decent film. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"terribly underrated","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a sweetheart of a movie.  From a technical point of view, the photography was just right for the moments.  If anyone has ever dismissed David Schwimmer as a pouty, whiny lout (such the characters from FRIENDS and The Pallbearer), take a good look at his Max in this and you'll see the complete opposite.  Max is a vulgar, arrogant, misogynistic , bitter ass.  His fellow player, Jason Lee, plays a pouty, whiny lout (as opposed to the vulgar, arrogant, misogynistic, bitter roles he was made famous by, in Brodie Bruce and Banky Edwards) who, as probably already told to you here on IMDb, is lorn of his slutty model girlfriend.  Max has fallen for Sam, his attractive young publisher who he feels is too good to be true.  So, he asks his best friend Jay (Lee) to see if Sam will hit on him, thus figuring out if she is the one.  This test of course, is a thin veiled attempt to breach the contract called commitment, which blah blah blah, the story ends rather nicely.  Not really what you expect.  The flaw of this film is the forced conflicts presented, the rushed and implausible sequences that appear all too soon, and the unnecessary characters.BUT I URGE YOU ALL READING THIS  GO RENT KISSING A FOOL!  It, despite a few cons, is the kind of romantic comedy you hope for when you stand in line for You've Got Mail and get crap.  Quirky, metropolitan, pampered, and concise, this flick will hit the spot, man. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching, If you're a F.R.I.E.N.D.S or My Name Is Earl Fan.","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I waited years for this film to come out in England and since it never did the other week i ordered it off Amazon (Region 1 Import), and I got to say it was well worth the wait the characters have brilliant connection as friends the scenes of Max and Jay are really well written and acted out, well chosen actors E.G David Schwimmer (FRIENDS) and Jason Lee (My Name Is Earl)(One of my all time favourites),and the storyline doesn't get boring.So for any FRIENDS or MY NAME IS EARL fans this is a must see recommend to anyone 15 and over.One of the best classics of the 90s' 10/10 "},{"Title":"cult film to the bones","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Altogether the premise of this movie doesn't seem all that exciting, now that I really think about it there is not much to this movie but both myself and my sister have an odd obsession with it.It's funny, granted Jason Lee is always funny but the cast puts out some great performances.  Not many people have seen this and the reactions to it are mixed.  There are some parts with really great narrative and the story moves along quite fluidly.  The characters are over the top and make for a very fun movie (Max, Natasha etc.).By no means one of the great films or anything, but definitely one of my favs for sure.   "}{"Title":"A love story for smart people","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm usually pretty cynical about love stories.  But Kissing a Fool is fabulous.  Like previously stated, Bonnie Hunt and Jason Lee are so talented and funny.  Jason is completely beleivable in his role and makes everything feel so human.  The scenes where he reunites with ex- Natasha (natasia) are so perfect and funny.  For anyone who has ever been in a complicated relationship, or anyone who has been jilted by a bad romantic comedy before, see this movie.  Just rent it on a night when you don't want something heavy.  It's pretty good. "},{"Title":"Mili Avital and David Schwimmer are the BEST.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kissing A Fool is such a delightful movie, you can't help but love it. The movie has a great script and a brilliant cast, including, the fantastic Mili Avital (One of my favourite actress'. She's destined to go far.) and David Schwimmer who are both brilliant here. (I think it's great that they're both together in 'real-life.' (And engaged too.)) I shouldn't really forget, Jason Lee who is also good here. If you haven't seen, Kissing A Fool, then I'd really advise you too. Like I've said many times, it sure is brilliant and I give it a well deserving 10/10. "},{"Title":"Fair love comedy","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nice love comedy which examines love commitment and betrayal problems.Good performances by lead actors and a good showcase here for Avital.Nothing spectacular but delivers it's genre promises.The film could have used better screenplay, directing,cinematography,script and editing.Most Schwimmer fans will be satisfied.......   "},{"Title":"Fresh, funny, adorable...great movie!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jason Lee is one of the wittiest, funniest actors...I just love watching him, and he was absolutely great in this movie.  David Schwimmer was good, and Mili Avital was impressive(first time I had ever seen her!).  I thought this was a great romantic comedy...to the extreme.  VERY ROMANTIC, VERY COMEDIC!   "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise !","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had never heard of the movie before but when they showed it on TV it had a great review and since I like everybody from the Friends cast very much I thought let's give it a try. And I am so glad I did. The actors did a great job and I am surprised you only hear so little about them (beside David Schwimmer). David was cast totally against his Ross character from Friends and I think he pulled it off very well. The actors who portrayed Jay, Sam and Andrea were very good, too. The story is told in flashbacks to a really funny couple and there is some great dialogue in this one. A really pleasant surprise, give it a try! "}]