[{"Title":"Much better than rating suggests!","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Really surprised at the low rating of this film which as a action thriller is immensely watchable and re-watchable which for me is the test of a good film &#150; that is bears being seen over and over. It is as others have said an endlessly inventive thriller with good action and the idea of a film where all the characters are continuously falling in, or speeding over floods in tremendous. It is not as others have said another heist film because the environment and opportunity of the potential crime is different and thought provoking. Doesn't this gain some extra interest given the Hurricane flooding in the southern states also? I enjoy Morgan Freeman's portrayal as well as Christian Slater and Minnie Driver's performances. The old couple is a marvellous piece of human comedy, well portrayed by both actors. Watch this film and then . . . watch it again! "},{"Title":"Good action flick","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain is a nifty action thriller, set during the middle of a titanic flood in a small town in Indiana. Christian Slater plays a local security guard, attempting to transport the loot out of town with his partner, but as always, it all goes terribly wrong. On the run, from a band of determined thieves, led by Morgan Freeman Slater hides the money and takes refuge with the town sheriff and his band of officers. Only they're seeing green too and Slater is on his own.The sodden atmosphere of this film is unique and impressive, as is the set design. The film is technically very cool, clever too and working with so much water must've been hell for the crew. The performances are all well rounded enough in Hard Rain but the script lacks the spark to truly make this great or memorable. Sure there are some exciting moments, but what action film doesn't have some excitement? With such a unique setting, I'm surprised that there just wasn't more of a good thing. Overall, I enjoyed it. This film is good action flick. Nothing more, nothing less. "},{"Title":"I dig it!!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great film that should have made a bigger splash at the box office. It really isn't just another run of the mil action flick. It's more of a natural disaster meets crime movie; which make for an awesomely unique story with one of a kind scenes to take place. Christian Slater dominates the screen as he does best; I only wish he was still leading man material instead of getting bit roles. I do admit there are times when you know what's going to happen before it does but you do still get some great surprises in there. I love the humor, there is a lot of it but they don't go over the top with it to where you can't take the movie serious. Big thumbs up for this underrated film. Love it!! "},{"Title":"Fast, exciting action flick with possibly too much shooting (and everyone a bad shot!)","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Christian Slater plays an armored truck guard who has to deal with thieves, the crooked police, a fierce Indiana rainfall, and a flooded town while trying to protect three million dollars in the company vehicle. Well-done action flick isn't epic-scale, but does have many suspenseful close-calls and colorful characters, plus good performances by Slater, Morgan Freeman, Minnie Driver, and Richard Dysart and Betty White as an elderly couple who didn't evacuate when they were supposed to. Randy Quaid overplays heinously as a trigger happy sheriff, and the continual shootouts in the final third get repetitive, but this scenario (an entire town slowly being submerged) is exceptionally well-captured and the filmmakers didn't forget to add some good humor into the mix. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Brainless Fun","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie that has some action and is moderately entertaining without requiring much cerebral activity, this is right up your street. It suited my purposes at the time I rented it so I quite enjoyed it. I had heard nothing about it except for the preview I'd seen. Yes, it's no brilliant piece of movie-making, and no it won't change your life. But it is fun and entertaining and doesn't claim to be anything else. (I was pleasantly surprised with Betty White's performance, a long way from 'Golden Girls') "},{"Title":"Water and Greed","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In Huntingburg, the armored truck with three million dollars driven by Tom (Christian Slater) and his Uncle Charlie (Edward Asner) gets stuck in the flooding and realizes that the town has been evacuated since the dam does not have capacity to hold the storm. While waiting for the National Guard, they are attacked by Jim (Morgan Freeman) and his gang formed by Kenny (Michael Goorjian), Mr. Mehlor (Dann Florek) and Ray (Ricky Harris) and the clumsy Kenny kills Charlie. Tom flees with the bags of money and hides them in the cemetery. Then he is hunted down by Jim and his gang and he hides in a church. Out of the blue, he is knocked out and awakes locked in a cell. Soon he learns that the restorer Karen (Minnie Driver) believed he was a looter and hit him. Sheriff Mike Collins (Randy Quaid) and Deputy Wayne Bryce (Mark Rolston) go to investigate Tom' story while Officer Phil (Peter Murnik) takes Karen out of the town by boat. However she escapes with the boat and goes to the church. Meanwhile Tom is trapped in the cell full of water and Karen rescues him. He decides to return to the armored truck to retrieve a shotgun but he is captured by Jim and his men and learns that Charlie was part of the gang. He tries to retrieve the hidden money for the gang, but Sheriff Collins and his men have already taken it. Soon Tom learns that the Sheriff wants to keep the money for him and his men and Tom and Karen are witnesses and he teams up with Jim. Hard Rain is a combination of disaster genre with crime and action. Despite the negative reviews, the action scenes are spectacular, the cast is excellent and the plot has a great twist based on the ancient proverb the enemy of my enemy is my friend. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Tempestade (Storm) "},{"Title":"Mindless Fun","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like action movies, and only action movies, you will like this movie. Not love it, but you will like it. None of the characters are believable and some, including Minnie Driver's character, are almost completely unnecessary. The plot, with just a few twists to keep the viewers interest, but only minimally, is pretty standard. What saves this movie, however, is its original action sequences and its setting. The movie takes place during a giant flood and we learn pretty quickly that water where it shouldn't be is very entertaining. Simple shootouts aren't just the same when they occur in 10 feet of water. Even a band of robbers chase the hero into a school with jet-skis, or crash through a church roof in a boat. These scenes of mindless action are the only thing that saves this movie from being totally preposterious crap. At the end you realize that the movie was pretty stupid, but you enjoyed yourself while it lasted. "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman as an armoured car robber?","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though Morgan Freeman is an absolute legend, I can't see him being the bad guy robber at the beginning. After his stellar performance in The Shawshank Redemption, he has left himself too open to being seen by fans as a nice guy. True, he did play a convict in that movie, but you never saw him commit the crime that landed him there. Therefore casting him as an armoured car robber didn't sit right with me.Christian Slater did a Michael J. Fox (The Concierge/Secret of My Success) by copycatting his own performance in Broken Arrow (same screenplay writer...).The ending is too abrupt, but, overall, I did enjoy the movie all the same. For action fans only... "},{"Title":"Unusual and very well done","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain is an action adventure thriller movie. The main thrust of the plot concerns the efforts of security guard Tom (Christian Slater) to prevent assorted hoodlums from stealing the money he and his partner are transporting. The unusual element of this movie is that it takes place during a deluge which has resulted in extensive flooding, so most of the action takes place in and around a town which is almost underwater.Considering that the main appeal of the movie is the water-based locations, action and stunts, the film-makers have done quite a good job in providing a plot with a number of twists, and characters who are more than cardboard cut-outs. OK, so not much more, admittedly, but there is still an element of depth to them (the water in town is deeper)(sorry).But the semi-aquatic realm in which the movie is set is flawlessly realised. The main track through town (along which boats race), and the water-filled interiors of the school, the jail, a church, and assorted houses - all are absolutely convincing, as is the action which takes place in them.This is a very enjoyable movie with a most unusual premise. "},{"Title":"Pan, Pan, Pan, I'm shooting in the rain, I'm shooting in the rain, ... (DVD)","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I discovered this movie because there is Minnie Driver in it and i must say that this is a great one! Except War of worlds by Spielberg, i don't know a movie with such an apocalyptic setting Mother Nature is set loose and threatens to flood everything. But instead of focusing with megalopolises (NY, LA) and calling for the President, this realistic movie happens in a little town of Indiana. Thus, it is closes to our every day life and we can better understand the threat.I don't know if it's intentional or not, but there is a Gothic feeling here that enhances everything. It's the night, the town is surrounded by forest, and a lot of action happens on the cemetery and the church. And if it's an action / thriller movie, actually, some shoots reminds me of the best horror movies.Then, i found all the characters very attractive you either care for them or despise them at once. And, they aren't one-sided characters because along the movie, their polarity changes good guys become bad, and bad guys become good. Thus, it is very interesting to see that and the cast does have mention because they make that happen. As a fan of Minnie, i found that she has truly something because she is 100% believable in this action / comedy part whereas other actress would have failed.I never heard of the director before but he knows how to deliver great sequences the opening credits give the mood for the entire movie and you will find all the threats from flooding.In conclusion, this upside down Abyss is an excellent tale and if you can find it, dive in it ! "}{"Title":"What the hell is Morgan Freeman doing in this?!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The legendary film critic Pauline Kael (who passed on last summer) asked, Is there a better working actor in America than Morgan Freeman? (paraphrasing). Mr. Freeman in every role (even this one) is so commanding, believable with one of the best voices around...I just don't know why he keeps wasting his time on junk like this! Does he really need the money? Hard Rain does have an excellent cast and some impressive set designs and effects. But it is so horribly written and cliché ridden it's distressing to see such a cast and budget wasted! When this film came out, Norm McDonald of SNL during the Weekend Update announced Christian Slater was temporarily released from prison so he could attend the premiere of his new film, Hard Rain. After the first ten minutes, he was escorted back to jail. (!) In fairness, Hard Rain isn't THAT bad, but close enough.Final rating 5/10 A standard movie. You can watch it once, but then move on with your life.(Trivia The trailer for this film was released when Titanic first came out in December/January of 1997/1998. It was good, but it didn't help this film at the box office.) "},{"Title":"Soft Drizzle.","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain (1998) Dir Mikael Solomon / Cast Christian Slater, Morgan Freeman, Minnie Driver, Randy Quaid, Betty White Standard action disaster film that uses its flood to complicate another conflict. A truck load of money becomes stranded in a flood and villains shoot the driver but Christian Slater escapes with the money. After hiding the loot he is pursued by the villains in speedboats. Director Mikael Solomon makes great explosive action but he isn't so lucky on the screenplay end. The actors are as stranded as the civilians. Slater does his best dodging bullets and speedboats and anything else thrown at him while struggling to stay afloat. Morgan Freeman is miscast as the villain, and since he is such a likable actor we are given a conscience. Minnie Driver plays a cop who at one point is handcuffed to a railing as water rises. Randy Quaid does what he can as the cardboard Sheriff. Even Betty White appears in this waterlogged fiasco and cannot even bring comic relief. These are decent performers at the mercy of a screenplay that does little more than drown those who do not find higher ground. Pointless disaster film that attempts to combined an action film as well but it comes off like one of those alcoholic beverages that spews upward before it hits the back of your throat. Hard Rain is plainly hard to believe. Perhaps flushing it down a toilet will render a better effect. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Silly Hard Rain looks like it was filmed in a huge water tank","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never thought Morgan Freeman would do a movie just for a paycheck but I guess even famous rich actors have to pay their bills just like us regular folk. Hard Rain is a robbery movie that takes place in a small town during a massive flood. The plot goes all over the place with unnecessary twists and turns. You really get the feeling that Rain just ran out of steam and the writers made up stuff up as it went along. You also really feel sorry for the actors especially Freeman. To make matters worse, Oscar nominee Minnie Driver shows up a little later with a thankless role. Hard Rain was a January release back in 1998. Critics refer to these types of films as January Junk. This critic just feels that movies like Hard Rain are wet behind the ears. Thumbs down. "},{"Title":"not worth the work it took to make it","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw a promotional clip for the movie, in which Minnie Driver talked about her hair being wet for several weeks straight, and Christian Slater talking about the real danger faced by the cast.  They're probably wishing they hadn't bothered by now.Okay, the rain is falling and the town is being evacuated.  Better lock up the bank and leave.  Movie's over.  Nope, the bankers decide to put the money in an armored car.  The drivers better follow the rest of cars out of town.  Movie's over.  Nope, they decide to go off on some deserted road and get stranded, then get held up, but Slater escapes and hides the money. Better find a place to hide and stay hidden.  Movie's over.  Nope, he decides to keep getting found, even though it's dark and the town is deserted.  And on and on.  Fifteen minutes into the movie, I was checking my watch to see how much longer there was to go.That was some clean floodwater that washed out all of the levees, wasn't it? Although Slater says at one point he might get hepatitis from a wound, none of the characters have any difficulty opening their eyes and seeing everything underwater.And was there a flooded river washing through the town, or was it a big lake?  The filmmakers couldn't seem to decide.  Sometimes the water washed things away.  Sometimes boats floated gently in one place, not even drifting.The cast and crew must have had a miserable time filming this movie.  They should have saved their energy.  It wasn't worth the work. "},{"Title":"Give me a towel, please.","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain is all wet.  Literally!  Too much water and too little attention  to telling a believable story.  Since all but four characters are crooks,  'who shot who' quickly becomes unimportant amidst non-stop boat chases, chin -deep wading and a water level that never stops rising.If you decide to watch this klinker, pack extra towels and don't be  surprised if you skin turns a bit prune-like. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably poor","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Christian Slater was terrible in this. He has some good movies but this one  reminded me of Kuffs. Too many near death experiences, with a little too  much humor. I am glad he was arrested for assault cause I would have beat  his ass for suffering through this garbage. (Christian) Do another serious  movie like Bed of Roses, stay away from weak comedy/Action movies). Thank  you for your time in this matter.Mr. Hipp "},{"Title":"How do films like this get made and whose job is it to stop them?","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really hated this film. It's non stop action all the way through and the makers assumed that this would make the film exciting. It's quite the contrary. People get shot all the time but usually aren't dead. The damn breaks because and I quote it was an old damn. eh? What kind of engineering is that? Someone sets fire to the church roof with a bottle of whiskey even though it hasn't stopped raining in hours? Generally, it's the most irritating and tiresome bore fest imaginable. I've given it four out of ten because of the technical quality - imagine the difficulty of filming virtually every seen on or in water. If someone tells you this is there favourite film, looked for webbed feet and gills and then run. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to go back into the water... on the street","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain... a film about a heist during the worst rain you can imagine all the while a dam is bursting. What does that make? A heck of a lot of water, mainly. I don't believe there has been as much water in any other recent blockbuster, except for probably The Day After Tomorrow. As such, the water seems to take over for everything else in the film. No threat in the film is treated with as much respect as the water. The plot isn't given much thought. It does makes sense, though... just barely, at least. The pacing seems off, or maybe it's just that the film is terribly boring. It never seems to do anything; nothing ever happens. And what does happen is not that exciting. I saw most of it coming a mile away. The film is terribly predictable in general. The acting isn't impressive, save for maybe Freeman. Slater is awful, as usual. Realism seems to have been thrown out the window before the first line of the script was written, or even conceived. The film has a few chase scenes and a shootout or two, but most of it is so unimaginatively done or poorly filmed that it doesn't really elicit any emotion from the viewer. There's not really any memorable scenes or quotable lines of dialog in the film... it will hardly be remembered more than half a minute past the end credits, not even by the most fanatic fans of anyone involved in the film. What can I say... it's just not particularly impressive of a film. I recommend this only to people who will go for any movie, even if it's completely pointless. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing more than mindless action entertainment","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain is nothing but mindless action entertainment. The film never takes its self really serious which is cool. Morgan Freemen and Christan Slater pretty much give paper thin performances but once again the film is full of action sequences and lots of good special effects. If you want to waste a rainy day then check out Hard Rain. "},{"Title":"Absolute pants!","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is absolute pants.I found it trivial and annoying.I know that action movies are not always the most realistic and consistent of films,but this was ridiculous.Without giving too much away lets just say its amazing where people will park their boats.Its a real shame as it had some good actors in it,notably Morgan Freeman who's one of my favourites and has done some great movies......but this ain't one of them.  "}{"Title":"Hometown letdown","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had a special interest for me because it was partially filmed in my hometown, Huntingburg, Indiana; pronounced Huntin'burg in the movie. That, and the fact that Morgan Freeman was in it, was what pulled me through the movie. This script was not exactly Shawshank or Miss Daisy material for Freeman. In fact, this was down there on the level of Chain Reaction type stuff for Freeman. Although, I think this movie is not worth seeing twice, it did have some goodies for a one-timer. Out of all the notable actors/actresses in it, Randy Quaid gave the most entertaining performance. Certainly nothing deserving of an Oscar, but then again the part did not call for it.Minnie Driver's character annoyed me most of the time, as does most of her characters. Slater did okay. I still like him best in Interview with a Vampire. However, the best parts were the parts where I could see my hometown's main street flooded and boarded up. Coincidentally, A League of Thier Own, was also the filming location for the Peach's home stadium. That movie was much better. As was HBO's Soul of the Game, which was filmed in the same stadium as League.If you are from Huntingburg then Hard Rain is worth seeing. If not, then I would rent that one with Mel Gibson in it about a flood. Not as much action in that one, but a better plot.  "},{"Title":"Interesting setting but effects seem to want to take over...","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 8/15/1998 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Mikael Salomon) Interesting setting but effects seem to want to take over instead of the simple plot.  Mostly everyone in the movie acts extremely abnormal.  They are all about to die in a flood, but all they care about is getting their hands on money lost from an armored car.	  "},{"Title":"Barely raises a ripple.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I though this was an essentially silly film.   As an aquatic thriller/drama it was pretty  much a waste of water. Even good performances from Chris Slater and the delightful Minnie Driver won't make  this dog float.  Morgan Freeman keeps his  head  above  water but  is  never  extended. Still, there is a few surprises along the way  to keep your interest, but don't hold your  breath waiting for them. "},{"Title":"It didn't rain hard enough to kill everyone!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was not fun nor very interesting although it must have been as expensive as all get out. You'd think they believe there were some limits to plausibility.  I think the best part was at the end  when Slater swims through the two storey house to find a gun left by a dead deputy about twenty minutes earlier and then he finds it and swims back to the drowning heroine who is handcuffed to the bannister and they escape to the roof where the bad guy gets killed by a flying outboard motor sorta. What a waste of water and film.  "},{"Title":"better than Speed 2","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film starts off ok. It started off with a lot of promise and potential - armoured truck - lots of $$$ - lots and LOTS of rain. Unfortunately it never delivers. The film starts to get boring quite quickly and by the end you are almost glad that it is over. If you really must see this film then rent it - it is just worth spending £3 on, luckily a friend pursuaded me not to spend £18 on the DVD. Minnie Driver is very good considering the below average script and she once again gives another convincing american accent but she is still FAR FAR better in the superb Grosse Pointe Blank (well worth £17 for the DVD). Oh and another redeeming feature is that the band Jars of Clay provide a superb song (and a rather appropriate one) entitled Flood. "},{"Title":"An Anemic Armored Car Robbery Caper","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Scriptwriter Graham Yost had been so busy churning out tough-guy actioneers that it seemed only a matter of time before his creativity curdled. His previous efforts included a pair of trigger-happy John Woo shoot'em-ups Hard Target and Broken Arrow along with Jan De Bont's careening epic Speed. Yost's uncredited contribution to the sloppy Howie Long potboiler Firestorm didn't change anything, but the prolific scribe appears really to have deep-sixed himself with the weather-beaten Morgan Freeman & Christian Slater thriller Hard Rain, director Michael Salomon's half-drenched drama about an armored car heist. The bad scenes outnumber the good, and the characters wander around in a moral morass far too long before they expose their villainous or heroic characteristics. A rookie armored car guard, Tom (Christian Slater), has resigned from his construction job to work with his Uncle Charlie (Ed Asner of TV's Lou Grant). As the film unfolds, Tom and Charlie are hauling about $3-million in cold, hard cash from a Midwestern bank that flood waters are about submerge. As they try to leave town, they get stuck, and the flood rises over their ankles in the cab. Charlie radios the National Guard, and they both sit on the loot. About that time, a band of thieves led by Jim (Morgan Freeman) show up. One of the villains, Kenny (Michael Goorjian) cuts loose, and they shoot it out. The scene is effective as well as eerie, with creepy spotlights blazing white-hot holes in the night skies. Goorjian gives a terrific performance as an idiot henchman who Jim has brought along because Jim promised his father he'd care of Kenny. Anyway, Charlie dies from a bullet wound, but Tom escapes. Resourceful guy that he is, Tom drags off the bags of the loot. The villains are always several steps behind the heroes and heroines in Hard Rain in hot (or as the case is 'wet') pursuit. Meanwhile, the sheriff (Randy Quaid) has been evacuating the flooded town. It seems that he is serving out his last two weeks. Everybody believes the mayor sabotaged his re-election bid, because the sheriff had been in office too long, twenty years too long. The sheriff tries to persuade an elderly couple, Henry (Richard Dysart) and Doreen (Betty White), to clear out of town before they drown. They're determined to safeguard their store, so they are laying out bear traps when the sheriff intervenes. Dysart and White dredge up the only humor in the film as an incredibly grumpy couple. The only time you hear the f--k word in Hard Rain is as Henry reprimands Doreen for her outrageously bitchy behavior. TV's Golden Girl White steals every scene as the suspicious, unrelenting spouse. Hard Rain broadly resembles Broken Arrow. Substitute the stealth jet with an armored car along with John Travolta's thief of nukes with Uncle Charlie's scheme to steal the loot, and you have a clever but contrived variation. Add to the formula a heroine along the lines of the Samantha Mathis park ranger character, and you get Minnie Driver. She's cast as an expert who restores stained glass church windows. She is so committed to preserving her stain-glass handiwork that she is willing to risk death by drowning. Basically, Hard Rain feels like a cold shower. Yost's uneven script appears to be the chief culprit. He swamps it with too many unlikely situations and some characters get way out of line. The concept of staging a heist during a devastating deluge must have seemed a sure-fire idea when the producers pitched the premise. Indeed, the Yost script opens with an interesting predicament. Before Hard Rain lets up, you'll feel tired of wading through yet another undistinguished semi-disaster/semi-crime caper flick. Altogether, Hard Rain showers its audiences with a wishy washy saga, suspicious characters, and a muddled sense of morality that rivals the Wesley Snipes & Woody Harrelson opus Money Train. The best parts of Hard Rain are the action scenes. When guns are fired, the cameras shudder to heighten the violence. The gunshots burst in your ears like mortar shells. The jet-ski scene in the high school is fun. Obviously, the filmmakers are playing on the secret desire some moviegoers may harbor about a perverse wish to trash the halls of their high school. The sight of power boats crashing through stained glass windows and shattering them is rather exciting, too. Hard Rain bristles with a motley crew of characters. Nobody seems to represent who they really are. Yost exploits the natural disaster to bring out either the good or the bad in everybody. Randy Quaid's sheriff exemplifies this as a veteran lawman that crosses over the line after two decades of wearing a badge. Morgan Freeman presents even a better example. He gives a deep, soulful performance, too, in a role he is clearly above in what he brings to what it lacks. Freeman's Jim is an honorable thief. He neither triggered the accidental shoot-out that cost Uncle Charlie his life nor did he abandon the cretinous Kenny whose welfare he had been entrusted, but to say more would ruin the resolution.Former photographer Michael Salomon keeps the pace trim with several vigorous, full-throttled, hell-bent action sequences. Nevertheless, he cannot rinse a script soaked with clichés. Initially, Hard Rain qualifies as a modern day version of Sergio Leone's classic Spaghetti western The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly. Tom hides the loot in a cemetery before Karen clobbers him and lands him in jail. The sheriff grows greedy and decides to split the $3-million booty among his deputies while Jim pursues Tom. Moreover, Jim and Tom form an uneasy alliance against the lawmen when it's clear the sheriff has decided that they must die. If anybody in Hard Rain deserves kudos, production designer J. Michael Riva certainly does. Riva and his associates used a large, Palmdale, California, aircraft hanger where B-1 bombers were assembled to photograph the action. "},{"Title":"Waterlogged in Indiana","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mikael Salomon, a Danish director that has established himself in America, has worked extensively on television. With Hard Rain he shows a knack for presenting this action thriller seen in a different way. The result is a film that will please his audience because Mr. Salomon knows where to take his viewers. The film is greatly helped by the musical score of Christopher Young and the camera work of Peter Menzies, who has done wonders to bring us closer to all the action.Hard Rain casting was interesting. Morgan Freeman plays a hard criminal who is after all the money that two security guards are taking to a safe place because the imminent danger of the raising water caused by the pounding rain and the water reserves of the town. Christian Slater proves to be a good choice for the guard who knows how to deal with the bandits and the crooked police in town who wants to steal the money. Randy Quaid is seen as the chief of police, a man who has a different idea to get his hands on the three million dollars that are hidden. Minnie Driver, Ed Asner, Dann Florek, and especially Betty White and Richard Dysart, who appear as an older couple, the Sears, who have dealt with flooding in the town before, are fine in their supporting roles.This is a film for action movie fans, who will enjoy director Salomon's take on the story. "},{"Title":"Is it really THAT bad?","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, yes. The curious thing about Hard Rain is that it's so well presented but at the same time it's so superficial and false. I have to admit that I was impressed with the stormy, rainy atmosphere, but at the same time I was struck by how obvious is always was that the whole thing was a setup. I guess part of it may be because some of the flood scenes were filmed on a part of Universal Studios that you go right through when you take the tram tour, and other parts were clearly filmed in that big water tank with the false background that's right near the Psycho house (at least it was when I last went on that tour, which was regrettably sometime in the early 1990s), but I can't blame the fakeness in its entirety just on the fact that some of the sets are personally familiar to anyone who has been on the tram tour at Universal Studios in Hollywood.  There is an interesting paradox about Hard Rain, in that it is peppered with capable and even great actors (as in the case of Morgan Freeman), but it still comes off as contrived and unreal. Christian Slater is not the most beloved actor in the world, but I have an immutable liking for him, probably just because he was part of the brilliant Robin Hood Prince of Thieves. Minnie Driver has delivered some excellent performances in some excellent movies, although none that really struck my interest. Morgan Freeman is undoubtedly one of the greatest actors working today, which is why it's strange that even his enormous presence wasn't able to generate more interest in this movie. And Randy Quaid, while one of my personal favorite comedic actors (mostly due to his absolute hilarity is National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation), was badly miscast from the beginning. What you have in Hard Rain is a flooded town due to excessive rain and an old and weak dam that periodically has to release more and more water to avoid overflowing, each time flooding the town more and more. The movie starts off with the town being evacuated (which is shown in a total of two or three cars led down a flooded street) and a couple of armored car drivers picking up all of the money from the town bank. It's interesting to consider what made director Mikael Salomon feel it necessary to present this routine pickup as a robbery (even going so far as to have the bank manager nervously throwing stacks of money into a bag and saying he's going as fast as he can) and then turn right around and show that it's a perfectly normal event. What you have here in the first few minutes of the movie is a scene that builds false suspense and then cops out, much like the rest of the movie. We're already being set up for disaster, and it has nothing to do with a flood.(spoilers)The movie is the presentation of a flooded and therefore deserted town and a subsequent robbery attempt, with all of the logical inconsistencies that that might imply. The struggle between the good guys and the bad guys goes on for way too long, for one thing. It's just too much to ask us to believe that no one is coming to help just because the guy up on the dam is not calling for help and Charlie turned out to be in on it from the beginning. It's like the movie takes place in its own little world, completely cut off from the rest of the world because the story finds that necessary. Sort of like the RoboCop movies, to some extent. On the other hand, there is an undeniable element of entertainment that comes along with the movie, despite its almost complete lack of any true possession of realism. It's a movie that is fun to watch but becomes bad the more you think about it, and I can tell this mostly because as I write this review, my opinion of the film steadily grows lower and lower. It's really sad that the movie had so many good actors in it but still fell flat. There are, of course, a few stock characters, such as the bad guy's idiot sidekick and the nervous old man and his wife (an interaction between whom comes off as one of the most amusing scenes in the film), and this may be the root of the film's downfall. Even the good actors and the great actor in the film were all playing one-dimensional characters.Morgan Freeman was the typical aging thief who only wanted to steal enough money to escape all of this nonsense, Randy Quaid delivers a terribly unfitting performance as the frustrated sheriff who goes bad after losing reelection, Christian Slater is the lone hero who tries to save the day, and Minnie Driver is the obligatory love interest. Nothing very exciting here, not even when Jim, Morgan Freeman's character, winds up on Tom's (Christian Slater) side near the end is there enough interest generated in the plot to make up for its routine presentation, the manufactured sets, and the tedious dialogue.I worked at a video store in Fresno, California when this movie was released, and I remember that it was enormously popular during the first few weeks that it was released, just like Sphere. It was clearly one of the more highly anticipated films of 1998, which was probably why it was so popular when it was released on video, but this also reflects the quality of the film. It is an entertaining film to some extent, but also like Sphere, is goes steadily downhill after a relatively interesting introduction, and the more you think about the movie itself, the less impressive it becomes. "},{"Title":"Don't waste tome on this!","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Really a poor effort, on the story construction Very weak plot, and the movie does not really go into any depth. (Just a whole load of irrelevant chasing!)It is not clearly explained how the town is flooding with water, the movie just starts with this actually happening!Suddenly, after a few crappy irrelevant scenes, we are taken to two security guards who are responsible for carrying a huge ward of cash ($3 Million), get trapped in a flood, and some thieves come up wanting the money!This all leads to chase scenes in which, all the main characters are all over the place!After ten minutes of chasing this gets extremely boring. All the jokes are lame! Really nothing much to keep you interested in the slightest.Can't believe Morgan Freeman took this crazy script on!Lots of rain, but much worse than Godzilla (1998) "},{"Title":"Hard hitting action but nothing more.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  HARD RAIN features a great premise.  Mixing the disaster and standard shoot 'em up genres are aptly deployed to create a decent thriller.  Also, the concept of using mother nature as an adversary along with the standard villains is a riveting change of pace as well.  This addition of mother nature as a formidable obstacle, manifested in the shape of a violent deluge, adds noteworthy suspense to a typical action flick. The thrill to the minute jet-ski chases are breathtaking, and the action in HARD RAIN moves at an adrenalin rush with nicely photographed moments of excitement. HARD RAIN is a satisfactory crafted movie with a good cast and some marvelously engaging action sequences.HARD RAIN does not quite surface even with a promising concept. The most evincing frailty with HARD RAIN is that this film could have been a better movie.  The basis for this movie is terrific, but the product of this film, even with all the apparently right ingredients concocted is not on the money. For one, the performances in HARD RAIN were unbelievable.  Morgan Freeman lacked both a cunning and sinister personality as the antagonist. Christian Slater is alright as the protagonist for this water logged tale, but many of the decisions he makes seem far fetched.  His failed wisecracks are also out of place! Randy Quaid's mood swings as the psychotic Sheriff were just as unpredictable as the film's abrupt turn of events. Minnie Driver had a memorable role as a tough, yet sweet-natured partner for Slater. To be fair, the performances were not dynamic, but passable.  The special effects though, of course steal the show!The theme about greediness and obsession for the $3 million dollars is an interesting subtext in HARD RAIN. By the climax of this movie, when everybody involved in the shoot-out becomes ravenous for the elusive money, the dilemma submerges into deep water. HARD RAIN just wanted to show that money fuels inhibitions and corrupts otherwise intrinsically good people into selfish, cruel savages. Even the heroes can in turn succumb to their dark desires...As a whole, HARD RAIN had potential and should have done better. The special effects are incredible, yet some of the cliffhangers in this film appear to be both implausible and unconvincing. The characters in this film, though sympathetic, are improbable and sometimes inept in their proper roles.HARD RAIN was not rubbish, but too many fallacies hurt an almost spectacular water show. A fun film to watch, perhaps.  Briskly directed, definitely. Entertaining and visually unforgettable, yes. Enjoyable with magnificently stylized choreography, maybe. Worthwhile, innovative and prepossessing...no. Sorry, try again. RATING ** out of ****.   "}{"Title":"Black Knight Offers Salvation","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With knowledge of the horrible effects of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans in 2005 and the Sotheast Asian tsunami, this film offers one an insight, (although, mostly computer-generated effects), as to what floods can do to a town and its residents. The premise of the film, of an attempted hijacking of an armored truck in a levee-flooded Indiana city, with guards played by Ed Asner and Christian Slater, adds to the terror and trauma of all the related characters. Betty White is particularly dotty and crazy as an elderly homeowner, protecting and holding on to a sinking ship of a home. Morgan Freeman, in one of his rare roles as a bad guy, shines through as the Black Knight, who overcomes the conniving, murderous Randy Quaid. Christian Slater,(who, also, produced this film), offers a believable young guard beset with conflicting loyalties toward his job, his morality, and relationship to a soggy Minnie Driver. She has the least to offer in this film, but soldiers on, as distaff diversion.This is an interesting film due to its archetype characters, and the spectacular floodings of broken levees and dams. Overall, however, the storyline is rather weak, and one becomes overwhelmed with water,water everywhere! "},{"Title":"No More Water Movies","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First, I too am from Huntingburg, IN where this Disaster (movie) was shot. I was born there and moved away when I was 10 in 1968. But, I still live near it and go through Huntingburg from time to time. It was cool to see my old hometown's downtown... it looks just like, no movie tricks... minus the sandbags, and the stupid statue. The sandbags actually held the water in the downtown, since it is built on a hill. Now as for the movie... disaster is the correct word. It started off good... maybe a bit too fast, not enough character development. Then it got improbable ... then downright dumb. The town is under 10 feet of water and the power is still on??? Looks like another FEMA mess-up NO National Guard and only 4 cops? But mostly, people don't wanna pay good money to see waterlogged movies, water scares a lot of people. Remember Waterworld? Don't they test these things first before spending $70 mil. And this one was at night! The acting is good, the script half good... the premise no good! Nothing about this movie makes sense. But it was cool to see my old hometown in the movies! A League of Their Own involved both my old hometown (Huntingburg) and my current hometown (Evansville, IN) and was a much better movie. I was away and missed the filming of both movies ( So if you're looking to film a new movie, both town are still available and now, so am I. "},{"Title":"Architectural Water","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.If I were to imagine the perfect film, the one that would be at the top of the `most important' lists, one quality it is likely to have is some new cinematic grammar for space using water.The thing that makes film unique is the way it can take your mind to unfamiliar worlds. This is through the eye, and for the result to qualify as a world, it has to have some architectural substance. Perhaps since `Abyss,' the film world has been aware of the challenge and promise that water presents. We've seen some glimpses of the possibilities the underwater world of `In Dreams,' and the maze of `Alien Resurrection.' `Titanic's' success in my mind was largely because Cameron grazed the possibilities.At some point, someone will create a visual grammar for this, as Welles did for static architecture, and Luhrmann did for the dynamic case. And then we will be a wholly different people, with somewhat expanded conceptual reasoning ability. But until then, we have the attempts.`Hard Rain' shoots high. It was conceived with an eye toward finding a next generation formula and failed because of a simple lack of adventure. Too bad, because the safe approach doomed the picture. Better to have risked more.What is your guess about what would be the breakthough? My guess is that some narrative device will give the vocabulary a hook, like `noir' did for architectural films. It probably will be in the thriller category, because that mode can afford the talent and computer help that will be required. It will probably focus a lot on foam at the edges and have a two-dimensional quality, like Chinese paintings. It will probably have subliminal color, like the bazillions of microscopic colors that make up the white of snow (or the colors in 12th century cathedral glass). It will probably have a fluid, non-human camera derived from the more adventuresome ideas of de Palma, possibly with perceptual frame bleeds like `In the Mood for Love.' The editing will be a whole new deal, mostly rhythmic with some splashes in the face. Darks and lights will alternate in unfamiliar ways. Lenses will extend into the environment. A new style of acting will emerge, more capricious and dynamically focused.And then someone will make this film right, or something like it. And we'll be as shocked in comparison as we are now with Sean Penn compared to John Wayne. "},{"Title":"great action movie with great special effects!!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about a  truck been robbed during a flood. The drivers are played Christian Slater and Edward Asner. Morgan Freeman wants the money. Both Slater and Freeman play cat and mouse though out the movie. Also the local sheriff get word of the money. Eventually it ends up in all out war. While all this going on, the local dam is about to burst. The special effects are great. The action is none stop. Betty White and some one else stars as two people who stayed behind  during the flood. This movie is great if you like action movies,lots of special effects. Overall, it a great action with a fast plot and loads of fun!!This movie was written by Graham Yost(writer of Speed,Chill Factor, and Broken Arrow). I also forget to mention that it's raining during the whole movie!! "},{"Title":"I love it! - Incredible an underrated classic, Christian Slater's solid Action disaster heist flick!","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a an underrated incredible Christian Slater's solid action heist classic flick, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Hard Rain (1998) is a classic! An underrated incredible disaster action heist film from the 90's and one of the best Christian Slater's movies. My top 2 Christian Slater movies are Broken Arrow (1996) and this one Hard Rain (1998), which Christian Slater started and co produced him self. I love this flick and it is my favorite action flick! It is far way better than Stallone's Daylight (1996) which that disaster movie sucked and I hate it! Hard Rain is an pure action heist flick in which a gang of thieves try's to rob an armored car in which are $3.000.000 cared in the truck. An armored car driver Tom (Christian Slater) has to run for his life and hide the money from the thieves, because they killed his partner who was also his uncle and now they will kill him too, if he doesn't hide the money. The movie has a great cast, great score, decent performances and all round very entertaining. I love the score from Christopher Young in the opening scene the main theme. I love that the film shows flood and rain's and it is also entertaining filled with action. I think Hard Rain and Deep Rising which both come out the same year are both underrated action flicks that I love them.Plot The setting is the food-ravaged, evacuated town of Huntingburg, where armored car driver Tom (Slater) is in deep danger. A gang of thieves (led by Freeman) figures the flood is its chance to heist the $3 million Tom's transporting from local banks. But there's one thing the gun-carrying criminals don't count on - Tom. Come hell, high water or both, he's determined to deliver the money entrusted to him. But before he does, he'll have to survive a relentless pursuit filled with close calls, ever-rising waters, uncertain loyalties and heart-stopping heroics.Get swept up in the action as Morgan Freeman, Christian Slater, Randy Quaid and Minnie Driver race against time and the elements in this high-energy thrill ride where survival and money are the core of it all. I love Christian slater in this movie and I seriously love his character Tom, just like his character Capt. Riley Hale from Broken Arrow, his character Tom is also heroic character well written. He wasn't selfish he was a real hero alongside with John McClane (Bruce Willis) Die Hard (1988) they are both a heroic characters. I love how Tom tried to help that young boy Kenny ( Michael A. Goorjian) from been electrocuted in the water, he came back for Karen (Minnie Driver) when she was handcuffed in the fence, up in the stairs, his character was decent and honest human been and he tried to return the money. I love the chase sequences in a high school in a jet skies. I like Minnie Driver as Karen her character also wasn't selfish she also helped Tom and saved him from prison. I seriously love the scene when Tom tried to saves him self in the prison when the flood raised and he accidentally grabbed the car keys and not the cell keys and his was talking with him self ha ha.I love Morgan Freeman in this film which he was a good thieve, but he was also greedy, Damn it I'm here for the money and that's it! Randy Quaid was a decent villain as the greedy Sheriff Mike Collins, which he was outstanding in this flick. Director Mikael Solomon did a great directing job directing this disaster action flick. Even tough this film is a cheap because there was less actors playing in this film, it still outstanding and pure entertaining. I love it I just watched it on Blu-ray and I love it to death. This movie is actually pretty entertaining with some decent chase scenes even one involving jet skis inside a flooded high school. Morgan Freeman is good as always and one of the few bad guy/good guy roles he's had in his career. Christian Slater was decent as the main protagonist even is he was a bit generic.Very good 90's action flick that is essentially a western set in a flooded small town. There's something really cool about a movie taking place entirely in one night in the rain and the script has some terrific one liners and the cast are all excellent especially Morgan Freeman playing a bad ass thief & Randy Quaid.Overall This flick is very underrated and for Christian Slater fan I must say, it is my favorite action flick, there are other movies he made but this one alongside with Broken Arrow is one of his best work. I love this action flick.Hard Rain (also known as The Flood) is a 1998 American/British disaster action thriller film, produced by Mark Gordon, written by Graham Yost (the writer-producer team also behind the film Speed) and directed by former cinematographer turned director Mikael Salomon.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Paramount Pictures, PolyGram Filmed Entertainment Starring Morgan Freeman, Christian Slater, Randy Quaid, Minnie Driver, Edward Asner, Michael Goorjian, Dann Florek, Ricky Harris, Mark Rolston, Peter Murnik, Wayne Duvall, Richard Dysart, Betty White, Ray Baker Director Mikael Salomon Producers Ian Bryce, Mark Gordon, Gary Levinsohn, Art Levinson, Allison Lyon Segan, Christian Slater Screenplay Graham Yost Rated PG-13 Running Time 1 Hr. 37 Mins. Budget $70.000.000 Box Office $19,870,567 "},{"Title":"suspend disbelief, all ye who enter here","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am totally ambivalent about this movie. I had seen it years ago and had no distinct memories of it, but I watched it again last night and had two contradictory reactions. First, the movie, at one level, is ridiculous. The number of credibility-straining moments borders on the absurd. The intention of the movie makers seemed to have been to proceed as quickly as possible from one action moment to the next, and never to relax the suspense for even a moment. Then my other reaction SO WHAT? At the time I was in the mood for a movie that would completely take my mind off other things, and this one sure did, even if at was at the point of finding humor at the plot situations. The movie also had the good sense to make fun of itself, inserting a generous number of laugh lines. It was also nice to have the charming little sub-plot with Betty White (God bless her) and Richard Dysart. Interesting to see Ed Asner. I thought that this must have been one of his last flicks, but found that the old leftie is still working at the age of 87. Morgan Freeman is always good to watch, as is Randy Quaid.Sometimes a good old mindless action film is just what you need. This is definitely one of them. "},{"Title":"more watery action than Waterworld","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Huntingburg, Indiana faces flooding as the dam is forced to open the gates. Sheriff Mike Collins (Randy Quaid) is directing the evacuation even though he lost the election. Tom (Christian Slater) and his uncle Charlie (Edward Asner) are collecting cash in the armored truck but they are stranded in the flood road. Jim (Morgan Freeman) leads a group of thieves looking to rob the the truck. They kill Charlie as Tom escapes with the money. Karen (Minnie Driver) knocks him out thinking he's a looter. The story is contrived. Mikael Salomon is mostly a TV director. Compared to Graham Yost's earlier hit Speed, this has all the action but lacks the fun. Betty White is able to add a couple of laughs. The acting is perfectly fine although they're not doing any heavy lifting. The rainy water action gets a bit mind-numbing with its sameness. "},{"Title":"Huge flood in which $3 million armored car loot is the objective","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain has a town that's flooded out, and most of the movie takes place on water, in water, and sometime under water. Water is rising and then sometimes gushing. A dam is overflowing and ready to give way. This is all shown exceedingly well with excellent special effects. There are times when you can tell it's staged somehow but there's also much of it where you feel you're outside in an actual flood situation.Amid all this a thriller story plays out with a humorous touch. Christian Slater is an armored car driver with Ed Asner, and they are transporting $3 million when they run aground and cannot move. Morgan Freeman leads a band of armed robbers after the money. Slater swims off with it and hides it. The town sheriff is Randy Quaid. Slater gets involved with Minnie Driver.There is a lot of movement back and forth and variety as the story plays out and lots of edge of the seat action.The story becomes one of twists and character shifts as it matures. This adds length but it's worth it. There are implausibilities therein, but they are not beyond accepting to make a good story.Morgan Freeman is terrific in bringing to life his character. He's unmatched by anyone else in the cast in this respect. The man can act. He's a very intelligent actor, and he knows what roles to take that he can fill out. "},{"Title":"Let's Get Wet!","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In rain-drenched Huntingburg, Indiana, Armored Transport guard Christian Slater (as Tom) loads over $3 million dollars in his truck. While trying to transport the money out of town during a particularly wicked storm, Mr. Slater's truck gets stuck in rising rain waters. This makes the money an easy target for crooked Morgan Freeman (as Jim) and his gang; they move to rob the truck, but Slater escapes with the cash. Slater stashes the money and is picked up by sheriff Randy Quaid (as Mike) and his deputies. Everyone wants the money, but the entire town is flooding fast...Hard Rain is presented by the successful Speed driven (1994) team of Mark Gordon and Graham Yost, and it features even more of the same non-stop high energy. Mikael Salomon makes the action look good. Characterization is secondary. You don't care about the leading men (and woman) - although, there must be some points given to Slater trying to escape from a jail cell while flood waters rise, and love interest Minnie Driver (as Karen) suffering through an attempted rape by Penthouse forum reader Mark Rolston (as Wayne) while she is handcuffed to a banister...Otherwise, the only thing noteworthy about the bigger cast names is their various levels of profanity. As you might expect, Betty White (as Doreen) comes out swinging, but Mr. Quaid finishes strong. Unfortunately, Ms. White and Edward Ed Asner (as Charlie) share no scenes; it would have been nice to see the two Mary Tyler Moore alumni together. More impressive are the lesser-known players, like trigger-happy Michael Goorjian (as Kenny) and distinctly featured Peter Murnik (as Phil). Action is more exciting when accompanied by strong characterization.***** Hard Rain (1/16/98) Mikael Salomon ~ Christian Slater, Morgan Freeman, Minnie Driver, Randy Quaid "},{"Title":"Satisfactory. but this should have been more fun","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As a movie with water, lots and lots and water, it's actually not that bad. But as a typical action picture, it's got villains that aren't mean enough, and don't seem quite determined enough (to get what they want, that is) for this movie to be something truly exciting. It's nice to see Morgan Freeman playing a bad guy, but he smiles a couple times (and I'm not talking about evil smiles), which is kind of a cheat. Give the characters a little more personality, ratchet the suspense a little, speed up the action, and this could have been a top-notch movie. And aside from comic relief, the two elderly characters (one of them played by Betty White), are unnecessary.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"For Action Junkies Only!","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain is not an awful movie, but then again it's not a very good one either. This film would certainly make action fans happy because of the film it is. It's loud, dumb, and features non-stop action. There's not a story in sight as all we get is people shooting at each other or people almost drowning. But, this was relatively entertaining and I had a good time, but I don't know if I would watch this again.Mikael Salomon's film is about this town that got flooded by a dam and en route away from town, an armored truck driver named Tom and his Uncle Charlie is robbed by a gang led by Jim who want the entire money that they are carrying in the truck. But what Jim doesn't realize is how resourceful Tom is.The acting is really nothing special. Morgan Freeman as always does a good job, but I thought he was miscast. He has such a nice man persona to effectively carry this role out. Christian Slater does an okay job, even though this is very similar to his role in Broken Arrow. I was pretty annoyed with the Sheriff and his gang which was played by Randy Quaid.Overall, if you're looking for a dumb, wet action movie, Hard Rain is for you. It's not a great movie, but it can be used as an escapist film, but just barely. The screenplay sinks, but the action itself is able to float. There were some mildly impressive set pieces, so I'll give the film credit for that. I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. I am a big Christian Slater fan, even though his latest work is crappy. This movie was very entertaining and enjoyable with action, drama, and some wit. It is what I look for when watching a video. Besides, it did have somewhat of a different plot/backdrop plot than most movies. The rain causing the floods were an original idea. Most flicks just have a robbery on the streets and a chase. This one was original and contained some twist and turns. There was a hint of a little romance involved between the strangers with no real action. Betty White was a real pistol and her husband was quite funny. The whole idea of watching a flick is to enjoy it, escape for an hour and a 1/2- 2 hours. This will definitely let you do that. "},{"Title":"More than what one would expect from a movie about a flood","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sometimes a movie will appear that nobody has heard anything about; there is no hype nor is there any expectations. Even moreso, these movies will be brilliant, as is Hard Rain. I first heard about this movie on an add the day it opened in the cinema and thought this might be good. I went and saw it and said, This is brilliant.Hard Rain is an action movie. It could be a disaster movie with a plot, but it is not. The disaster has already happened. A huge torrent of rain has descended upon a town and has flooded it out and everybody has evacuated. The banks need their money moved to dry ground, so an armoured car comes and picks it up. With three million dollars in the back of this car, somebody is going to want it. That is were Jim (Morgan Freeman) and his gang of thieves come into the movie. They plan to steal the money, but the driver Tom (Christian Slater) manages to get away with it and hide it. Thus a chase across a flooded town where the waters are slowly rising begins. But it is not simply just that because the plot begins to twist, but I won't say anything about it.They say that movies which involve lots of water, such as Titanic and Waterworld, cost a lot of money to make. They also say that rain is very expensive. This movie floods out an entire town, to a point where the statue in the town square is completely inundated, and it rains continuously. The only scenes were it is not raining is when people are inside. This movie is definitely big budget, but it is well worth the price of a cinema ticket.Another thing a friend said. Most Hollywood movies you know who the good guys are and who the bad guys are within the first few minutes. Some movies, like Terminator II, you are not meant to know, but you do anyway. One of the major themes with the movie is that people are not who they seem and first impressions are not always the ones you count on. Everybody in this movie has a part of them that we do not expect. It is not an unrealistic change, but rather a change that comes over people when the opportunity appears. Three Million Dollars is a lot of money, and only the most honest person will not part with it.It is also how the relationships between the characters change. Karen (Minnie Driver) first takes Tom to be a looter who broke into her church to steal money, but what she doesn't know is that he is being chased by crooks. Jim is a crook and Tom takes him to be a killer. He believes that it was Jim that killed his uncle and that Jim would kill him to as soon as he found the money. The other characters are interesting as well, with the hotheaded young crook who acts on instinct. Jim expects this heist to go off perfect, but the youth, with is quick thinking and itchy trigger finger, creates a big problem. The Negro is also an interesting character for he quotes bible verses that relate to floods. This is not to say that he is a Christian, but rather that he has a mystical aura about him. Karen has also changed, though not on screen. She left town a girl and returned a woman. She used to be wild at heart, according to the deputy, and has now returned a woman too good for anybody else. "},{"Title":"Hard pressed not to take to Hard Rain; a somewhat nonsensical chase thriller which somehow meshes together and works.","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain comes at us like a rigid and thoroughly uneven, although enjoyable in that way things that are less than perfect sometimes are, soft-back pulp novel; a heist story with a twist and its own unique selling point; in this case, the fact that it will rain just as much as throughout the piece it has done the last week leading up to these events, which in turn will lead to rising water levels no doubt destined to prove a problem to those within. The film's catalyst is the robbing of an armoured van, a heist movie idea which, chances are, isn't anything we haven't seen before, and yet we smile at the places the film takes us; enjoy the application of this idea that the water levels are rising at a gross rate and have fun with this hybridisation of the varying disaster movie conventions which rear up with crime movie archetypes.Swedish director Mikael Salomon is having fun, and we're having fun with him; he seems to spend most of the film channelling a kind of mock-Western genre aesthetic to the overall film. Such a thing begins with the opening shot, a heck of an opening shot in truth during which a long tracking shot begins in the sky and floats across the more rural parts of the town before arriving in the centre within which we observe people being evacuated. Flying down to ground level, we note the harmonica music and the boarded up windows belonging to varying businesses in what is a launching of the film's Western tendencies. It is perhaps true to say the film's ambition does not match this opening. The film comes to unfold within a locale very much cut off from the rest of the world; under the characters' feet, water replaces sand and dirt but a small isolated town eventually succumbs to corruption and two people whom are initially at odds must pool resources to survive. One character, the instigator of the heist played by Morgan Freeman, waltzes throughout the film donning a stetson, whereas the hapless lead, a victim of this van robbery played by Christian Slater, even finds time to bury the treasures numerous parties are gunning for in a graveyard evoking Leone's The Good, The Bad and the Ugly.We begin with the Sheriff of the town directing traffic away from the town; he is Randy Quaid's Mike Collins, and works with a number of deputies. After an establishment of some of his more pleasant; more helping characteristics, the temperature of his presence on screen briefly changes when the town's mayor drives by and off, and Collins briefly reveals a franker nature when he expresses his disdain for the man. Not so far away is Slater's character, a young armoured van guard named Tom standing in a bank lugging large bags of money with an accomplice in a faceless and anonymous fashion. It is revealed they are not robbing, but removing; so as to transport the cash away from the soon to be water-logged town to safety. The initial establishment of these people as folk to be wary of precedes a revealing of their more genuine nature, in that they are upstanding and present on justified terms; something that encapsulates this idea of transition later becoming more prominent and standing in equal measure to that of Collins and his deputies, whose natures began as helping and unassuming before taking a nastier turn.Tom reiterates that there is little adventure in his life, although he would like there to be, while his partner in security points out that when he was Tom's age, he too suffered from a great lack of 'happening' in his life. This alludes to an apparent lack of life experience, and aids in increasing tension as later events play out &#x96; events of which we doubt Tom will be able to rise to. Then there is Freeman's character, Jim - an ageing man seemingly too embittered to even raise his voice; a man whom forms a posse with three others, each epitomising varying clichés in that the glasses wearing nerd; the wise-cracking, bible-quoting African American and the hot-headed kid make up his troupé. They plan to hit the truck, the cash being Jim's retirement fund in the fleeting few hours he'll probably get to spend it out of dropping dead with hypothermia. When he stands in a sparsely populated bar early on, he deals with a situation involving one of his gang and their exuberance with a crossword puzzle in a newspaper, in what is an instance of the man dealing with a scenario in a calm; creative and intuitional manner which should bode well for certain later exchanges. The bulk of the film consists of surprisingly engrossing chase as well as neatly unfolded allegiances which come to differ throughout; Salomon's film a series of really rather well constructed set pieces involving causality, rescue and evasion which come together and work much more than they have any right to. The director, a man whose work I had not come across in any other capacity prior to first seeing this guilty pleasure several years ago, nor indeed have I experience any since, keeps things chugging along without trying to dress it up as anything it isn't. Hard Rain is a film difficult not to get into, and tough to really dislike. "},{"Title":"So boring","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the most boring films I've seen. I completely know what this film is about. All is water and dark, besides this, nothing.Maybe the director had broke his head, that's horrible. Even Morgan Freeman joined the cast but still do nothing to help the movie. Slater? I don't what he's going to do. Even in the end I don't he's the good guy or the bad one. Minnie Driver, a boring woman. And the name in the film is stupid. Jim, Tom, Hank, Karen, Uncle Charlie, and the old couple who should stop talking.It is not as others have said another heist film because the environment and opportunity of the potential crime is different and thought provoking. "},{"Title":"If your in the mood to see a poor script but amazing action and set design, Hard Rain is your cup of tea.","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It's not one of those movies that takes itself seriously but comes off stupid. It doesn't take itself seriously one bit, and that's why this film succeeds. You realize that when you see Ski-Doo's driving around schools and hillbilly dam workers who seem to forget that they have a dam to take care of. Oops. Hard Rain carves itself a niche in the great wall of natural disaster films. It is much higher than Volcano, Deep Impact, Dante's Peak, Firestorm, etc. Hard Rain kind of reminded me of Armageddon, except I enjoyed this more than Armageddon, though Hard Rain lacked Steve Buscemi. Shame. But this film has a fine cast also, Morgan Freeman can just about pull off any role that is thrown his way. I enjoyed Nurse Betty, Driving Miss Daisy, Kiss the Girls and of course The Shawshank Redemption. He has a certain on-screen presence that brings more life to his parts but with the exclusion of stuff like Chain Reaction which was horrible. I also admire the work of Christian Slater who's Broken Arrow and True Romance I highly enjoyed. (We don't get into Very Bad Things). Randy Quaid and Minnie Driver have minimal screen time along with the rest of the cast, but Freeman and Slater were all I really cared about. I also didn't care a whole lot on the plot, I knew it wasn't going to be top-notch one but that didn't matter to me. A town in Indiana gets flooded so the bank decides to move all of it's money to high ground and in doing so is ambushed by bank robbers and it's up to one man to keep it out of their grasp. Very original. Originality is really what this movie is all about. I was there to see the great set designs and unique action. And boy did I get it. Church shoot-outs, boat chases, underwater peril, more shoot-outs, explosions, dams, electricity and Betty White. Yes, Betty White. How can you forget her role in Lake Placid? She seems to play the same person in this film just a little toned down. She utters the only F word in this entire movie. Impressive. And man, who could forget those set pieces. It cost $70,000,000 to make this film, and I bet most of that money went into the sets, you know how that H20 can ring up a pretty penny. Just ask James Cameron. It's a pity though that this film only grossed $19,000,000 at the box office, it deserved better, but I guess the viewing public saw this film differently than I did. Shame. All in all, I don't have much to say, but what I have to say is that this film is great, I recommend it to all you lovers of mindless disaster flicks, and I assure you there is not one shot of Ben Affleck is this film. That's certainly a relief to some. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent PWC action","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Personal watercraft chases make this movie very enjoyable to me.  I love the inside chases more so than the ones outside.  The plot is really weak, but the movie keeps your attention.  Maybe if the plot had been a little stronger the movie would have done better because the actors did their part. "},{"Title":"As far as action movies go, pretty enjoyable","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes the critics are a little too harsh, especially in reviewing action movies. There is a place in this world for mindless action with lots of explosions and slo-mo. Heck, Jerry Bruckheimer is a rich man today because of this. When I go to see an action movie, I try to suspend all disbelief and just sit back and enjoy the ride. And with Hard Rain I was able to do this. I don't expect much in the way of plot... all I ask for are some novel action sequences and some genuine thrills. One sequence that is almost standard in any action movie is the hero running in slo-mo while something explodes behind him. I enjoy this sequence. Almost every Stallone movie has this scene, and to my delight Hard Rain had one too. If you're looking for character development in an action movie, rent a John Woo film. But for mindless entertainment that's just a lot of fun, rent Hard Rain. "},{"Title":"Pretty good with a lot of twists.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like movies with a lot of twists and this is one of them. It's a good movie if you don't want to think a lot. There are a lot of things that are wrong with the movie but it doesn't matter at all it's still a fun watch. "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't see any trailers or read any reviews of this movie, just grabbed it  off the video store shelf cause there was nothing else.  If you like action  movies, I don't see what's not to like original settings, novel (!) action  sequences, fine cast, and written like the story was the only thing that  mattered.  I liked not being able to predict scenes.  I wish  more action scripts were this entertaining. "}{"Title":"Interesting action but poor characters","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I started watching this with a bad feeling in the pit of my stomach.  However much to my surprise this movie was very entertaining.  The action is fast paced and also a bit different.  It's not every action movie we see a jet-ski chase through a flooded high school.  The visuals were also very well done.  However, the script could've used some doctoring.  The dialogue wasn't that bad but it didn't go anywhere with the characters.  Still an enjoyable Saturday afternoon rental. "},{"Title":"Not bad if you know what to expect beforehand","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What's with all the bad reviews? Sure, this film is completely unbelievable. The acting is good, but not great from all involved. You can't help wondering if Ed Asner, Betty White and Minnie Driver were cast just to keep them from reaching oblivion in Hollywood. Although, while doing an admirable job, Morgan Freeman appears to be rather bored playing the part of bad-guy Jim. Christian Slater fares better as the guy who's caught in the middle of everything but he always looks on the verge of busting out in laughter due to the unbelievability of it all. Taking this into consideration, Hard Rain was obviously DESIGNED to be a mindless action flick, on par with original television series's such as Batman or The Six Million Dollar Man. When was the last time you saw Adam West or Lee Majors put on an Oscar winning performance? You didn't, but that never kept you from tuning in each week or running off to make a peanut butter sandwich when all the ZAM! POWIE! animations were flashed on the screen. Or when Steve Austin was ripping through solid steel with his bare hands. It's the same premise, total mindless fun, nothing more. But I can understand how some may feel ripped-off with the talents of Freeman and Slater being wasted on nearly one dimensional character roles.Honestly, I have a hard time giving this movie a rating of six because it's completely dependent upon what I'm in the mood for watching at any given time, and that could vary it up or down a point or two. If you're looking for non-stop action from start to finish, not to be taken seriously with the best elements of spaghetti westerns, disasters, bad guys, corruption and chase scenes -- get some beer, order a pizza and invite your buddies over. I guarantee you'll laugh at the absurdity, be entertained, and awestruck attempting to comprehend how much water was used for its filming. "},{"Title":"Above average action film, that has it's exciting moments here and there, with solid performances and a decent story","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an above average action film, that has it's exciting moments here and there, with solid performances and a decent story. All the characters are good enough, and the setting was certainly unusual, plus Christian Slater and Morgan Freeman are simply amazing in this!. It actually does have a couple of good little twists, and while the boat chases are exciting, I just felt it could have been a lot better, plus Randy Quid did a great job here. There is one tense scene where Slater is trapped in a cell in water, and all that rain definitely gave it some creepy atmosphere at times, plus Freeman's presence definitely helps. Slater and Minnie Driver had decent chemistry together, and I also liked the music in it as well, plus the finale was pretty exciting too. it's a perfect time waster, if your looking for something to watch that will at least keep you entertained, and all the characters are pretty likable as well, plus it's well made and decently written in my opinion. This is an above average action film, that has it's exciting moments here and there, with solid performances and a decent story, and I say it's well worth the watch. The Direction is good. Mikael Salomon does a good job here with good camera work, solid angles, adding some good atmosphere and keeping the film at a fast enough pace. The Acting is very solid. Christian Slater is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, very charismatic, had a cool character, also had some good scenes with Freeman, and proves he can be a good action star when needed to be, he also had a couple of cool one liners! (Slater Rules!!!!!). Morgan Freeman is also amazing as always and is amazing here, sure he was just looking for a paycheck, but he gave it his all, and as always had tons of presence, and was especially cool at the end (Freeman Rules!!!!!!!). Randy Quaid is pretty good here, and had a very mysterious character, as the Sheriff, I'm not a big fan, but he was very good here. Minnie Driver is cute, and does fine with what she had to do I rather liked her. Edward Asner is good in his scenes as Uncle Charlie. Betty White is amusing in her role I liked her. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall well worth the watch. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Hard Rain  - Great fun","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a movie i loved at the cinema and supported purely because it was an action film getting bad reviews- when do they ever get great ones? Well - movies like Batman Begins was rated very highly amongst critics and although it was well made and filmed and acted etc.. it made a great FILM but not necessarily a great action MOVIE.. MOVIE is pure entertaining, a film is technically brilliant but not necessarily a stand out scene (or scenes)...anyways, Hard Rain is a wet action film, with a great cast. It looks great, has a get score and there has been NO FILM LIKE IT.. from start to finish, its filmed in a flood! No dryness at all...No sun at all - all done at night, all done in water - technically would have made it a fortune to make. Surprisingly it got very bad reviews upon release, however it was the era of Dante's Peak, Twister etc.. all the disaster films - and to be honest, the all had great special effects but lousy scripts- yet hard rain copped it worse that the rest from audiences and critics..I don't really understand why though. i loved the music and the action, and had a recognizable cast. I wound pay to see a sequel at the cinemas..HARD RAIN 2 RAIN HARDER d "},{"Title":"Great action movie","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Shot as 'The Flood' in 1996, re-shot as 'Hard Rain' in 1997, and released into cinemas with virtually no publicity in 1998 it's a shame that this film sank with out a trace (pun intended). But you have to wonder why the studio abandoned it when it took investment from multiple backers to keep the production afloat (pun intended again). I recall seeing publicity shots in 1997 for scenes (and characters) that aren't even in the movie. I guess we'll never know what Graham Yost's script was originally about. Paramount figured that the public had had enough of disaster movies and re-tooled 'The Flood' as a heist flick midway through filming. I can't say if it's for better or worse, but Hard Rain is still an exciting action ride.Yes, the characterization is thin, but it avoids the cliché of making them all annoying as a quick way of defining them (something Twister, Volcano, and Dante's Peak were guilty of). The stragglers caught in the deluge as Huntingburg, Indiana is swept off the face of the Earth don't need to define themselves. They are who they are. Since the movie virtually takes place in real time there's little room for meaningless development.Minnie Driver's unconvincing accent aside, the cast do pretty well with the material, and Slater makes for a better action hero here than he did in Broken Arrow (ironically, by the same writer).Hard Rain works best in the cinema. It's too bad that it flopped because the big screen is where it deserved to be seen. Too many folks have seen and criticized this film from TV viewings that do the scope of the action no justice whatsoever. The water and chaos is very well shot and brilliantly staged. The bouncing, shaking, wobbling camera was an innovative idea, and if you like the slow-motion fire-fights of John Woo movies then you'll get a kick out of Hard Rain.Another strong aspect that has gone overlooked with the rest of the movie is Chris Young's powerful score; the orchestral sound of violence, mayhem, and nature taking over. Seriously, it's great stuff and you really ought to get the score CD.Despite the bad reviews and poor box office returns Hard Rain is still a highly entertaining B-movie. We'll never know the full story behind its trouble production (there hasn't been anything close to a Special Edition DVD, and Mikael Salomon has never spoken publicly about it), but I recommend it to all action movie junkies. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not exactly dry","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's wet, damn wet Robin Williams - Good Morning Vietnam one could say.  Let's get the facts straight before we hit the review - Minnie Driver is a really bad actress, Christian Slater isn't much better and Morgan Freeman plays the same character in every film although he is very good at it.Actually, Freeman as a bad guy who is only interested in the money is refreshingly different from the norm, although of course he's not that transparent.  Being Hollywood you can work out the rest yourself.  Slater is a security guard who is tied up in the great crime, and there's a big flood.That's about it really, but the effects were good. "},{"Title":"Where's Gibson And Glover When You Need Them?","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	There's action, water (plenty of water), gun play, more action, actors from the `A' list (Morgan Freeman, Minnie Driver), one from the `B' list (Randy Quaid) and the `star' of it all, Christian Slater; `It' being none other than `Hard Rain,' an `action/thriller' written by Graham Yost and directed by Mikael Salomon.  Going in, it would seem that it has all the elements required of a film of this genre to succeed.  Going out, one must pause to reflect and wonder  How did this movie ever see the light of day?  How did it even get made?  Better yet, why?  For anyone unlucky enough to have suffered through this muddle in a theater, the only `thrill' would've been finally being able to leave when it was over.  One of the blessings of video is that it adds to one's options; in this case, being able to TURN IT OFF and cut your losses.   	The trouble begins with the screenplay by Yost (who as a writer is responsible for a number of decent, exciting movies, including `Speed, `Broken Arrow' and `Mission To Mars'), whose concept here is suspect from the start.  In the middle of a flood, which quickly renders everyone practically immobile (almost immediately every character is up to their waist in water), four men planning to rob an armored car continue on as if their feet are still on dry ground; and it's only the beginning of a plot that stretches credibility just too far.  As it plods along (I should say `slogs' along), even suspending disbelief will not work here; sure, this is an action flick and you have to accept what you're given to a certain extent.  But here we're to believe, for instance,  that no less than six lifelong law-abiding, decent citizens suddenly become murderers and thieves, two with some premeditation, four at the drop of a hat.  It just doesn't wash, by anyone's measuring stick.  Soon frames of reference begin to cloud and merge, which creates an even more ambiguous reality; halfway through this movie you can't tell the good guys from the bad guys without a scorecard.  And, as if to make sure that none of this can be taken with even a grain of salt, the dialogue is so bad it must be the stuff of which an actor's worst nightmares are born.  Better they should have no lines to say than be saddled with this inane prattle.  At least when the story picks up the town has already been evacuated, except for the Sheriff and three or four officers and a utility worker, and of course the obligatory (in this case three) others who refuse to leave.  This is a positive note, however.  Fewer characters means fewer occasions for banal utterances. 	The crushing blow is delivered, however, by director Salomon, whose lack of imagination renders this film D.O.A.  And he should have seen it coming; it's his job to know what works and what doesn't.  He's the one with the placard that says `The Buck Stops Here.'  The real shame of this debacle, though, is the waste of such talent as Freeman and Driver, especially, and even Quaid and Slater.  They deserve better.  To their credit, they all did as much as was humanly possible with the material with which they were given to work.  This is one of those projects that must have looked good on paper, but somewhere in the execution went south.  And apparently very quickly. 	The supporting cast includes Edward Asner (Uncle Charlie), Michael A. Goorjian (Kenny), Richard A. Dysart (Henry), Betty White (Doreen) and Mark Rolston (Wayne).  On the positive side, `Hard Rain' does have some decent special F/X.  But the best thing about this movie is the fact that it makes one appreciate a really good film, the kind we've come to expect from the people involved with this one.  It makes you appreciate Schwarzenegger.  It even makes you appreciate Van Damme.  Then again, this isn't the first time that actors of this caliber have been entangled with a movie this bad.  In fact, if you listen closely you can almost hear Michael Caine off somewhere chuckling and whispering `Jaws 4' to himself in a quiet aside.  I rate this one 1/10.                "},{"Title":"A very bad action movie","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain is on my list of worst movies I've ever seen in my entire life.There not much action in this movie. The only good part that I liked is the boat chase. That the only thing that I enjoy in the entire movie.What was Morgan Freeman been thinking? Why did he want to be in this trash? The storyline doesn't make much sense at all.Please don't see this movie.I will give this movie No Stars out of **** "},{"Title":"An insult to disaster movies.","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I tried to watch this film without counting the inconsistencies but gave up on the whole contrived mess after about 45 minutes. So, here we go; Why did the bank decide to move the cash on such a night? Didn't they read the weather forecast? Do whole populations in America leave town without any kind of security and how come they saw the weather forecast but the National Guard didn't? Why was every light in town left on? How did the gang know about the movement of cash but the police didn't? Why did the security guards get lost so quickly? Why was a psychopath included in the gang? How did the gang know in which direction the guard had gone? How did such a moron get a job as a deputy? Surely the guard would be required to carry his I.D. at all times? Are all jails in America so easy to get into? Do all female art restorers carry a Swiss army knife? How come all the doors inside the college were open, making it convenient for a speedboat chase, but the emergency panic-bar ones were locked? How did the water rise so fast and so selectively without flowing and how did it stay so clean? Why didn't Morgan Freeman and Christian Slater read the scripts before getting involved with this turkey? I know the makers of this film didn't want it to be just another disaster movie but instead they have churned out a disaster of a movie. "},{"Title":"Hard Rain!","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain is a dandy of an action film! Morgan Freeman, Christian Slater, Minnie Driver and  especially Randy Quaid were all very good! Edward Asner, Ray Baker, and Betty White were good! Cool action! Beautiful rain and lighting! Great music by Christopher Young! Hard Rain is a must see! Strongly recommended!  "}{"Title":"We Just Want The Money","Date":"28 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain is a action film that stars Christian Slater, Morgan Freeman, Randy Quaid, Minnie DriverThe film features the characters in the middle of a flood along with dealing a heist.Hard Rain is one of the most under rated films that I have seen. For one the whole film take places in a flood and how the production team actually put the effort to create a setting that gives the film it's meaning.It's original plot make the movie clever enough to hold your attention. Plus there is a lot of tense moments throughout the film that you will be throw off by each oneAlso the action scenes in this film are really good and it goes to show that the film did try to be worth your while.Also the film features one of the best one liners I ever heard that I remember was feature in the Trailer. While the characters could have been better only Morgan and Christian characters really make the film work for it's plot there is a lot of twist in the film that you will be not expecting as well so you gotta keep your eyes open the whole time. Hard Rain is actually a good movie for it's original plot, the production and sets gives the film credit also the action in the film is really what drives the film. I give Hard Rain an 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very, very good TV, although it was supposed to be a major motion picture.","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Plays like a really high quality 80s or 90s made-for-TV movie, which still makes it much better than most major motion pictures in theaters today. Pretty solid action throughout with the obligatory twists. As is usual for films of this nature, it degenerates towards the end as the action overwhelms the plot, but not nearly as badly as most, so I'll forgive it that. What I was really left wondering, was how exactly they filmed this production. Sure, it was obvious that there was some special effects stuff done with models, but likewise it seems very clear that they must have actually constructed huge sets and flooded them for much of the filming. I would really like to know more about how they did it, so I'll probably try to google this film later to try to get to the bottom of this movie's magic. Summarizing this experience, I would say, certainly nothing great, but definitely no regrets about spending the time and that's not really that bad in my book. "},{"Title":"Great cast, but soggy script.","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The premise of Hard Rain is interesting enough. The cast was more than a cut above this level of thriller. The sets were impressive enough. But after the first 45 minutes or so, this film seems to run out of ideas and interesting set pieces. The film draws you in, but it can't quite hold your interest, and by the final twenty minutes, you are left with a bunch of useless posturing by unlikeable characters, and too much random gunfire that misses its targets.But how about the cast, though? Christian Slater and Minnie Driver were big names back then. Randy Quaid as a crooked Sheriff? Sure. Ed Asner as a grizzled old security guard? Okay, he still needs a paycheck every now and then. Betty White and Richard Dysart as a bickering old couple that refuses to evacuate as the flood waters rise... a nice touch to be sure. But they didn't seem to know what to do with Morgan Freeman. Theoretically, his character is the arch villain, and mastermind of this plot to rob an armored car during a massive flood. But he's just too likable as an actor to make him the bloodthirsty, cynical thief his character needed to be.The film starts well, and proves the technical skill of its makers from an early point. There are some great stunts and effects here. A chase through a flooded high school on jet skis is really cool, for example. But the film doesn't stay consistent as far as how high the water is between different scenes. How does water rise to the top of a building in one scene, and then in the very next scene, its only up to the top of car roofs in the street outside the building?? Oh, come on! Maybe some parts of this town are at different elevations, you might argue back at me. But we never get any establishing shots that indicate what the rules are. And things like that do matter. At least a little. The cast must have all caught pneumonia making this. They must have been absolutely miserable. The film was a bust at the box office, too. Even basic cable movie channels have avoided it over the years. There are some fun moments, though. Overall its worth about 6 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A very overlooked action masterpiece","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" WOW! I love this film. I have read so much negative press about this film and I just do not understand why. What we have here is NOT a disaster film, but an action movie about a heist that just happens to be set during a really bad flood, which makes the plan more difficult. The cast is very solid, the direction is very exciting, the production is sleek, and the story is interesting. The script itself is a bit weak but forgivable when combined with all the other elements. When it comes to the performances, Christian Slater is, well, Christian Slater, He is no better or worse then in any other film he has been in. The rest of cast is awesome. We have the likes of Morgan Freeman, Randy Quaid, Ed Asner, and even Betty White. The only real weak link is Minnie Driver, but she is easily overlooked. All I can say is give this one a shot. If you are a lover of cheesy action movies of the 90's such as myself, I really believe you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Disaster/Thriller/Heist Film...","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Hard Rain' ('HR', or 'Flood' 1998) DVD, was filmed under a working title of 'The Flood', but this title was apparently deemed too disaster-centric. 'HR' contains a solid cast & brilliant acting working under fine direction that produced an intriguing premise/plot in the mold of the Disaster/Thriller/Heist mixed genres. Released with a tag line of, 'In the worst storm in living memory, one guard stands between five men and three million dollars', Morgan Freeman is cast in role that would likely influence his later roles in 'Nurse Betty' (2000), 'Big Bounce' (2004), & 'The Contract' (2006). 'HR' contains the typical editing/continuity flaws, but is beautifully shot & the cinematography helps to produce an appropriate atmosphere/backdrop for the unfolding action & plot twists. 'HR' is a dark, suspenseful, & entertaining production that is recommended for fans of the Disaster/Heist genre and the curious Disaster/Thriller mixed-genre viewer. 'HR' debuted the same year as the similar, but inferior, production of 'Terror in the Mall' ('TitM' 1998), & is worth a watch for the comparison. For variations on similar theme consider 'The Last Drop' (2006); 'The Ladykillers' (1955); 'The River' (1984); 'Kelly's Heroes' (1970); 'Earthquake' (1974); 'The River Wild' (1994); 'Operation Amsterdam' (1959); 'The Thomas Crown Affair' (1968); 'The Italian Job' (1969); 'The Towering Inferno' (1974); 'Titanic' (1997); 'Flood A River's Rampage' (1997); 'The Hindenburg' (1975); & 'The Train' (1964). "},{"Title":"Suburban Poseidon Adventure - Action Reigns","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Finally caught this film on cable and thoroughly enjoyed it. A rain drenched town flooded to the gills with Christian Slater as an armored truck guard protecting three million from a band of outlaws. This is a suburban Poseidon Adventure with many superb set pieces that continuously entertains and includes some great moments of suspense. Watching bandits blaze through high school corridors on Jet Skis in pursuit of Slater was a great highlight. In an age before CGI dominated every film it is refreshing to see practical - not animated effects with actual water flooding the roads, homes, alleys and buildings of a small Indiana town. Slater and Minnie Driver have a nice chemistry and Morgan Freeman always strong turns in a top notch performance. Some nice cameo appearance from Betty White and Richard Dysart liven up the action and add a few chuckles along the way. There are few adventure films today that provide the same escapist entertainment as Hard Rain. Put this one in your queue, it's solid entertainment where action and suspense reign hard. "},{"Title":"Water Sports","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's an armoured-car heist. And apparently, the villains not only knew when it was going to set off, how much was in it, and which way it was going; they also knew what the weather would be like en-route. Now that's forward planning! The old geezer driving it is apparently the villains' inside man. He drives the truck into a road flood, stalling the engine. Now all the gang have to do is turn-up in a boat and help themselves.Starring Pixie-faced Christian Slater as the honest sidekick; he puts up a fight which results in the old guy being gunned-down. After that, he hides the money and runs. The villains give chase. They need him alive in order to know where he's hidden it. Cue all manner of water sports.The rain is incessant (though not heavy enough to put out a simple church-roof fire). Flooding worsens. The dam breaks. Minnie (donkey jaws) Driver appears as a restorer of stained-glass windows, giving her usual acting-by-numbers turn. The sheriff goes crooked at the thought of $3 million, so enmity and loyalty become ambiguous though offer few additional thrills. Shooting gets almost incessant, mostly to little effect. In the end; it's boring.For me, the biggest problem is that non of the characters move me to care for them. The old guy, who might have excited sympathy, was one of the gang. Slater's and Driver's characters both incline towards the unbelievable. The rest are mostly just cameos of one particular human trait or another. The most heavyweight and potentially likable character is that of Morgan Freeman. But he is the lead baddie. And while he may not have wanted anyone hurt, it nevertheless happens and on his watch. If you don't care about the characters, then you don't care what happens to them, so there's no story to speak of.It's basically a thick slice of robbery ham, to which floods of water do not bring the additional drama its makers had hoped.One-watch hokum, can't recommend it.Incidentally; by 1998, armoured cars in Britain contained 'a locked safe to which the crew had no access', a homing device that was tamper-proof, explosive dye-bags that would render money un-useable, and 'smart-water' contaminants. Apparently the Yanks need to modernise. Mind how you go. "},{"Title":"Hard Rain of awful discredit..","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain is something different than your average disaster movie. It takes place in a small town in Indiana. Where remaining survivors are scavenging to save what they have left before the flood. And when two armor truck guard buddies are in center of a plot to heist the armor truck for 3 million dollars. All heck becomes a desperate plan to survive for Hale(Christian Slater) when a crew of hired arms lead by Jim(Morgan Freeman) who have mistakenly sidetracked their plan and have to chase him through the flood of the entire town...Lots of action, thrills, and some surprisingly amazing acting from Randy Quaid as the sheriff. Along with cast as Mini Driver, Christian Slater, Ed Asner, and of course Morgan Freeman.. One of my top favorites and a enjoyable movie.. "},{"Title":"Unusual action movie that pays homages to the westerns of John Wayne and the spectacles of Irwin Allen, and that's why it's good.","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The thing is, I'm an action movie buff. I've seen them all, from big-budget Jerry Bruckheimer fares to Golan-Globus cheese-fests. I borrowed this movie from my cousin because I was curious to know what Christian Slater made before he went DTV, and watched it finally one rainy afternoon.I can tell you this it's an average movie made good. I mean, the acting is pretty average; even by Morgan Freeman, who looks like he's having a blast playing the bad guy, and especially Christian Slater, who repeats his Broken Arrow routine here. Randy Quaid gives a good albeit repetitive performance as the sheriff, but Minnie Driver is tolerable in her church-girl performance.So why is it good? Well first off it pays off homages to not only one, but TWO - genres of movies. The first genre is the western (action movies wouldn't be here if not for it). I mean, can you not notice? A small town miles away from civilization. The hero (Slater) protecting the money. The honorable outlaw (Freeman) and his bandits surrounding the hero the get the money (without hopefully killing innocents). The all-too-good sheriff (Quaid). The damsel in distress (Driver). The queer folk of the town (Richard Dysart and Betty White in hilarious performances). The heroes 'n outlaws story looks like it was told in the fashion of Gunfight at the OK Corral, and Rio Bravo among others. Shootouts and mayhem occur, and they are perfectly paced and thrilling. Not to mention Slater wielding two guns at the same time! The other homage is what really gives the movie it's credibility, in which is pays homage to the disaster movies of the '70s. It's refreshing to see an entire city set flooded for real instead of using backdrops and CGI. And with all that rain pouring down on them, I can't really blame them for missing almost every shot they shoot! And for the final disaster sequence, it is spectacular (albeit pushing logic to the limit). It's as if a John Wayne westerner suddenly got thrust into an Irwin Allen spectacle. It's actually a lot of fun to watch these two scenarios combine, and you don't see a lot of movies like these nowadays.The action sequences and cinematography are nicely filmed and choreographed (courtesy of cinematographer-cum-director Mikael Saloman); for example there is an exciting jet-ski chase through the flooded hallways of a high school which was very impressive, considering the painstaking effort the cast and crew went through (Slater did most of the stunts himself). The music by Christopher Young just screams of excitement and danger awaiting, and the editing is not to shabby.Overall, this is a hugely entertaining action movie, and an unusually good one at that, given the circumstances faced. I was shocked to know this was a box-office bomb (clearly the critics are missing the point). I felt like this was a sure-fire hit. So, if you're a fan of action, westerns, or disaster movies in particular, give this movie a try. You definitely will NOT be disappointed.Entertainment value 10/10Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"and into the river we'd dive, that's Springsteen man!","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A small town is slowly disappearing under a flood of water. Armoured car guard Slater and his partner find themselves in dangerous waters when a gang of thieves, led by Freeman, set about to steal the money. They kill Slater's partner and now he's on the run with the money in a town that's that's about to be completely flooded.A pedestrian script and cardboard characters nearly sink this one. There's no real story here to speak of, just one chase after another and the excellent cast can't do much with these clichéd ridden and uninteresting characters.But spectacular production values and effects make this suspense yarn more than worth your while. The setting here is beyond amazing and extremely well done and some of the action set pieces are really great. Plus that music score is awesome.With more interesting characters and a (much) better script (loved that Springsteen quote, though) this would have been a bona fide classic. "}{"Title":"It's wet, alright","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hard Rain. Indeed, that's what this movie is about. In fact, rain is the star of this movie. And amid the flood, are some characters desperately trying to get us interested into some plot. But they don't succeed. The rain and the flood steal the show.Tom (Christian Slater) works for Huntingburg's money transfer security company. As a flood is on its way, he and his partner collect the money from the town's banks. On their way out of town, their truck gets stuck in a ditch and have to wait for dispatch to come and help them out. Someone comes along, but it's not dispatch. Jim (Morgan Freeman) and his gang come to take the money and run. And pretty soon, everybody, including the town's sheriff (played by Randy Quaid) will go after Tom and will all shoot at each other to be the one to get the money Tom hid in a cemetery. Oh, and there's also Karen (Minnie Drive) who's there to provide some feminine presence in the film. And that's it. And it rains, and rains, and rains, and things sure get wet&#133;Mind you, the visual effects are perfect but in this movie's case, it's a problem. There's even an interesting idea exploited a jet ski chase scene in the town's medium school's halls. You don't see that every day. But, since the story or the characters aren't exactly keeping our attention, we're constantly distracted by the rain, the flood, the wet streets, the wet cars. The only time I thought about the actors, was when I realized how wet they were from beginning to end and how annoying it must have been for them to work.So, this movie is in fact an exercise on how to make everything look convincingly wet for about 90 mins. "},{"Title":"OK action-thriller, nothing special","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" HARD RAIN Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTSWell-produced action-thriller, toplined by Christian Slater and Edward Asner as security guards on armoured vehicle duty who are assigned to remove bank funds from a town which is slowly vanishing beneath rising flood waters. Unfortunately, their haul is coveted by a gang of thieves (led by the ever-dependable Morgan Freeman) who become trigger-happy when Slater refuses to hand over the cash. Local artist Minnie Driver helps Slater escape from Freeman's goons after Asner is killed by a stray bullet, prompting the intervention of sheriff Randy Quaid, whose investigation into Slater's 'wild' claims takes an unexpected (though predictable) twist. Betty White and Richard Dysart are a warring elderly couple whose determination to protect their home from looters has unfortunate consequences for heroes and villains alike. Slater and Driver are bland but agreeable, though they're upstaged by Quaid and Freeman, playing characters whose allegiances shift from scene to scene, depending on the circumstances. Eye-popping set-pieces include a jet-ski chase through a flooded school, and a John Woo-style shoot-out in a church, and the movie reaches its spectacular highpoint during a climactic showdown between Good and Evil, when the dam above the town begins to crumble, sending tons of water crashing into the vicinity! OK hokum for indiscriminate action fans, directed by Mikael Salomon. "},{"Title":"3 of 10 for some entertaining villains.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's nothing like some witless banter between Slater and an old man to open up a positively dreary film. I bought this at a flea market with the intent of watching it if only for Michael Goorjian and barely managed to keep watching after his character met his demise.Slater is annoying, Freeman isn't up to par, and I have no idea what Driver was attempting. Goorjian and Harris, though token personalities, are still entertaining and make up a little for the absolute boredom brought on by the others. The action is fair, but really, unless you had a special reason to view this film, I'd vote for evacuating with the rest of the town. "},{"Title":"A little bit of everything...","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love these types of movies, when you never know what the plot is going to do next. When everything is unpredictable and the movie falls into several genre categories at once. HARD RAIN is such a movie.Christian Slater, Morgan Freeman, Randy Quaid, Minnie Driver, Wayne DuVall, Betty White, and Ed Asner star in HARD RAIN, one of the most explosive thrillers of the last five years (that is only my opinion). The movie is written by Graham Yost (the guy who would later write MISSION TO MARS) and is directed by Mikael Soloman who probably hasn't directed a single movie since.If you are looking for a change from the usual serial killer thriller or the action adventure where people are being eaten by a monstrous creature, then HARD RAIN is for you. Flood movies are not to common and when one comes out, you can be almost positive that its gonna be good. Because there isn't a director alive who is going to put up the money for a flood movie and not be 100% positive that most people who see it are going to like it. And, again, HARD RAIN is such a movie.HARD RAIN gets 5/5.  "},{"Title":"Unique plotline (Spoiler)","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is unique among robbery movies. Anyone can rob an armored car, but can you do it during a rainstorm and flood? This adds a whole degree of danger and several suspenseful scenes of near drowning and narrow escapes. In my opinion of this film, the water is just as much a character in the movie as any of the actors. I think this is a very well done and unique story, and I would recommend it to anyone who is an action movie fan. Christian Slater as the hero plays his part well, decently acted, Morgan Freeman portrays the villain, a bit of a role switch for him. Freeman's character is relentless, and quite believable. All in all, I was impressed with the movie. "},{"Title":"Just a decent saturday night's entertainment.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain rates alongside most average 90's action flicks.  Though, Speed, Face/Off and The Matrix are miles better, there are a few points that make Hard Rain more watchable than most.  First off, you've got Morgan Freeman; not an amazing performance but good enough!  Christian Slater plays the same role in Broken Arrow, which is fine.  But what makes this film better than average is the action!  The church scene is very good, slightly John Woo (ish) but isn't over violent or stupid.  The production employed this neat trick of when ever a gun is fired, the camera shakes for a moment - this might not seem much, but adds a bit of realism and adrenaline to the action. Above all, a very solid 7/10 film. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Wet","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain is the wettest movie I have ever seen. A simple plot, with a good cast giving good performances, although I think I can go a few years without seeing another Morgan Freeman 'last caper' movie, even though Morgan plays the role well.But above all else, this movie is incredibly wet.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review   sub-intellectual, campy, skip it","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Except for The Contender, I haven't enjoyed any Christian Slater film, and this is no exception. Hard Rain might be quite the original film, since the premise is a cop flick during a flood.Unfortunately, the plot is silly and much of the acting is bad. I can't decide whether to love or hate Morgan Freeman, who reprises his role as the cool beyond cool guy (works for either goodguy or badguy roles) from Nurse Betty, High Crimes, etc.Take it from me -- I am not an arty reviewer who thinks every action film needs to have deep characterization. I love it when stuff blows up and if the plot has some twists (Twister, The Fugitive), I can have a good time and not look for deep thoughts that change my life.But I do enjoy a script that doesn't insult my intelligence. I was primed to enjoy this film but it didn't strike me.Who should see this film-- nobodyI'll have to give Hard Rain a 5 out of 10, for some nice visuals. "},{"Title":"some fun but nothing truly special","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well-cast but only marginally entertaining action-thriller which takes a natural disaster setup and runs with it. The story Freeman is a veteran robber trying to cash in on his early retirement fund by stealing loot from an armored car during a local flood; Slater is the young armored car transport carrying millions of dollars worth of cargo and trying to elude him; Quaid is the disgruntled, overworked local sheriff who gets caught up in the raucous and has to confront his own morality. The cast couldn't be better, the special effects are impressive, and the action scenes are lots of fun, but after a while you're left with the feeling that you've seen this kind of thing before. **½ "},{"Title":"well-crafted but routinely written","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Christian Slater is an armored car transport carrying $3 million dollars who gets in over his head with a gang of looters led by Freeman, and corrupt cops led by sheriff Quaid during a flood. The cast is good and an intriguing story benefits from exciting action sequences and solid special effects, but the whole thing gives you a feeling of deja vu. 2/4 "}{"Title":"lots of twists","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was trying to get ready to go to work when I caught this one on the T.V. It kept my attention, for sure, I liked the chase and the changing of the bad guys vs good guys roles.  I'd watch it again. Nice to see Randy Quaide in a serious role for a change. "},{"Title":"Dumb, but fun action.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very dumb film but the action was fun to watch. The story isn't that marvelous. Two money transporters having themselves a breakdown in the middle of a flood. Freeman and his gang try to get the cash. Slater runs of with the cash and protects it. Corrupt cop Quaid later on wants some of the cash as well, and Freeman helps Slater to defeat Quaid. Fun to watch, but it is just entertainment. You're not learning a lesson or something out of this. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great cast, too many boats","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard to miss with this cast.  Nicely photographed.  Old story line, new setting.  Boat chases are obviously staged and tiresome, but forgivably interesting.  For action/adventure, this is pleasant and mild.  I gave it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Novel setting","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would have to say that a flooded town IS about the most original setting for an action movie that I've ever seen. This was a very good movie with a good cast and great effects and action scenes. If you like caper flicks like this, pay no attention to the other pseudo-critics and get this movie! "},{"Title":"Terribly underrated action flick","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess some people just have a hard time accepting Christian Slater as an action hero. I don't understand why; he's certainly not Arnold or Bruce or Jackie, but he does a credible job. Anyway, a strong script/director combination makes up for a lot... I was impressed with how many ways they could create tension with nothing scarier than a bunch of water. "},{"Title":"Inventive action, but not a lot more","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great new twist on a standard heist story. The difference in this standard formula is that the town it takes place in is almost deserted and up to it's armpits in water flooding. As has already been said here, it's the cracking jet ski action shots that makes this film float to the surface in a sea of mindless action flicks.Slater is, well, Slater. Driver is the token female, although she plays a strong character (lovely she is too!) but Freeman wins by a length on this one. When you first see him you think he's the usual protective good character, that turns about port quick enough, and it's fantastically refreshing to see him like this - what an excellent baddie he plays. Mind you, you can't keep him away from his good guy roots for long.An okay film if you want to switch off and let the entertainment wash over you. Just watch all that boat action. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch....","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess they figured that after Titanic came out, they needed to make a heist film with the same qualities.  So, they just had a cloudburst pour over a rural town being slowly flooded out and there you have it Hard Rain.They even have a hero (Slater) who is handcuffed and helpless to watch the water rise up around him and a girl (Driver, soggy and unnecessary) with an upper-class air who manages to also get handcuffed in rising waters.Not that it matters but Freeman, as the leader of the baddies who are after the bags of money cop Slater is hauling, looks like he may be thinking about changing agents after this one.  And about where he could find a dry towel.Thank goodness Betty White is around as a nasty-mouthed old woman who talks back to anyone who will listen.  And Randy Quaid - Cousin Eddie's a cop in this one!  Always a pleasure to see him.But in spite of what turns of plot are offered, you've seen this one done a lot better - and a whole lot drier.  Three stars.  This one's all washed up. "},{"Title":"Good scripting, unbelievably unique action","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The twists and turns in this movie are phenomenal.  Will have you guessing the whole way.  The script is good and completely non-cornball.  Betty White is back as Sue Ann.....so to speak and the characterization is fantastic all around.  Randy Quaid has some of the best lines ever written for him and Christian Slater somehow manages to keep his head while all those around him are losing theirs (for once).  You have to watch it twice just to catch up. This is a movie worth buying for your collection.   "},{"Title":"An absolute waste of 2 hours of my time","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I feel sorry for the people who spent all this money making this movie possible.. it did horrible in the box office for the amount of money it took to make it and rightfully so. It reminds me of another movie involving a lot of water that took the same path as this one with an expensive budget and bad results *ahem waterworld ahem* Now its believable that Christian Slater would stoop to a movie like this but Morgan Freeman?? What was goin through his head? Similiarly, like his character in the movie, he must have just been out for the money.. DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"Difficult one to find....","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one hit theaters at the same time as the atrocious Firestorm, and both of them didn't last long. I finally caught it on Showtime last night, and I can say it really is a pretty solid action flick. Morgan Freeman looks kinda funny with a pierced ear, though.... I still remember him in Amistad. Overall, definitely worth a rental (the song on the end credits is really good, too). "}{"Title":"Extremely entertaining","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had not heard about this movie up until it wound up on premium cable last night.   My wife and I were totally fascinated by the incredible production values.   If you were to take the very best old movie serial and edit it into 96 min., leaving in all the action scenes, you would not have as much action as this movie.  So what if the storyline was not the greatest.  It was far more entertaining than most movies that the critics rave about and are hopelessly boring.    "},{"Title":"Original and Enjoyable","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We enjoyed this movie. It was original and the flood scenes (all of the movie) were well made. It's not for those looking for more than just light entertainment on a Saturday evening but worth a look. "},{"Title":"This is one wet picture.","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Easily the wettest movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Too much action, for nothing","Date":"28 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Too much water in there, and too much action. Action is good I think but the whole movie is pointless, ie. with no real point, or message if you prefer. Simply waste of time! "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was much better than the critics said it was gonna be.  I did see where the acting could have been better, and I did see where the story line could have had a little thicker plot, but, through the entire movie I was entertained and on the edge of my seat.  There were just enough action sequences and comedy relief segments to save the movie and put it on my list of recommended movies to see.   "},{"Title":"Sure has a lot of water .","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was like seeing the ending part of Titanic , only this one took  about two hours ; any way the action was there and the surprising ending  was there too . I get kinda amazed whenever I see the changes that undergo the characters ;  I mean , Randy Quiaid had one hell of a performance. Overall is a good movie , maybe a little long , but good . "},{"Title":"Bad reviews hurt a good action movie.","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain Starring Christian Slater, Morgan Freeman, and Minnie Driver.  I  saw the original trailer for this movie back when it was called The Flood.   First off, I have to say that I'm glad they changed the name.  They also  changed the release date a couple of times also.  If this movie would have  come out in the summer it would have done better at the box office for  sure.  The two things that sunk this movie were the release date and bad  reviews.   I thought Hard Rain was an excellent action movie.  Unfortunately nobody  went to see it because the critics didn't have anything good to say about  it.  The one and only down side to this movie was that we didn't get to  learn anything about the characters.  But the film was still pretty darn  good without that knowledge.  The action scenes (slow motion etc.) were  done exceptionally.  The music was also a plus.  As a big action movie fan,  I really liked this one, even if the critics didn't.  "},{"Title":"A good thriller by Mikael Solomon","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom (Christian Slater), is a guard-jury that leads with his partner a van armored transport of money. Approximately giant floods in the city by the have to go through and it is evacuated. Tom and his partner they will be guarding three million dollars pursued by criminals. It is an exciting film of action that gives no respite, hectic from beginning to end, with excellent scenes full of vertigo and extreme tension. Action is pure, to entertain and pass the time. The look from the gender, the film plays very well with the goal.In this genre what more is to be assessed are the sensations, and this is an objective widely exceeded. The atmosphere anguish of a people under the threat of flooding by the breaking of a dam. coupled with a plan to steal a van armored, is a situation in which you can take advantage easily. Mikael Salomon in this movie get his work.Film it wanted take advantage of the strain that had once again the disaster movie in the mid 1990, this time, with the disastrous panorama that cause a flood, although its authors carried the story more by the gender police. One of the changes that occurred in the film was the title, because they went through several, the most considered The Flood in reference to the catastrophe in question, but changed in the last time by Hard Rain, title more police.The script is the strong point, no lapses at any time, and is appreciated that is not so predictable. It is easy to follow, entertaining and fluid, without such drastic changes so disconcerting and occasionally credible. Good visual effects in the parties that truly movie needed. A ambiance and mounting distinguished. We really immersed in the scenario that we proposed Mikael Solomon.The performances are very good. Randy Quaid Independence Day with magnificent performance as corrupt police and greedy, Morgan Freeman always sober and blunt .Christian Slater confirms that he's more than a simple actor from  Der Name der Rose  with Sean Connery). The rest of the cast is makes a performance acceptable. "},{"Title":"Rain City","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's a certain novelty value in the sight of three jet skis chasing one another up and down the flooded hallways of an abandoned high school during a flood at night.And that's about it.We have thieves led by Morgan Freeman trying to find the money in a small inundated Indiana town that was removed from a stranded armored truck. The surviving armored truck driver is trying to escape from the thieves who want to force the location of the hidden fortune from him. He picks up a sympathetic young girl along the way. There's also a sheriff and one or two pals who don't help much.Now the concept is that this town is being flooded, you see, and we have these three groups trying to find each other. That's the concept. The problem in realizing this concept to to squeeze as many clichés into the story as possible, and to wedge some queer sights into it.They had plenty of previous movies to borrow from. It is, after all, Titanic except that instead of a ship sinking we have a town being covered by rising water. Same thing. People locked into a jail cell will be drowned, the same as people jammed into a ship's compartment.The usual conventions of action movies are followed. If somebody dies his death is forgotten in a moment. Under stress, people trade wisecracks. There is an old-fashioned shotgun-wielding couple who won't give up their property and are supposed to provide some chuckles but they don't.In the end though -- after all the chases, after the guns are drawn from underwater and immediately fired, after the boat crashes, the electrocutions, the Olympic-length underwater swims -- in the end, the film is really thought provoking. Here's the thought it provokes. Morgan Freeman, would you mind telling us what the hell you're doing in a picture like this? "},{"Title":"White was funny; Freeman was good","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had a hard time understanding this movie, but I liked Ed Asner as Tom's partner. And I really liked Betty White as a housewife who provided comic relief as she refused to escape the rising waters despite her husband's pleas, and regarded any stranger as suspicious. I wish they had been on together like they were on 'The Mary Tyler Moore Show'. Morgan Freeman seemed to do a good job, as did one of his partners who liked to quote scripture despite his obviously sinful nature. And it was very exciting watching Tom in jail, though I won't say exactly why.This was not a memorable movie, but Betty White's performance almost made it worth seeing. As time passed, I began to understand at least some of what was going on. Some interesting plot twists explained a lot. "}{"Title":"with water, anything can be put clean!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" nice film. the stars in this movie are some established as well as upcoming stars. for once, Quaid doesn't play some hillbilly moron. in this movie he starts out as a lovable sheriff. by the end, you see how unlovable he truly is. Slater does a nice job in this movie. He actually has to act somewhat and show a little action. Slater seemed as the new Kevin Bacon long ago. some of his film roles have been horrible. but, with this film, you can see why Slater is a star. Minnie Driverplays as usual the town snob do gooder, just back from college. She restores churches, but uses profanity. the writing isn't that good in this movie, but with the likes of Slater, Quaid and Freeman in this movie, it works. the directing was decent also, but the scenes of the river over taking the dam seemed as if a 12 year old did it in his backyard. the special effects were alright, but with all the water around covering the town, you'd think you'd have seen more stuff floating around. decent film, good for your collection, at least to me. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I rented this movie because the story line seemed very good, and i think that it was worth the 4 something bucks i paid. The movie is definitely has suspense parts that make u go come on run or go faster!. Problems i saw in the movie is that there is SO much problems for the main character. The beginning is very good, but towards the end, there's just way too many problems for him.it seems like never ending, and i had absolutely no idea if he was gonna come out of this alive or dead. But overall it was a good movie. All the characters are wet the entire time. This movie is Rated R. It's probably because of the language, but other than that, there's nothing really bad about it. Pretty good movie, and the actors played their characters well. "},{"Title":"Hard Rain is one of the better pure action films","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Set in a small US town that is suffering a flood due to a heavy storm. Christen Slater is a security guard who is attempting to transport the money collected from the town's businesses to a less flooded area. He ends having to hide his cargo from a gang of thieves lead by Morgan Freeman. The flooded town makes a dark and interesting setting for the action. The story is okay and the characters are convincing and entertaining on the most part, funny at times too.If you hanker for a bit of action and don't want to think about it too much then give it a try, you'll probably like it.  "},{"Title":"Well-Made Action Movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All I can say about Hard Rain is awesome.  There were plenty of action sequences.  I could watch it over and over and it won't get boring.  Betty White and Richard A. Dysart had hilarious roles as the old couple. Overall I say 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Film!!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just wanted to say to whoever has not seen this film yet go out and get it very good film.. loved the setting great action.  I have watched it about 5-6 times and i always enjoy it, mainly because of the great settings and enviroment I may be pushing it but this is in the top 20's of my all time fav's "},{"Title":"Simple plot - Interesting action","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many have criticized Hard Rain for it's simple plot. I think that the simple plot actually suits this kind of movie. Many action movies have a lot of loose ends because a more complex set-up has been tried out.I also find the dialog and the temperament of the actors very suitable for the settings. As an extra plus, this movie has no screaming women and no romance, which is often awkward.The disaster scenery is interesting.I am usually not especially attracted to action movies and the plot is almost always superficial but this is definitely a superficial action movie above average -- 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Soggy in parts, but stays afloat","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are several lessons one can learn from this actioner directed by Mikael Salomon - if you're planning a  big heist, pay attention to the weather forecasts; don't trust anyone, especially your Uncle Charlie and the local Sheriff; a girl's best friend is her Swiss Army knife; and originality, no matter how preposterous, can get you quite a long way in Hollywood. Without the deluge of biblical proportions in which this movie is set, it would be a run-of-the-mill, derivative crime thriller; but the floods offer the opportunity for exciting jet-ski and motor boat chases and crashes, underwater sequences, exploding electricity cables, a bursting dam etc etc. (Though the makers should have steered clear of the opportunity for feeble comedy scenes with an elderly couple who have not left town with the rest of the citizenry.) The main actors, Christian Slater, Morgan Freeman and Randy Quaid all play their supporting roles - to the water - effectively; as  does Minnie Driver in a part reminiscent of Sandra Bullock's in Speed, also written by Graham Yost. This is not a movie to be taken too seriously, but to be enjoyed as much for its damp patches as for its high tides.     "},{"Title":"Better than I expected it to be","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain was better than I expected it to be.  It is a dumb movie with a predictable plot, but the action is entertaining.  There are better actionmovies out there, but remember that there are also many that are worse than this. Morgan Freeman is good and Christian Slater isn`t as bad as he usually is. Hard Rain is worth renting, but don`t expect to be blown away by it. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Great action flick","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As action films go, Hard Rain is an exciting adventure packed with stunts and explosions as you would expect.  The notable difference is that the whole film takes place in a totally flooded town which has been evacuated of practically all of its inhabitants by the sheriff.  The film centres on Christian Slater who is ambushed by a band of looters as he is driving a truck filled with money.  He decides not to give in so easily and it's from there that the action unfolds. Not at all believable but non-stop fun all the same. "},{"Title":"Truly Unique","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this movie may have had it's flaws.. The cast, drama and mostly the concept make it a must see.  I watch movies for escape and this was a definite trip!  The whole movie takes place in a flooded town (must of cost plenty to make).  The action is constant and I cannot see how fans of Slater, Driver or Freeman could be disappointed.  The standard double-crossing at the end of the flick seemed credible from all characters perspectives.. Give it a shot. "}{"Title":"a very wet movie","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like water, you can stand this movie. I guess the actors took a long vacation in a desert after this, everybody is and stays soaking wet. Otherwise it is a great suspense movie. The good and the bad guys switch sides several times, and nothing is really what it seems ... besides wet.Moral if all the keys fail you, it's good to have a swiss army knife.  "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I heard of this movie about a year ago but setting off to see it on video. I forgot all about it until about a week ago I saw it on the shelf of my local video store and decided to rent it for the night and see how it was. From the opening scene to the final one I was amazed at how it kept me on my toes. I knew that Christian Slater was going to live but I wanted to know who got the money in the end. I was mildly disappointed on how they did it but some of the action scenes were AMAZING. I have to say I didn't expect much but it did well in entertaining me for an hour and a half.My rating   8 out 10 "},{"Title":"A hard hitting movie just add water!","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie because it had a lot of shooting in it.  Also the acting in it was good too.  I also liked this movie because it kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time I was watching the movie.  I think that anyone who likes action movies should see this one! "},{"Title":"To sum this up, a good film for all.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really did not know what to expect with Hard Rain.  Because it was just sheer chance that I saw this.  I must say once it started it had me glued to the screen from start to finish.  Morgan Freeman and Christian Slater were compelling in their performances.  Randy Quaid as the sheriff of this small town gave an outstanding performance in this non stop action knockout thriller.  There is so much here I could say about this movie but to make this short I would just like to say I have no hesitation in recommending this to any one who likes their fast-paced action type of film laced with humor along the way, and may I just add that Betty White better known as Rose in the Golden Girls was just great in her performance.  To sum this up a good film for all.  Because the entire film was made in water due to the story line that the town was supposed to be flooded by intense rain,it made this film very unusual, thus explains the title Hard Rain. "},{"Title":"Casual autobiography, anyone?","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Twenty-five years ago, I attended public school with screenwriter, and author of Speed, Graham Yost, where one of our teachers was named Mr. Mellor -- a good teacher but no nonsense. I guess I can use my crystal ball now to predict the names of characters in upcoming Yost screenplays. The smart money is riding on our old gym teacher. Now we'll just have to wait and see.  "},{"Title":"**** the critics","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am sick and tired of critics mercilessly stomping on some movies while jumping on a bandwagon declaring drivel like Titanic a masterpiece. A perfect example of this was how Hard Rain was pounded on when it was released in January.  While certainly not deserving any best picture awards; this film was nevertheless, highly entertaining.  It had expertly shot action scenes and excellent visual effects coupled with a script that provided what's necessary for a good action yarn.  It was also perfectly paced running a brisk and entertaining 96 minutes. Remember just because the critics don't like a film you shouldn't deprive yourself from being entertained. As far as I'm concerned this movie did its job by being very fun to watch. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"As entertaining as watching July 4th fireworks, or crashes in a motorcycle race!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain will not go down as a memorable film. Look at the 2-minute theatrical trailer, watch it 50 times in a row, and that's about the movie!  A small town in Indiana is about to flood by dam overflow during perpetual rain. Also, an inept band of crooks, led by Morgan Freeman, are planning a $3million heist. Things go wrong, in the heist and in the flood, good guys turn crooks also, there's almost no one to root for. Lots of water, rising fast, lots of chase scenes in boats and jet skiis, lots of shooting. The DVD has a pretty good DD 5.1 surround track, using the rears pretty effectively. In some scenes you actually feel like you're in the rising water. However there are zero extras, not even a hint of how this film was made, which probably would have been better than the movie itself.  I rate it 5 of 10, for sheer effort.  Writing, directing, acting, and editing aren't particularly good, but the film really, really tries hard, and some of the underwater and rising water action and escape scenes are innovative.Main actors are Freeman, Christian Slater (also producer), Minnie Driver, Randy Quaid (as the sheriff who gets greedy), with small parts by Ed Asner as the armored truck driver and Betty White as the complaining old wife of a different man. "},{"Title":"I am 38 , a film lover & believe good movies derive from realism","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I only watched the first thirty minutes of this film which I would have thought would be enough for anybody.  Its characters are shallow, devoid of personality and given no time to develop before the so called action begins. I watched Enemy Of The State just before it and the two films were like chalk and cheese.  Where Enemy Of The State takes the time to develop character and narrative, Hard Rain  dives in (pardon the pun)without any thought of character development or realistic story. It uses actors of the ability of Randy Quaid in an unbelievable storyline in the hope that name alone will carry the film.  > "},{"Title":"What was this for?","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, this movie is crap! After just ten minutes I knew this one is not going to be better. What a waste of a great actor named Morgan Freeman. All the characters are so flat and everything  looks so constructed just to reach the feature length mark. I really can`t recommend this one. I wanted to flush it down the toilet but then I realized that it doesn`t belong to me. Sorry, 1/10... "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman and Minnie Driver","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the success of 'Amistad', Morgan Freeman went on to act alongside Minnie Driver in 'Hard Rain'. Again, as a 61 year old actor, he was way too old to engage in an interracial romance with Driver which meant that there was no hope of having him shagging our Minnie. He really is a different type of hero, and we await the day when we can have a young, Black English hero that will be able to shag Minnie Driver and Ashley Judd on screen. "}{"Title":"Oh, my, what a peace of crap this was...","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I' mean, real crap! This movie was airing on television yesterday's afternoon, and I tryed my chances on it. I didn't see it since the very beginning, but as the movie was reaching the end it what was already not good went water down taking the movie as a whole with it.Yes, Morgan Freeman is in it but don't rely on it to think that this would be a good one, because, my God it surely isn't. By far the worst part was when the reservoir cracked, dude how could he have the time to get there, free the girl and run away? And let's not even talk about the last shooting sequence, she acted like a dumb, playmate, but I mean DDUUMMBB, and those  other two shooted the bad guy from several, several, several yards away............Don't forget, this one is only good to wash the ground.Oh, the camera movements inside the school were very interesting, that's all!I can't believe that Graham Yost after writing a master piece called SPEED, wrote this peace of s***!Don't see it, 3/10 "},{"Title":"Another Film With Lots of Water That Is All Wet","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard Rain is a really ridiculous film that is not sure what it wants to be.  The movie itself is about a heist to steal $3 million from an armored car on one of the wettest nights ever in a small Midwestern town.  None of the characters are what they seem to be.  The bad guys become good guys and vice versa.  Then some characters change yet again.  Christian Slater tries hard, but the material is just not there.  Morgan Freeman, Minnie Driver, and Randy Quaid all have their moments, but are all lost with the somewhat confusing screenplay.  The direction is all over the map and the special effects are not as impressive as the film-makers would have liked.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Is a hard rain gonna fall?  Maybe, but this one's not pathetically awful.","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First off, I should identify that there's nothing special about Hard Rain. It's an action movie in which a bunch of people shout out their lines at various intervals. However, unlike so many action movies, this one isn't idiotic. Granted, the whole thing about a small Indiana town flooding was obviously an excuse for a bunch of action. But Hard Rain involves intrigue and questions about who is intertwined with whom. Morgan Freeman, Christian Slater, Randy Quaid, Minnie Driver, and the other cast members do as well as they can, given the material. Maybe nowadays it seems inappropriate to use floods for entertainment, given the tsunami last year and Hurricane Katrina this year, but there's nothing particularly bad about this movie. "},{"Title":"A thriller well worth watching.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now what can you say about Christian Slater?  Once again, he turns in an outstanding performance in a super film.  And I don't think I've ever seen Randy Quaid any better than in this movie, unless maybe as Cousin Eddie in Vegas Vacation.  Morgan Freeman always give a convincing performance. Even if his role was not intended to make him likeable, you couldn't help it, he is just that type of personality.  I appreciated just the right amount of action mixed in with a generous helping of peoples emotions and feelings. Never a dull moment. "},{"Title":"Another one I had to turn off","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's not too often I turn a movie off but I started watching it, read four reader comments, both good and bad, and then threw in the towel. Natural catastrophe movies have had their moments but this one hadn't been done since God told Noah to build an Ark. Just past the armored car interaction between Ed Asner and Christian Slater was about all I could take. I generally like Christian Slater,can tolerate Ed Asner but think Randy Quaid should have kept his day job. The minimal banter was junior high material. and admittedly, I didn't give it The Whole Nine Yards of time and changed my channel preference to National Geographic. Good Choice! Save yourself some time...Read a book. If you liked this movie I will pray for you. "},{"Title":"Another Sad Example Of How Low Actors Can Go","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What a profane film this is! For some reason, maybe because Morgan Freeman starred in it, but I didn't expect it to be this bad. I had also forgotten how much of a bitter, old and profane man Ed Asner has become and this role fit him, unfortunately. Lou Grant, he ain't, anymore.What's even more disgusting is Bette White in here. Yes, the Golden Girl and Mary Tyler Moore Show favorite, talks like a scumbag in here, too. It just shows you these classic-era actors are no morally better than the younger people of today. The only difference is that the veterans weren't allowed to swear. If had been able to, well, this film is an example of what we would have heard.The language, which including six usages of the Lord's name in vain in the first 15 minutes, was too unappealing for me. The constant rain in this also helped the dreary atmosphere. Dreary, depressing, too profane with unlikeable characters. Yeah, I can see why this movie bombed at the box office. "}]