[{"Title":"Once upon a time...","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"100 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...A filmmaker decided to do another rendition of Cinderella; and what a beautiful rendition it is!Cinderella was always my favorite fairy tale, but this movie, at first, looked like yet another poor updating.  Imagine my surprise when I watched it on video.  It was beautiful, funny, thoughtful, smart, and wonderful.  It brings the romance of the story fully to life and touches the heart.  Sure, there are errors in history and anachronisms; but, it's a fairy tale.  King Arthur wouldn't have worn plate armor, either.Drew Barrymore delivers her best performance ever.  The accent is a bit distracting, but she is consistent with it, unlike certain Robin Hood's I could name.  She delivers on the promise she demonstrated as a youngster and brings those Barrymore genes to life.  She handles the comedy as ably as the romance.  You laugh when she first hits the Prince with an apple (pretty good shot, too!). You ache for her as her world seems to fall apart when Prince Henry learns the truth.  You cheer when she renders justice to her oppressors.Dougray Scott is a fine handsome Prince, a thinker as well as a fighter.  His eyes are opened to the world he lives in by this passionate girl.  Angelica Huston really adds the evil to the evil stepmother.  The rest of the supporting cast are uniformly great.The addition of Da Vinci, if historically incorrect, is a nice twist on the Fairy Godmother.  Who better to help a child of reason and enlightenment?This is a true romance, a rare thing in today's movies, including the so-called romantic comedies. It is a wonderful piece of work and a fine update to a classic tale.And they lived happily ever after, indeed! "},{"Title":"Sob!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"73 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Isn't it what most people dream of? Prospering despite the difficulties in their lives? Finding their true love and being with him/her despite the odds?This movie is most definitely not a retelling of the Cinderella story. It has aspects of that, the basic plotline, but a twist all its own. Gone is the pumpkin and the rats into footmen. Gone are the ugly stepsisters, the two equally horrid. No, in this one there is naturally one horrid stepsister, but the other is quite lovable. Dougray Scott is marvelously funny in his role as a Prince trying to find his way, and Angelica Huston is a brilliant evil stepmother, and Drew Barrymore makes a stunning Danielle... With other quirky characters thrown in along the way. Gustave, DaVinci, even the King and Queen are given personalities. The detail is incredible, the costumes gorgeous, and the dialogue enrapturing. This movie is counted among my most favorites, and I highly recommend it to any with a passion for romance. "},{"Title":"Best Ever!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"77 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To me this was the best remake of a fairytale ever! And I don't care if it's because I'm a girl and this is girlie material- I still loved it! Drew Barrymore personified this interpretation of Cinderella like no other. Angelica Houston was a kick ass evil stepmother. The combination of these two dynamite stars in these two classic roles created an unequaled magic. And of course let's not forget the freakishly handsome Dougray Scott who played Prince Henry. He graced the screen with a hypnotic charm that challenges any prince any day. This is my all time favourite movie. I can watch it over and over again. And I challenge any man to watch this film and understand what romance is really all about. "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS!!!!","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"60 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am going tonight to see Ever After for the third time in three days.  This  movie is wonderful!  Drew Barrymore does a fantastic job as Cinderella -  and what a cinderella!  None of this 'wait for the prince to rescue you'  nonsense!  I like the movie because Danielle (Cinderella's real name)  wins the prince because she is passionate, outspoken, well-read, and won't  take nonsense from anyone!  And the costuming!  Drool!  Why don't *I* ever  get clothes like that?  I really like the fact that Danielle makes her own dreams come true instead  of hoping they will turn out right - what a wonderful role model (I know *I * am inspired!)  I laughed and cried and bit my fingernails (I am NOT  supposed to bite my fingernails) and crumpled the napkins for the popcorn  into hopeless little balls.  The characterizations are wonderful.   The scenery is gorgeous and the actors and actresses do such a wonderful  job at making their characters come alive.  I just cannot say enough good  things about the movie - by all means go and see it!  Jennifer 8) "},{"Title":"Beautiful Love Story","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"50 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is a wonderfully imaginative romance. It's a classic Cinderella tale set in 16th-century France and revolves around an independent young woman named Danielle. Although she works as a servant for her stepmother, Danielle is anything but weak and subservient. She is passionate and strong-willed, qualities that lead her to the French court dressed as a wealthy courtier to save a man's life. There she meets the handsome Prince Henry, who is jaded by his suffocating royal lifestyle. He is fascinated by Danielle and her thirst for life and adventure, and they fall deeply in love - but her jealous stepmother will do anything to keep them apart.Drew Barrymore turns in a stunning performance as Danielle. Her emotions are raw and realistic and she gives the character charm, wit, and beauty.Anjelica Huston brings a third dimension to her role as the evil stepmother, who is usually just portrayed as a flat character. In this movie she is an ambitious mother who would do anything to make her own daughter a queen.The Prince is also usually a pretty flat, cliché character, but Dougray Scott brought a refreshingly human side to him and portrayed his struggles and conflicts very well.The script is strong for a romantic fairy tale and the cinematography is gorgeous. There is one scene in which Danielle is floating on her back in the river, a dreamy and breathtaking moment that describes her carefree nature perfectly. The music composed by George Fenton is lovely - I recommend the soundtrack for this movie too, especially Walking On Water.A wonderful movie for all lovers of romance! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Loved - loved - LOVED this movie!","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"47 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cinderella is a timeless classic, a fairytale for all ages. And Ever After is pitch-perfect as an adaptation of the Cinderella story to screen.As a fairytale, this movie follows a predictable pattern and storyline. It is sweet, light, innocent and beautiful. Stunningly beautiful. The cinematography is one of the stars here and this is a fabulous movie to watch - for the scenery, the costumes and the visual effects.Anjelica Huston steals the show as the evil stepmother, but Drew Barrymore puts in a fine performance here, and Patrick Godfrey is wonderfully eccentric as Leonardo Da Vinci. Overall, this is not so much a movie about the acting, but it's more about the sometimes sappy, usually saccharine, but wonderfully heartfelt classic story. Instead of the magic of the original fairytale, Ever After replaces it with the magic of wit, humour and heart. And there's nothing wrong with that.Funny and charming, Ever After is one of those great movies that can be watched over and over again. "},{"Title":"Mesmerising","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A modern spin on the fairy tale Cinderella. When I first went to see this movie in the theatre, I was very skeptical as I'm not a Drew Barrymore fan but she absolutely shines as Danielle and has great chemistry with Dougray Scott as the handsome and funny Prince Henry. I love the scenery and costumes, and all the characters are wickedly funny. The story is very endearing and absorbing as well. Don't miss this movie! "},{"Title":"...and they lived happily ever after; but what happened before that?","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember when this movie was released, I saw it so many times in the theater with my friends. We were 13, perfect age group for the film and we adored everything about this movie. It's years later and I bought the movie on DVD making me wonder if the movie did hold up as well as I remembered. Well, it doesn't hold the same magic as I saw when I was a kid, but Ever After still holds a certain charm that is absolutely irresistible. I think between the writing and the characters, this was a great update on a classic story. Every little girl has dreamed of being Cinderella, the girl who has been dumped on her whole life and then the man of your dreams comes to save you as you live happily ever after. Drew Barrymore takes lead through this charming fairy tale of a strong woman with the good faith that one day things will go as they should and she'd live in a utopia.Danielle de Barbarac is a young girl who lives in a manor with her widowed father whom she adores. When Danielle is eight, her father marries the haughty Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent, who has two daughters about Danielle's age. Soon after, Auguste dies. Rodmilla is envious of Danielle, and treats her like a servant after Auguste's death. The Baroness has fallen into debt. Marguerite, her spoiled older daughter, has grown to be cruel, arrogant, and bad-tempered; while the younger, Jacqueline, is kindhearted, soft-spoken, and constantly overlooked. In the orchard one day, Danielle encounters a man attempting to steal her father's old horse. She pelts him with apples, knocking him to the ground, and is horrified to learn that the man is Henry, the Prince of France. Henry explains that his own horse was lamed in his attempt to escape stifling royal life. He forgives Danielle in exchange for her silence, and rewards her with money. Danielle resolves to use the money to rescue Maurice, an old family servant whom Rodmilla had sold. While her step-family is out of the house, Danielle dons a noblewoman's dress and goes to court. She finds Maurice about to be shipped to the Americas, and demands his release. Prince Henry sees this and is impressed with Danielle's intellect, strength of character, and beauty. Danielle refuses to tell Henry her name, though eventually she leaves him with the name of her mother, Comtesse Nicole de Lancret. Leading him to want to speak with her more only to fall in love with her not knowing that she is a true Cinderella.I still like this movie very much. Drew and the other actors may not have a great accent but they still all tried their best. Angelica Huston, what a great choice as the wicked step mother and I use that term lightly. There is this beautiful scene between her and Danielle, she starts to tell Danielle about her father and how Angelica barely knew him, you see a sense of humanity in her and then she starts to look at Danielle with love but realizes how hurt she still is that her father cared more for Danielle than his own wife. You understand how she could be angry and jealous, not justifying what she did to Danielle, but her motivation is understandable and I love the punishment she receives for what she did. There's still a scene that gets a great reaction from me, when Marguerite just spitefully tells Danielle how her mother is dead and Danielle just goes up to her and gives her one hell of a punch, I think that's when I fell in love with her! What strength was given to the character making the film more than just a happily ever after film, but a wonderful fairy tale with enjoyable characters, a wonderful romance, humor and most of all leaves you with a smile on your face.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not just another Cinderella..","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Ever After was a great movie, and a must see for everyone. It's not  just a kiddie movie. Drew Barrymore plays a great and convincing  Cinderella, or as Margerite called her, Cinder Girl. It isn't like the  Disney movie, way different. For example, the girl is named Danielle, not  Cinderella. There is a nice stepsister.. and there is no Fairy Godmother,  but Leonarod Da Vinci, a guide to Danielle and the Prince. The thing that really made me want to see this movie is what Drew Barrymore  said in one of her interviews..It's so wonderful, because all girls love Cinderella. She is really a  positive rolemodel. From everything to being fiercely loyal, and incredibly  smart, and well read, to not only not waiting to be rescued, but to rescue  other people, to take the pain that she's experienced in her life, to only  have it strengthen her. And, also the fact that her heart and her mind is  what is attractive and intriguing to this wonderful prince, and not the way  she looks.Drew Barrymore played a great Cinderella.. Angelica Houston a wonderful  stepmother.. and D. Scott played a great prince. If you haven't seen it  yet.. you must! It's a great movie for everyone! Just Breathe..  "},{"Title":"Kick-Ass Cinderella","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cinderella kicks butt in this feminist retelling of the classic fairy tale.  Orphaned as a young girl, Danielle (Cinderella) is raised by her evil stepmother and two stepsisters in rural 16th century France. After a few chance encounters with the crown prince (who falls in love with her), Danielle finds herself on a collision course with her family who have royal designs of their own. Shot on location in France, the dialogue often veers very close to preachy, but knows when to cut the politics and return to the story. And a good story it is, well acted by Drew Barrymore as Danielle, and Angelica Huston as the wicked stepmother. This one is worth the rental.  "}{"Title":"THE MOST ROMANTIC MOVIE o)","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"26 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love it from the first time I saw Ever After. I have always been very romantic on where I have also dream of a prince and still waiting for one. Isn't great to love someone with out boundaries? We all look for a twin soul who which you would like to share the real you with one another. It is just a great movie. I believe that Drew Barrymore gave life to that love we all would like to feel for one day for someone an impossible love combined with pain and real truth of the heart. All of our realities we live through romantic movies are created by dreams and hopes but we can make it happen by just letting go and accepting one another in our future dreams. Barrymore has a great personality and sense of humor I hope the best for her and she will go far now because she already made her dreams come truth. now is our turn to make ours come truth O)  "},{"Title":"Truly Enchanting","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie when I was 15 and equally love it now that I am close to 27. This movie is refreshing compared to the romantic comedies we are bombarded with today. For today romance of this kind is branded to be 'unrealistic' which makes me love this movie even more. She never slept with him before she married him, never had an ex, didn't turn into a drunk or drug addict, never had to talk incessantly about her career, no ridiculous night club scenes, relied more on her intelligence and wit then her looks and what was wonderfully refreshing was prince charming was exactly the same. They really don't portray couples like this anymore. Which makes us think they don't exist........but they do.. bravo for Ever After! "},{"Title":"The biggest surprise of the summer!","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the trailer for `Ever After', I was anxious to see the film because it appeared to be an original, adult retelling of the familiar fairytale that would appeal to a wide variety of moviegoers. When I finished watching this wonderful film, I thought that I had seen one of the best movies released this summer! And because I work in a theater, I have been able to confirm my notion that audiences of all ages (from pre-teen females to elderly couples) would enjoy this film. Drew Barrymore is tremendously appealing in the lead role, Dougray Scott is a refreshing new face that I am anxious to see again in other roles, and Anjelica Huston was terrific as the stepmother, not entirely wicked, but certainly faithful to the tale. The interesting twists concerning the stepsisters and the `fairy godmother' are just two more innovations that enhanced the appeal and character of `Ever After'. And let us not forget about Pierre LePeu as realized by Richard O'Brien, perhaps one of the most reprehensible characters I have ever seen in a conventional character-driven motion picture. I intend to add this film to my video collection as soon as it is available despite having seen it many times on the big screen. Ever After is, in my opinion, the most surprisingly satisfying moviegoing experience of the 1998 summer season.   "},{"Title":"A wonderfully surprising movie that was both charming and heart-wrenching.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When my sister-in-law suggested we rent & watch this movie, I admit that I didn't want to see it. And even though I noticed plastic cups on the table and bad English accents in what was supposed to be set in France, I TOTALLY enjoyed this movie. It is true that making it more into a real story w/out a magical fairy godmother, but instead an intelligent DaVinci, just added more substance to the story itself. The character of Danielle (Cinderella) was even more engrossing than the original tale. Instead of being this inexplicable, wonderful, saintly human being, she is a all too human and someone that's easier to relate to. This is a movie for all ages. Even my husband really liked it and he's an action movie fan. The costumes were beautiful and the music was enchanting. People can find fault with anything, but sometimes it's better to enjoy something for what it is... a good story. "},{"Title":"This is how Love matches love","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is absolutely one of my favorite romantic-love movies. Interpretations by all actors are wonderful and those by Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott are simply outstanding. Their feelings are so real and so intense that every time I watch the movie I find it hard to believe that they are not really in love with each other but just acting. Danielle's character is strong, determined, right but at the same time beautiful and delicate, often unpredictable; Henry's one is also determined, coherent, constantly in search of true values and fascinated by those who can live their lives intensively. There is no doubt they must belong to one another since they match in every way and would only reach the perfect love by living together ever after... It's exactly like this between me and my wife !!! "},{"Title":"A Still Memorable Cinderella Story","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've watched this movie when the 1st time its released on theater and now after 12 years it still gave me a deep impression and remarkable Cinderella fairy tale love story. By not seeing the flaw this movie is enjoyable and easy to watch, the heart-warming drama plot is suitable for all ages and genders. The quality acting of the actors are superb compare to newbies nowadays. I don't really interested whether this story has received many critics since in this story it happened in France but they spoke English with English accented, etc the point is this movie is great and it ended nicely with a happy ending and unpredictable process into it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful and romantic retelling of the classic tale","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone loves a good Fairy Tale. You know the kind with magic and excitement that's supposed to have a happy ending? Since the beginning of film these stories have been adapted time and time again, interpreted in many different ways in just about every medium. What is probably the most famous Happily Ever After tale is that of the little cinder-girl. The 1950 Disney version if one of the most beloved adaptations and rightfully so, but over the next several decades the story was told and retold again rarely with much innovation. That all would change in 1998 with a film that would eschew things such as the Fairy Godmother and the warning of having to leave at the stroke of twelve, and give us a different take on the material with it's own brand of magic.Pros Amazing performances from a wonderful cast. Beautifully written. Breathtaking cinematography and French countryside. Rich production and costume designs. Lovely score. Great sense of humor. An interesting and fresh take on the story. Perfect pacing. Touching and romantic without being sappy.Cons Perhaps a bit too long. Drew Barrymore gives a fine performance, but could have worked harder on the accent.Final thoughts A near perfect masterpiece that can be enjoyed by people of all ages. Not that the original material shouldn't be respected, which it is here, but it is nice to see someone update it without robbing it of it's charms. It's obvious the people involved loved making this film and you'll enjoy watching them enjoy it.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"Great movie, with a little of everything.","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a fantastic movie, one I can watch again and again.  I'm not one for gushy romance movies, but this isn't one of those at all.  It is funny, happy, sad, romantic, dramatic, basically it has a little of everything.  Some parts no matter how many time I see them I laugh every time, even if I can quote them too.  Drew Barrymore puts on a spectacular performance, it is in my opinion one of her best films so far.  You can feel the emotion, and I even cried a few tears twice, (and I hardly cry for movies, except The Horse Whisperer).  All the actors and actresses chosen for the cast were perfect fits.  Anjelica Huston makes a very believable evil step mother.  Dougray Scott is the perfect handsome prince, and has the attitude yet sensitivity required for the role of Prince Henry.  Patrick Godfrey made a funny Leonardo, and Melanie Lynskey was perfect for the role of Jacqueline, the quite not-so-bad stepsister.  This however is probably more on the lines of a chick flick, but it isn't one that you think of usually when you think of a chick flick.  It was just a great, well rounded movie, that will captivate you into the story again and again. But If you are expecting the traditional Cinderella story that the cartoons and books have brought us, you might be surprised, but not at all disappointed. "},{"Title":"Preferred rendition of the Cinderella Story.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Regardless of how closely this follows the original telling, this is a lovely, endearing, and compelling tale, told as the real story of Cinderella. It does not matter whose version was original, from which country it was told, or who the players were (Prince Henry of France in fact married Catherine de Medici, a member of the Italian nobility, not Drew Barrymore's character.), this movie is pure magic.In this reviewer's opinion, this is the very best of Drew Barrymore's work. This is her greatest role, her greatest portrayal, her best movie. Period. For that fact alone, you should see this attempt, but let me continue.The acting is spot on, the sets and costumes were meticulously designed, the writing involved here was flawless, the directing was pure professionalism, the flow was smooth, the tale was the best-told tale I've seen in years, and the finished product was a masterpiece.I was, and am, enchanted by this film, in every way. This is the adult version of this work, but I also still admire (greatly) the Disney collector's edition gift set of Cinderella.It rates a 9.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"intellectually compelling","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for a good movie with class, politics and vengeance, this is the piece to see.  Danielle (Drew Barrymore) is a French commonor who's a victim of circumstance because she's a slave for her step-mother and step-sisters.  I really liked how the prince of France gets intrigued by her upfront personality as she tells it how it is.  It's a good inspiration to those who don't fit in because it encourages them to take stands toward change.  It wasn't a fairy tale that I'd get bored of (though a lot of friends did).  It clearly portrayed the lifestyle of 17th century France which creates a compelling comparison from the 1600s to modern day life.  I'd strongly recommend it to those who aren't into those hollywood romances and dramas.  I rate this film *****. "}{"Title":"A more modern re-telling of the 1729 Cinderella story, very well done.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By all rights a film based on the story of Cinderella should not be a favorite of 50-something grandparents. But it is. Drew Barrymore is just perfect as the strong-willed stepchild trying to bear up to the mistreatment of her wicked stepmom, played by Angelica Huston. Whereas the typical Cinderalla stories depend on magic - the glass slipper and the pumpkin, etc - this version is based solidly in reality, and it works very well.  Dougray Scott is fine as the Prince looking in the kingdom for a bride. This story is not historically correct, but it is a movie, isn't it.  A clever use of da Vinci, with his inventions.I never thought Angelica Huston was particularly attractive, and here she is perfect as the wicked stepmom. Jeroen Krabbe' is well-cast as the dad who dies right after the wedding. The script and acting work very well, the scenery and photography are beautiful, and the product is an overall fine movie, I rate it 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm female and I was a teenager when this came out. Technically, I'm about the target audience for this film, but I didn't like it. A bit boring and depressing for me to watch.I'm also find these sorts of butt-kicking but intelligent and day-dreamy feminist heroines to be very annoying. I find it hard to believe that a heroine whom we are supposed to believe is capable of taking care of herself would put up with so much **** in the movie by her stepfamily than she did. If this girl is capable of kicking a guy's butt near the end of the movie then this same girl should've been capable of kicking her stepfamily to the curb...but then again, we wouldn't have the Cinderella story that is the whole point of this film.I absolutely hated Prince Henry and it's hard to believe that anyone could fall for him (or that he could suddenly have a change of heart in a split second). And yeah there is the issue of characters that are supposed to be French but have English accents, but when you're making a film targeted toward teenage girls, I guess these filmmakers thought they could get away with just about anything.As for me I found this interpretation of Cinderella to be so boring and lifeless I couldn't care less. Nothing wrong with a little magic and character like the classic Disney animated version has over this one. "},{"Title":"Even if you hate 'girlie' films, try this one","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're a guy like me who prefers action, sci-fi, comedy and epic films, the very mention of the word Cinderella is likely to make you ignore this film. Well, if you are a fan of comedy or epics in particular, give it a try. It's not in the same comedic vein as Shrek -- the humour in this film is much more subtle (check the colour of the veils worn by Rodmilla & Marguerite at the Prince's wedding, for example). Nor is it a timeless plea for social justice like Cry Freedom. But it has the basic elements of both. And it's visually pleasant (it's not just New Zealand that has great scenery), & it's anchored by Drew Barrymore, who is surprisingly cute with an (occasionally laboured) English accent, and Dougray Scott, who wins the ultimate accolade from me - I didn't recognise him till I saw the credits at the end of the film.Yes, it's a romance. Yes, it requires suspension of disbelief. And yes, you may just have found a film that you and your girlfriend will both enjoy. "},{"Title":"Charming modern adaptation of a timeless fairytale.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm starting to like Drew Barymore more and more. This timeless classic was just beautiful and alot of fun to watch. Drew did a great job, this realy could have been one that went by the wayside but everything from the costumes to the acting was beautiful. Definetly a hollywood type movie but one that'll leave you with a warm feeling in your stomach. Even many men who see this like it, I'm glad I took a chance with this one(I almost didn't) and watched it. I'd recomend seeing it, after all the story of Cinderella never gets old. "},{"Title":"better than you think","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  if i hadn't seen the making... on tv i'd have given this one a miss. much better than i expected, especially for someone who never liked cinderella in the first place.true, the script wasn't very original and sounds quite contrived at parts, but point is, it's really enjoyable to watch while you're in the cinema.never mind if there's not a lot to scream about when you want to scrutinise production fine points later. we could nitpick on realism and detail, but my guess is this movie wanted more to be a good story than a period piece.a few exquisite subtleties were missed even by some of the audience. one of them is the quick flash of pained confusion that crossed Rodmilla's features when her dying husband had last words of love only for his daughter.conclusion this movie - like the heroine - was funny as well as beautiful, had loads of impulsive guts, and created the most responsive cinema audience (you should have heard this crowd cheer, clap and how one guy shouted Way to go, sister!) i've had the pleasure of being with in a long time.quite a catch ) "},{"Title":"simply beautiful","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, I'm a sci fi girl and there are very few 'chick flicks' that I have watched and loved, this however is surprisingly different. I have to say this is one of my favourite all time films. The characters are wonderful and perfectly played by the strong cast. I laugh every time I watch Danielle 'pick up' prince henry to save him from the gypsies and cry when Danielle arrives at the ball and says just breathe as her world is about to be crushed. It's the best version of the Cinderella story with a modern twist I have seen. I think I have watched this film a thousand times and will probably watch it a thousand more. Definitely worth a watch no matter what movie genre you're into! "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie ever.","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After. A Cinderella Story.What an entertaining and magical movie. The main character Danielle (Drew Barrymore) is what drew me to the theater. I just love her charisma and charm. Unlike her girl next door norm she was very intriguing in this movie, playing an independent, strong headed, feisty peasant is a sharp contrast to anything I've seen her in before.While this story is supposed to be a version of Cinderella, it takes on twists of it's own. There is no fairy god mother. Instead there is a charming intellectual inventor Leonardo Da Vinci (Patrick Godfrey). Rather than two hideous step sisters there is one awful yet beautiful sister and one plain but kind sister. It holds true to the peasant falling in love with royalty and the prince coming to save her but this story tells so much more. The king and queen were given personality and the story gives much insight to the untold story and challenges in the life of a Prince. It helps that Prince Henry is played by a very eye catching and witty actor (Dougray Scott).Everyone loves a happy ending and this movie did not disappoint. The director built up the characters so well that you sob along with Danielle when Prince Henry pushes her away after learning the truth but then celebrate along with her when he comes to save her from the evil clutches of an adoring yet creepy wealthy man who purchases her from her step mother. As always Anjelica Houston played a wonderfully evil role and did it with class and maliciousness that only she could bring to the film.The writers, producers, directors and cast come together for the most triumphant Hollywood win since Casablanca. I have seen this movie a dozen times and I hope to watch it a dozen more. Two thumbs up doesn't seem to sum it up. I only wish I had more thumbs! "},{"Title":"This movie is perfect! <3","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Being a history lover, normally historical inaccuracies would totally bother me. But the movie is so heartwarming and funny that I could care less. Drew Barrymore is absolutely the perfect person to play the lead character and she is definitely a good role model for a modern generation of fairytale lovers! Instead of waiting for Prince Charming (in this case Prince Henry), played by the talented Dougray Scott, she goes off the palace to find him herself! Along with charming friends, and help from a wise Da Vinci, she can overcome the treacherous obstacles set up by her evil stepmother (played by the talented Anjelica Houston), her vain stepsister, a noble who is out to have her for himself, and the difficulties that difference and class can bring. It is more than just a chick-flick, it is classic story that everyone can enjoy and a movie that everyone must see ) "},{"Title":"Ever After","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rating A+With a great script, captivating plot, and accomplished actors, Ever After is an entertaining and highly enjoyable historical romance film. Given the medieval scenery and attire, the film pulls the audience directly into the bustle of the late eighteenth century. From sword fighting, romance, comedy, and drama, this film seemingly pulls all of these aspects together into one great film. Each time that I watch this movie, I feel connected to the main character Danielle, played by Drew Barrymore. Through each climatic scene where she faces set-backs and adversity I want her to succeed and find romance in the end. This film, and more specifically Barrymore's acting, has the ability to make the audience feel sad when Danielle is rejected by the prince in front of the entire kingdom or when she is sold off to pay her step mother's debt and happy when the prince saves her and asks for her forgiveness. Although the film is set in the eighteen century, it is easy to relate to Danielle, who despite hardships, has managed to make the most out of her seemingly horrible life. This film is a retelling of the fairy tale Cinderella. With evil step mothers and sisters, an extravagant ball, a pompous prince waiting to marry for love, and even with a glass slipper, the film aligns itself with the same occurrences of the classic fairytale. Noticing the cyclical nature of fairy tales and how they are often redone, it is important to take a look at the common theme between fairy tales and their remakes. In both the fairytale version and in the movie Ever After, the main theme that is shared is that evil behavior will have repercussions and that good will always prevail. In both of the films, the step mothers serve as an oppressive force to the main protagonist. However, in Ever After one of the step sisters helps Danielle, yet comes short of advocating against her mistreatment. Nonetheless, in both of the films, the main protagonist succeeds and finds love when truly all hope seems lost. The glass slipper is probably the most apparent similarity between the two films, which indicates the importance of the symbol. At the end of Ever After, Prince Henry played by Dougray Scott, after begging Danielle for forgiveness, kneels down and replaces the slipper Danielle lost at the ball. This also happened in the classic story. Yet in Ever After, Prince Henry rejected Danielle for falsely imposing as a countess. In the final scene, Prince Henry, after saving her from Pierre Le Pieu, a vile man who is taken with Danielle played by O'Brien, has to ask Danielle to forgive him for his past actions. Although the core message has transferred between the two films, there are differences. In Ever After, Danielle does not represent the typical female fairytale character waiting idly for the price to sweep her off of her feet. Danielle has read books and often times challenges Prince Henry about various topics. Her conviction astounds Prince Henry, who falls in love with her personality over her looks. They say that behind ever great leader, is a strong woman providing support, and that notion is clearly represented in the movie, as Danielle offers her ideas on how to improve the kingdom. Ever After offers the audience the possibility to escape into a new and exciting world, where true love always prevails and evil people are always punished. In contrast to the real world, Ever After offers the audience a chance to escape into a different time period and a new life where there is always a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Leonardo in the story","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I truly enjoyed this movie; it is the best version of Cinderella I have ever seen... I have to point out tho; Leonardo Da Vinci died 6 years before Thomas Moore Published the book Utopia; So Da Vinci shouldn't have been alive at all during the story line...The writer had to break the time line to use both the book and the artist at the same time...Utopia was published in 1525 while Da Vinci died in 1519...even with this inconsistency, I adore the movie...The story would fall apart without lines drawn from Utopia; while Da Vinci added charm that makes the story more charming than it would be without him...I can see why time had to be suspended in everafter... "}{"Title":"Beautiful from the first frame to the last...","Date":"30 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Is there a fairy tale better known in the world than Cinderella? So many adaptations have been done (Disney, Rodgers and Hammerstein, etc.), and this is one of the finest versions out there. The Grande Dame, disappointed with the Brothers Grimm's telling, invites them to her home, and she tells them the 'real' story a feisty young woman, trying to rescue a house servant while in disguise, attracts the attention of the prince and falls in love with him. Meanwhile, her wicked stepmother schemes to get her eldest daughter wed to the prince.What makes this film work is the performance of Drew Barrymore (probably her best performance, IMO). She can make you laugh, cry, and cheer. She is spirited without being over-dramatic. She should have been nominated for an Oscar. Angelica Huston plays an extremely nasty stepmother superbly. Dougray Scott is well-matched with Barrymore, his Prince showing a spirit similar to Drew's Cinderella. Megan Dodds is also loathsome as the eldest stepsister. My favorite aspect of the film is George Fenton's exquisite musical score, which helps add emotion to the scenes. Cinematographer Andrew Dunn's wide compositions beautifully showcases the location filming of the French countryside. Beautiful sets and costumes also contribute to this film's success. I could go on and on about this film, but I am limited in review space. If you haven't seen it, do. You won't be disappointed. 10/10. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. "},{"Title":"The best version of Cinderella there is","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How can someone take the most over told fairy tale of all time and make it into an interesting, new movie? Well, I don't know, but the creators of Ever After did it! There's no point in going over the plot, as everyone knows it. But somehow Ever After gives the age old characters a soul, a purpose, and in a way, makes them real. Danielle(Cinderella) is played beautifully by Drew Barrymore. Danielle is a strong, intelligent, brave young woman with a mind of her own. She is passionate about books, economic justice and taking pride in a day's work. This film takes a strong feminist stand on the story, making Danielle an independent woman who truly doesn't need a man. In recent years this has been done so much with fairy tales that it comes off as contrived, annoying and&#x85;false. But in Ever After the viewer doesn't feel like the writers just had angry feminists breathing down their necks; instead it gives Danielle's personality purpose. It is established early on that her father instilled the values of reading, hard work, and self-reliance. This makes Danielle a truly believable character, instead of just a feminist take on a helpless damsel. It also gives a more human take on the evil stepmother, Rodmilla (Anjelica Houston). Danielle and her stepmother are with her father when he dies, and he tells only Danielle he loves her. It's clear that Rodmilla is overcome with jealousy and feels trapped in the less than noble life her husband left for her. Along with that, only one of the stepsisters, Marguerite (Megan Dodds)is cruel to Danielle. While the favored Marguerite bullies Danielle every chance she gets, the shy and less attractive Jacqueline (Melanie Lynskey) sympathizes with and even sometimes stands up for her. As for the prince&#x97;who is given the name of Henry and played by Dougray Scott, he is not very charming at all. If anything, Henry is what one would expect a prince to be, spoiled,arrogant, and frustrated. As for the fairy Godmother, she is replaced by Leonardo DaVinci! While it sounds ridiculous at first, this works very well with the rest of the story. Danielle's relationship with the prince is also much more realistic. They do not meet for the first time at the ball, but interact and date several times before. This allows the characters to have a much meatier romance based on getting to know each other, rather than a shallow love at first sight. Henry's reaction to finding out Danielle is a servant also seems much more true to life. Instead of looking past her humble beginnings and lies, he is furious and forces her away from the castle. Only after DaVinci talks sense into Henry does he seek Danielle out again for a reconciliation and their happily ever after.When you know the story of Cinderella in and out, it is refreshing and surprising when someone actually finds a new and engaging way to tell it. Ever After does just that, by giving depth to its characters and making the entire situation sound realistic. This is my favorite version of Cinderella, and the kind of movie you can watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Ever after","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is a wonderfully imaginative romance. It's a classic Cinderella tale set in 16th-century France and revolves around an independent young woman named Danielle. Although she works as a servant for her stepmother, Danielle is anything but weak and subservient. She is passionate and strong-willed, qualities that lead her to the French court dressed as a wealthy courtier to save a man's life. There she meets the handsome Prince Henry, who is jaded by his suffocating royal lifestyle. He is fascinated by Danielle and her thirst for life and adventure, and they fall deeply in love - but her jealous stepmother will do anything to keep them apart.Drew Barrymore turns in a stunning performance as Danielle. Her emotions are raw and realistic and she gives the character charm, wit, and beauty.Anjelica Huston brings a third dimension to her role as the evil stepmother, who is usually just portrayed as a flat character. In this movie she is an ambitious mother who would do anything to make her own daughter a queen.The Prince is also usually a pretty flat, cliché character, but Dougray Scott brought a refreshingly human side to him and portrayed his struggles and conflicts very well.The script is strong for a romantic fairy tale and the cinematography is gorgeous. There is one scene in which Danielle is floating on her back in the river, a dreamy and breathtaking moment that describes her carefree nature perfectly. The music composed by George Fenton is lovely - I recommend the soundtrack for this movie too, especially Walking On Water. "},{"Title":"Great role model for girls","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just love this film. It's not groundbreaking, and Drew Barrymore's accent is a bit unusual, but I can't help watching the film whenever it shows up on cable. As a realist since childhood, I appreciate this retelling of the Cinderella story with no magic fairy dust - the great Leonardo DaVinci uses his genius instead. And the script is wonderfully clever. But best of all, I love that Prince Charming gets to know Cinderella and falls in love with her for her brain (Marguerite the stepsister is actually more attractive, but the prince doesn't want a shallow wife.) I recommend anyone with a daughter encourage her to watch this early and often, to counteract the many messages she will receive that good men prefer external beauty and weakness in their mates. "},{"Title":"Fanciful and Childlike","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From director Andy Tennant, Ever After is a fanciful, child-like tale of the real Cinderella story that can never be taken too seriously. At face value, it is a light romp concerning an oppressed common girl who meets and falls for the prince. He of course falls for her, believing her to be a courtesan.Drew Barrymore is no great shakes as a romantic lead, though neither does the support really shine; even though Anjelica Huston relishes her role. Sets, costumes, editing and cinematography are all okay. Still, it's fun.Thursday, June 15, 2000 - DVD "},{"Title":"Adorable.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an adorable revisionist fairy tale. It gives its audience exactly what it wants when it wants it. Rather like cotton candy at the state fair, it's what you get when you're there. But it's not terribly filling, it's really sweet, and a little goes a long way. Pleasant and predictable, but full of cardboard characters who fail to cultivate much interest in themselves beyond the idle curiosity exhibited by spectators at a chess match in which the ending is never uncertain. The revisionists revert to the traditional 'Beautiful people marry other beautiful people, ugly people marry ugly people' including the youngest step-daughter, who comes dangerously close to being an interesting character. Luckily, she doesn't get enough screen time to jeopardise the film. "},{"Title":"Caught me by surprise","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cinderella has always been a interesting story for me. Putting the original Grimm folk tale aside, Cinderella is a story about compassion and love. Looking at it as a kids story never worked for me. The old Disney cartoon was just alright I guess. The 2015 version is pretty crappy to say the least. I'm being literal when saying I don't think it should be for kids. Surely, it also shouldn't be about cutting your feet off either. What it should be about is a slow building romance between a high power and a low power in hiding. That's what I am here to talk about today. Ever After a Cinderella story does everything perfectly in my mind. It is basically the prefect telling of the Cinderella story. I wasn't to sure what to expect from this movie because of the other Cinderella adaptations I've seen. I thought it would just be another unrealistic tale about mice and getting wishes granted by fairy god mothers. Weather you agree with me or not, that stuff is candy compared to the pure green that this movie delivers. Surely it's not all prefect, and it can be cheesy from time to time, but what this movie really wants to focus on is how developed the relationship between the prince and the slave are. This is something that I haven't really seen in any other Cinderella story. Cinderella 2015 tried this, but it didn't feel fleshed out enough for me to call in fantastic. Romance in fiction should be about character development, and seeing the characters interact, which is something this movie mastered. I don't wanna spoil anything because I actually want people to see this movie. The acting show between the two leads is as perfect as it can be. Not to mention, almost all the acting is great. Almost everyone has their time to shine, and many of the characters like Leonardo da Vinci show up regularly just so it didn't feel like they were just a short mention. Very quickly I have to talk about how natural the costume and set design is even for a moment in like this. Surprisingly when I'm talking about cheesy, this is something the set and costume never feels like even though it's suppose to. The thing about it is, the set and costume design is what makes this movie feel like Cinderella. It doesn't bother me, but take that aspect away, and I don't think I'd be praising this movie as a Cinderella movie.In conclusion, Ever After is possibly the best Cinderella adaptation I've ever seen. I wish more people would watch this movie, I hope to show my friends this movie, and it's all in all really thought out. This movie doesn't need a fairy god mother to keep it on its feet. Weather it happened to work or not, I think it worked. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Intrepid heroine, an above-average Hollywood pap","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A romance-comedy retells the story of Cinderella, directed by Andy Tennant (SWEET HOME ALABAMA 2002, HITCH 2005 and FOOL'S GOLD 2008), in an attempt to revamp the fairytale with a historical context, in the early 16th century, France. A beautiful young girl Danielle (Barrymore), who is being treated as a servant by her stepmother, the baroness Rodmilla (Huston) after the sudden death of her father Auguste (Krabbé). Upon a chance meeting with Prince Henry (Scott), a romantic feeling has seized both of them, but Danielle is in her courtier disguise, in a moment of desperation, she uses her dead mother's name to hide her real identity.While running from an arranged marriage from his parents King Francis I (West) and Queen Marie (Parfitt), Henry decides to marry the girl his heart really wants, so Rodmilla has an eye to the main chance to marry off her own daughter Marguerite (Dodds), and she has no qualms to hamper the true love between Danielle and Henry at all cost. The storyline is basically the same with the fairytale, but all the fantasy elements have been entirely trimmed off, no fairy godmother, no pumpkin carriage, even the slipper has no magic, instead, a real historical figure, Leonardo da Vinci (Godfrey) is introduced as the game-changer, with his painting MONA LISA, which was actually purchased by King Francis I.One refreshing upgrade of the story is that Danielle's characteristic has been rendered a modern retouch, she is no longer a damsel in distress, she is the ill-fated Cinderella, but she doesn't need her knight errant to rescue her out of her misery, on the contrary, it is her who saves Henry from a gypsy mob by pluckily carrying him on her shoulder, and near the coda, it is also herself who defeats the Gothic-looking merchant Pierre Le Pieu (O'Brien) even before Henry's arrival, set side by side with Kenneth Branagh's flashier Cinderella (2015), EVERAFTER is unwaveringly innovatory to elevate its heroine out of the cliché and more modest in its art production.So much for the good intention, the script still seems unbalanced, Marguerite's wilful turning against her mother is the work of a sophomoric writing, so is Henry's sudden change of mind, these parts are unfortunately being rushed out without thoughtful polishing. Barrymore's winsome appearance can smoothly erase viewers' memories about her problematic child-star past, and the film does revive her career, at the age of 23, she manages to pull off a second life on the big screen. This movie also marks Dougray Scott's Hollywood breakthrough, but one might argue, his sombre mien doesn't quite fit the role as an unsophisticated prince (maybe Jude Law would be a better casting choice), his Prince Henry is not dewy-eyed enough to believably amazed by Danielle's class-defying viewpoint and her extremely ample vigour for life, and his natural reserves doesn't help either.As always, the evil stepmother is the most delectable part, and who can portray unbearable haughtiness better than the almighty Anjelica Huston? She is absolutely a hoot to watch, period. Melanie Lynskey's Jacqueline, Danielle's other step-sister, is another surprise, she is more defiant towards her mother and more sympathetic to Danielle, and wonderfully throws the last bon mot of course not, mother, I'm here just for the food. in the otherwise bromide-laden ending. "},{"Title":"Beautiful story","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a Cinderella story, a famous fairy tale. Daniel is a girl who grows with her father's full of love. The life is so happy; however, suddenly she loses her father because of disease. She feels grief, and what is worse, her stepmother force her to labor as a servant in a house. One day, she encounters a man who rides on a horse, and she misunderstands the man tries to rob her father's horse, therefore, she throws a stone toward him. Later, she realizes he is a prince and she apologizes to him. He is so kind a person and since then the relation between the two gets better. The prince declares that he finds his future wife in a dance party because he does not want to marry a woman his father introduce. His real purpose is to get Daniel. Daniel manages to prepare for the party and goes there. Although she meets the prince again, her stepmother comes out that Daniel is a servant in public. Therefore, the reunion results to fail. However, the prince learns what is a genuine love. The first time I watched this film, I was so impressed and attracted because this is different from Cinderella story I've known. The part which shows such a different thing from what I've known is that Daniel fight for the prince or herself with bad people. A clip where Daniel uses sword is amazing. Such a powerful and beautiful woman is touching my heart. In addition to this, dance party scene is excellent, especially, just when Daniel arrives at the party. This is one of my favorites. I want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"Barrymore Ever After.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After A Cinderella Story (1998) Dir Andy Tennant / Cast Drew Barrymore, Dougrey Scott, Angelica Huston, Richard O'Brien, Melanie Lynskey Winning charm brought to life with enchanting set pieces, beautiful photography and a title suggesting fairy tale love. Drew Barrymore plays a slave girl who impresses the Prince yet he doesn't understand her. One of the film's finer points is that it can make you laugh so naturally. When surrounded by bandits Barrymore is given opportunity to walk away with anything she can carry, so she stoops down and hoists the bewildered Prince over her shoulder. It is moments such as this that are rewarding but unfortunately the screenplay has not enough such moments. Directed by Andy Tennant who made Fools Rush In, and given an ending that will surprise no one. Barrymore is fantastic playing this slave girl as a bold underdog. Dougrey Scott plays a great foil to her lifestyle, as the Prince who is constantly overwhelmed with her persona. Supporting characters are the pitiful one-dimensional with Angelica Huston as the wicked step-mother as well as Richard O'Brien who makes a wasted appearance. Well made in terms of production but its familiarity may hinder its overall appeal. Modernization works in the end where Barrymore doesn't necessarily encounter stagecoaches but the slipper stays in tact. Score 7 / 10 "}{"Title":"A different approach on the classic Cinderella tale on how Cinderella came to be an icon to the world of fairy tales","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film Ever After is told by an elderly woman who talks to the Brother Grimns and Charles Pennault on Danielle who would soon be an inspiration for their fairy tale Cinderella(which we all grew and love today). But this version of Cinderella isn't like any other Cinderella adaptation.Released in 1998 the film stars Drew Barrymore(sporting a British accent) as a young woman named Danielle who lives with her evil stepmother played by Angelica Huston and her daughters(one of Danielle's stepsisters is nice to her, the other stepsister treats her like dirt). Danielle father you see married a baron (who is Huston's character)and he tragically dies of a heart attack as he was going away on a business trip and he collapsed and died as Danielle and the baron watched in horror.Meanwhile later on in the film Danielle meets a handsome prince named Henry played by Dougray Scott, whom she had no idea was a prince as she threw something at him and she apologized to him.She disguises herself as a countess and meets Henry again as she tries to save a man who is been sold off,and Henry assumes that Danielle is a countess. But will he love Danielle for her real self and not as a countess named Nicole(who is the name of Danielle's deceased mother)?. Overall I really enjoyed this version as well as it had more screen time with Danielle and the prince BUT I have a few issues with it.1. What is Leonardo Di Vinci got to do with Cinderella? Cinderella has a fairy godmother NOT a famous painter.2. Shouldn't Henry assume that the countess was Danielle since he seen her face before?3. The romance between the prince and Danielle was very well done and Danielle is a very headstrong girl who can stand up to herself,but Cinderella wasn't like that at all.Bottom line I must be the only person who prefers Lily James' outtake of Cinderella but I grew up with the tale of a young servant girl who wins the heart of her prince and doesn't meet him until the ball and she loses a glass slipper and doesn't tell the prince who she is or her name.This was a good movie too but like I said I prefer Lily James' version.7/10Kudos though for not having Ever After predicable even though parts of it was as I knew Danielle would be with the prince in the end. "},{"Title":"The real story that Cinderella was based on","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After A Cinderella Story (1998) stars Drew Barrymore as Danielle, the daughter of a wealthy commoner in 16th century France. When her father unexpectedly dies, Danielle becomes the servant girl of her arrogant stepmother (Angelica Huston). When she runs into the prince of the kingdom (Dougray Scott), he becomes captivated by her honesty, humility, wisdom and beauty. Meanwhile, her stepmother schemes to have her shallow daughter (Megan Dodds) marry the prince. Melanie Lynskey plays the younger stepsister while Patrick Godfrey plays Leonardo Da Vinci and Lee Ingleby plays Danielle's guy-friend from her youth.This is a quality costume dramedy/romance. Shot entirely in France at no less than four châteaus (castles), as well as some sweet wilderness areas, the film is awe-inspiring just to look at. The story is a little convoluted, so you have to pay attention to keep track of what's going on. Drew shines as the protagonist and Scott is great as the prince. The movie proves that you don't have to have overt sex scenes and nudity for a film like this to be effective or successful (which it was at the box office). I also like the message concerning the idiocy of societal classes and how one of the stepsisters is actually a quality soul.The film runs 121 minutes.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Worth viewing, many times over.","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Without a doubt, one of the best renditions of the 'Cinderella' fable. It is a story of love, devotion, loyalty, and, yes, betrayal. Ultimately, it is redemption and forgiveness that come to the fore, with Prince Henry finally realizing who his life's match truly is and Danielle, who forgives the prince for his egregious reactionary behavior.I particularly liked the 'modern' nuances to the fairy-tale magic Leonardo Da Vinci as the surrogate fairy godmother (genius in lieu of magic dust and spells), and Danielle's childhood friend and confidante Gustave (a nod to Disney's Gus-Gus), as well as her servant friends Paulette, Louise, and Maurice (rounding out Disney's mice friends).One interesting aspect of the film that impressed me was that not all of the 'evil' characters were that. Films that make villains linear and two-dimensional are just boring. That the baroness showed an all-too-brief vulnerable, human side gave her an added dimension that has always been missing the other iterations. Also that stepsister Jacqueline turned out to be a secret ally was a very clever plot twist to the third act.However, I would have given a different punishment for the stepmother and her nasty Marguerite 'compensation' (in the amount of 20 gold FF apiece) and banishment to the Americas... Either French Canada in the north, Hispaniola island in the Caribbean, or parts of Brazil in the south... They could choose... "},{"Title":"Ever After","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The fairytale movie Ever After you get to experience the early 1500s. It takes place in France that they understand when they say King of France. It's easy to believe that it is England, it takes you in for they speak British English. The film is an adventure film based on a fairy tale.The main character in the movie named Danielle de Barbarac that is Cinderella. Danielle gets to withstand many problems during the movie. It disrupted the problem is love problem of Henry. It becomes difficult to meet Henry that she is lying about her is noble that is much finer than the valet as she really is. She also lying about her name is Nicole de Lancret who is her mother's name. Since it is not acceptable that a prince marries a servant during the time it is set in, it becomes a problem when Henry and his parents discovers that Danielle's servant. The problem gets solved when Henry understands that he has power over himself because he is the prince and Fragrance X there fore Danielle if she wants to marry him. Danielle say yes and it will be a big wedding and and everyone will be happy, except Rodmilla and stepsisters who may start working as a connoisseur that Danielle was before.Cinderella's father was married to Cinderella's stepmother Rodmilla the Gent but died when he had a heart attack. She is very cruel to Danielle and treats her like a servant and not a daughter or someone in the family. Rodmilla also has two daughters named Marguerite and Jacqueline de Ghent who is very spoiled. Danielle's best friend named Gustave. They've been best friends since bard omen when Danielle often used to wrestle him in the mud so they both became dirty and wet. Gustave always helps Dannielle when she is in trouble and make her happy when she's sad.Danielle's inner qualities is that she's kind and think about how others feel. Her external qualities is that she is beautiful that makes Prince Henry immediately falls in love with her.Prince Henry is a typical teenager who has no plans to become king. He wants to explore the world outside the castle walls and can accommodate therefore often away, but a stolen horse and return to the castle when he feels like it. Henry is also the person in the film that goes through the biggest change of all. At the beginning of the film is Henry is not someone who thinks of others but only himself and the people he lives with. When he meets Danielle who is thinking very much about how others feel so Henry can not understand quite how she thinks. But the more they get hit Dannielle him think '' right ''. At the end of the film, he has become a very wise prince who thinks of others and not just yourself.My favorite person in the film is Leonardo Da Vinci for his help and is fun in the way he behaves. You also get to see another side of Leonardo Da Vinci, much more fun than what he thinks when he sees and his paintings in books and online.The film's ending is that Danielle has been captured by Le Pieu. Because her father taught her swordsmanship, she uses a sword, forcing Le Pieu to give her the key to his castle so she can get out of there. The film's end was as I expected so I did not get any special feeling. But the music during the movie was well suited to what happened so you got the feeling that you were there when it took place.Because there is always something new happening so it was never so bored in the movie that made the movie was better than expected. I would recommend the movie for those who want to see some other versions of the original films. What age you are, so suits the film. For adults, it can be fun to see a version of the movie they have seen so many times and for children it can fit to the holders of love, princesses, princes and castles. The message of the film would be that love wins over everything and that you should never give up.By Axel Svensson "},{"Title":"Ever After for ever and ever","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was a child when I first saw this film and it has always been one of my absolute favourites. The setting, the costumes (especially Danielle's ball gown and glass slippers), and the storyline are just superb, followed by great performances from all the actors including Melanie Lynskey, Timothy West, Judy Parfitt, Megan Dodds and Patrick Godfrey.Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott are perfect for the roles of Danielle and Prince Henry and you fall in love with both of them from the start. Drew Barrymore turns the usual 'damsel' Cinderella into a strong-minded, and strong-willed female lead, whilst Dougray Scott ignites the rebellious side to the prince Charming of the fairytale. Anjelica Houston is graciously ruthless in her portrayal of the Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent aka the evil stepmother, and both Lynskey and Dodds make very comical 'ugly stepsisters'.All in all, this film is a fantastic retelling of Hans Christian Andersen's classic fairytale, with a wonderful cast, both leading and supporting, and leaves you with that magical feeling of warmth and happiness. "},{"Title":"Powerful, Kind-Hearted Woman Makes Good","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've only seen a few Drew Barrymore movies, but this is the best I've ever seen her. She should be given more roles of powerful women She proves in Ever After that she can handle it. It is Danielle's strength of character; ability and desire to act decisively and to be consistently honest that brings her from a servant/slave of a cold-hearted step mother, to queen. Although this story was modeled on the fairy tale Cinderella, I do not feel that that handicaps or otherwise restrains the movie. Rather, this may be the best feature-length movie based on that fairy tale. Beforehand, I'd only seen Drew in The Wedding Singer (good movie, but she is not given a dynamic part like in Ever After) and Never Been Kissed (I loathe that movie, because, as in The Wedding Singer, she is trapped in the middle of someone else's plans). Drew Barrymore, as Danielle, shows no such timidity or ambiguity in Ever After. It's always good to see Melanie Lynskey, as well. "},{"Title":"the point, gentlemen..is that they lived.","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Every one has heard about this classic Cinderella story.I had read this story in my KG's,but Andy Tennant had done really a great work, to present this story in a different version with no magic and no fairies, rather he is try to depict that this Cinderella is a true story. Movie starts with an old lady, who is narrating this Cinderella story, to some authors who believed that Cinderella is just a story. The way Cinderella character portrayed in this movie is different from the story.Cinderella here likes books, brave, intelligent, innocent and beautiful.Drew Berrymore is just at her best as Cinderella.The inconsistent part is of Leonardo Da Vinci in this movie. The movie is refreshing, and had a new interpretation of Cinderella story. Do watch it. "},{"Title":"Ever-after = Twist of Cinderella story","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all I would like to say that I am already a massive fan of anything period so that made the movie more enjoyable for me and I have watched this movie a lot of times.I love this movie because I think that adds a twist to a well known and loved fairy-tale I would certainly recommend this movie to everyone and anyone. I especially like the relationship between the two main characters. I found it interesting that they chose to include Leonardo De vinci in the movie since he would never naturally be linked to this movie or the original.I also think that each member of the cast was chosen carefully and perfectly to fit each individual role in this outstanding movie.It's a must watch!!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If I could give this movie a million stars I would! This is the best Cinderella story ever (besides the Disney one). It's very realistic but still a fairy tale. Drew Barrymore is an excellent actress and Angelica Houston is just perfect. My husband watched it for the first time when we were just dating and he thought it was really good. I think he might be a little tired of it now though since I watch it all the time. I haven't really met anyone who doesn't like this movie. It's hard not to like it. It's a romantic movie with comedy and action. When Henry goes to rescue Danielle from that bad guy (I can never remember his name) and she basically rescued herself LOL I love it! "},{"Title":"neither realism nor fanciful costume drama","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The well known familiar fairy tale is bought into Renaissance Italy. Her evil stepmother Rodmilla (Anjelica Huston) has reduced Danielle (Drew Barrymore) to little more than a maid after the death of her father. Marguerite (Megan Dodds) is the horrible stepsister, and Jacqueline (Melanie Lynskey) is nice one. Prince Henry (Dougray Scott) can't stand his home, and runs into Danielle one day as well as Leonardo da Vinci (Patrick Godfrey) rescuing his Mona Lisa painting. Leonardo would be the fairy godmother.Drew Barrymore is doing a weird British accent in a costume drama taking place in 16th century Italy. There are castles and horses but little grandeur. Although it's a nice idea, it doesn't have any tension or magic. It's not gritty enough to be real nor beautiful enough to be fanciful. The story itself is good triumphing over evil just like the fairy tale. "}{"Title":"Cinderella - a hidden treasure","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The only thing wrong with this movie is that it was never promoted properly. This is a gem that will stand the test of time.This film is a modern masterpiece - beautifully done in every way - the treatment of the age-old story, the screenplay, the actors, the locations, the costumes, the music, the beautiful photography - everything. The cinematography is perfect - it tells the story without gimmickry or artifice.Drew Barrymore is at her best - so attractive, so sexy without being cheap or gaudy. Her character and her sensitive, convincing portrayal won our hearts.Dougray Scott as Prince Henry is handsome and likable but not too full of himself. What a wonderful couple they make. "},{"Title":"What a language!","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I adore this movie I have seen it for over 5 times and 2 or 3 in Spanish. The main things I liked about the movie are the following The accent How fascinating it is! I regard the British accent very high and this is one of the reasons why I adore this movie. I work at sirius xm company( the Egyptian branch in cairo). Although it is an American company, I insist on speaking British accent in all my calls.The costumes I like the way they dress> In my Islamic world, they just need veil. How beautifully they dressed. Long, wide, elegant dresses;perfect Muslemahs' costumes indeed. One of my dreams in life, is to get one like theses dresses.The cast I had no doubt each time I watch this movie the Drew is a real Cinderella and the same goes for the others. They never acted. everyone just lives their role and it was perfectly.. perfectly done. "},{"Title":"Ever After A Cinderella Story","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had heard about this and knew the leading actress, I may have even tried to watch it once before, but I was determined to see this version of the famous fairytale story, told in a completely different way, from director Andy Tennant (Fools Rush In, Anna and the King, Hitch). Basically, set in the early 19th Century, France, wealthy landowner Auguste (The Living Daylights' Jeroen Krabbé) married Baroness Rodmilla De Ghent (Anjelica Huston), and after he died she inherited his fortune. She also forced his only daughter Danielle (Drew Barrymore) to become a slave, her stepmother treating her like dirt, and her stepsisters almost as bad, Marguerite (Megan Dodds) being the horrid one, and only Jacqueline (Heavenly Creatures' Melanie Lynskey) being the relatively kinder one. The young girl stays positive though that one day things will change for the better, and that dream may come true when Prince Henry (Dougray Scott) wants to escape the life in the kingdom, only to be spotted trying to flee by her. She is paid to be silent, which she does remain, and the Prince meanwhile comes across the famous painter Leonardo Da Vinci (Patrick Godfrey) heading for the royal court with his famous Mona Lisa painting, and returning to the castle the Prince settles back. He also meets the Baroness who hopes that he will marry Margurite, but they are unaware that Danielle is using the money she received to improve her image, and pose as a courtier dressed like a fine Lady, and he is attracted not just by her beauty, but her spirit. After giving herself the name Nicole De Lancret, after her mother, and the title Comtesse, she is forced to run away, taking servant Maurice (Walter Sparrow) with her, and the next thing we see is King Francis (Timothy West) making a deal with his son, he must announce his engagement to a woman he chooses by the stroke of midnight at a ball in five days, otherwise he will marry Spanish Princess Gabriella (Virginia García). During the next few days Danielle keeps up the pretence of being in the higher class of people, and she does eventually bump into the Prince again who is delighted to see her, and it comes to the night of the ball, but he discovers the truth about her identity. In the end his feelings for her are too strong and he forgive any deception of being a slave, and after finally ridding herself of the her horrid stepmother and stepsister Danielle escapes, and it is a happily ever after for Henry and Danielle. Also starring Judy Parfitt as Queen Marie and Jeanne Moreau as Grande Dame. Barrymore gives a good natural performance as the downtrodden but spirited beauty, Scott is good as the Prince who wants to get his own and find his true love, and of course Huston is a good choice as the nasty stepmother who treats the beauty with contempt and only cares about money and going higher in society. This is not your typical version of Cinderella, there is no magic, no glass slippers, no pumpkin carriage and no Fairy Godmother, this is a more grown up version that treats the story as if it is historical fact, so traditional medieval era costumes and locations, but the premise remains relatively the same, it is an interesting romantic fantasy. Very good! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fairy Tale with a new twist - Must See","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Danielle, played by Drew Barrymore is the Cinderella like character in this Fairy Tale. Prince Henry is played by Dougray Scott who plays his character with all of the charm and elevated level of an aristocrat.Danielle, whose mother passed away early in her life lives with her father in a nice Château in France. Her father comes home with a new step-mother Rodmilla, played by Angelica Huston who in my opinion plays the perfect evil stepmother. She has two daughters Marguerite and Jacqueline played by Megan Dodds and Melanie Lynskey. Marguerite is the spoiled doting elder daughter who is spoiled rotten, and poor Jacqueline always is downplayed.This is the best movie that I have ever watched Drew Barrymore where I like her and the character that she plays. This is a good love story for young teenage girls. Good for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Ever After...Never Before **1/2","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie has a lovely musical score.I write never before since this version of the Cinderella classic really tries to bring in social class inequities into the mix of things. Problem is that the fairy tale is for young people basically so the message can get lost quite rapidly.The acting kudos here really go to Anjelica Huston who really captures the role of the stepmother in the way that it was supposed to be. A baroness who looks on Drew Barrymore, her step-daughter with utter contempt and disdain, for in this version, she soon realizes that she must get rid of her created Cinderella so that her daughter, Marguerite, can marry the prince. Do I see that the other step-daughter was actually sympathetic to the Barrymore Cinderella character?The prince's father comes off as a real idiot here. The mother, acts as a queen, and as a mother for what is in her son's best interest. "},{"Title":"One of the Very Best Movies of All Time","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Ever After is one of the most lovely, charming, romantic, and dramatic movies ever. I cried many times, in both joy and sorrow, as the story unfolded. The first viewing I shall never forget. The 10th viewing I shall never forget, even better than the first 9 viewings!Humble Danielle (Cinderella) tries to set everything straight with the prince, attempting to explain that she is a mere peasant girl commoner, and not of royal blood. But the prince loves her so much, he never gives her a chance to confess. Then when the time comes for the confession, it is the wrong time! Her confession is turned aside to her destruction and grief at the grand costume ball. She comes into the scene of the resplendent mask ball festivity, dressed as the most noble and beautiful creature imaginable, with gorgeous white gown and gossamer angel wings, to the rapturous thrill of the Prince, the Queen, and the King. The Prince is love-struck. But two or three minutes later, after her true identity is revealed by her heartless step mother who reveals everything, Danielle (Cinderella) leaves the scene humiliated and in tears, with wings clipped (literally one wing torn off), losing her glass slipper on the way, as she runs to escape from the Prince and depart the royal costume ball, a totally humiliated peasant girl dashing into the cold dark night of a fierce rainstorm. She ends up soaking wet and grief stricken, wearing one glass slipper and one broken angel's wing, sobbing uncontrollably in a tattered wedding gown that is filthy and ruined, weeping in the soaking rain, while thunder and lightning are roaring all around her.Oh my, oh my! What a great movie love story this is, to see how this tragedy is later reversed, so that the beautiful Cinderella Danielle finally captures her equally handsome Prince Charming Henry. "},{"Title":"A gentle movie and a pleasant watch.","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Look, let's get this straight right out of the gate no; this movie is not remotely historically accurate. Yes; this movie is chock full of anachronisms, although I'll paraphrase David Drake in saying that this film was intended for modern-day English speaking audiences, and so it ought not be astonishing that the characters neither affect faux French accents nor speak bastardized Ren Faire forsoothly language. No; this movie doesn't have a lot to offer the gritty crowd who'd be happier watching Sin City. Yes; it's a romance-novel chick flick, basically.Once you get past the elements the movie just was never going to have and which no one ought to have expected, it's quite pleasant. Barrymore is a sweet, serene presence, Huston is always-understated, never overacting as the villain, and you'd have to be a hardcore curmudgeon not to appreciate their interaction. Scott's a bit of a cipher, but the film isn't about him anyway.7/10. "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely perfect. I am a sucker for any fairytale movie; especially Cinderella types. This one is almost brilliant. The way they portray the fairytale in a very real time without the usual clichés (Fairy godmother, animals turning into humans and vice versa.) though nice, would have made it a bit cheesy when using real live people.Drew Barrymore is a wonderful Cinderella. Her Cinderella does not wait for fate; she takes action. She is strong-willed, beautiful, and adventurous, but she never bashes it over your head. She is very vulnerable too. Angelica Huston is a great evil stepmother. She plays the part with relish. She is very elegant, calculated and manipulative, borderline sociopath. The mean stepsister gets over the top at times, but she is very good. I like the way they have one nice stepsister and one evil one. The prince got a little on my nerves, but he was good too. This movie is a classic. I hope more movies come out like this one. "},{"Title":"a well thought out masterpiece","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" if you seek a movie that will leave you feeling happy, but will also excite you along the way the ever after is a movie you should consider an amazing story of love which will warm your heart for the evening. when i first watched 'ever after' i expected to just watch a remake of the original Cinderella movie with the usual dull predictable characters ... however when i watched this movie i was pleasantly surprised; the story was very deep, the characters had emotions, everyone was not what they seemed and the plot had an interesting twist. The characters were portrayed brilliantly by all the actors.well worth 116 minutes of your time. definitely worth the money. "},{"Title":"amazing movie","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a young girl Danielle De Barbarac (Drew Barrymore) was dearly loved by her father Auguste (Jeroen Krabbé). Her father was a traveler and as he was leaving one day, he had a heart attack on his horse and died.Danielle was then forced to live by herself with her new step-mother, the Baroness Rodmilla De Ghent (Anjelica Huston) and two step-sisters Marguerite and Jacqueline (Megan Dodds, Melanie Lynskey).As the years went on, Danielle was treated less and less like family and more and more like a servant. Meanwhile the Prince of France, Henry (Dougray Scott) is trying to escape an arranged marriage because he wanted to find true love.He soon finds that love in Danielle. However, he does not know the woman by that name. When they met, she was dressed as a countess and she gave the prince her mother's name, Nicole de Lancrét. The two live their relationship lie until one night when the truth is pulled out from beneath them.This movie is unlike any other Cinderella story because it is not a prince doing the saving of anyone. In this movie, Danielle comes to the prince's rescue a few times, and she also offers him advice and words of wisdom.Also unlike any other Cinderella story, the fairy godmother in this story is the famous French artist/inventor Leonardo de Vinci (Patrick Godfrey).I found this movie very well acted and directed, the costumes were beautiful and the way the Renaissance was captured was brilliant. Overall there was no disappointment other than the fact that since it is another Cinderella story and it followed the same story line, therefore making it a little predictable. However, predictability can be good.This movie is by far one of my all time favorites. "}{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was excellent. I cant stop watching it! It really shows that love does conquer all, and Drew Barrymore did an excellent job, as well as the other actors.I recommend this movie to everyone. I also thought this was going to be, not so good of a movie, when i first saw that it was coming out, but after i watched it, i was hooked. I love the story line and the characters, they were all wonderful!So if you haven't watched this movie yet, you really should. You will love it, all my friends thought it was wonderful and i really think you will too. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh my goodness words can't express how much I love this film! It completely rocks! I'm so glad someone had the sense to make a fairytale were the leading lady isn't a whelp who wouldn't say boo to a goose! It's about time females in historical dramas stood up for themselves! Drew Barrymore was amazing! I was o jealous I didn't get to be Danielle. She's a much better role model to young girls than feeble old Cinderellaever was! Loved the stepmother, what a cow! You love to hate her! Don't know what else to say just that it's visually stunning and vibrant and I wish more films would be made like this! Well worth buying and watching at least once a month to brighten up your life and inspire you! "},{"Title":"Interesting re-imagined version of Cinderella, with good acting and reasonable writing","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As this came on TV, I decided to grant it a chance, in spite of not being a great fan of fairy tales. I found it quite entertaining, even if there are maybe a few lapses in writing. The plot is quite good, and progresses nicely throughout. The pacing is fair. The dialog is well-written and equally delivered. The acting is all pretty good... it was a pleasant surprise to see Melanie Lynskey(whom I so far have only seen one other place... as Rose on Two and a Half Men, a role that doesn't require all that much talent) play a much more grounded character, and do so very well. Dougray Scott was good. Anjelica Huston portrayed the evil stepmother of the story really good. Barrymore was well-chosen for the tom-boyish lead who is not stripped of feminine traits. The humor is decent... personally, I didn't laugh much, though several of Drew's character's actions had me cheering for her. The cinematography and editing was quite good throughout. The prelude and prologue are both well-written and fit in well with the tone and direction of the film. The mood isn't too sweet and while this is a fairy tale, it still managed to entertain me(and I have never found works in that genre to be of any interest to me). The only thing I truly didn't like about this was the line near the beginning which tried to place one definite meaning upon the smile of the Mona Lisa. I refer to the marvelously talented director Stanley Kubrick, who quite eloquently and perfectly expressed why such a thing should never be done. I recommend this to fans of fairy tales and/or the actors involved. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cinderella A Historical Romance","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After (1998) Starring Drew Berrymore, Dougray Scott, Angelica Houston, Megan Dodds, Melanie Lynskey, Jeroen Krabbe, Richard O'Brien, Judy Parfitt, Patrick Godfrey, Timothy West, Judy Parfitt, Lee Inbleby, Kate Lansbury, Walter Sparrow, Jeanne Moreau, Peter Gunn, Toby Jones, Joerg Stadler, Andy Henderson, Al Hunter Ashton, Christian Marc, Elvira Stevenson, Ursula Jones, Alex Pooley, John Walters, Janet Henfrey, Rupam Maxwell, Jean-Piere Mazieres....Director Andy Tennant... Screenplay Susannah Grant, Rick Parks.Whether they lived happily ever after is not the point, gentlemen, the point is ... they lived. Based on the 1729 French novella by Charles Perrault (who wrote dozens of the fairy tales we all grew up hearing as children- Sleeping Beauty, Beauty and the Beast, etc), this is a 1998 film by director Andy Tennant who turns the familiar Cinderella story into a lush, Renaissance Era historical romance. What makes this particular Cinderella stand out is that it's structure never succumbs to the dullness of the repetitive formula of the other well-known Cinderellas. The Cinderella in this story is a beautiful Baroness painted by Leonardo Da Vinci during 1500's France. Her great grand-daughter, an old Countess, has possession of the painting which she happily shows off to her guests and proceeds to tell them the story of the real life historic Cindrella. This is a superb film, and deceptive at first, considering the fact that Ever After, at face value and judging from the posters and previews back in the late 90's looked to be a fantasy/escapist bore starring a costume-clad Drew Berrymore and Angelica Houston who were doing roles that were beneath them. Far from it. Screenwriters Susannah Grant and Richard Parks did a marvelous job of adapting a classic fairy tale into a well-written historical film set in rural, Renaissance France with strong, well-developed characters and a substantial plot. Drew Berrymore stars as Danielle De Barbarac, the unloved daughter of her wicked stepmother Baroness Rodmilla De Ghent (Angelica Houston), who hopes to groom her own daughters Marguerite and Jacqueline (Megan Dodds and Melanie Linskey). The familiar Cinderella story we all know does not kick in until much later in the film, in fact, toward the end of the film. Before that we are treated to a great female character - she's highly independent, democratic, intelligent and an irrepressible country girl, friends with the farm-hands and local village folk, a young lady, who, despite ill treatment by her stepmother, poses as an inner nobility. She manipulates scenes in order to teach feudal Prince Henry (Dougray Scott) lessons in the real world and how the other half lives. The two of them, despite some initial antagonism, fall in love long before she goes to the ball, making this a very realistic, human love story stripped of all the Disney and Rodgers and Hammerstein's gloss. A greater chemistry between Cinderella and her Prince you'd be hard-pressed to find, especially because the other versions fall flat on realistic romantic chemistry. Barrymore and Scott's chemistry is terrific on this film. The cinematography by Andrew Dunn is sumptuous. You can get lost in the vistas of great forests, rural towns and marketplaces, as well as old châteaux. The costumes are true to what people of their class wore in the Renassiance. Even Leonardo Da Vinci is a prominent character in the story, making this Cinderella a different animal than the other versions, certainly more thought-provoking. There is a very literary feel to all of this, as if Cinderella is more than just a fairy tale and it feels as if the screenplay were being lifted from a historical romance novel. The music by George Fenton is appropriately Baroque, romantic and airy. The actors are delivering strong performances, taking themselves as seriously as Oscar hopeful stars, despite the fact that sometimes the dialog and script suffers from a Shakespearean and old-fashioned tone. Angelica Houston delivers her usual good performance. As the Stepmother, she is deliciously wicked. While the film never strays from the heart of the Cinderella romance, which by modern feminist standards is about a woman who waits passively for her Prince Charming and for life to improve, this is a story that is balanced by a strong, feminist, forward-thinking, modern Cinderella who needs no rescuing and makes things happen for herself using her intelligence, skills and personal merit. It was the 90's after all, a time when women's roles on film were neither weak or sexist. This is a gorgeous and very well-made movie and I highly urge for parents to get their children, especially girls, who are drowning with lack of good female role models. A remarkable movie sure to delight and enthrall everyone, young and old. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable classic","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed Ever After. It must be one of the very best films Drew Barrymore has ever made and shows the extent of her acting ability. I'm so glad she made it for her sake as she really has been in some truly awful films. Drew plays Danielle de Barbarac very well indeed. She is also supported by some brilliant actors such as Angelica Houston as her wicked stepmother Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent, Dougray Scott as Prince Henry, Judy Parfitt as Queen Marie, Timothy West as King Francis, Jean Moreau as Grand Dame and Kate Lansbury as Paulette. Other performers were also very good. The settings in this film are beautiful and the story equally so. It really is a very good retelling of the story of Cinderella and has some wickedly funny moments. It really is very good. "},{"Title":"Ever After","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is this totally awesome movie about a person! LOL! I'm kidding but it is a good movie for all ages and it's really cool cause of all that goes on but I can't SAY that or else I can't post ever again! So yeah, watch it! They show it on ABCFamily a lot mostly on Fridays so always check but check everyday! Ya never know! I don't think I've seen the whole thing straight but I've seen the majority of it which is like over 2 hours and its 2 and half hours. If I HAVE seen the whole thing it hasn't been straight. I've only seen it in pieces or I'll be switching so I can't really say that the entire movie is awesome when it's all put together but I can say that the maturity is good and that it is my favorite movie! "},{"Title":"A great love story!!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" EverAfter A Cinderella story with Drew Barrymore.....actually a great love story and very entertaining. Angelica Houston is great as the wicked step mom.....so funny. The scenery is beautiful and they did a great job creating this set....old English royalty. A very simple story, yet told well through the characters, costumes, accents, and relationships. When true love is separated because of class structure they must overcome this obstacle.....and we root for love in all its forms. The climatic scene at the ball when the prince must decide on a suitor is predictable yet entertaining. We all know what is going to happen in the end yet we keep watching rooting for them. Some may find this flick a bore yet us hopeless romantics enjoy this kind of entertainment. My vote for this flick is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"i love this movie, keep the good work up.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WOW!! i love love love this movie. i mean the story itself is amazing but to have the talented drew Barrymore and her prince acting and working together makes this movie and love story more enjoyable to watch. i mean come on you have got to admit that this is by far the best version of the Cinderella Story, right? well i think it is the best and one of my favourite movies that i have ever seen and i believe that it will be my favourite movie for life. i do however admit that it was sad and mean and stuff, but in the end the evil step mother and her sheep like step sister got the same treatment that they had bestowed on to Danielle, right? yea i believe that part was one of my favourite parts because they both deserved to get treated like that, right???but anyways this is my all time favourite movie and no - matter how many times i have seen it, i will never get sick or tiered of watching it, because its so magical and beautiful and ohhh man words can not express how much i love this movie aye, its the best of the best movies ever made, produced, directed, etc....so yea if you haven't seen it yet, i suggest you go and find out what on earth i am talking about.....because its really bubblicious. rock on Ever After Cinderella, rock on 4 life. "},{"Title":"I thoroughly enjoyed it!","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is essentially the story of Cinderella brought to real life in a manner which up until the time it was released, I hadn't seen anything like it. It's not to be confused with a recent telling of the famed fairy called entitled 'A Cinderella story' starring that girl from Lizzie Mcguire ( LOL! I know her real name but I'm just being mean! LOL!) Anyhow, this wonderfully enchanting film stars Drew Barrymore (with a very weird but cute Frenchy-British accent) as the Cinderella character. But she isn't your average push over, this Cinderella kicks major arse and take no prisoners either. She actually rescues her prince at one point as opposed to the usual vice versa we're used to seeing. Dougray Scott plays prince charming and Angelica Houston is the wicked step-mother, and look for Melanie Lynskey is a scene stealing role as one of the unusually good step-sisters. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Romantic Retelling of Cinderella","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Usually when a director tries to remake a beloved story, he or she ends up butchering it. Just think of all of the television adaptations of fairy tales that fall short of their intended mark. This story, however, succeeds in being clever and sweet, while still maintaining the basic elements of the classic story. There is an evil stepmother who works the main character to the bone, evil stepsisters (or at least one evil stepsister), a prince who is looking for a wife, our heroine posing as nobility to win the prince's heart, and a glass slipper. Only, instead of a fairy godmother, we have Leonardo da Vinci.The actors are interesting, the dialogue funny and touching. True Dougray Scott may be a little too mature to play the immature prince, but he is so wonderful that you forget his age. Drew Barrymore is delightful, and is brilliant when it comes to humor. Angelica Huston and Megan Dodds are deliciously evil, and Melanie Lynskey is well-cast as the sweeter and less glamorous of the stepsisters.In short, this film would make a wonderful addition to your family's film collection, and would make a particularly nice gift for a young girl. "}{"Title":"Just   fabulous!","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is definitely one of my all time favorites. It is a grate fairy tale Romance that started my obsession with Drew Barrymore. I first saw this at the movies when I was six.about three years ago I bought the DVD and I can remember sitting there on my lap top computer just watching it continuously! I would even get into costume and play a game based off this movie on the varanda (it was called Roseamon Palice).My favorite scene is the scene where Daniell comes to the mask saying just breeze. She is dressed so beautifully. This film is romantic,touching ,funny and beautiful. If you enjoy movies like The Princess Bride,Ella Enchanted and Titanic than this movie will NOT disappoint you! Ever After is filled with fantastic costumes,scenery and music. I am going to rate this movie a 10/10. It truly is excellent! "},{"Title":"Best Love Story To Remember Ever After","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The story is universal, just like a story taken from the new testament of the bible. Three elements are present in this movie faith, hope, and love. Danielle is a humble god-fearing servant much like an Israelite woman from the past. I've seen lots of love and romance movies but when it comes to morality this one is an exception&#151;characters don't end up in bed after falling in love in the first place. Movies and TV shows we have today are full of premarital sex plot, adultery, divorce, and etc&#133; Violence is minimal; therefore, it's a family film. Credit goes to George Fenton's music that added more heights in storytelling; Drew Barrymore's portrayal of being an underdog; Anjelica Huston's portrayal of an evil stepmother (she's not bad at all, though it will be different story if the director shows how Danielle was lashed like Christ&#151;you will truly hate her). Dialogues are great and characters know how to act their part, and Andy Tennant directed this film in a beautiful way (some flaws but overlooked). Overall, this is truly a great film to remember. "},{"Title":"Not Drew's #1 fan...loved the movie anyway.","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeah, I knew there was a reason that Cinderella was my all-time favorite fairy tale! The writer does a great job of changing the expectations that we already knew from the popular tale. Knowing the premise of the story, he was still able to keep me involved enough to want to know HOW they would arrive at the point of 'happily ever after'. Drew was surprisingly likable (as I said in the title...I'm not much of a fan of hers) and she gave the pauper-like character much needed soul. I also thought Angelica Huston did a fantastic job as the Stepmother because in the original tale, I remember her as just 'mean'. But in this story, I actually felt moments of softened humility from a the known 'hardened' character. I rated this movie high because if given the opportunity...I would even watch it again. Way to go Drew! "},{"Title":"Romantic Retelling at its best","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I assume all have seen this movie. If you haven't, go see it now.I am a single mid-twenties male and Ever After is my favorite romantic comedy, which is normally an unappealing genre for my demographic. I would vote for Ever After over any Rambo/Stallone flick for entertainment value for one night.Everything about Ever After is well done to excellent. Acting, costumes, plot twists, humor, dialog, scenery, music ... everything. This movie's ending is extremely satisfying, where everyone gets what they deserve. In short, the movie is well-executed entertainment.Upon further viewings, you begin to notice things, both good and bad. You see the Baroness's hurtful gaze at Danielle as August dies, Jacqueline's conflicts that almost parallel Danielle's, Margueritte's jaw dropping upon seeing Princess Danielle, and how Le Pew isn't really a bad guy for recognizing the beauty, radiance, and spirit inside Danielle that everyone else is blind to, only for his methods of approach.But, unfortunately, you also notice some bad things. There are factual and historic flaws, some less-than-perfect accents and dialog, and some not-completely believable events between the characters, with varying scales of forgiveness depending on the critic. However, remember that this is a retelling of a magic-filled bedtime fairy tale. If you are unable to suspend your disbelief for these overlook-able quirks in a movie, you probably like the original Cinderalla tale too much or too little and do not enjoy many movies for entertainment's sake.Danielle is not the most physically attractive character, that being 'Margueritte Francious Louise of the House of Ghent', but she outshines everyone as the most beautiful character, doing her common birth father and legendary mother proud. Leonardo Da Vinci plays the Fairy Godmother, having his fabled intelligence and artistry adding literally visual sparks to the movie, yet his dialog makes him the 'no bull-crap' character, which allows him to remind the prince to stop being a prince and Danielle to stop being Danielle and recognize they are a man and woman in love. "},{"Title":"Drew enchants as a fiery Cinders","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This 1998 movie is a delightful take on the Cinderella fairy tale, largely due to the personality and talent of Drew Barrymore who effortlessly blends innocence and feistiness as Danielle de Barbarac who, after her father dies, is downgraded to a servant by her harsh and greedy stepmother (Angelica Houston). Also in attendance of course are two stepsisters (Megan Dodds and Melanie Lynskey) though they are far from ugly, and the latter has quite a lot of sympathy with poor put-upon Danielle.Enter a handsome, dashing Prince Charming, in the form of 16th century real-life Henri (Dougray Scott), son of the French King, Francois I (Timothy West). He falls for Danielle, under the impression that she is a noble lady, not a commoner and menial, and lots of misunderstanding and intrigues ensue. One of the cleverer aspects of the film is the presence of Leonardo da Vinci (Patrick Godfrey) who was in fact brought to France (where he died) by Francois. Another realistic surprise is some sharp social criticism - voiced by Danielle - partially based on Thomas More's book, Utopia, whose publication pre-dated Henri.Where, however, the screenplay is a fairy tale of its own is that Henri far from being charming was ruthlessly cruel when he became King Henri II; also, needless to say, there was no Danielle de Barbarac in his life. The film was shot in France, with lots of picturesque scenery and châteaux to admire. Finally, another good reason to view this movie is a brief appearance by Jeanne Moreau in her 70th year; but this was by no means her final film - according to IMDb, she's made another 15 since then!. "},{"Title":"Ever After","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Shades of Character In Ever After warm and cool colors was exceptionally symbolic. Jacqueline and Danielle wore cool colors, portraying them as pleasant, sweet, and caring, while Marguerite and the Baroness wore warm colors giving them an aura of cruelty, wickedness, and threat. To contrast these colors, Leonardo da Vinci was always wearing white, characterizing him as pure, serene, and godly. My first experience leading up to watching this film was when I saw Cinderella for the first time at a very young age. I then watched Ever After, a modern portrayal of the fairy tale, as a sixth grader with my mom. Since then I have probably watched it fifty times but on September 29th I saw it with new eyes film student eyes.Jacqueline and Danielle (Cinderella) were always seen in sweet, cheerful, cool colors, whether they are sparkly and grand or just plain old blue. These colors make them fade into the background, especially when they are around others in warm colors, and it is their smiles and personalities that make them stand out. This pattern of beauty incognito can be traced up until the very end of the movie when the audience is shocked as Danielle wears red, to symbolize her change in character and status. In this scene alone positions are reversed and the devious Baroness and Marguerite wear blue. One example of this is when Danielle and Jacqueline are wearing very similar dresses and Jacqueline is bandaging Danielle's back after she has been whipped by the baroness. This scene marks a drastic change in Jacqueline's character in that she has embraced her mother's favoritism of Marguerite, and turns around to find a friend in her stepsister. Another scene that portrays this contrast is that of Danielle wearing her mothers light blue gown as she goes to court and buys back her friend Maurice who was sold by the baroness. This was the first time that Danielle displayed an open selflessness and even in her cool, often unnoticed color she stood out as a charming, passionate individual. On their way to the mask ball, Marguerite wears a brilliant red and the Baroness a dusty maroon. These colors present quite the contrast to Jacqueline's ordinary blue and Danielle's ragged gray dress. Although we can tell that Jacqueline is above Danielle in this scene, it is also clear that she is not as high up as Marguerite.Marguerite and the Baroness wore warm colors giving them an image of aggressiveness, anger, and evil. One scene that demonstrates this is when Marguerite brings the queen a rosary telling her that she dropped it on the way out, this of course is a deceitful lie. She is put into a bright red and among all the blue and earth tones to make her stand out like a sour thumb. The mise en scene in this frame was also very centered on the spoiled Marguerite. She is placed in the middle of the frame in her bright red while around her avid churchgoers swarm out in their blues, greens, and purples. The Baroness herself is always wearing black or very dusky shades of shadowy colors. Adding to her clothing the actor herself has jet black hair and pasty white skin. This extreme contrast of dark on white makes her look frail and all the more frightening. The scene when the baroness and her daughters arrive at Danielle's home presents a nice picture of these colors. The baroness steps daintily out of the carriage in her elaborate black gown and is followed by little Jacqueline in blue and Marguerite in her usual red. The feelings of fear, intimidation, and evil are all suggested by the vivid colors worn by these characters. To say that the fairy godmother was omitted from this interpretation would be an outright lie. In Ever After we are given Leonardo da Vinci, who is always seen in white. He is truly the one who saves Danielle, giving her the wings she needs to fly. It is simple to make the connection between da Vinci and Christ, and it is his serene white that triggers the imagination. In one scene he walks out to Danielle in his floating shoes and proclaims her an angel. This scene sticks very firmly in the mind. The cinematographer gave a shot of the whole scene from water level. We can see da Vinci dressed from head to toe in his white robes and Danielle floating along in her blue and white. This amazing shot demonstrates da Vinci's ability to go out of the reach of the human mind and help a soul lost and in need of guidance. In yet another scene da Vinci saves Danielle from missing the Mask Ball by opening the door that she was locked in. He is immediately praised, though he is very modest in responding, yes, I shall go down in history as the man who opened the door. Da Vinci is everything a girl could ask for in a fairy godmother and more, for you see, he is god.Ever After is a wonderfully put together reproduction of Cinderella that is perfect for girls who need a little escape back to childhood. "},{"Title":"The Best Cinderela Story","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SN-19 In Ever After bold colors symbolize status because the dress that the courtiers wear are bright reds and greens and the peasants wore dim blues and yellows. This shows status because only the rich and or wealthy people could afford the bright colored clothes. Oddly enough Danielle's dress at the end is white and the men wear dim colors. I have seen this movie a million times. This time I watched by myself in my bedroom. The first time I watched this movie was when I was eight years old with my grandmother in her living room. She told me that if a man treated me less then the prince then he wasn't good enough for me. That is why I am dating Spud. The dresses that the courtiers wear are bright reds and greens. They dress in extremely bright colors and voluptuous clothes. They wore low cut clothes that exposes cleavage that no one really wanted to see. They would wear extremely heavy jewelry that looked like ridicules children's fake jewelry that you would get from a cracker jacks box. You would even see them wearing pastel colors yet they were bright. They would fight with the suppliers on the prices if they were too high and they dress wasn't very bright or bold. They also wore brooches that were as big as an apple. The dresses that the peasants wore were extremely dim colored. They looked like spare material that you would find in the back of a Salvation Army storage room that was musty, moldy, and moth-eaten and had probably been there since the 1980's. They are lightly colored and look extremely faded. Even when they would dress up the dresses were a faded color. The peasants work clothes were even worse, they were moth-eaten and nasty. I believe that they were nasty colored because their masters bought them and didn't feel like spending much money on them so they got the cheapest things that they could find. The only time a peasant would wear a brooch was when they were going to a party and even then they were very small brooches. Oddly enough the dress that Danielle wears to the ball is white. So it is kind of bold and dim at the same time so we do not know what she is exactly feeling. The other thing is that the men in this movie wear dim colors. Good movie I loved it so much. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Teenagers Point of View on this Cinderella Tale","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SN-19 In Ever After bold colors symbolize status because the dress that the courtiers wear are bright reds and greens and the peasants wore dim blues and yellows. This shows status because only the rich and or wealthy people could afford the bright colored clothes. Oddly enough Danielle's dress at the end is white and the men wear dim colors.I have seen this movie a million times. This time I watched by myself in my bedroom. The first time I watched this movie was when I was eight years old with my grandmother in her living room. She told me that if a man treated me less then the prince then he wasn't good enough for me. That is why I am dating Spud.The dresses that the courtiers wear are bright reds and greens. They dress in extremely bright colors and voluptuous clothes. They wore low cut clothes that exposes cleavage that no one really wanted to see. They would wear extremely heavy jewelry that looked like ridicules children's fake jewelry that you would get from a cracker jacks box. You would even see them wearing pastel colors yet they were bright. They would fight with the suppliers on the prices if they were too high and they dress wasn't very bright or bold. They also wore brooches that were as big as an apple.The dresses that the peasants wore were extremely dim colored. They looked like spare material that you would find in the back of a Salvation Army storage room that was musty, moldy, and moth-eaten and had probably been there since the 1980's. They are lightly colored and look extremely faded. Even when they would dress up the dresses were a faded color. The peasants work clothes were even worse, they were moth-eaten and nasty. I believe that they were nasty colored because their masters bought them and didn't feel like spending much money on them so they got the cheapest things that they could find. The only time a peasant would wear a brooch was when they were going to a party and even then they were very small brooches.Oddly enough the dress that Danielle wears to the ball is white. So it is kind of bold and dim at the same time so we do not know what she is exactly feeling. The other thing is that the men in this movie wear dim colors.Good movie I loved it so much. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"It is beautiful.","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. It takes the classic fairy tale to a new level. It is full of depth. It is beautifully acted. The emotions are clear, and there is just enough humor. The one liners are full of wit. It is a rather girlie movie though. It will make you smile and want to cry at the same time. The king and queen shine. I particularly like the fact that the prince has a more defined role in this movie than in the original story. He seems more human instead of just Prince Charming. Drew Barrymore is an incredible Cinderella. I highly recommend this movie for anyone who wants to see a classic romance. You will not be sorry. "},{"Title":"Ever After is one of my favorite movies!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is definitely a good change from the original Cinderella movie that I watched as a child. This is a more grown-up version. It really shows a true romantic story. If you don't like Cinderella, watch this and see if the changes in this movie make it better for you.I really love this movie so much that I am doing an essay on it in my literature class for college. I just hope that I make a good grade on it in order to pass my class with an 'A'. If you like this movie, you may also like A Walk to Remember with Many Moore. It is a good romantic story like this one, but with a different ending, of course. "}{"Title":"brilliance","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that makes you feel all warm and tingly inside. I loved this film. The first time I saw this I was away on holiday and had to watch it in German with English subtitles but it was still brilliant.I loved the fact that Cinderella was a strong independent woman in this movie and not the typical damsel in distress. Even though the film is set in the 15th century it still has been modernised slightly in the character of Danielle.I loved all the characters in the film. They are classic yet individual somehow. This film is funny and romantic, and I could watch it over and over again. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I have seen","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now when I say one of the best movies I have seen it really means a lot as I am somewhat picky as to what movies I watch and whether or not I will even see them again; but with this one I could watch it every day. Ever After is a retelling of the classic Cinderella story minus the magic pumpkins and talking mice. Set in France this story is a classic romance about a prince and a common girl who fall in love.Angelica Houston is perfect as the horrible step mother who you love to hate. But rather than just being some raving villain, what I like most about this movie is you see her side of the story. She is a woman all alone in a man's world who just lost a husband, to whom she would always come second. Second that is, to his daughter Cinderella (Drew Berymore). Dougray Scott is the wayward prince of France who struggles with his own doubts on love. Most charming in this role, we all can identify with his confused monologue debating over the concept of true love. Rather than a fairy Godmother we have a fairy Godfather in the person of Leonardo Davinci. Every actor was chosen well and wonderful in their roles; all working together to give this tale a heart and soul you won't find in any other telling of the story. This is one of the best romantic works of film, and if u want to watch a movie to fall in love with, be in love Ever After. "},{"Title":"When the heroine saves herself and the movie","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How refreshing that after all these years of romance novels/TV/fiction, it's about time that the heroine finally saves the day. This is a well made movie, with all of the requirements for story telling. But it's so terrific to know that if my daughter watches this, there is a character who doesn't have to wait for life to work out for her. Instead, it is she who is the catalyst who makes life work for her. What a fantastic role model for young women everywhere. I'm not ashamed to admit it, but it also helps that there is a dashing young man (Dugray Scott) and plenty of romance, with about an ounce of corny..... Well done despite some of the listed continuity issues, etc. "},{"Title":"It is, after all, a love story.","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I will first start off as saying that this is one of the best films I have seen. I watch it for the love story that it is and not for its historical accuracies. I think people need to remember that movies are made for entertainment not history lessons. If you want a history lesson read a history book.I enjoyed this movie because it does take you away from everyday life even if it is only for two hours,(which I could watch another two hours if they continued the story). I happily found that the Danielle's(Drew Barrymore) character wasn't your average Cinderella. She had more to her than good looks which today's society often only sees in a person. She was smart, well-read, and portrayed that to a prince no less, where as many girls would be a ball of giggles and have a look at me I'm pretty attitude that Margurete portrays. As for the prince,(Dougray Scott, who is just fabulous) I thought his character was refreshing. He based his decision not on looks, like many other fairy tales do, but on what she was on the inside. Also, they made his character even more human by showing his faults and weaknesses. I too would probably run out on a person who you just were told that she was engaged(cheating) and lied about who she was. I think any ordinary person would be just as angry. That makes his character one that you can relate to, because I'm sure not allot of people can relate to a person of royalty.Well, enough of my thoughts. I rate this movie a 10 out of a 10. A must see for anyone looking for a good love story. "},{"Title":"A fantastic fantasy movie!","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I LOVE this movie. I loved it when it came out, and I still love it. It's absolutely one of my favorites, and I don't have that many. It's beautiful, romantic (not in a lame way), funny, exciting etc... Suitable for all ages (in my opinion). Even my husband liked it a lot! I saw this movie in a movie theater when it came out in Europe. Now I have it on a DVD, but they have cut at least one part off, which is too bad. Oh well, it's still good! ) Here's the plot Danielle's (Drew Barrymore) father dies when she's young. She's left with her step-mother and 2 step-sisters. Like we all know from the original Cinderella story, the step-mom and the step-sisters are mean to her. One day she meets a prince, Henry (Dougray Scott). From that moment on they have their eyes on each other... But it's not quite that easy... "},{"Title":"You won't have to take insulin to watch this beautifully told tale.","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was totally and completely charmed by this movie. So much so that my next vacation had to be in the Dordogne region of France where I could visit the very castle in this fairy tale. I play the DVD often. I listen to the CD of the beautiful music George Fenton composed for this movie. Andy Tennant directed with just the right proportion of reality (beautiful cinematography, costumes, period backgrounds) and fantasy (slightly over the top acting and hauntingly beautiful music) to create the ultimate Cinderella story. Drew Barrymore is as charmingly beautiful as she was in The Wedding Singer. Angelica Huston's nasty character is a pleasure to watch. And how about that guttural, mealy mouth with rotting teeth - Pierre La Pieu! If this is a chick flick then I'm a weird looking hairy armed chick because I love this movie. "},{"Title":"such a good movie!!!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a beautiful movie filled with the kind of romance that makes girls across the world melt. It brings a sense of hope that there really is true love out there, and that when you least expect it, it will come into your life. This movie is so inspiring and whisks you away into a fairy tale world where true love consumes your entire being. It draws you into its world by getting you so emotionally attached to the characters and their roles and places in society. Danielle was not born a servant girl, but yet she was forced to be in that position by her evil stepmother. Her and Prince Henry are drawn together with such chemistry and have a bond that nothing else can compare to. "},{"Title":"Somethings incorrect.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my all time favorite movie I have probably seen it a thousand or more times. I have noticed though that they edited it incorrectly. If you pay close attention to the part where Danielle is flying the kite and Henry rides up and talks to Gustave she lets go of the kite. Now you would think that Maurice would find the kite after she let it go not before she even was flying it.Although this is a wonderful fairy tale and one Adult kids can enjoy I feel as if I am being taken back to a different place and time with out the massive our human family faces today.I do believe though the end of the movie was the best, where the so called evil step-mother gets her just desserts.I bet there are a lot of people out there that feel like Danielle did before she married the Prince. I know I once did. This is a great movie for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"gd gd movie","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie once on ITV2 and loved it so much that i had to buy when i saw it in HMV. The actors and actresses are just perfect for the parts. I think Cinderella could have been played by someone prettier than Drew Barrymore but i guess you can't have it both ways. I liked the sibling rivalry between the two step sisters, it added more humour to the plot and also showed the fact that the stepmother hadn't specifically picked out Danielle's life to ruin. The saddest part of the film was when the prince found out the truth about Danielle- that she was not the Countess he had met but a servant girl. If i were Danielle i would never have taken back that stuck up cow of a prince, that dude needs a serious attitude adjustment. This film is definitely recommended to everyone- so watch it!!! "},{"Title":"How i thought the movie was.....","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie from the first time i saw it on sky. The film had a really warm feeling to it and the soundtrack i thought was really relaxing in which resulted in being my video for Sunday rest every week. I thought the characters were great and the choice of sisters (actresses) was brilliant. Drew Barrymore was a brilliant girl to pick as i wouldn't consider her to be the best looking actress in the industry but that is what made her who she was in the film. Although she did always sound as if she was gonna cry each time she spoke as my brother commented! Angelica Housten as always was brilliant as the evil stepmother ans she never looks any older in any film that she does- i hope i look that good at her age!I also thought that the clothing in the film was absolutely gorgeous especially the dress that Dannelle wore in the masque. great viewing would recommend to anyone! "}{"Title":"Absolutely Womderful Movie","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is the best Cinderella Story that I have ever seen. You find me another, and have me watch it and we will see, but as of now, this movie is the greatest. It has action, adventure, and a sense that makes you want to keep watching. It is simply the Cinderella with a twist, that you love! She doesn't meet him at the ball, and simply fall in love at first sight. The Prince tryes to save her, and she had already saved herself! She does not take orders from her step mother, and the writer simply just adds the fact in, oh, yeah, and lets throw in the slipper thing at the end Its just an wonderful story all in all, and I watch it almost dayly.. Simply the best movie I've ever seen! "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!!!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Magical,Enchanting and so heartwarming! I really loved this movie.Drew Barrymore gives a bravado performance as Danielle-innocent,fragile,yet strong enough to stand up for herself and her dreams.Her performance is only matched by the dashing,charming Prince Henry.The two undoubtedly have great on screen chemistry and make a fantastic couple.The film itself has a magical,fairytale-like theme to it.The costumes,sets were totally convincing and add to the appeal.I maybe a sucker for happy endings but after watching the movie,I think everyone will agree-it was really heartwarming.Dougray Scott makes a fine prince-philosophical,romantic,brave and open to the possibilties of love.Great movie,5 out of 5 stars.Keep them coming!! "},{"Title":"I Must Buy this Movie","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew was excellent and very believable. Angelica Huston was also very good in this. The movie flowed very smoothly for me. My favorite scene is when Drew and the prince are playing rock-scissors-paper that leads to a kiss, ultimately interrupted by the gypsies. My second favorite moment is when Drew tells the price that it was unfair because he knows her weakness(books), but she didn't know his. His answer was simply, I should think that would be obvious, then humbly looks at her. *faint*I go rent this movie whenever I want to surround myself with romanticism. I love the costumes of that period and I'm almost drawn into the movie. This would be great for anyone's collection. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Cinderella is true","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After makes the classic tale of Cinderella look real. The Disney classic Cinderella doesn't show the true story Cinderella. Ever After shows how Cinderella's life was. Authors who have written Cinderella in the past are gathered together, and an elderly woman tells the true tale of Cinderella. Danielle is a young girl when her father dies of a heart attack, but not before he marries a baroness. The baroness becomes Danielle's stepmother, and two evil stepsisters are included. Danielle is treated like a servant. She is working out in the fields when none other than the prince rides by on the baroness's horse. Danielle pelts him with apples. what a romantic way to start a relationship. This movie show the true story of Cinderella, and i think it's a great movie for any classic fairy tale lover. "},{"Title":"This movie is an excellent adaptation of Cinderella story","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a wonderful adaptation of the Cinderella story. Drew Barrymore, Dougray Scott, and the other actors were beautifully cast and became their characters. The cinematography was breathtaking including the castle, chateaus, landscape and the ball. The music swept you into the romance and enchantment of the film adding so much to the over all emotional impact. The screenplay was excellent. The scenes between Barrymore as Nicole/Danielle and Scott as Prince Henry were poignant and well-written. The chemistry between these two on screen was vibrant including the challenge of wit and intellect. The movie leaves you with the feeling even fairy tales can come true.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully portrayed","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this movie was the most sad, romantic movie i have ever seen. (yes i know i haven't seen titanic or many others). Drew Barrymore is such a brilliant actor and all the emotion that she shows is really quite stunning. The plot unfolds quite nicely, bringing happiness, sadness, triumph, sorrow, love, hatred, cruelty, beauty and all the mixed emotions the 16th century could bring. And this is not only a sob story, there is humor, history and morals too. Not to mention some sword fighting for the boys. A masterpiece in film making and definitely the best portrayal of the Cinderella story.  "},{"Title":"A very great movie.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a very big fan of Drew Barrymore coz she's beautiful, a great actress, photogenic and seductive. Anyways, I loved this movie. Even though at first it was a bit boring for me. But the more the story is running, there was a twist that you don't expect. Like Drew was a brave or I say tough Cinderella. Because we all know that in the Disney Cinderella, Cinderella was very kind and gentle and can't say no to her stepmother and her stepsister whatever they command. And one of her stepsister is treating her well. And the Prince,they have met and dated for quiet sometime, while in Disney they have met once and the prince fall in love with her at the Ball. In the half of the film I find that my pulses are running faster and the film really wake the viewers aggressiveness. Even though some people find it unromantic, for me there's a romance in this movie. Dougray Scott and Drew Barrymore are both seductive. I like the Actresses and Actors portrayed this movie. Above all I like Happy Endings. Because in the Disney Cinderella her stepmother and stepsisters are lived in her Dad's home in Ever After they ended up being a helper of the palace.  "},{"Title":"Good show!","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, just a small correction to a comment made by someone earlier. Cinderella was called that because she used to play with the cinders in the fire. Her real name was not mentioned in the fairy tale so it could have very well been 'Danielle'.Anyway! good reproduction of the fairy tale. Great acting! Superb costume work. Awesome and realistic atmosphere with no hints of rock music, as was heard in 'a knight's tale'. The characters were well done The King looked really like a king, the Queen looked like a queen, the stepmother like the stepmother in the story and Cinderella looked like..well.. Cinderella. Imagining them that way was quite easy.Anyway! the bottom line is that though the movie is merely a fairy tale, it is worth watching. The dialogue is mot juste, and some of the scenes are very well done and not to be missed. Look out for the part where the dance begins at the ball. The coordinated dancing in a circle at the center of the dance floor is quite nice to see.Overall Score 8/10-Spoilers-The thing that puzzled me most was the fact that one of the step sisters was actually one of the good guys. I thought that both were supposed to be rotten. Still, she was cute and it wasn't the perfect match towards the fairy tale or else there would have been a fairy godmother popping up... and that would have made it a fantasy movie. Another thing that got me thinking was the fact that the part in the fairy tale where the godmother's spell lasted till 12 midnight was not included at all. I thought they could have brought that element in somewhere making the Grim brothers include it in the tale. Pity about that. "},{"Title":"Great Cinderella story, incredible Barrymore acting.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think I first went to see this one out of boredom, more or less.  I was on a military base with nothing better to do, so I saw it at our local theater. What did I expect?  A lot of nothing, really.  Drew Barrymore hasn't acted since Firestarter... maybe not even then.Wow, was I wrong!For the first time I'd ever seen, Drew actually acted!  She portrayed pain, hope, love, betrayal, determination... and so very much more!  And what a cast to support her talents!!  Anjelica Huston, as usual, rocked as the wicked and demented stepmother, giving a convincing portrayal of a character many of us grew up with in our youth.As for the rest... from props to sets to plots to dialogue, this film captivates from beginning to end.  Everything is just fairy-tale enough to be enjoyable, which a lot of people confuse for 'anachronism' or 'inaccuracy'.  It's a fairy tale, people - it's supposed to be this way.If there is a down side to this film, it comes from the forced accents used by several of the actors (including Drew) and the fickle nature of the Prince when he learns of his beloved's true nature.  Overall, I give this one 9/10. "},{"Title":"Bravo","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I find this movie a step up for Ms. Barrymore's acting ability. In this performance, she plays a lovely young common whom is not only witted, but genius. There are many more words to describe this movie. As for the wicked step-mother, Angelica Huston, she was absolutely great. As was the prince, whom I do not know the name of. All around, every person in this movie held some sort of great role. The settings and perfection of the movie and it's time frame was right on, enhancing the whole plot, making one feel as if the movie is happening around them. I would recommend this movie to many. It is positively amazing. Very well done movie, it just about made me cry in some parts. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Cinderella Story so far..","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definately my favorite Cinderella story so far. I own about 15 different types of Cinderella stories)I am not a huge fan of Drew Barrymore, But this is one of the 2 roles I love her in. This (for a cinderella story)I like because it feels like it could have come out of a history book and happened.  No fairy god mothers, no supernatural forces, only the manipulative people within.  And Plus, the quick witted humor and fun scenes just make me smile through the whole thing... not to mention a strong Cinderella for once; Not the girl waiting for her prince to come save her )  Besides, Dougray Scott is just awsome!My Favorite line... I will simply deny you the crown and and...live...FOREVER! "},{"Title":"A Great Story! ~!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie like the tenth kingdom brings a fable to life that has been told for years.  This story has romance, betrayal and E. all the above.  I love the music in the trailor and on the soundtrack.  The movie follows the story well.  I like Drew Barrymore in this and Never been kissed.  She did a really good portrayal of cinderella and Angelica Houston is good at being one of those people you love to hate.  The filming locations for the movie were so beautiful and brilliant and you couldn't ask for a better cast. I recommend this movie for all who love a good love story and/or Fable! ~! "},{"Title":"A great chick flick","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  I love watching it when I'm in a sappy mood.  It's a cute love story, that defies the expectations of social and economic class. It also shows how people should never lose their sense of self, no matter what happens to them in life.  Danielle stays who she is throughout her whole life, regardless of how her step mother treated her, and regardless of the fact that she was a peasant.  If anything, because of her circumstances, she became an even stronger person, and that was probably one of the reasons she was so appealing to the prince.  The only thing that bothers me is their accents.  They were not bad accents, if the movie was about English people. The movie is set in France, so therefore they should be french.  Are french accents really that hard or something?  I don't get it why people do that in movies.  This is not the first time I've seen it happen.  Well anyways, I digress, and will get to the point.  This is a great movie.  This is a great movie for anyone in the mood for a great chick flick.  "},{"Title":"Quite moving actually","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not usually moved by films in this genre but I was with Ever After. The acting, costumes, cinematography, and writing were all perfect in recreating a fairy tale. The movie was very satisfying. Drew Barrymore is very good at playing this type of role as seen in Never Been Kissed and even The Wedding Singer. She was also backed by a terrific supporting cast. Angelica Huston and the director made the right choice in not playing her character over the top. I though that made her come across as even more nasty since it was a naturalistic persona we were seeing. Recommended, 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Gives the fairy tale some interesting context","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my friends had been praising this movie for some time, so one day I saw the video at Target and bought it for her. Later on we sat down and watched it, and it was surprisingly a very sweet, realistic telling of the classic Cinderella fairy tale. The thing about the Grimm version that always bugged me was the fact that the prince couldn't just go out and LOOK for this girl. Why did he need the glass slipper when all he had to do was recognize her? Was the prince unable to remember her face at all? Thankfully Ever After ditches that plot hole and the fantasy elements and tells the tale realistically. There is no fairy godmother, and instead we get Leonardo Da Vinci. Also, the evil stepmother and stepsisters are actually given some depth. Instead of just being traditionally Eeeevil, we learn that the stepmother acts the way she does because she was treated harshly by her father. And it was really neat how one stepsister was basically a spoiled brat while the other just submitted to her relative's actions without objection. By the end of the movie (spoilers!), that character revealed herself to be understanding and very sensitive to Danielle's feelings. Danielle, by the way, is Cinderella in this version, and is played wonderfully by Drew Barrymore. I liked how she wasn't portrayed as some perfect saint, but was actually able to vent her anger and make mistakes. The love story is also handled expertly, making it clear for viewers how the prince and Danielle grow to care for one another. In the fairy tale it's simply, Oh, we're in love! and that's that. Here we actually get some context that makes the story all the better. The one character I did not like was the Eeeevil bald fellow, because the actor who played him always used this cornball, drippingly slow way of delivering his lines that struck me as being overly villainous. The rest of the supporting cast, however, was a batch of great actors/actresses that really brought the film to life. I especially enjoyed the servants who took care of Danielle and fought for her against the stepmother's wishes. So yes, despite my cynical view beforehand, Ever After turned out to be a pretty neat little movie. Anyone who likes the fairy tale but would like to get a different perspective should see it. 3/4 stars "},{"Title":"I could no sooner choose a favorite star in the heavens...","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A remarkably above-average retelling of the Cinderella fable. I mean that in the sense that EVERYTHING about the film is above-average - nothing too good nor bad. Barrymore's performance as Danielle is very good, but hampered by a silly accent. She nails many of the movie's good lines, though.The production design is good, but not great. Huston's role as a stepmother is wicked, but somewhat unbelievable. The numerous side characters are drawn fairly well, but not THAT well. The dialogue is mostly adequate with a few high points. The music sets the mood, but isn't particularly memorable.It goes on and on...Very enjoyable, and certainly one of Tennant's best. Danielle is a scholar, a farmer, a swordsman, and eventually a princess in this charming film. Not perfect, but quite good.3 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Truly wonderful","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie four or so times over a few years and it has not grown the slightest bit dull. There is a powerful cast, this is my favorite Drew Barrymore role. With no magic, it manages to still be as charming and entertaining as any other Cinderella story; if not more. The step mother and one step sister are truly evil, and I liked that they kept one step sister kind and compassionate. Leonardo da Vinci was a great character with a couple of humorous scenes (walking on water, Yes, I shall go down in history as the man who opened a door!) and why he was there for some scenes when he would've been inventing something was beyond me, but he was still wonderful. The prince is still a Prince Charming figure, yet human. I'd refer anybody to watching this movie, it's definitely a 9/10! "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore does it again!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barrymore is charming and believable as the mistreated stepsister in this remake of Cinderella.  The story line is well paced and enjoyable, drawing you into Danielle's (Barrymore) plight.  The costumes, sets and entire feel of the movie feel very authentic and are highly enjoyable.  Dougray plays Prince Henry (Prince Charming) well, adding just enough arrogance and heart to make him thoroughly likable.  There is enough action for the guys, although they may be shocked to find themselves rooting for our lovely heroine!  A real romance and underdog story that will make every girl sigh for 'the days of chivalry'. "},{"Title":"A beautiful new way to tell a well known story!!!!!!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the movie, I didn't believe that Drew Barrymore could play a cinderella, but I was wrong. I was laughing and crying all the way long with Danielle and her story. It's amazing how much you can change a story and make it beautiful and real... "},{"Title":"A converted cynic","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes I must admit that I approached this movie with cynicism, assuming that it would contain the usual dose of hollywood gush combined with bad acting. Indeed I was mitaken. I am a convert. What can I say but I loved this movie and cannot wait to see it again.The story itself was reworked with excceptional skill providing a mix of entertainment, humour and romance that didn't make the viewer want to retch. Top marks to Drew, Angelica and the rest of the cast for an outstanding performance.All in all a thouroughbly enjoyable movie that makes you want to strive for the unattainable and instills in the viewer a sense of belief that wonderful things can happen in the world. "}{"Title":"a perfect masterpiece","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie is excellent. it is a more realistic adaption of the story cinderella rather than the fairy tale version. there have been many movies and adaptions of this story and yet all are unique and interesting in their own way, by far i think this one is my favorite. good acting, sweet romance, a little bit of action. what more could one ask for in a movie? especially since drew barrymore is in this one. she is such a great actress. i applaud all of her work. its been a while since i have seen this movie but i can remember some of the movie. so check it out on a day of relaxation. 10 stars out of 10........ "},{"Title":"Charming twist on the classic fairy-tale . . .","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  By far one of my favorite movies of all time!  Superbly written, portrayed and yet the romantic portrayal is endearing and clever.  Wonderful update on the classic story of Cinderella.  Something worth watching time and time again and recommending to all your friends and family.  Must see -- more than once!!! "},{"Title":" I will speak for her...after all, she is my stepmother","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore is delightful as Danielle in this superb romance flick. The supporting cast is awesome. The costumes are pretty. One of the good farces in the genre, Ever After will encourage the viewer to pursue the riches of life. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Absolute best remake i have ever seen!!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is one of my favourite movies of all times, probably because cinderella was my favorite as a child and cinderella's name in the movie is the same as mine! All the senery is absolutely georgeous and the plot is well thought out to make it fit with the fairy tale. The story is very intriguing and the charaters fit their roles perfectly, the narration is done well too. I thouroughly enjoyed this movie, i never found a dull moment which is funny for a movie set in the olden days without the new effects. This is a very good wholesome movie with good morals and values that is fit for the whole family to see. "},{"Title":"I found this a Charming retelling of the folktale!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a surprisingly enchanting film with many charms--an excellent performance by Drew, a wickedly well done turn by Angelica, some fun characters and surprises, topped off with the beautiful scenery of French countrysides and castles. Who is Dougray? I've never heard of him but he was a charming prince. The realism of the production values and the performances almost made this seem true and not just a fairytale. Not a great film but well done and a delightfully entertaining evening. "},{"Title":"I'd definitely recommend Ever After!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, this is one of the best movies ever made!  You have got to see Ever After!  With its combination of heart-warming, funny, and sad events, Ever After gets a 10 for sure.  This is no ordinary Cinderrella story. "},{"Title":"A Romance for the Ages!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever after is a playful twist on the Cinderella Story.  Director Andy Tennant was at his absolute best when he made this film, but not all the credit should go to him.  The actors play a huge role in the excellence of this movie.  Anjelica Huston who played the evil stepmother Rodmilla showed her colors by making you so angry at how she treats Danielle (Drew Barrymore) that you just want to walk up to the screen and punch her lights out.  Barrymore also plays an excellent Cinderella even thought she may not look like the Cinderella type she plays the part to a T showing her intelligence and poise.  All the actors in this movie were wonderfully selected down to the very last peasant every person fit there part perfectly.  The scenery in this film also played a large part in its beauty. The French countryside is used many times to show the beauty of France. The film features castles, manors, and just the simple countryside the scenery designer did a wonderful job.  But lets not for get the costumes I give a big applause to costume designer Jenny Beavan every costume in this movie were most elegant down to the lowliest peasant I was amazed at how much detail went into each outfit it was amazing.  All in all Ever After is a wonderful movie and it does do justice for the Cinderella Story because it is enough different that it doesn't harm the original.  I recommend Ever After to anyone who loved the story of Cinderella.  It is truly a romance for the ages.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies..I've seen it a gazillion times...the only thing that bothers me with it every time I see it is that even thought they're in France...they speck with BRITISH accents.  It seems that every movie set in Europe has its characters speaking with british accents....but this movie is sooooo good.  Drew Barrymore's best movie!! "},{"Title":"Good Pantomime","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cinderella. A classic winter pantomime in British theatres transferred here to the silver screen. No fairy godmothers here though and no magic pumpkins turning into golden carriages. Just Anjelica Houston and Richard O'Brien whooping it up in true pantomime style in medieval France. Oh yes they are, oh no they're not. Good fun, not Grimm, and worth a look in an inevitably happy ending way. "},{"Title":"I Love this movie!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful movie! I don't know why some people didn't like it.It was a different approach to the Cinderella story, kind of like Ella Enchanted which is a book written by Gail Carson Levine, I think. All in all, this is one of my all time favorite movies, right up there with the Patriot and Spider-man. Great movie , see it! "}{"Title":"Nice revisionist fairy-tale","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Feminist subtext in films is a tricky tightrope-walk.  Too little, and the message becomes muddled and self-contradicting; too much, and it devolves into strident male-bashing.  But when it's right--when the right mix of strength and warmth comes across--the result is a joy to watch.  Such a joy is Ever After, a charming re-working of the Cinderella story.This is definitely not your mother's Cinderella.  The heroine--here called Danielle and played appealingly by Drew Barrymore--is still good-hearted and sweet, but balances this with resourcefulness and courage.  Her masquerade as a noble originates as a selfless one, designed to save a fellow servant from imprisionment.  This is a girl who needs neither a fairy godmother nor an opportunity to waltz with a prince to make herself complete.  Said prince (Dougray Scott), rather than being an impossibly perfect, remote cipher, is a strong presence throughout the film--passionate, determined, a little arrogant, and truly charming.  The stepmother (Anjelica Huston, diving into the role with much relish) is definitely cruel but exhibits flashes of sympathetic behavior; of her daughters, neither is unattractive and only one, the elder, is truly wicked.The film stumbles a bit during the final fifteen to twenty minutes, but there is much here to enjoy.  Barrymore, Scott, and Huston are all entertaining; Melanie Lynsky and Megan Dodds are quite good as the stepsisters.  Richard O'Brien has a well-played but somewhat wedged-in cameo as a lacivious landowner.  The production is beautiful overall, and the end result is a lovely new spin on an oft-told story. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Smart, well-made romance which puts a spin on the popular Cinderella tale. Barrymore is Danielle de Barbarac, the feisty, tomboyish daughter of a Frenchman in the 16th century who prepares for a new family when he marries the Baroness (Huston), a snooty blue blood with two daughters of her own. Tragic circumstances occur, but despite the odds Danielle grows up into a strong-willed young woman with tremendous wit and passion that charms the Prince of France (Scott), groomed to be the next king if he ever finds a bride. You know the story, to be sure, but it's vividly recreated, holds your attention, and is superbly acted, anchored by Barrymore who gives a charming and passionate performance as the strong, opinionated heroine. *** "},{"Title":"nice to see the bad girl as a blonde and the heroine a brunette","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A retelling of the old Cinderella fairytale, this is the story of Danielle, the noble girl forced into servitude by her stepmother after her father's death. Danielle, a self styled champion of the utopian society poses as a noblewoman to free a servant sold into slavery by the Baroness De Barbarac, her stepmother.  Her outspoken nature attracts the immature Prince Henry and as they begin to spend more time together, her views and opinions prove to be the influence Henry needs to face up to his responsibilities as the future king.  Until he finds out who she really is, of course.I will be the first to admit I am a true sucker for this type of old-fashioned, romantic movie. The heroine is industrious and independent, while the hero is charming and handsome and obviously of no use to society without her.  The costumes and locations are beautiful and you just know that no matter how bad things get, there will always be a happy ending. Mind you, this is from the person who still cries when Johnny leaves Baby in Dirty Dancing.  You never know, one day he may not come back for her and she could be stuck in that corner forever.In this film, Drew Barrymore does a credible job as Danielle, although she does seem to flounder a bit with the rather odd accent.  Angelica Huston makes a truly vile wicked stepmother with her own agenda for the Prince's romantic future.  I particularly liked the awful stepsister Marguerite, nice to see the bad girl as a blonde and the heroine a brunette.This is one of those films that does not particular warrant a second viewing, although could be a good choice when you are at the video store and just can't decide, but wanting something reliable.  "},{"Title":"Desire, Defy, Escape","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is a wonderful classic with an all-time favourite cast including Drew Barrymore as the charming Danielle and Angelica Huston as her wicked stepmother. The story is based on the Cinderella story with a few twists that will make you laugh from the beginning till the end.The first time I heard about the movie, was in the cinema when I was watching the preview. the film looked excellent through the romance and action adventure of the trailer but when I started to watch the real movie, it hit me that it was not what I had expected and longed for. The action is very mild, but the adventure is quite interesting since it involves different historical figures, e.g Leonardo DaVinci. All these can be ignored for the beauty in this movie is the romance.Defying all laws, the prince loves the commoner whom he thinks comes from a noble family. the tragedy in the movie make you cry and the delightful humour will make you laugh and remember even afterwards when you go home and have a cup of coffee.This adventurous romantic comedy drama will make you want to laugh, cry and feel the only greatness that the power of the movies can give you; you will fall in love with Ever After. It is not a regular and boring Cinderella story and it is not a 'chic flick'. As a matter of fact, it has many interesting and funny bits that will keep you going from beginning till end.Savvas Stavrou's Rating 10/10 - A true classic. "},{"Title":"Enchanting Cinderella Story.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This version of the Cinderella story I found refreshing and realistic. I think I especially liked the fact that Cinderella was a strong-minded girl who was smart, independent and could take care of herself. The inclusion and portrayal of a famous artist was a great touch. "},{"Title":"A good remake version of the Cinderella story.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It does matter if you are young, old, man, or woman, you will love this movie. Drew Barrymore, Dougray Scott, and Anjelica Huston are great in this movie. I first saw Ever After in the movie theater, now I own it on tape. It is a magnificent movie to watch, and no need for me to said more. "},{"Title":"For the whole family...","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film for the whole family.  For the action lover, there are horse chases, sword fights, and more.  For the lover of romance, this movie is filled with passion and a true test of love.  It's content is suitable, even for the youngest of children.  I have the DVD and I have shared it with many of my friends.  I have never heard anyone say they did not like it. Even my friend's husband (a lover of western and sci-fi) enjoyed this film. "},{"Title":"A young servant in the 1600's falls in love with a prince","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Loved the movie! This type of movie was a rare type to see. Danielle is a young servant in the home of her stepmother in the 1600's. She dress-up as a courteer to save one of the former servants who well me shipped off to the americas. Where she meets the prince, using her mother's name she tells him off and runs away. A couple days later their paths meet again when this young girl and Prince start to fall in love. Great twist of a movie! "},{"Title":"A modern Cinderella story set in the past, that any woman can swallow.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you have a romantic heart but women's lib head, then this version of the Cinderella story will please you. Drew Barrymore (as Cindersoot) and Angelica Huston(wicked stepmother) steal the show, but there is a super supporting cast as well. All fairy tales have a happy ending, and this one is no exception, but there is a bit of a twist. Also a nice clean movie to share with a younger child, no swearing, no S-E-X, and a simple, fun, story to follow. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had absolutely no interest in watching this film when it first came out. When I did, I was pleasantly surprised. The outcome is predictable, but you don't really mind while you're watching. Drew Barrymore gives an energetic, and canny performance. It was really a delight to watch her. Anjelica Huston is also good as the wicked stepmother. 3/4 "}{"Title":"Delightfully charming, sweet and wonderful","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is wonderful!  It's well-made, brilliantly acted, at timeshilarious and fun for the whole family.  Does that make me soundcheesy? Absolutely.  Does it make the movie lack in any way?  Notat all.This is one of those movies that can be enjoyed again and againby everyone.  The cast is superb and the overall feel fun, excitingand touching.  I think the thing I noticed most on viewing this again recently is thatAnjelica Huston and Megan Dodds are wonderfully wicked as TheBaroness (evil stepmother) and Marguerite (the ugly souledstepsister)-- just watching them manipulate, connive and belittlemakes my skin crawl.  Perhaps it is a caricature to some extent butis still incredibly perfect in this context.Drew Barrymore, of course, is well-cast as Danielle-- our feministCinderella.  She being only about 23 at the time and having madetons of movies, is a perfect choice-- standing up for and believingin herself in the face of the impossible.  Melanie Lynskey is sosweet and tries so hard as Jacqueline-- the shadow to the thinner(albeit more horrid) Marguerite.  Dougray Scott was also a goodchoice for Henri, the Prince Charming.  Perhaps some could havedone better but he was fine with me.Also Patrick Godfrey deserves mention as Leonardo di Vinci... anice touch to the cast and his character adds a nice wrinkle to thestory.  I shall go down in history as the man who opened a door.This is a great movie for everyone-- and I really mean everyone.9 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"What is it with the french accents thing....","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a wonderful movie (and more's the point so does my action packed, shoot-em up movies husband).  It is beautifully shot, beautifully acted and beautifully written.  I have read most of the comments and I replied to one but came upon another one that has to be responded to FRENCH PEOPLE WHO SPEAK TO EACH OTHER IN FRENCH DO NOT HAVE AN ACCENT.  It is a basic premise of drama and acting that if people are speaking to each other in their own language they do not have an accent. However, if a french person is speaking to an Enlish person, for instance, then said French person would speak with an accent.   It is also the basic mistake of american directors etc., who believe that to convey a nationality they must have their actors speak with an accent.  The most disappointing thing about the brilliant movie Citizen X is that the director (from HBO) INSISTED that everyone spoke with a Russina accent...wrong, wrong, wrong.  The directors of Ever After got it perfect and should be applauded for it.    "},{"Title":"The best Cinderella story ever told...","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is really glows in the darkness, I bought after watching it for the first time. Man, it's really good, what can I say.... Drew is 1 of my fav actress, and she really shines at this movie.Rent it today, and You'll sure love it...PEACE "},{"Title":"Cinderella's story in a version other than animation","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When one sees the title you immediately think that this is a film for children, then when you see it you will notice that this perception is wrong. A new ingredient was added to this film, such as the presence of the famous Leonardo Da Vinci.The love between Cinderella and the prince was developed during the film and was not the result of a casual meeting in any Royal reception. All actors/actresses acted well, being Anjelica Huston the best, who did a good job in the role of Danielle De Barbarac, she was cruel enough in all occasions and made her role credible. The end of the film is the happiest one as usual, but this time Danielle and her daughter Margherite got the necessary punishment.The film has good photograph and is pleasant to see it. "},{"Title":"A great modern day telling of Cinderella.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore plays Danielle De Barbarac, a young woman who after losing her loving father (Who she very close with.) is made a servant by her new stepmother. She also has two step-sisters, one of whom is really nasty just like her mother and the other who is quite kind and who even helps Danielle in certain situations. Even though her life has not been that great, Danielle stills grow up to be a nice, happy, strong, young woman. One day, she ends up meeting the Prince of the town, Prince Henry, who is having trouble of his own at home. This leaves them having secret meetings and even end up falling in love with each-other, the only thing is he doesn't know she's a servant. What will happen? Will the get together? See this wonderfully made movie to find out. Yes, Ever After is brilliant and the whole cast are quite good here, especially the brilliant Drew Barrymore who's fantastic as usual.   "},{"Title":"Simply Sweet","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so sweet...and hypnotizing. The script kind of reminds me of Anne of Green Gables/Avonlea- you just can't wait to hear what the female lead says next. Her words are so colorful and descriptive, so logical and yet mysterious, so true and pure. The costumes and camera work in this movie are a work of art. A perfect fairy tale movie. **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"After Everything Is Said, Best Cinderella Ever!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the very opening scene of this film I was intrigued.  I knew it was a Cinderella story and I wondered what the difference to this version would be.  I was expecting the usual pumpkin turning into a coach, fairy godmother, magic tale we've all been fed with since the first time we read Cinderella.  I have to say, this was the best Cinderella movie EVER!  The fairy tale spun into a more reality based life story was done so expertly, it's almost believable!When we hear the Grimms' Brothers talk about the contrived story of Cinderella, the glass/fur slipper, and all the rumors around the story itself, we're intrigued further as how one of her great, great grandaughter's sets the record straight giving us the push we need as an audience to see, even consider how in the world could this ever have taken place?  How are the writers going to pull this one off?!I have to say they did an excellent job!  The storytelling was awesome.  It was written so beautifully that it does give you an entire different appreciation for the Cinderella story.The acting was wonderful.  I liked the fact that although handsome, Dougray Scott wasn't the perfect vision of Prince Charming in all respects.  He had many flaws to his character which made the story realistic.  Drew Barrymore made me laugh and cry as Danielle and Angelica Houston was excellentally cast as the wicked stepmother...even her name sounds wicked, Baroness Rhodmila De Ghent  The two stepsisters were also great.  Marguerite was totally detestable, I mean *really* whereas Jacqueline was sweeter and you got to like her being the least favored of the Baroness' daughters.****Mild Spoilers***** If you haven't seen it.There were so many touching scenes that made this movie memorable.  Two of my favorites (1) The scene when Maurice comes back home after Danielle buys back his freedom and his wife sees him in the distance and they just run to each other.  Beautifully acted and filmed!  It gives us a glimpse into what this story is all about...true love (2) The royal court scene when the Baroness is interrogated by the King and Queen.  The spiciest part of this segment is when Henry calls out to Marguerite and announces his wife.  I just clapped!  Talk about sweet, sweet revenge!Overall this is a wonderful movie!  Don't bother with the accuracy of history or the other little insignificant stuff others have nit-picked about this movie.  It is still just a story.  Beautifully acted, beautifully filmed and written.  Whoever didn't like this must've either been too blind or spaced-out and missed the entire basis of the movie.  It is very much worth your time and money.  If you don't have it on video or DVD, what're you waiting for?  I've watched it about 15 times already!  It's one of those movies you can never tire of watching.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!   "},{"Title":"No profinty?  No Nudity?  No violence?  No kidding!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great adaption of the cinderella story, one of my favorites.   The thing that stands out the most is the G rating.  It is wonderful to watch a movie that is entertaining without profanity, nudity, or violence.  The performances are good as is the plot.  Even though eveyone knows how it will end, it just doesn't matter.  A perferct movie for any family! "},{"Title":"Good modern spin","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was skeptical at first about this film as I'm not really into period dramas or fairy tales and I did wonder how Drew Barrymore would come over.  However, her character is a great role model.  I loved how it focused on female and male issues, but I think it's more of a chick flick.  It's good to see Drew in a film out of the typical Hollywood scene and in a different era.  The storyline was clever how they included quotes from the book Utopia and how Drew's character was tortured by the past and present, but remained fair in the end.  Anjelica Huston played a good role as the step mother and I liked how she was funny, but calculating and had issues of her own to deal with.  The step sisters were also well casted and the dizziness of the youngest sister gave it a light hearted nature.    The fact Barrymore managed to hold her own against such a respected actress (Huston) shows her talent and this film definitely changed her public image.  She has remained cool and modern amongst the young, but appreciated by the adults.  This film shows she has come along way from the drug and alcohol rehabilitation and her B-movie bad girl roles.  However, don't expect perfection.  Barrymore sometimes slips into her American accent and that spoils some scenes, but Huston is consistent throughout.  Also, for viewers who are knowledgeable in history will know that the English version of Utopia wasn't printed when this film was set.  There are some other historical imperfections to name, but it doesn't spoil the charm of the film. Not one for the guys. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Ever After is a wonderful movie! Not only does my favorite actress (Drew Barrymore) play in it, but the movie also takes place in the past with beautiful scenery. The dresses they wear are gorgeous. This is probably my favorite movie. Even the songs in the movie are wonderful. "}{"Title":"A wonderful fairy tale","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen.  The character interaction between the prince and Drew Barrymore is memorable.  They have so much chemistry on screen it makes you swoon.  These two characters work so well together that you can really believe they would fall in love with each other.Despite the time period they show Drew's character as a strong and independent woman.  She's shown as intelligent and kind and a wonderful female role model.  I liked how they made the younger sister as not evil.  I mean she wasn't perfect but her character was not all bad and not all good. The servants in the movie actually seem to age in this film which is better than most films show.The character of DaVinci is inspiring.  He plays the typical knowledgeable old man with a twist of humor.  This Prince's character has the arrogance you expect from a royal family but he's not a snob.  The movie is so wonderful it's hard to describe in words.  It's the picture perfect love story with a hint or comedy entwined.  It's a definite must see. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie that has ever been made!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is not much to say about Ever After except that it is the best movie that I have ever seen. I can watch it repeatedly and it never gets old. The acting is wonderful. The costumes and scenery are superb, and Dougray Scott cannot get much more handsome!! This movie is definitely worth seeing...more than once! "},{"Title":"THE BEST FILM OF THE DECADE","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was prepared to hate this movie.  Another film on Cinderella.  What a surprise!  The film makers gave this old tale a fresh interpretation.  It was like hearing this story for the first time.  This is what I call a perfect motion picture.  Great direction, acting, score, screenplay, costumes and photography.  I vote it the best film of the 90's.    "},{"Title":"How can you not cry after watching this movie?","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An emotional movie that provides a great plot and romance.  I wasn't expecting much but after 10min into the movie, I was hooked and blown away... Even if you're not a Drew Barrymore fan, at least give her a chance. The entire movie was just great.  You will not be disappointed, specially if you watch it by yourself. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Personally, I am not a big Drew Barrymore or Angelica Houston Fan. Who knew that if you put them together you would get great results? Barrymore was extremely likable if a bit over the top as the lead character. I was surprised she was able to transform Cinderella into someone with a bit more spunk and charm without making us hate her. Usually there is not much below the surface in a movie like this, but I found Houston's portrayal as the wicked stepmother extremely realistic. It gave the character some humanity without taking away the villainess thrill from her. Also, the two stepsisters were hilarious and perfectly cast. My only problem with the film was Dougray Scott as the prince. He seemed so incredibly shallow and characterless, that I found it a little hard to believe Barrymore's character would fall for him. Also, why did everyone have English accents if this was set in France?????? Aside from those details, this was a very enjoyable film. 7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a great movie, starring Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott. I honestly don't know what all this modern version talk is about, considering Ever After obviously takes place long ago (take Leonardo da Vinci, for example).  I mean, just look at the costumes, people!!! Anyhow, this is a wonderful, well-made film, and, though Drew Barrymore is not my favorite, is really a don't miss. "},{"Title":"So Close Yet So Far","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The problem with this film is not that it's bad.  The problem is that it comes so close to being great.  The entire movie is the beginning of so many good things.  I liked the idea of telling a contemporary version of the Cinderella story.  I liked the themes of feminism and renaissance and how these fabled characters deal with the ideas.  I liked the initiative to add action and adventure.  I liked the way they made the ugly step sisters beautiful.  I loved the costume and set design when Barrymore enters the ball with wings.  I liked the humour, like when Leonardo da Vinci comes walking across the water.  They needed to develop all of these aspects more fully.I also had a problem with the prince.  Dougray Scott was poorly cast.  He came across as a real dope.  His character was not properly built.  He didn't earn my respect.  And the bottom line is that he's really not good looking and charming enough.  In the beginning he's a rebellious punk, and in the end he's a man with out any fortitude of principle when he rejects her at the ball.  He does of course see the error of his ways but I was not convinced that he would never be fickle again.  And that diaper he wears is far from flattering.Movies like this try to tell women that all men are dorks and that it doesn't matter if they stupidly fall in love with them, because women are strong enough on their own to carry the weight of two.  Barrymore's character seems like she'd be the kind of girl who wouldn't have fallen for Scott's.  She'd look for a guy that can fight along side of her.  "},{"Title":"Once upon a time...","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everybody knows the Grimm brother´s story of Cinderella. I guess it must have been adapted  a thousand times now.  Do we really need another adaptation of this stuff? Yes, we do! Why?  Because Ever after - directed by Andy Tennant (Fools rush in) - is an exception.This time the story is settled in France of the 16th century. Drew Barrymore plays Cinderella as a modern, courageous and emancipated woman. Her performance was outstanding, so as Anjelica Huston as her perfidious stepmom. But it was also George Fentons wonderful score and the atmosphere of France that catched me.There was one point that made me think. The movie wants to make us believe that it´s a true story. Hmmmm.... - ferry tale or not ferry tale, that´s the question! But decide yourself! Anyway, it´s an old story, told in a very refreshing and  enchantal way - and that´s exactly the way I like it. Sigh...  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time that I saw the commercial for Ever After, I fell in love with it. The music, the decors, the costumes, the actors, the storyline, everything is amazing. Other than having my three favorite actors in starring roles (Anjelica Huston, Drew Barrymore, and Dougray Scott) everything in this movie is practically perfect. I am addicted to watching this movie and have seen it over 40 times. In my opinion,it is, if not the best, one of the best movies ever.  "},{"Title":"Some clarifications","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would just like to comment on uruguay's comment. I personally think that Ever After is not based on anything. Your idea about DIANE de POITIER (that's how it's spelled )) is not bad, but I don't think that the lady in question would have been as good and idealistic as Danielle. I think that Madame de Poitier was more ambitious than philosophic... Furthermore, a painting that is believed to be that of Diane de Poitier is seen hanging in the background in one scene of the film.About your wondering if France had possessions in America back then, well, yes, Jacques Cartier, who is mentioned in the movie, had reached what is now Quebec in 1534. And back then, America was still the name of the entire continent... ;)Historical details aside, I think that this movie is charming, if a bit sappy.  "}{"Title":"A True Classic","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! Ever After should definitely be considered as much of a classic as the Cinderella story! It's like a fairy tale book that you simply can't put down. I couldn't imagine Drew Barrimoore playing a Cinderella role but she is brilliant here! This was the first I've seen Dougray Scott in and I've been a fan ever since! Truly a Classic Movie worth watching again and again. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A very good movie!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Ever After very much. Is it the story, the legend that makes it so special? Or is it the way the legend is conveyed? I found the movie encouraging because I could see that one can stand through the hardships of life and overcome them in spite of all the intrigues and obstacles that are meant to stop him or her. Goodness and kindness is something so rare today, but it is appreciated by everybody (almost!). There might be something true in the saying No gain without pain! But the final reward is great! The starring was great, I liked Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott a lot. "},{"Title":"cinderella..for the 90s girl","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is the perfect movie to anyone who is a romantic film-aholic or for a girls night in. combines the fantasy of cinderella with an ingenious twist for visions in the 90s..highly highly recommended. Dougray Scot and Drew Barrymore make the perfect screen couple with beautiful scenes of the French countryside. "},{"Title":"Drew Barrymore Does Well","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is by far the best adaptation of the Cinderella story I have ever seen.The two ugly sisters are not ugly but both very pretty, but of course the show is stolen by Drew Barrymore herself, playing a determined young lady who strives to do good.Clearly this is the kind of movie Drew should be doing more of. She is absolutely delightful in the lead role and her English accent is quite sweet.Angelica Houston who plays the wicked step mother is excellent in this role, playing a character that is not simply evil but adding a more complex set of emotions to the role.The locations are lovely and so too are the costumes. This is such a lovely movie. No fancy special effects, no big action sequences, just a lot of old fashioned romance.This movie probably is one for the ladies, but any guys with a romantic side will like this movie.Diamond gives it 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"2nd All-Time Best Fantasy Romance Movie","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is obviously a Romance movie.  That it is also a Fantasy is less obvious.  One can see that it was written as a fairy tale, but if you look in the Goofs section about this film you will notice that the writer didn't pay too much attention to actual history.  Thus, it is a fantasy even though magical things don't exactly occur.  This is Drew Barrymore's best film since Firestarter, which was an entirely different sort of role for her.  I must commend many of the other reviewers who have written about this film.  You have described Ever After extremely well.  But, I will give it a higher score (10) than most of you did.  This was a superb movie.  Kudos to all who had a hand in the making of this film.  We need more like it! "},{"Title":"Not that anyone will read Comment #170","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK. Liked it. Agree with most reviewers above surprisingly good, Barrymore can hold your attention, accent is slightly distracting but I've come to believe not incorrect . . just odd at times. (Shouldn't they be speaking with French accents if they didn't want to do subtitles?)But . . . I want to comment about two or three things that I don't think anybody has mentioned yet 1) The best acting in the movie was done by 3 supporting actors. Megan Dodds as Marguerite De Ghent (really subtly well done), Patrick Godfrey as DaVinci (loved him as Mr Eagar in A Room With a View, Wasn't Rome where we saw the yellow dog?) and Judy Parfitt as the Queen. All of these were fabulous in the little bits of screen time they were given. Personally, I would _love_ to see Ms Dodds in a starring vehicle. Considering that she was probably hired simply to work a visual joke toward the end of the film makes it most astonishing how fabulously she handles her part. That's the second item I wanted to mention, the joke. It involves a painting only briefly shown toward the beginning of the film. The payoff comes near the end, when the step mother and her two daughters are at the door, speaking with King's herald. (a fabulously acted scene by the three women BTW) When Marguerite(Dodds) closes the door, _notice_ how she looks in the door frame. All that's missing is the blue-tinted landscape in the background. What's the next shot? You got it. A blue-tinted landscape. Check it out. Tell me I'm wrong.The one quibble I have with this fun picture, if the King and Queen had been a little more hardened, as would be required of any monarch in the social Darwinism of 16th century Europe, the drama would have been much heightened, because their threats would have been so much more serious.  A minor complaint. Fairy Tales aren't supposed to be too scary. "},{"Title":"A Sweet Movie","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very sweet movie. I like it alot. The character's are great and shine. Beside a romance, this movie is also funny, and a drama. Ever After comes from the heart, and is a timeless romantic classic.The first time I saw this movie I loved it! I am sure it is a good movie for all women. Drew Barrymore creates a unforgettable heroine. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People who don't like fantasy fiction are not going to like this movie no matter what anyone says.  It was nice though not to watch a fairy tale movie where the sexism and black and white nature of them isn't carried over. I had just seen Never Been Kissed about the time that I saw this story and have come to the conclusion that Drew must like the tale of Cinderella.  Never has aspects of the Cinderella theme right down to the Prince Charming who she has to deceive in order to go the distance in her transformation from lowly scutt worker to the Belle of the Ball.The rest of the cast in this movie are appealing, especially Angelica Huston as the Baroness de Ghent and the two actresses playing her daughters. Dougray Scott shows that he has talent for comedy as well as being charming and sexy.  The photography is great too and the script is hugely funny in places with witty and memorable lines.  I would suggest on that basis alone that everyone give this movie a chance. "},{"Title":"Great film for all ages - done very well; a delight!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before seeing this movie I wasn't sure how they would be portraying the story of Cinderella. I was very pleasantly surprised. Seeing it acted out in human form made it so much more, I don't know, dare I say, believable? The screenplay contained quite a bit of humor as well that I enjoyed. Also, there was a lot of beautiful scenery of the French countryside, and that's always a plus in my book. The costumes were very unique and gorgeous to view, too. All in all, I give this movie an 8 on a scale of 1-10.  "},{"Title":"Very Prince Charming","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a wonderful movie in all aspects.  For once a fairy tale is told without the extremely sexist overtones.  I am by no means a feminist but it is frustrating when the hero in movies fall in love with a girl simply because of the way she looks.  Finally there is a heroine who proves her self not only beautiful, but well read, independent and adventurous.  Drew Barrymore's character Danielle is a bit of tom-boy which is also a refreshing change.  The acting in this movie was excellent, with the exception of Drew's fake accent, but you get used to it after a while.This is a definite chick flick, but guys may enjoy the occasional sword fight and the women in tight corsettes.  I thought that the most redeeming quality of the movie was definitely the costumes.  They were wonderful and beautiful (especially the masque costume), and it really added to the feel of the movie.  I would definitely recommend this movie for not only the classic romantic tale, but for a humorous and enchanting date movie.  I give Ever After an 8 out of 10.  Go and see it again!!  "}{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm plesased that most of the other reviews I have read on here are good. I do disagree with a couple of comments from someone about young girls who love Titanic will be the only ones to love this movie apparently- not true at all- and that Drew Barrymores English accent was not convincing. I'm English, and if I didn't know Drew was American, I know I would have been convinced she was English. But enough of that. I didn't get round to seeing Ever After when it came on the cinema. But I've always wanted to see it, so I bought the video yesterday, watched it and was not dissapointed. It is one of the most charming, sweet and funny films I've seen, a brillant retelling of the Cinderella fairytale. Drew Barrymore is outstanding as Danielle, and you really feel for her when her horrid stepmother, played by the ever excellent Angelica Huston, is being cruel to the poor girl. Dougray Scott is excellent to as Prince Henery, as are the two stepsisters. A marvellous blend of comedy and romance, this is a film I shall keep watching over and over! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I loved this movie.  It has good romance, is entertaining, and Drew Barrymore shines as a determined person.  This was a wonderful spin on Cinderella.  I rated this movie a 10.  I have seen it twice now and plan to buy it. "},{"Title":"A great movie for a Sunday afternoon","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some films belong to video. But try to understand that this is not always a defect. Take as an example The Deep End of the Ocean. It is a beautiful and emotional film, and I really liked it. However, I don't know if I would feel the same thing if I had seen it on the movies. In my view, it would be rather slow and boring. I can say the same thing about Ever After. It is a sweet, charming picture, and I thought it was pretty good. I had a great time watching it on the cable TV, but... somehow it belongs to the small screen. The main reasons for that are its predictability and the 'Sunday-afternoon-matinee' way it was done. Who doesn't know the story of Cinderella? And who doesn't love it? It is one of the most beautiful and known fairy tales of all times, and it enchants children till our days. Director Andy Tennant doesn't dare very much, but somehow he does the right thing. It is a family picture, for all ages, so it is predictable for a reason. And it is done the way I said for the same reason. Ever After was made for people to have fun, and it does this job very well.So if you are not looking for something intellectual, as a Shakespeare adaptation, give a chance to Ever After. It is cute, sweet, fun, romantic and quite touching. It is a pretty good film and, even not being such a stunning movie as Andy Tennant last direction job, Anna and the King (which I loved), is a worth seeing for all ages. "},{"Title":"just like the fairy tale","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is just like the fairy tale of Cinderella, except for the parts of the fairy godmother and the pieces of magic. That was the part that was missing. Overall, this is a lovely movie, with the wicked stepmother and the prince. I thought that the movie was a little bit for everyone, such as humor, adventure, and suspense. But it was romantic, which I am a sap for myself. This was a splendid movie. Good job Drew Barrymore. "},{"Title":"What a feel good movie, Drew at her best.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore often seems to be playing herself in a lot of her roles ie. in the wedding singer - little bit more innocent but she didn't seem to be acting much. Anyway in this film she excelled in her acting, I really did think she was brilliant. And what a good feel good movie don't you think?! I must also mention that Melanie Lynskey, although only a minor role was excellent. "},{"Title":"A Cinderella Story For Today's Woman","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally a Cinderella story where the woman is loved for her strength, intelligence and personality rather than for her beauty alone.  There is no Fairy Godmother who turns her into a magical creature who is then admired by all.  She is quite capable of doing that on her own.  A sweet story with, of course, a happy ending.  Much more satisfying to watch than any other Cinderella story I've seen before. Drew Barrymore is a Princess in her own right and it's great seeing her shine yet again! "},{"Title":"Sigh....","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sigh...... This is one of the sweetest movies I have ever seen.  It always leaves me feeling romantic and wistful for a Prince Charming of my own.  I love timeless romances such as the Princess Bride, and Drew Barrymore is great as Danielle.  Dougray Scott is very handsome as Henry, too.  It is an excellent combination of old-fashionedness and modern culture, which is just what I like.  All the puns, jokes, and funny extras certainly make the movie more interesting.  Only complaint is that the character of Leonardo da Vinci is too fake.  He was too jubilant and cheery, when in reality he was a very quiet, subdued person.  I highly recommend this movie.   "},{"Title":"Breaking the Stereotypes","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a movie! It took the original story of Cinderella, broke all the stereotypes associated with fairy tales and put on a great show! Drew Barrymore was exceptional, and the rest of the cast was excellent as well. Nice storyline, wonderful changes to the original tale and great costumes and castles. Couldn't have been better! Well done!  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie from beginning to end.  I thought that Drew Barrymore as the heroine was great since she is not by any means a perfect beauty.  Her accent left a lot to be desired, but I always forget as I become more enchanted by the love story.  The prince is gorgeous and I think it is hilarious how pompous he is at the beginning (and throughout most of the movie).  The costumes were beautiful (I love the dress she is wearing at the very end) and I really like how the story appears to be a part of real history.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone that enjoys a good romantic fantasy and who is not annoyed by the dated values (the heroine is very headstrong and well read for that time period). "},{"Title":"This movie makes me lovesick.....","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Believe me, I didn't even notice the feminism in the movie. There was more conviction in the two hours of this film then in my entire (recent) being. Perfect casting, beautifully and craftily told and directed, it is a fairy tale for grown ups.    "}{"Title":"Cinderella A Heroine for Women","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not the same old fairy tale your mother used to read to you before you went to sleep.  Meet Ever After,  the new and modern Cinderella story. After the death of her father, Danielle de Barbarac, played by Drew Barrymore, is forced into a life of slavery by a cruel and arrogant step-mother, the Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent (Anjelica Huston). She spent her childhood serving her step-mother and her two step sisters- Marguerite (Megan Dodds) and Jacqueline (Melanie Lynskey). Despite her social status, Danielle manages to blossom into a strong, intelligent, and happy young woman.  She one day meets her prince charming (Dougray Scott) by accusing him of stealing.  They later fall in love but have to overcome many obstacles such as the barriers between social classes and her sister Marguerite. Although this movie is set hundreds of years ago, it reflects more of our culture than the past.  The major idea that stands out is the feminist movement.  This Cinderella is a bright, independent, young woman with an admirable passion for life.  She shows her courage when she rescues a servant from being shipped to the Americas and when she saved the Prince himself. She has a great love for books and challenging the Prince into arguments of poverty, slavery, and his own responsibilities for his kingdom. Even in the end, instead of the usually Price Charming coming to Danielle's rescue,  she is able to save herself, clearly representing today's ideal woman. The prince recognizes her independence when he says You swim alone, climb rocks, and rescue servants. Is there anything you don't do?The character of the Prince is also a more modern character.  He is rebelling against his parents.  He is in the mist of discovering himself and does not like the fact that his parents have seemed to have decided that for him. This causes him to constantly run away. He wants people to see him for who he is not what he is.  The film also discusses other prejudices among the social classes, how it binds people making it hard for people to be free of these preconceived notions. The fact that a country creates its own poor and should therefore take care of them is also brought up.This definitely one of Drew Barrymore's better performances.  She captivates the screen and inspires us to live life to the fullest. The step-mother also did a good performance.  The other roles were not poorly done, they were just not that difficult to act. Overall I rated the movie with seven out of the ten stars. It was a entertaining mix of humor, romance, and the old mix of good overcoming evil. The acting itself was not bad, but much of the dialect was full of cliches. But one has to keep in mind that this an old fairy tale that has been told many times before.  "},{"Title":"Enchanting & Fun","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore leads us through a delightful romp through a Cinderella tale set in France.  Sparkling from start to finish, Ever After is enchanting and fun.  Anjelica Huston is deliciously wicked, while Melanie Lynskey's performance as the jolly step-sister is wonderful.  With some nice gender twists -- this Cinderella needs no rescuing, in fact she rescues her Prince Charming -- and humour injected into a lively script, Ever After is sure to please. "},{"Title":"Ok Film","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was good, and at times quite clever, but for all the talk of female empowerment, I didn't really appreciate how easily Danielle (Drew Barrymore) accepted and forgave Prince Henry's (Dougray Scott) treatment of her.  She deserved more, and she didn't get it.  But maybe I'm just bitter ) "},{"Title":"A new twist for Cinderella","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a good movie. Drew Barrymore's performance was good, Anjelica Huston was the perfect stepmother and Dougray Scott was  an eligible Prince Charming. Plus, it was quite refreshing to see no Fairy Godmother or magic pumpkins around and I also liked  the fact that there was some prevention (due to Melanie Lynskey's portrayal of the younger stepsister Jaqueline) from their being too much hostility towards Danielle (Cinderella). This is a good rendition of the great fairy tale, Cinderella.  "},{"Title":"A charming update of the classic fairy tale","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A cool film. Drew Barrymore (always a favorite) is a delight as Danielle. She actually sticks up for herself, unlike the previous Cinderellas. This is a smart update with a twist. Follows the predecessor pretty well, with a few surprises here and there. Dougray Scott is a fine match for her as well. Scenery in France is a very beautiful backdrop for this movie. Angelica Huston is viscous! Breathe , just breathe "},{"Title":"Best fantasy/romance since The Princess Bride","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Due to the setting and story line, I can't help but to compare this film to The Princess Bride.  And they rank right up side by side.  This was without a doubt, Drew Barrymore's best performance ever.  There is a point where barrymore's character says Why don't men ever stop and ask for directions? I thought this was a little bit too much of a modern time comment and probably should not have been used.  Otherwise, a beautiful movie.  "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie made me cry - but I'm a sucker for a love story. It was quaint and charming and I loved Angelica Huston! Especially that cocky eyebrow of hers. But my main question is...why is it that every movie I see that is supposedly based in France, people speak with BRITISH accents? "},{"Title":"Enchantingly Positive","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The novelist retelling of the fairytale Cinderella. Enchanting, I never liked Drew Barrymore before this movie. Captivating cinematography and an interesting twist with Leonardo da Vinci taking the part of the fairy-Godmother character.  A must see for Children (of ALL ages.)   "},{"Title":"Refreshing, charming and very well acted rewind.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I've never been a Drew Barrymore fan, and my wife and daughters had to drag me to this one, the movie was clearly superior in almost every way to the usual junk put out now.  The story was an obvious Cinderella 'rewind' but in a non-fantasy realistic context.  The acting was first rate throughtout--from Drew Barrymore, in her most impressive role to date, to Dougray Scott palying the spoiled-yet-sensible  prince to perfection and of course Angelica Huston as the MONSTROUS stepmother.  The anachronisms and other faults in the movie were relatively minor a nd certainly forgivable.  The supporting cast and the set was first rate throughout     This movie had real charm and substance-- and a powerful vote for feminine feminism!  A very choice for a family movie. "},{"Title":"A lovely Fairytale for all ages","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful movie. Ignore the tiny plot holes. I have yet to find a fariytale without plot holes of some fictional sort. They are meant to be fictitious, they make us feel good.It gives you a warm fuzzy feeling, throughout.--Great acting by Barrymore and Huston. Fantastical cinematics. An overall happy, funny and enjoyable movie.  "}{"Title":"Spectacular Film","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first I heard of this movie was in January of 1998 during the Golden Globe awards, when Anjelica Huston presented an award. The announcer said that she was next to be seen in a live-action version of Cinderella. I knew right off who she would be playing - the wicked-stepmother. She does evil so well (refer to The Witches). Anyway, I waited with baited breath for the film to come because I had a feeling it would be great; but I thought it was going to be a Disney production (like what they did with the live-action 101 Dalmatians) and I thought that they were going to make Ms. Huston be the main attraction. When I saw the trailer, I found that what I thought of it wasn't true at all - a title change, Drew Barrymore, and a PG-13 rating - and it only expanded my interest. When I finally saw it, I found that it was one of the best films I ever saw. And I was proved wrong about it being a chick flick - there was more guys in the theatre than girls. Drew Barrymore does the best acting of her career, Anjelica Huston is top notch, and everyone else also turn in exceptional performances. One complaint - why no Oscar nominations? It was released late enough, and with it's quality, it deserved something. Oh well, see it anyway -) "},{"Title":"Charming and beautiful.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is Drew Barrymore at her best. Out of *****, I give it **** and a half. This Cinderella story isn't like the others, there's twists around every corner and for ONCE the heroine of the story is called something different besides Cinderella. A great movie. "},{"Title":"Nothing less than superb","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best family movies of our time. Every single facet of it is well conceived, directed, and acted. I'm not even a Drew Barrymore fan and I can't recall having been so completely pleased with a film in recent history. To outline the plot, it's the old Cinderella story with some refreshing twists, and like I've already said, superbly done. See for yourself!An unequivocal 10/10. "},{"Title":"Enchanting and enjoyable on the big screen but not quite so much on TV","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Ever After in theaters, I confess that I enjoyed myself very much.  I was swept away by the gorgeous panoramic views of the French countryside and was held in thrall by the story, largely because of Drew Barrymore and Anjelica Huston's excellent performances.  I was ready and willing to cheer and cry for Danielle (the character played by Barrymore) at any time.  I really felt an air of enchantment around the whole movie.  Then, I saw it again last night on HBO.  I still enjoyed myself, but I noticed flaws, as well.  The air of enchantment was largely gone, and it was more obvious how improbable the story line was.  I should have known that before, but because I was held in thrall the last time I saw it, I didn't notice.  Now, I wasn't held in thrall as much.  I did notice, in addition to the countryside, the sumptuous sets, which hadn't caught my attention as much before.  The performances still were just as good, though Barrymore got stronger and better as the film progressed.  Otherwise, the Tv version was good, just not as good as the version on the big-screen.Rating for Ever After in theaters **** out of 4Rating for Ever After on TV *** out of 4 "},{"Title":"A surprisingly enchanting modern classic.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must confess, when I first heard about this film, I had no desire to see it. After all, a remake of a classic fairy tale? And with live actors instead of animation, no less? It would take masterful acting, vivid costuming and scenery, and an incredible story to equal Disney's singing mice, magic pumpkins, and bubbly fairy godmother, but Mirielle Soira's Ever After does just that using only the magic of true love.Drew Barrymore is surprisingly endearing as Danielle, the orphan girl who is forced to become a servant to the only family she's ever known. Anjelica Huston and Megan Dodds are the delightfully wicked Rodmilla and Marguerite de Ghent, the wicked stepmother and stepsister, respectively. But the true surprise of this film is Melanie Lynskey, who plays Jacqueline de Ghent, the other stepsister, and an unexpected ally to Danielle. Dougray Scott delivers a convincing performance as Henry, the first Prince Charming in the history of Cinderella tales to have a name. The supporting cast comes together to create weave an intricate tale that makes you forget it's a film and wonder just how they could have possibly invented cameras in 16th century France.  The true challenge of this movie was, of course, recreating the tale in a way that did not involve animated characters who were two-dimensional in their personality as well as their appearance, easily identifiable as evil or good, all of whom burst into song and dance on the correct cues. The only music you will hear in this film is the brilliant instrumental score and the ending song, the enchanting Put Your Arms Around Me by the group Texas. And even the Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent seems mulitfaceted, as Huston masterfully evokes a bit of sympathy for the villain during a few brief moments. Ever After rose to the many challenges it was presented with by a snarling wolf of an industry that scoffs in the faces of films such as these and says plainly, You will not succeed. But indeed it has. The last line of the film sums it all up, and will leave you with goosebumps on your arms, a lump in your throat, a tear in your eye, and hope in your heart that even in a world full of wicked stepmothers and shattered dreams, magic truly does exist in the hearts of those who love.  "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie quite a bit.  Drew Barrymore was great, and as always was Anjelica Huston.  She was perfect as her character.  Dougray Scott was really good also.It was a really good story that I enjoyed watching.  It's sad, funny, and romantic. A beautiful movie, with a great cast.  If you haven't seen this, you should rent it, but not everybody will like this movie.  "},{"Title":"What a snore...zzzzzz.....","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you can stay awake through this movie, you will find that it is much like the cotton balls in a bottle of aspirin - nothing but filler.  I can't say much about this movie, except that it was like watching a high-school play that you have seen hundreds of times before.  It isn't BAD exactly... but much like watching paint dry.  And don't think I am bashing this movie because I'm a guy - my date hated it even more than I did.  I give this movie a perfectly mediocre rating of 5/10.Oh yeah, now that I think about it, there is one really obnoxious part to the movie - the dialogue, especially when Drew Barrymore speaks.  Maybe they should have hired British actors if they had wanted British accents (or is it French?  Not sure what they were going for here...) "},{"Title":"A Great Modern Day Cinderella","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a great modern day version of the Cinderella Story. It is not perfect but it works on many levels and it thoroughly entertains by taking liberties with the details while sticking closely to the basic plot.The acting is great. Drew Barrymore once again proves that she can breathe life into any character she is given and Angelica Houston is excellent as the wicked step-mother. The rest of the cast also turn in above average performances and each character has a little something to add to the whole.The one thing that is noticeably missing is the magical aspects that make the original a fairy tale. There is no fairy godmother or spells that expire upon the stroke of midnight. The myth has been debunked and we are left with a story that is actually believable. Both the heroes and villians are three dimensional characters; the step-mother is wicked but she also has her reasons for hating Cinderella. The prince is charming but he is also a spoiled brat and a snob at times.Some people may not like the attempt to take the fairy out of the fairy tale but think of how silly it would look to present a fairy godmother in anything other than cartoon form. Also, in a more societal perspective, we are consumed with explaining the myth out of everything. From the formation of Earth to UFO sightings, we are constantly finding rational explanations to reaffirm our perception of the world. What could be more fitting than to explain the story of Cinderella in rational terms that ignore the more fanciful aspects of the children's tale. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  > I thought the video did exactly what a video should do, cause you to escape > from everyday life and be moved. The video was anything but boring even > though you knew what was coming up next. I often try to predict the movies > next turn, but this one was a sit back and enjoy the ride. It did have some > nice twists in the story line like the other half sister and people being > sold as slaves. A very enjoyable movie! "},{"Title":"An Old Fairytale With A Modern Twist","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow!  Drew Barrymore is really Cinderella!  This was a movie worth watching! It's a whole lot better than the regular Cinderella, plus it has a twist of drama in it as well!  Drew Barrymore is one of my favorite actresses of all time!  She's really talented and very strong-willed!  This was definitely one of her best acting jobs ever!What a wonderful film! It was a whole lot better than I ever expected!  I thought it was going to be like the everyday Cinderella story w/ the fairy godmother, the pumpkin coach, the step-sisters try on the slipper first, and bla bla bla.  Yet it was NOTHING like that at all!  Also, one of the step-sisters was friendly, too!  There were parts in this film which got me glued to my seat just to wait for the best to come and there were parts when I was disappointed, but it always turned out to be the best!  And let's not forget the creative ending and twist of events that happen throughout the movie!A must see, people! o) You won't be disappointed!!! "}{"Title":"Finally, a fairytale come true!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely adore this movie! This is the best version of Cinderella ever. I was always disturbed by how women are portrayed in fairytales but this one is so WONDERFUL! Danielle (Cinderella) maybe an orphan girl with a mean step-family but she can take care of herself. This movie gives you reason why she lets herself be treated harshly by her step-family. This movie doesn't use any singing mice or gibberish songs to make it good.  Just a strong girl (literally!) and a cute prince to make a happily ever after. Also, check out Linn's Ever After Site, it has lots of cool multimedia stuff to download from the movie. Like sound waves and video clips! Definitely an ***** movie!!! "},{"Title":"Wow....a romance that won't put you to sleep.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Believe it or not, there is such thing as an edge-of-your seat romance. In this movie starring Drew Barrymore, there is the constant threat of the bad guy Angelica Houston winning.  And Barrymore makes a believable Cinderella, a headstrong and intelligent young lady as opposed to the beautiful muse that stories have depicted her as.  I prefer this story to those that have standed the test of time simply because the prince falls in love with her mind, not just her beauty.  "},{"Title":"A pleasant unexpected surprise","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very charming movie even if the so called magic is taken out The lead cast makes it a somewhat believable story - even if most of us is very familiar with the original. It is a worthwhile 2 hours spent. "},{"Title":"Appalling English accents","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At the outset, I was really looking forward to viewing this film. I'm a girl, which means I fall for whimsical fairy tale romanticism and a modernised version of Cinderella? - Perfect. However as Drew Barrymore spoke her first lines of dialogue I realised this film was going to be a bitter disappointment due to her appalling English accent which was impossible to ignore or defend for the sake of enjoying such an anticipated movie. This film will be thoroughly enjoyed by anyone who isn't English as the horrendous accents will remain unnoticed, hence the rave reviews by Americans, Canadians, Australians etc.  However it has to be said that since many of the actors/actresses were English, Drew was only cast due to her status as Hollywood Wild Child turned Hip Movie Star to pull in the punters, to excuse an English expression. Without intending to offend Barrymore fans and patriot Americans alike, I can catagorically conclude that this film would have been better if the lead role had been played by an English actress who could have maintained a consistent accent which wouldn't have left me cringing in what should have been the most enjoyable moments of the movie - even though the film was set in France! To any (English)romantics out there who embrace the ideal of a fairy tale romance, don't waste your hard earned cash and rent this film. There are very few scenes which are bearable to watch. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but some real plot holes","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An overall enjoyable flick. When in the theatres this one definitely suffered from being branded as a chick flick but instead does well to replace all the sticky sap of any Julia Roberts or Meg Ryan movie with a strong-willed, likable lead character.Angelica Houston does quite a nasty turn as a real bitch of a stepmother, and other supporting roles are played admirably. DaVinci was played as it should have been, and wasn't portrayed as the typical crazy coot - cum - genious seen in most of such characterizations (although he was horribly misplaced in time, see below). The French King was a bit too oafish for my tastes.Location filming and costumes were fantastic, and the photography of the film adequate enough to allow for a few postcard sequences. Otherwise, direction was pretty much straightforward.There were some heavy plot holes that distracted from the movie however, namely the lack of reasons that Danielle (Barrymore) was suddenly forced into a life of servitude and the utter disappearance of her royal lineage.Personally, I also had some trouble getting around a few of the anachronisms; the mention of a recent war, the presence of DaVinci, the appearance of the Brothers Grimm, and references to Thomas Moore all in the same movie and time period was well, a bit disturbing. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, but too long!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  We watched this movie in English, as we had just finished a BIG EXAM, and I was expecting a major bomb..I was pleasantly surprised to find that Ever After was good. Drew Barrymore was very believable in her own fairy tale way, and she definitely can do the Cinderella thing well. This is probably the best role she's taken in a while. Anjelica Houston is very very good too. Most of the performances were very good. My only complaint is that the film is too long. This is a tale that does not require so much build up. We already know five minutes into the movie that Drew's stepmom will be evil, and yet the film goes with that for an hour. Also, the last six scenes just dragged..they were necessary, but too much build up made them feel draggy. Excellent costumes and cinematography, though. 3 out of 4 "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As soon as I saw the trailers, I knew I wanted to see this movie. Mostly because I think Drew Barrymore is not only a great actress, but a wonderful person too. The movie gave me a really good feeling. True, it was kinda flowery, but it's a romance, what else can you expect?'Ever After' had a really powerful cast. All the 'main' characters were incredible, but I really liked the ones who had one or two scenes at best. The leader of the gypsies, Danielle's father and the young Danielle, the princess of Spain, and Gustave all gave wonderful performances.Ok, the movie wasn't perfect. English accents in France? The tiny part with the 'Mona Lisa' painting made me smile, but it also made me groan. And for some reason, I liked the movie on my TV screen better than on the big screen. But besides that, I'm recommending it to everyone I meet.  "},{"Title":"If movies were valentines","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has been described as a Cinderella story without the fairy-tale elements.  I disagree.  By replacing the fairy godmother with Leonardo da Vinci, of all people, the writers merely substituted one fairy tale for another.  And it's hard to imagine Danielle -- who is such a republican (small r) that she sounds like an anarchist in a couple of places -- living happily ever after with any absolute monarch, even a love-struck sap like Henry.  But none of this is important.  LOVE that Drew Barrymore.  Not even Anjelica Huston, who is an actor's actor, can be convincingly mean to her.  As the wicked stepmother she says the lines, but radiates affection for Barrymore almost in spite of herself whenever they're in the shot together.  In the end, the movie becomes a frame for Barrymore's portrait of the sweet and long-suffering Danielle, and if you don't want to hug her you need your heart examined. It's the kind of movie you can give someone as a Valentine.  "},{"Title":"Better than the original Cinderella.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A treat to watch. A thoroughly charming movie , which intends to set the record straight and tell what the real story of Cinderella was. Without any magic or a fairy godmother the story is obviously much more believable but surprisingly it is also much more engrossing and entertaining as well. The characters are very real and beautifully played. Drew Barrymore makes a perfect Cinderella and the stepsisters have infinitely more substantive roles than in the original story. Overall a super entertainment for all ages. A must-see. "},{"Title":"great movie, ugly box","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a wonderful film, full of humor, romance, a few nifty fights, and that justful ending we all want.  On the bad side, though, it's packaged in an incredibly ugly box. ) "}{"Title":"Stunningly beautiful, romantic, vibrant and refreshing","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Stunningly beautiful and romantic retelling of the Cinderella story. I found the plot elements refreshing, the scenery lovely, the characters richly compelling. Everything from the costumes to the cinematography was first rate. Additionally, it was cleverly tied into history through Leonardo da Vinci, to give it that feel of plausible reality. Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott were magnificent. It had the vibrant richness of an expensive tapestry. "},{"Title":"I like this kind of Cinderella","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At last a Cinderella we can encourage our daughters to imitate. No shrinking violet, or helpless girl, this Cinderella has spunk, and helps herself achieve her dreams. Not sappy, she has the goodness that takes courage.And  a love story based not on appearance alone, but on character, and common interests. I liked the complications of the plot, the development and progression; no instant changes here! Good work! Let's have more fairy stories like this one!  "},{"Title":"Cinderella story but intelligent.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lively and humorous film. Drew Barrymore a complete delight. Intelligent, beautiful, witty. A MUST SEE. "},{"Title":"Second best movie of 1998","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not just for girls!  Teenage boys enjoy too, along with their fathers. This is an excellent modern and believable version of how men can see the beauty in all women.  Drew's character is not the most physically beautiful character, her stepsister is, but the inner beauty is what counts. I find it ironic, that when Danielle looks her worst, and she knows it, is the moment that she gets the wedding proposal. A girl, acknowledged by her neighbor as the true force in the house, has to survive among a strong, dominating woman. Exposed to books by her father, I easily believed that Danielle, an orphan at age 8, loses all social ranking in resonance France. She knows herself to be a servant class, and the penalty of 5 days in the stockade for pretending to be a member of another high social class.  But for the loyalty of a fellow house servant, she takes the risk, and still needs to convince the prince that her task is worthy. The prince is also a believable character, confused, educated by those that lacked a spirit of conviction, in the shadow of a father who is king of all of France. The scenery is wonderful, the clothing adds to the story, and British accents in a French story, oh well, that's what Hollywood has been doing since the first talkies. Just a few loose ends in the story keep this from being my favorite movie. The shoes that are too big, noticed by Leonardo, but never is mentioned again.  The prince referring to Danielle as one of them is puzzling, as I cannot find any previous reference to a them in the movie.I'd like to see the directors cut next, then a sequel. You hear that Fox!? "},{"Title":"Captivating facial expressions for ever after...","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie where Drew Barrymore is harmoniously cast as the little cinder girl. Her most admirable talent lies in her expressions of sadness, anger, and love. She is a victim of those hateful people, and yet she is a victim that could not have been better at holding our feelings hostage at every turn of her facial expression, be it of the curling of her brows or the slightest tilt of her head or perhaps simply turning her face to the side a bit. Either way, we can only feel joy that she does live happily ever after, and that she simply lived. "},{"Title":"American Plays Frenchwoman with British Accent","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Didn't someone tell that poor girl that her acting with an American accent would have been just as correct as acting with a British accent?  It would also have been much less distracting for the viewers.Who is responsible for the dialogue in this film?  Although the modification of the fairy tale to a slightly more clever story was well done, lines like and I shall wait all day and just breathe left me with a permanent case of the heebie-jeebies.There were a few obvious anachronisms.  For example, I was uncertain whether the queen would know what a stroke was, much less that it would happen to the overanxious king if he didn't calm down.Although I find Dougray Scott to be quite a dashing love-torn prince, I couldn't stop wondering to myself as I watched him prance about the screen, is that a sandbag hanging at his middle?  Also, he didn't seem to be such a wonderful and loving guy after neglecting to listen to Danielle's pressing confessions on at least two occasions.Anjelica Huston was an endless pleasure to watch, as her portrayal of the stepmother was believably mean and dark-hearted, but not cartoonish Satan-spawn.  Her facial expressions, inflections and nuances were impeccable!  Huston was the saving grace of the film's artistic merit. "},{"Title":"Ever After...a wonderful film","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie twice in the theatres. The first time I expected a lot of this movie. I saw the advertisement on television and immediately downloaded the trailer from the internet. When I saw the trailer I knew I had to see this movie as soon as possible. Luckily I did see it soon because it was not for a long time in the theatres of The Netherlands.The beginning was nice, I liked the music a lot but it seemed a little boring. When Henry finally asks Danielle out (to the library!) then the film begins to interest me better. From that moment I did not think it was boring anymore. When I saw this movie for the second time I thought the beginning was not boring at all. I guess the movie as a whole is wonderful.I heard this movie was not for men or boys, for them it would be to sugars and sweet. I don't know if that is true, I am not a male. It dissappointed me though that almost no men liked this film. Another point; this film is rated low. It never became really popular. I wonder why...the actors and actresses were great. The costumes were pretty and the landscape was beautiful (and real), the script...all the sentences were good, there were some sentences that really stayed in your mind.My overall opinion This movie is great. It is not too long and when you see it more than one time then every time you catch something/see something you have not seen before. I recommend this movie to particularly romantic girls and woman. And if you don't like drama and romance you better do not watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Ah ... what to say?","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That this film was one of the best I've ever seen?  That only Father of the Bride (I and II) and Titanic outrank it?  I suppose that will do ... but will you understand just how much I really enjoyed this film?  Perhaps if I tell you that I went out the following day it was released and bought it?This movie was so special in so many ways.  My only problem was with everyone saying that Danielle was not high-born when, in fact, she was a Baroness by birth.  But that aside, I loved this movie completely and thoroughly enjoyed every moment of it.  I sent an e-mail that night I watched it to everyone I knew to go rent it, and you know what?  I got many responses back saying thanks for the recommendation, we really enjoyed it! That feels good -)  I bet you'll love it, too! "},{"Title":"A very fun movie, for a variety of reasons.  Much better than I expected.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to Ever After with a group of friends, and I was fully prepared to gently heckle.  To my pleasant surprise, it was totally unnecessary.The acting was good, the plot was clever, the script EXCELLENT, with Drew Barrymore having some wonderful lines...Some parts are dubious from a perfectly logistical perspective, for example, why does everyone have English accents (occasionally wobbly, too) in France? But during the film, I was swept up in the plot and never even noticed until afterwards.Ever After is that kind of film.  Yes, it is flawed, and these flaws I admit for several of them.  But during the film, I genuinely did not notice.  All I noticed was an interesting story, and lively characters.See this film.  Drew Barrymore has a wonderful character, full of life, spirit and passion.  One of the plot points I like, is far from being love at first sight, initially she finds the prince boorish and distant from reality, and only after repeated encounters does she begin to like him.I challenge anyone not to have been swept up in certain scenes (won't say which ones, to preserve plot, but you'll know them) and remain completely emotionally distant.  Having the character of Leonardo Da Vinci as the Fairy Godfather was masterful.Perhaps I am merely an incurable romantic, but perhaps not.See this film, and sink into a colourful and rich world of passion, spirit and romance.  "},{"Title":"A Perfectly Lovely Fairy Tale","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll be honest. I don't really like fairy tales. They over-simplify life and promote nasty societal norms. Of all fairy tales, Cinderella has always been down at the bottom with my least favorite ones. The incredible level of sexism disgusted me. And then I saw this movie. I didn't want to see it. I love Drew Barrymore, and have been a supporter of hers since I was old enough to understand her situation. She was, I believe, 16 the first time I heard her entire story. That admiration has only grown over the last 8 years. But the first thing I thought of when I read the synopsis of Ever After was what a lot of hokum. My friends, who had already seen it and promised me it was great even though they knew I hated the story of Cinderella, forced me, kicking and screaming, into the theater. And I absolutely loved it. Everything about it is magical, even without (thank God) a fairy godmother. That is not to say it's perfect, but its earnest charm won me over. I love the changes they made, like the step-sisters not being ugly and Danielle being smart and free-thinking. This is one movie that everyone seemed to not have good expectations for, yet almost everyone I know of who has seen it loved it. I think that says something. Anybody who didn't like it is certainly free to have their own opinion, of course, but I think they must be crazy. One thing I didn't like was the beginning of the video. (Yes, I ran out and bought it.) The Never Been Kissed trailer is fitting, but what the heck is up with the volunteer pitch? I could overlook that, even if it was odd, because it at least advocated something good. But I'm completely clueless about the Party of Five thing. I had this sudden odd feeling I'd stepped into some slightly off-kilter alternate universe for a second when I was watching it. (Shrug) Probably it was just me. Oh, well.  "}{"Title":"Full of humor and humanity instead of magic and talking mice","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is an absolutely magical journey with a 90's twist. This is the role Drew Barrymore was meant to play.  The rest of the cast led by Angelica Houston as the wicked stepmother performed superbly as well. It's a fairy tale that should enchant all who view it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  To put it simply, I loved it. No, the accents weren't always right, it didn't have awesome special effects, and it's not going to win any awards, but it's good. If you're looking for the usual Cinderella story (The Fairy Godmother, the pumpkin, the magic) you're not going to find it. What you will find is a fun movie that doesn't take itself too seriously. It reminds me (and I've found I'm not alone) of one of my other favorite movies, The Princess Bride It has the same appeal for many different kinds of people. (though not as much guy-appeal as Princess Bride, since there's not long sword-fights) But Ever After is very realistic, compared to both Princess Bride and the usual Cinderella. Like I said, there's no magic, and the relationship between Danielle and Prince Henry develops over time, it's not the silly, unrealistic love-at-first-sight story in the usual version. And Danielle isn't a little wimp everyone can push around. As a teenaged girl I loved that, and I think she's good role model for littler girls used to a very different version of Cinderella. Now for the cast. Drew Barrymore as Danielle is excellent, of course. Dougray Scott is good as a deeper, more complicated Prince than we're used to. Anjelica Huston was the perfect stepmother, showing us a human side for a small part of the movie. Patrick Godfrey was hilarious. Okay, it's not a realistic view of Da Vinci, but that shot for the It looks like rain scene was probably the funniest part of the movie. And I liked Gustave. Maybe I just have a strange fixation with adorable skinny guys, (Matthew Broderick as Phillipe in LadyHawke is another example) but I'd like to see him again.I really liked the fact that while it's a movie adults can like and unmistakably a love story, there's very few swear words and no sex scenes, making it a movie kids will like too. (even if they don't pick up some of the things that are making the older viewers laugh) Bottom line If you like fairy-tale stories that are still believable, especially if you're a fan of The Princess Bride, you'll probably like this movie. Watch it with your kids too, especially your daughters. If you nitpick with details or only like Oscar-level dramas, you might wanna skip it.  "},{"Title":"A fairy tale for all ages.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a thoroughly enjoyable film that will please most movie fans. I would love to see this kind of treatment of many more of the Grimm Tales. The humor is marvelous and the film leaves one with joyous feelings of delight. You will be happy you rented it! "},{"Title":"Enchanting and beautiful","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great!  It is a fairytale for those who don't believe in magic(I do), that shows that your dreams can come true with the magic of love. This movie is for romantics who dream of something better for life!!!  "},{"Title":"Praise","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh My god! I got to give this movie about 100 thumbs-up!  It was great, in fact , it is the best fairytale movie I've seen in...well let's say a LONG LONG time.  Drew Barrymore gave another astounding performance...I almost cried at parts.  Angelica Huston always portrays an evil something-or-other quite well....so I have to give her some praise as well. Actually all the actors did real well in this movie....I didn't see a bad perormance...then again I was in shock at the emotion that this film gave off.  It was really emotional and quite comical at times, which is something I always look for in a movie.  That is the Love we should all hope to find. "},{"Title":"Fun if uneven","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This variation of the fairy tale is quite entertaining. A lot of thought and effort seems to have gone into it. The main detraction, to me, was some obvious plot twisting, perhaps caused by the writers wanting both to be original and to be faithful to the original fairy tale. The prolog and the ending are needless and seem tacked on, as none of the actors in those scenes are otherwise in the movie.I know this is a fantasy, but for anyone who is interested in history, Leonardo Di Vinci could not have been present as shown in the story, as he would have been dead for century at least.  "},{"Title":"A retelling I would gladly tell my children","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must admit I was never very enthralled by the classic telling of the Cinderella Tale.  As an adventurous and free-spirited young girl I found the Tale to be a bit wishy-washy.But this retelling is fabulous!With the inclusion of the happily-ever-after fairy tale must and the themes of take your life into your own hands, as well as the comedy and action, I think this movie is well rounded and extremely entertaining.It demonstrates that women can be strong and in love; They are not mutually exclusive.  The revision of Cinderella as a strong, independent, rescue-yourself woman is fabulous.My husband even liked it! "},{"Title":"Totally believable tale.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love the way this movie changes the story of Cinderella and makes it into a possiblity.  It totally draws your attention with contrasting characters and a plot you're not used to with this tale.  I think it is so incredible the way the writers tied in Leonardo DiVinci with this entire fairy tale. It makes you terribly happy in that little 11 year old fiestiness when Cinderella punches out her witchy step sister and then she shows up at the palace with a swollen black eye.  I truly enjoyed the movie, and watching it again, would only make me realize more and more slight details that I have not noticed yet.  The costumes were fabulous.   "},{"Title":"100 Percent Pure Butterflies!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie gave me goosebumps all throught the movie. It is a true romantic film, for the romantic at heart. Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott make and excellent on-screen duo. I anticipated every move they made and found myself crying when they cried, laughing when they laughed. I was so immersed in this movie. I went in thinking, oh another cartoon brought to life, this is going to be great, not. I left think this is more true to life than any kids' story is with its fairy godmothers and pumpkin carriages. One can only hope that if they bring more children's stories to life that they will have half the impact as Ever After did.  "},{"Title":"A fairy tale with real motivation.","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie and I'll have to admit that I was a bit hesitant. I haven't liked all of Drew Barrymore's movies that much and was scared this would be very boring. I was wrong. The movie is beautiful to look at and the score was amazing. Andy Tennant did a great job of directing this picture. The acting was well done all around. I liked the bickering in the bittersweet relationship of the King and Queen, and I loved the idea of only one bad step-sister. Drew Barrymore held this picture together and she certainly deserves credit for that alone. The film is about true love, some will think it a very goofy fairy tale. I believe in true love however and Ever After made me feel good. "}{"Title":"It's not magic it's the love","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the story and all the characters put together made Ever After a touching movie. The settings, art direction and the styles of the costumes were so real and felt magical. Loved the wings on Drew. I enjoy reading and watching fairytales of the past or future. "},{"Title":"Atrocious","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I can't say that I'm surprised by how popular this movie was/is. When films like Titanic and Saving Private Ryan are being raved about as the greatest films ever made, discriminating taste is obviously not part of the mental movie-watching equipment required to get into the theatre.Ever After is simply one of the latest additions to that growing list of subpar, lavishly praised movies. I won't even get into picking apart the plot or the acting. My primary complaint, similar to my beef with Titanic, is how we view, and more importantly - depict, the past through the glasses of our own neuroses and prejudices.In Titanic, the assumption was that for Rose to truly be free, to be human or real, she must spit over the side of the boat and engage in drunken revels, while her fiancee goes to discuss politics over cigars. (get it, ooohh boring!) Her fiancee was not a character, but a caricature, the donkey on which James Cameron could pin the tail so that all those in the audience could squeal. We collectively engaged in trashing the past while we, the more enlightened ones, sat in the theatre congratulating ourselves and willing Rose on to degrade herself in the back seat of a car.Now take Ever After. The Leonardo character was presented as such figures always are in popular cinema a harmless, grandfatherly, eccentric old artist. For eccentric read cute, cuddly, quirky, the Barney the dinosaur element of his soul conquering the Botticelli/Donatello aspect. He wasn't a great man, he just knew how to paint real well. It was the Reader's Digest version of an artist. Emphasize what we have in common with the great souls, what they liked to eat for breakfast. Democratize them, make them harmless.Prince Henry I found even more pathetic. Sorry, I really don't think he had the same need that we do in our industrialist era to make gooey distinctions between who he was and what he did. The line (slight paraphrase?) I want to be loved not for my position, but for who I am almost had me wretching into my popcorn. Come on! I wouldn't want this guy ruling my nation. Maybe I'd let him work in the field, where he could make helmets out of daisies and walk around in those boots that Leonardo made.I realize some of you are saying, Hey, it's a fairy tale! So? Even the serious historical films are doing this. And obviously we're not learning enough history to counterbalance the lessons we're getting from our forms of entertainment. Therefore, everyone who came before was like us, and we are the apex of civilization. So let's all emote together. I'll pass, thank you.  "},{"Title":"Just go see the film and enjoy it.","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just beautiful Once upon a time.... They live happily and forever. A nice romantic film with a bit of action and humour, and a lot of beautiful scenery. I am more used to seeing action films, so the first time I heard about the film I thought it was not for me. But I enjoyed the film. A film is entertainment and does not always have to talk about war or terrorism. The most important point of films is tell a beautiful story and make the watchers dream. Just go see the film and enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Guys, go and see this, you'll be pleasantly surprised","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cinderella? It's for the kids, or the women at the most - certainly not one for the guys.How wrong I was - this is a thoroughly enjoyable remake of the old fairytale, albeit with some liberties taken when compared to the brothers Grimm tale.Great film with good performances from the main cast. Go and see it!  "},{"Title":"Romance, adventure and comedy!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I expected to like this movie as I think Drew Barrymore is a really good actress (anyone who doesn't think so re-watch E.T. - preferably with the added documentary footage), and Dougray Scott is just totally gorgeous.I didn't expect to laugh as much, or to enjoy the re-working of such a classic story, and I expected the accents to make me cringe - I was so wrong.Take your children, take your other half, you'll enjoy the story, the performances, the humour - in fact you'll just enjoy the adventure, then put The Mask of Zorro next on your list!   "},{"Title":"Another winner for Drew Barrymore","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As in The Wedding Singer, Drew Barrymore positively glows in this movie. Her performance is excellent - as are all of the others - and she carries off the role of poor servant / caring noblewoman superbly. Some of the dialog in the movie seems far too refined (especially the eloquent prose we hear from Danielle), but who cares?Having English accents in a France seems a little weird, but then it's better than the usual American accents we hear. Some very entertaining moments, brilliant settings and costumes (I loved the immaculately kept garden in the castle), and some political moralising from Danielle. If only all politicians would listen to what she has to say to Prince Henry, maybe we'd be in a better state than we are now.I really loved this movie and recommend it to anyone who (a) loves Drew Barrymore, (b) loves romantic movies, or (c) just wants to see a brilliant film.  "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful movie is in store for the viewer.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie. I too was taken back into the ages of long ago and captivated for the whole time the movie played on the screen. I thought all of the actors and actresses did an outstanding job in this fairytale with such superb setting and costumes. I especially liked Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott in their roles of Cinderella and Prince Henry, respectively. I have not been moved by a movie in years like I was with this one. I know that I am a romantic and this may affect my perspective!! Delightful and still at our $1.50 movie theatre here in Raleigh, NC because the crowd is still there, this is January 1999. "},{"Title":"Fairy tales still cast their spell !","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Among Romeo+Juliet and some rare others one of the best love stories ever even for those who usually tend to action films, though the basic Grimm Bros. story seems far away from Ever after´s plot. "},{"Title":"Don't be scared away, guys . . .","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I went to see this movie -- in a half-full theater -- the thing that stunned me the most was that, of the 100 or so people in the room, I was the ONLY man. Now, while this is definitely not a traditional male movie, there's enough humor, wit, and action for men who dislike chick flicks -- what an annoying term -- to enjoy.It is quite a charming movie. "},{"Title":"What a pleasant surprise!","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Honestly, I thought it was impossible to make a Cinderella filmand make it mildly interesting, since this is a story thateverybody knows. When I first knew there was going to be a newversion of the celebrated fairy tale, all I could think was Asif we needed another one, but the trailers at the theatrereally caught my attention. So, when I finally saw the film Iwasn't prepared for such a delightful experience. The dialogue iswitty, the characters are complex and well written, and I thinkDrew Barrymore did a splendid job as Danielle. The supportingcharacters, like Jacqueline, Paulette or King Francis reallyworked for the storyline. Great movie! Bring your friends, bringyour kids or bring your grandmother. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable by all ages.","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  9 times, I never see a movie 9 times, but I did for Ever After.I think this is a movie that can be enjoyed by all ages and will become a classic.'A' for witty one-liners.'A' for Anjelica's facial expressions.'A' for music.'A' for costumes and location.'A' for detail. Did you notice the live white Gyr Falcon in Pierre Le Pieu's castle? "},{"Title":"Deceptive trailer","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reason I went to see Ever After was because the trailer used The Mummer's Dance - a haunting song by Loreena McKennitt.  But this song was not in the actual movie.  In fact the movie was more one for kids, and in no way reflected the mood of Mummer's Dance. Though I managed to sit through it, I felt cheated.  A further complaint though totally fictional, Ever After does a disservice to viewers in implying that the Cinderella story is only a few hundred years old.  On the contrary, the Cinderella theme is remarkable for its presence all over the world, and its great antiquity - probably thousands of years old. "},{"Title":"COULDN'T HAVE BEEN BETTER!!!!!","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the best movie!! Stellar performance by the entire cast!!! Very entertaining. The beginning and ending of the movie captivated me the most. Gorgeous costuming, sets, and lighting. Drew Barrymore is to be commended for her performance!!!!! I LOVED IT!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Almost missed it, but I'm so glad I didn't!","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It still amazes me how quickly this movie disappeared from theaters.  My fiance and I planned to see it while on vacation, but the theaters there had already pulled it in favor of BASEketball, or some other mindless drivel.Luckily, we have two 20 screen theaters back home, and had a chance to see it before it moved on.  We both agreed it was one of the best movies we had ever seen.  The perfect romantic movie.  It had humor, drama, and absolutely incredible sets, locations, and costumes.  Even if you don't get into romantic movies, the sheer beauty of the film will captivate you.This is one movie that I am counting down the days till it arrives on DVD... "},{"Title":"Cinderella will not be a fairy tale for ever after!","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever after ... A masterpiece of Romance, Adventure, and Comedy... An outstanding performance by Angelica Houston and Drew Barrymore. I recommend it for everybody...Watch it with family friends, or someone special ...you'll want to watch it again,and again and for ever after.  "},{"Title":"Ever After makes you believe that dreams come true.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a wonderful movie.  I loved everything about it.  Danielle was fiercely independent.  The best scene in the movie was without a doubt when Danielle asked the gypsies if she could have their word that she could take with her all she could carry and then proceeded to hoist up Prince Harry and walk off.Danielle is the strong person I aspire to be.  You knew that she was going to be ok, even if she didn't get the guy.  She got *herself* released from the goon who her evil stepmother sold her to.  And how sweet was her revenge.Drew Barrymore made this character come alive with her wonderful acting skill.  She brought Danielle from bold and vivacious to timid and meek in the blink of an eye, and then back again.Ever After makes you believe that dreams do come true and that you control your own fate. "},{"Title":"Captivating, Awesome, Spectacular movie","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a delight to watch, perfect for all ages and all people. Titanic pales in comparison.  The love story in Ever After is done wonderfully and it grows through witty banter.  The characters are far from shallow, and the story never slows.  This movie will be one of my favourites.  Go see it!!!  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The classic storyline shows just why fairy tales have been passed down through generations.  This incredible interpretation of the classic tale shows just what can be accomplished in movies.  This is a wonderful movie that I recommend everyone see. "},{"Title":"Mothers, take your daughters to this movie... NOW!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Full disclosure I was drinking beer when I watched this movie, so perhaps my defenses were weakened. I went to appease my girlfriend, whom I frequently drag to guy movies. But I really, really liked this movie. It's Cinderella, as you know, but without the magic. In place of the fairy godmother, there's Leonardo DaVinci. Barrymore's heroine is the best role model for girls I think I've ever seen in a movie. She does things for herself. She saves the day. She finds true love through being smart. It's a bright, funny, realistic twist on the old story, and it's about time someone came up with it. If I were a 13 year old girl, I'd think this was the greatest movie ever made. I'm twice that age, and I'm a guy, and I still think it was pretty darn good. "},{"Title":"The Best Ever","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I didn't want to go and see it I thought that it was for kids and that it would be another boaring fairy story, how wrong I was. It was excellent one of the best I have ever seen .Drew Barrymore was perfect to watch with her English accent and sweet smile.The part was written for her no one could have played it better. The film was funny nearly all the way through and some bits in it almost had me in tears. All I can say is go see it it is great!!! "}{"Title":"Fairy Tale Gone Awry","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie relies on a tried and true story line as the strong link holding this film up - thefairy tale story of boy finding and falling in love with girl.  I think something was lost in the translation - Am I on house arrest? for heaven's sakes how long has house arrest been a term that people are familiar with?  Also, Drew Barrymore could have exerted just a bit more effort into the role of Danielle. She pulled off a mediocre performance but the character was such a charming one and Drew Barrymore really is a talented actress- Danielle really could have been a GREAT character instead of just a good one.  All in all, though, I was able to lose myself in another era for a couple of hours and that was enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Overall Very good","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A re-hash of Cinderella, yes but done from a very different perspective. A strong female lead and a male lead lacking a direction and focus. The essence of the two characters is therefore changed very much from the fairy tale but IMHO this makes the film better. The Prince having the high station and struggling to find a role and define his life could be considered to be reminiscent of the current Prince of Wales, though I would not extend this analogy further to Danielle and compare that role with Diana.I found the portrayal of the Gypsies as being a culture of their own with their own standards as being similar to the portrayal in Tom Jones (The book, not the BBC serialisation) and it is a thought-provoking look at the differences between cultures causing clashes.The look back perspective and picture a blatant 'take' from Titanic, though this doesn't detract from the film.One glitch In the closing scene as the camera pulls away from the chateau watch for a white car/van moving in the right hand side mid-background. "},{"Title":"Captivating","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't prepared for this film to be so good!  What fantastic performances from Angelica Huston (especially) and Melanie Lynsky.  Just superb.  Perfect setting, just the right amount of romance and heartbreak.  I would definitely see this film again and again. "},{"Title":"Stop complaining and just enjoy it","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sure, we've seen it all before, the acting,the script wasn't all that great, but who cares? Just enjoy it, it's an entertainable movie. This is what people should go to the movies for, not bathroom comedy, sex, or to see the hottest star. This was an entertaining movie! Go see it! "},{"Title":"PG-13?","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After is a great family movie and is appropriate for all ages. Don't let the PG-13 rating fool you. Everyone walks out of the movie theater saying why was it rated PG-13? If you haven't seen it yet, go see it!! "},{"Title":"classy, old-fashioned, romantic, & surprisingly funny","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought ever after was one of the best films i have ever seen, and out of the ones i've seen this year, this i enjoyed the most. the cast was just excellent -- drew barrymore was perfect as danielle (cinderella's real name in this story), and this is undoubtedly one of her best performances ever. dougray scott was very impressive as prince henry, and anjelica huston couldn't have played the wicked stepmother better. the scenery is absolutely gorgeous, as are the costumes.ever after is a very, very well done film, and i guarantee you will be surprised, as this is no ordinary fairy tale. there are a lot of laughs, and you can't help but cheer danielle on in a certain part involving her, her stepmother, and one of her stepsisters. this is a film for anyone, of all ages. it has everything - action, laughs, drama, and of course, the love story, which isn't as rosy as it is depicted in other cinderella stories, particularly disney's version.i give ever after 9 out of 10 -- a must see film for anyone. ) "},{"Title":"Excellent father-daughter movie","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I took my 12 year old daughter to this movie and was pleased with the storyline and the content.  It was appropriate for her age and she absolutely loved it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie that tugs at the heart strings","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife was out of town and I was looking for a feel-good movie to while away my time.  I picked Ever After after reading a good review. Wow.  Drew Barrymore gets better with every movie she makes.  The writers dispensed with the usual rosy glow of fairy tales and instead painted a picture of love and maturity around a tapestry of multi-dimensional characters.  Angelica Houston is wonderful as a sometimes regretfull, always bitter woman whose own fairy tale was not to be, leaving her too twisted to recognize anyone else's opportunity.  Drew honestly left me breathless and the look on her face when she admits to her step mother that all she ever wanted was for her to be loved as a daughter made my heart bounce with sympathy and admiration for her courage and determination to say what she felt, even though she knew she faced total rejection.  I left the theater with a bounce in my step and rushed to call my wife, all those romantic feelings wishing she had been there with me to enjoy this wonderfully likable story.  Please go see this!  And take your significant other with you. "},{"Title":"That's right I'm a guy reviewing this","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's my love for Drew but I liked this.  It was a nice twist on the story and something that could have been a laughing stock of the summer turned out to be a nice little movie that audiences recognized by making it a hit.   drew is wonderful.  What ever made her change her life has worked as I feel she is hardly acting here that the warm caring self respecting person could not be faked.  although I don't know about prince charming maybe girls think he is but I didn't think he was some big stud.I give this a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Fairy Tale come true","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie. The story is so different but yet it still is the same old Cinderella which we all love. I think Drew Barrymore did an excellent job in the lead role. The rest of the cast were great too. I would definitly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys romance. "}{"Title":"MUST SEE MOVIE!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great. I loved it. It is a perfect ten. There were only two swear words and no nudity scenes. Drew Barrymore was absolutely perfect for the role. This movie is definatly a must see. "},{"Title":"If you liked Princess Bride, you'll love this movie!","Date":"15 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reminiscent of Princess Bride in a more serious light, this movie is great for kids but has a lot of dialogue that'll go right over their heads and make the adults giggle.  Much lighter and funnier than the previews would have us believe, though it has its darker moments.  Drew Barrymore was excellent, and there are differences between this tale and the traditional Cinderella stories that'll keep you intrigued.  Great movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This beautiful film, set in the lush South of France, immediately takes you into the past, into the castles and manors and palaces of a previous era.  And within five minutes, the cast of extremely talented characters has taken us into their lives, into their story.  Drew Barrymore, as Danielle, shows us what is undoubtedly one of her best performances ever as she breaks out of her wild party-girl mold and shows us that she can still act. Dougray Scott introduces us to Prince Henry, a delightful character who is thoroughly explored and does not remain a mystery without a name or a face. These are real characters with depth.  This is a film worth seeing, if not for the charming story and the wonderful acting, then at least for the absolutely beautiful scenery and costumes. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Surprise!","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you think that its impossible to make the Cinderella story engaging, see this movie! Ever After was fabulous. The acting, story line and scenery were wonderful. I found myself pleasantly surprised at how Drew Barrymore and company brought this story to life. If you have had enough explosions, computer graphics and boring plots for the summer, take a break and see this movie.  "},{"Title":"","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the type of movie I love to go see.  While not one I would nominate for any big awards, it kept me fully entertained for the entire movie experience.  I laughed, I cried, I was happy at the end - meets all my criteria for a cinema favorite. There were some nits here and there, but not much that took me completely out of the story.  I wasn't expecting the humor - that was a pleasant surprise.  It reminded me somewhat  (in my reaction to it) of the Princess Bride. A most enjoyable film... "},{"Title":"There's no fairytale here as Cinderella gets her prince.","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well worth the cost of a ticket, Ever After, is a very enjoyable and entertaining film. Based loosely on the Cinderella tale, this film with believable characters and no hocus-pocus, brings Drew Barrymore's character 'Danielle' to her prince. Angelica Huston as the wicked stepmother 'Rodmilla' delivers a deliciously sadistic performance, Dougray Scott as 'Prince Henry' is appropriately handsome, and Barrymore is a very pleasant surprise. Ever After has got to be one of her best performances; she is very believable and shows none of the rough edges of some of her other film portrayals, but rather portrays a character who has noble thoughts and feelings and really does care about the people around her. This film is appropriate for all ages, although the younger crowd will no doubt lose some of the clever touches of humor director Andy Tennant put into this film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!","Date":"25 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a summer of big monsters and comets-related flicks, it was a refreshing movie and a pleasant surprise. This is the best Cinderella version I have ever seen (there was no singing!). Drew Barrymore and Anjelica Houston were both great. GO SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my absolute favorite movie.  It has to do with the wit and life of it's characters and the timeless love story.  I love how the heroin is a strong, intelligent woman and not weak as she has been portrayed in the past, as the girl who will cry when she can't go to a dance as she sits waiting for her prince charming.  The prince (Dougray Scott) is also a deep character and he is not a complete stranger to the audience, not to mention he's major cute, intelligent, witty, etc., etc....  A stunning performance by everyone and Drew Barrymore is great, she just wins your heart!    "},{"Title":"Awesome Family Entertainment","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What really makes this movie come alive is the way they take the fairytale and put it into every day life, by removing the actual MAGIC but still leaving the spirit of the magic...thus creating a believable plot.  I also appreciated that they showed a brief human side to the evil step -mother.What matters to me most is that I can let my 7 year old daughter watch it and not worry about her being fed a bunch of gunck, but just good, wholesome quality entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie ****of *****","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a very interesting take on the Cinderella story. Since I am a hopeless romantic of sorts I thought this movie was very well done.  "}{"Title":"Worth the time and money to see...","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into the movie thinking that it was going to be just another cheesy little movie that screws up a wonderful fairy tale but Ever After was just the opposite. Drew Barrymore really carried the part of Danielle with elegance and emotion. The storyline was well written since it provided answers to all the questions that the original fairy tale left us with. Definitely worth getting when it comes out on home video. "},{"Title":"Cute, feisty, refreshing","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This version of the Cinderella story presents us with a modern Cinderella who throws apples at the Prince and pretends to be someone she is not.  But there is where the film disconnects.  If Cinderella is so liberated, why is she not able to take her stepmother down?  This is where the reality of the culture in which the story takes place and the fantasy of the film cannot work together.  Nice idea, though, but wrong century.   "},{"Title":"","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a guy and I like guy stuff; you know, sports, cars, yea... guy stuff.  Let me tell you though, this movie is really good, because it took a kids fairy tail that has always been fairly boring and unbelievable, and turned it into a real slice of life type story with real (not cardboard like) characters that you can care about.  I don't know whether it was a speck of soot or something that got in my face, but I felt welting moisture around my eyes at least a couple times during the show. "},{"Title":"You'll love this movie","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   From the beginning of the movie you are swept into the story and and the life of Danielle/Cinderella. It is a more dimensional version of Cinderella than we are used to. We learn what her life was like since childhood, why the stepmother hated her, we see her meet the prince and fall in love reluctantly, struggle with her deception and her feelings for him while longing to be with him forever. In the background, of course, still have the wicked stepmother and sisters who are  endeavoring to ensure that Cinderella does not live happily ever after. This Cinderella is a feisty one who will fight and protect those she loves and all she wants in return is love. The prince falls in love with her heart, mind and soul before he learns her real name. He isn't a perfect prince but he grows  through his relationship with Danielle. The cast is extremely good.I really did not believe anyone could remake Cinderella in a way that I would enjoy. This movie is my favorite of this year and I cannot wait to own a copy of it.What a great movie - from beginning to end wonderful entertainment and a true new classic in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies EVER!","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so so so good!  If you are reading this, you have gotta see this movie!  Drew Barrymore is fabulous!  It has the most hilarious and unexpected things in it!  *****!  2 thumbs, 8 fingers, and 10 toes up!  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Go see the Parent Trap instead","Date":"15 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie totally sucked, and if you want to see a better family  flick then go see the parent trap which is much better or the greatest  movie ever made, Saving Private Ryan. "},{"Title":"A beautiful re-telling of Cinderella","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cinderella has always been one of my favorite fairy tales, and now that they've  updated it, it's even better. Cinderella is a strong, confident woman,  who can stand up for herself. The scenery is gorgeous, the costumes  magnificent, the prince charming at times, and the stepfamily just wicked.   A nicely done movie, if I do say so.  "},{"Title":"The most entertaining movie so far this year","Date":"12 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie deserves no awards, it's somewhat corny, and the acting and  writing aren't the best.  That's what all of the critics are saying, and I  agree whole-heartedly.  But what they fail to mention is the fact that this  movie is still very well done, and SURPRISINGLY funny.  Of course critics  don't go to movies with the public so they don't get the experience of  having the crowd applauding and booing towards the screen.  This movie is  just fun to watch.  You find yourself laughing and clapping at silly parts  and at well worded puns.  You find yourself hating the stepmother and one  of the stepsisters.  And you find out the other stepsister is rather sweet.  "},{"Title":"A romantic tale of being free","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Danielle (Drew Barrymore) was wonderful.  Full of life, and as so many times  mentioned in the film spirit.  She even once said something she couldnt  do was fly.  Well she did, metaphorically anyway.  Cinderella was a  strong, confident and loving woman.  She had a light inside of her, and  Prince Henry (Dougray Scott) saw who she really was.  Wonderful.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever After was superb.  Drew Barrymore is excellent as Danielle.  The movie  really makes you hate her stepmother and stepsister.   At the end  everyone gets what they desire.  You will see what I mean ( I don't want to  give away the endng).  I went with both my friends and they also loved it.   It is a romance, drama, and comedy all in one.  This is a movie everyone  will enjoy. "}{"Title":"Worth the Time","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fantasy lovers may not care for this version but romantics everywhere will  like it. "},{"Title":"Go Drew!","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is fantastic to see Drew growing into her stardom.  She headlines this  movie and I only hope much more of this for her future.  Drew is too cool.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went thinking it was a chick flick and I suspect the men attending did too , but if the ones seated around me are any indication, they enjoyed it as  much as I did.  They were cheering, booing, etc.  It was remarkable that  this production could outdo Walt Disney.  Best Cinderella ever.  And  Angelica Huston, magnificent! "},{"Title":"How many times have I seen this movie?","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not good at writing reviews for movies, but I can tell you this.  I  found myself knowing the story before I even saw the movie.  The people  involved in this movie spent a lot of time and money making something that  was rather bland.  You want a Cinderella story, go watch the Disney  Animated Classic Cinderella. "},{"Title":"Cinderella turned Mulan","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"         Ever After is a charming movie based on the fairy tale Cinderella.  The basic story-line is the same except Cinderella's name is really  Danielle (Drew Barrymore), a brave and stubborn young lady.         Danielle's father dies three days after he marries Rodmilla (Anjelica  Houston), Danielle's new stepmother. Rodmilla brings two stepsisters for  Danielle, the beautiful Maguerite (Megan Dodds) who is a meanie, and the  chubby Jacqueline (Melanie Lynskey), who's really every nice. Danielle is,  of course, a servant in the household, sleeping by the fireplace and  getting soot all over her. The movie suggests that Danielle only stays with  her stepmother because she wants to be loved for she cannot remember being  loved by her mother. In this movie, the stepmother also really loved  Danielle's father.         Danielle meets Prince Henry (Dougray Scott) when she was picking  apples one morning. He as running away from an arranged marriage with the  Princess of Spain and to do that, he stole the horse that belonged to  Daniell's father. Later, she ran into him again, dressed as a courtier,  trying to save an old servant that Rodmilla sold to pay her debt.They  clicked (well, sort of, if you don't count those temper tantrums that  people who supposedly like eachother have in the movies). They got along  quite well until Rodmilla unmasks Danielle's true status in life at the  ball (or masque, whatever you want to call it).        Drew Barrymore scores a high one as Cinderella, though she can't keep  an English accent to save her life. She can switch quite well from being  sweet to angry and to sad. She makes a very lovely Danielle. Dougray Scott  makes a good hotheaded prince but nothing that people will remember for the  rest of their lives.  Anjelica Houston's portrayal of the stepmother, cold,  evil yet someone in pain over Danielle's father was really great,  especially,the way she raises her eyebrows. Also, the King, was a lovable  dumpling that got a few laughs.        Overall, the movie was a correct version of Cinderella. It was very  sappy and destroyed a few romantic parts (so it's a correct Cinderella,  but it's still a fairy tale!). Since there is such a big fuss over Mulan  being the heroine-not-in-distress, Danielle is definitely summer's second  Mulan.  It's still worth seeing though not worth seeing 5 times (Let's not  turn this into another Titanic!) "},{"Title":"Truly Remarkable Story Telling","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  	I went into ever after not really knowing what to expect at all.  But, what  I found was actually a remarkable piece of film making.  The cinematographer  in this film was beautiful.  Right down from the sweeping landscape shots  to the, well, Drew Barrymore.  I believe, of course this is only in my  opinion, that Drew Barrymore is one of the most beautiful actresses in  Hollywood today.  Many people would disagree on this with me .	So, I know that I have not gone into detail to this film, but you should see  it.  I give this film four stars on a five Star scale.	 "},{"Title":"It was so good!!!","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved Ever After A Cinderella Story!! Drew Barrymore was  sure a good Cinderella I am Glad she played that part!!! The  movie was so funny, When I saw it the whole theater was laughing...  I loved it and there is not much more to say about it!!! "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely Loved this movie!  When I first saw the commercials for it, I  thought it looked strange.  But my best friend wanted to see it, so I went  with her.  It turned out to be an excellent decision!  Everything in it  just fits together so perfectly.  The cast was wonderful, with some very  good performances.  I have seen this movie twice already, in the 5 days it's  been out.  I recommend it to everyone.  And one final thought for Prince  Henry (played by Dougray Scott) - he is Hot Stuff!  Hopefully we'll be  seeing much more of him in the future! "},{"Title":"","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a wonderful movie.  I have seen it twice and both times the movie  was sold out.  There was a great crowd in the theatre, everyone was  cheering and clapping.  I would recommend this movie to anyone.    "},{"Title":"","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I truly enjoyed the movie.......it was a mixture of a romantic tale, a  comedy, suspense, fairy tale etc, all combined into one amazing fable.  Although, many would have already figured out the plot before going in,  there are many details of the movie that they would further like watching.  The locations, costumes and medieval humour are bonuses to enjoy. Ever  after, is by far, one of the best movies of the year, too bad it had to  coincide with the release of Saving Private Ryan, otherwise it would be  number one for sure. Great performances by Drew Barrymore and Anjelica  Huston "}{"Title":"The Classic Story Without The Fairy Godmother","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are no pumpkin carriages, or even mice. No fairy godmother to deliver  Cinderella from the clutches of her evil step-mother. What you do get is a  pleasant, enjoyable, and real story. Good fun.   "},{"Title":"Cinderella for the 90's","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is excellent. It was quite refreshing to see a Cinderella story  where she doesn't rely on the prince to get her out of sticky situations.  Drew Barrymore is surprisingly good as Danielle, the Cinderella character.  Her co-star, Dougray Scott, portrays Prince Henry as a complex and  intellegent young man. He knows what he wants but is unsure how to get it.  What makes this film fun, though, is the evil stepmother Rodmilla and the  evil stepsister Margurite. (I don't consider Jacqueline evil because she  turns out to be a good person.) The scenes where these two scheme and pry  their way into the royal family are hilarious and their punishment is  deserved. In all, this movie is one to see over and over again.     "},{"Title":"A great movie!!","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was truly a great movie- it had plenty of laughs and really made the  viewer feel for Danielle's character. A great performance for Drew and it  made me want to see it again as soon as it was over! "},{"Title":"A modern Cinderella story","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Danielle's character - even if Barrymore isn't my image of  Cinderella - because it adds a modernity to the story.  Anjelica Houston is  great, her character isn't as bad as it seems at first, she just wants her  elder daughter to marry the prince and she'll do everything to make her  dream come true.  There are a few scenes where we can foresee that she has  to struggle too and that her life has not been easy.   "},{"Title":"Lotsa fun at the movies","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cinderella for the milennium -- this movie is way too much fun.  Interesting writing to update the story, drop-dead georgeous locations, great casting - - what more could you ask for?  A plot involving footwear!  This movie has it all. "},{"Title":"A real treat!","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. I had mixed feelings before I saw it. I thought it would be sappy and melodramatic. Was I ever wrong! I didn't expect to laugh as much as I did. It was also touching and romantic. I loved the way they updated and modernized some elements of the story without losing any of the romantic magic that made it such a classic. Drew Barrymore made a great princess(finally, a role worthy of her)! I also can't wait to see more Dougray Scott. Recommended to anyone who wants to leave the theater smiling. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was not expecting much from Ever After, but I was shocked when it turned  out to be one of my favorites of this year. The film is stunningly gorgeous,  with a perfect cast and a great script which turns a story line that has  been done to death into an original, fresh work.  I was very pleased that  Danielle was not the classic damsel in distress, but rather a character  that displays modern feminism.  The performances by Barrymore, Scott,  Huston are all superb. I also think recognition is deserved for Melanie  Lynskey, who played Jacqueline, the nice stepsister. Her performance is the  most entertaining, and she shines onscreen. It might be bias talking since  I feel her performance in Heavenly Creatures was one of the 90s'  best...but probably not. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie in So Many Ways","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film was beautifully done! Drew Barrymore keeps getting better with every film she does. Forget a delightful twist on an old story, this movie is better than any Cinderella adaptation I've ever seen. It's not just a  chick flick either because my father and brother thought it was terrific  (although the most tantalizing thing they saw in the movie was the mechanical wave maker at the masquerade ball!) I hope this movie will inspire more movie goers to films like these, because this was true entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Happily rolling along","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The surprising charm of this movie, is that it is fun. This is t= he most fun I've had in a theater in quite a long time. This differed from how much = I laughed at There's Something About Mary, for the simple of fact that I d= idn't feel bad about laughing here. This movie will make you smile, make you laugh, make you cheer, make you do everything that a fairy tale should. = The story has been told, and retold, but this is the most energetic retellin= g yet (Disney's was more romantic, but this one has more humor and fun). T= he characters are real, believable. Angelica Huston makes you want to boo h= er every appearance on screen (then again she, like Michael Douglas, can do that in her sleep, but she does it oh so well), Drew makes you want to cheer, or sigh, as you do for a heroine. The prince (played with confide= nt charming effectiveness by newcomer Dougray Scott) makes you cheer, and makes the women envious, and even swoon at times. I didn't expect to lau= gh as much as I did. It isn't just slapstick, physical humor either (althou= gh that exists) but some rather deep, intelligent smart humor that I didn't expect. The humor came from all angles, not even in excess, but rather t= o keep the movie from getting to serious about itself. Most of all, this movie never forgot it was a fairy tale. Whenever the storyline seemed to=  be getting mushy, intense, or emotional, here came the humor, or the one-li= ner, to bring the smile back. This movie will have the reverse effect of Saving Private Ryan, from this aspect. When you leave Private Ryan, you feel, as one friend of mine put=  it, like you're leaving a funeral. It was depressing, about a depressing and serious topic. But when Ever After is over, your face will hurt from smiling, and laughing so much. It makes you (to be cliché) feel-good= . Sure, there are flaws, Drew's accent slips, historically, they may make some mistakes, but you know what?. Who cares, it is fun, you can take ki= ds, you can go as adults and not be ashamed, and you can leave with a smile, and energy in your heart.  "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie at a sneak preview with my friend.  What a wonderful movie. Drew Barrymore was terrific as Danielle, a girl pushed into servitude after her father dies unexpectedly.  Anjelica Huston was suitably creepy as the evil stepmother, and it was great to see her get what she deserved in the end!  The evil blonde stepsister was detestable, and the other sister turned out to be a sympathetic character, which was a nice change.  Leonardo DaVinci was a welcome change as the fairy godmother-type.  Very funny, well acted, sword fights, babes, dudes, what more could you want?  I hope to see more of Dougray Scott in the future! "}{"Title":"A refreshing twist on a classic tale","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed Ever After. I went to see a sneak preview with a couple of friends on a spur of the moment thing. We sat in the audience and laughed and cried, all at the appropriate times. Drew Berrymore was great as the mousy Danielle. Her step sisters were detestable, for most of the film, but you felt sorry for them just enough to remember that they were human. And Anjelica Huston is one bad woman. She was superb and scary and wonderful. I would hate to have her as my mommy... The film was non-stop enjoyment. It was romantic without being too sappy and funny without over doing it. And one last word on Prince Henry, played by Dougray Scott... woah baby. He is super fine. I highly recommend this movie to anyone.  "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a classic children's tale told through the eyes of an adult! I can't read the story to my daughter now without thinking of this movie! Whenever I need my heart warmed, I watch this one! Yeah, it's sappy and a true chick flick, but the story is classic and it's told in a way most of us have never thought of it before! I think Drew Barrymore is convincing and sweet in this movie. She shows the conviction necessary to make you love her character. Angelica Houston, as always, plays a great villainess as the evil step mother! She's so great at being mean without getting ugly. And I really would love to see Doug Scott in something else! I can't tell if he's really stuck up or just a great actor. Either way he's convincing as well. "},{"Title":"A Charming Twist on Cinderella","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is a wonderful tale about the fictional true inspiration for Cinderella.It opens with The Brothers Grimm approaching a very wealthy, old woman to find out what Cinderella is really about. The lady tells the tale of her grandmother, Danielle, a strong-willed girl placed in terrible circumstances.Danielle isn't a damsel in distress like in typical fairy tales. She's determined to take charge of her life and isn't afraid to ask for help along the way. Danielle has a Scarlett O'Hara style of determination to save her home and take care of the people she cares about.I usually don't enjoy Drew Barrymore, but she is quite delightful as Danielle. There are lots of laughs and some very cruel moments doled out by an evil stepsister and mother played by Anjelica Houston.The costumes are beautiful and the characters are fun and interesting. There's even the appearance of da Vinci with his crazy contraptions.I recommend Ever After for romantics. I'm an adult and I very much enjoy the film. I find it to be good to show to the teenage girls in my family. It's also nice to have play in the background when I have girlfriends over and we work on sewing projects together. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie, although I have to ask the perhaps obvious question if the characters were French, why did everyone have a British accent? However, I did appreciate the tomboy-ish twist Drew Barrymoore gave to the ever-so-sweet yet laxadasical Cinderella. The plot line was intricate, involving the emotions to which we who live in the 21st century can relate.Romance, rebellion, loyalty, and sibling rivalry all play a part in Ever After. There are also very quotable lines (I would rather die a thousand deaths than...)that exemplify the fiery temper of Cinderella. All in all, I say to the writers, directors, and actors-actresses, good job! "},{"Title":"A romantic movie","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like this movie's bits and pieces like the costumes. And I like this story, scenery and actresses. This movie has a happy ending. This is a romantic drama. It likes a Cinderella story, but it is different a little. The stepmother and her daughters overworked Cinderella is the same as the original story. In the beginning, the Grimm brothers were invited by a lady. A lady taught a story to them. The main character, Daniel, is tough, has spine, and is excellent. Thomas More's Utopia is the key. Her father gave her this book as a remembrance of her. Daniel met the prince in the open air. But Daniel has a lot of problems. The stepmother and her daughters disturb Daniel some points. They burned her treasure, her father's memory. It shocked her. The reason why I like this movie is this movie's story is different from the original Cinderella story. So, the main character, Daniel, is a very strong woman, and she tried to catch happiness by herself. It is very cool and I long for her. In the original Cinderella story, the main character, Cinderella is passive. She was became happy by the princes, the witch, mice, birds, and other animals. I also long for Cinderella, but Daniel is cooler than Cinderella, I think. I want woman become like a Daniel, I think. "},{"Title":"A magical Cinderella story, with the perfect prince charming, evil step mother and step sisters. This movie is the true Cinderella story.","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie does not fail to provide the viewer with fantastic acting, drama, romance and a hint of comedic elements. It is rich in heartfelt messages, and is truly, i believe the best Cinderella story ever made. Drew Barrymore is fabulous as Cinderella and her prince does not fall short of the 'charming' title. Angelica Housten is a marvel to watch as she provides a compelling performance of the evil step mother. I am a great fan of this movie, and day to day, see myself quoting it. This movie is truly a sweet and delectable film for all the hopeless romantics out there! I find no fault with this movie, 10!!!! I cried, laughed, sneered, judged, felt disgust, felt enchanted, sincerity and all other emotions that come with a magical movie! "},{"Title":"See it for Anjelica Huston","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After A Cinderella Story is by no means a contemporary classic. It doesn't even fall under the category of a great contemporary romance. However, it does contain a wonderfully nasty and funny performance from Anjelica Huston.Drew Barrymore plays Danielle, the Cinderella of the story. Right off hand I felt the filmmakers could have chosen a better actress. Barrymore is just okay, and never has impressed me very much in her film career (her best performances remain E.T., Mad Love and Riding In Cars With Boys). Also, while she may fall under the Cute department, she is not gorgeous, and I always presumed Cinderella had to be fine. That may sound more like the male ego swarming out of me, but for two hours I'd rather see Denise Richards prancing around in slave rags then Drew Barrymore.But I digress. Danielle's father marries Huston in the beginning of the film, but then suffers a heart attack. Because his last words are to Barrymore and not Huston, Huston turns her into a servant. She will now live to serve and obey Huston and her two daughters. As time passes, we enter their lives and it is here that the humor of the movie is at it's best. Huston is given some very cruel and witty lines to throw at Barrymore when she is serving them breakfast, including Some people read because they cannot think for themselves. And even gets a dis to her own plumper daughter Don't speak unless you can IMPROVE the silence! Hilarious. It is the comedic timing of Huston (and those great eyes) that bring Ever After to a slightly higher level.The whole movie takes place in France, even though everyone walks around speaking in British accents. And since this movie released in 1998, it's given a feminist spin to it- Danielle isn't some gawking idiot, but actually someone who (gasp) loves to read. She also disguises herself as a Countess to help free some slaves that once worked for Huston, and here encounters the Prince. So it's a whole 'Pretend you're wealthy even though you're poor' routine.We all know eventually Danielle will win the Prince's hand, though I rather enjoyed how it's handled- Huston and her 'horrible' daughter are given a great punishment from the King and Queen, and Danielle actually rescues herself from captivity before the Prince asks for her hand in marriage. Along the way we're treated to mushy love scenes between Danielle and the Prince, and then funny parts when Huston comes in (She says How dare you! a lot, but its bearable). "},{"Title":"Angelica Huston is terrific in this new twist on the Cinderella legend...","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The best thing about EVER AFTER are the performances of Drew Barrymore, Dougray Scott and, most of all, Angelica Huston as the deliciously evil wicked stepmother. Good chemistry between Barrymore and Scott helps keep the female fans interested in the slowly developed romantic interest, and an appreciation for costumes, settings and photography broadens the appeal for everyone else.But it's by no means perfect. First of all, it can't make up its mind whether it's a modern parable, an old-fashioned love story, a comic soap opera or all of the above. At times the dialog has an anochronistic slant, much too modern to be spoken by characters in period costumes that look authentically medieval.And there are portions of the film that simply sag and stay stifled until some new twist comes along. But evidently young romantics find it the answer to their dreams as long as Drew Barrymore and Dougray Scott find their way toward a happy ending, even without a glass slipper. Both young players deserve meatier material but certainly have enough charm to keep the flimsy story entertaining enough. "},{"Title":"Fun, Feisty Cinderella Update","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After is fun as an updated, feisty Cinderella story, though that she never needs rescuing by the Prince is almost carried too far (she became an expert swordsperson by age 8?).The audience was mostly teen dates. I guess guys would enjoy looking at Drew Barrymore, who is not at her best quoting Thomas Moore's Utopia, but is otherwise sweet.Angelica Huston has the evil step-mother patented, but this one even turns out to have been a victim of a cold mother herself who could have been saved by her love for Cinderella's father if he'd lived longer. Yeah the Prince is a bit bland, but gosh how many movies have I sat through where the female love interest is all visual and little else (The she was the weakest part of Braveheart for example.) And Barrymore's character shakes the Prince out of bland lethargy into intellectual activism. Interesting that the nasty neighbor with designs on Barrymore actually is the only one who appreciates her spirit; there was a Taming of the Shrew implication there. There's a jarring closing ersatz Celine Dion song at the end co-written by Dave Stewart and sung by the band Texas. The most appropriate song of course was already used for Princess Bride, by Willie deVille. (originally written 8/1/1998) "},{"Title":"Couldn't the screenplay be better?","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Actually It is surprising to me when I finish watching this film and look it up in IMDb and find so many comments singing high praise to it.It is really a strong beginning, when I see Danielle's father dying, he chooses to say I love you to Danielle but not his new wife, I reckon there're rich sub text in this moment and it is full of humanity, that shows the man's last worry about the daughter, his thinking or timid(is that the word?) about his new wife, I was touched, I thought there would be some interesting adaptation in it and that could possibly make the fairytale into a more realistic story about human and love.I think the director did have the ambition to make this into a masterpiece, wonderful cinematography, charming costume and excellent proficient cast. Even the DVD menu design was the style that can amaze me. But the story doesn't seem to go on this way.Suddenly time passed with a simple voice-over, where I suppose a couple of life details of Danielle living with her step family can be cut in, to make the story's background richer and provide more preparation or reasons for the later behaviors of these four women. I always think there must be some jealous or fear in Baronese, whose husband died 2 weeks after she moved into a new land, and barely showed any attaching to her before death, which contributed, in some way, to the twisted step-mother she becomes later. As the details are not told, feeling changes of the step family are not suggested, Danielle's longing to mother-love becomes a bit of a sudden when she expresses it later in the story, though it's yet understandable. Anyway if some incidents early in their life, when Danielle and her step-sisters are young, can be told in the film, which tells the development of their different emotions to each other, the story will be better looking.I have to say the insert of Da Vinci is a pretty design, and when Danielle carries Prince Henry away in front of Gypsies the story becomes very interesting, there're also some thoughts of the screen writer (or maybe director) can be seen there that some philosophy and academic debating will give more sense of history and loyalty to the story as its background is like- The development of Prince's love to Danielle is not yet sufficient, actually that feeling seems come out of no where. I have to say that I was expecting a classic moment or an extremely beautiful shot that pushes the feeling up, but it doesn't appear either. Which makes me feel a bit lost all the way through- are there something missing? To tell how a love story starts there are many ways, sometimes it takes long sometimes it just need one scene of acting, but none has been used here I feel.I watched it again when I saw so many positive comments and I still feel those shortcomings I mentioned above are true, though I do enjoy watching it and I wouldn't mind watching it again; as a girl I think , can always please herself by watching a Cinderella story. ) "}{"Title":"Disney created a better Cinderella than this!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Drew Barrymore plays Cinderella and doesn't play it well. Sure she's beautiful and a good actress, but the storyline  is just blah! I also must say that  i don't remember the mortifying strong language this website described, but i do remember being bored out of my mind and thinking what's the point of this movie? I wouldn't see it if i were you! "},{"Title":"Prince Henry...Ooooh!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great adaptation of the story by the Grimm Brothers.  Drew Barrymore, one of my favourite actresses impresses me with her wit and innocence in this role.  Dougray!  O Gosh!  This man is a hunk and looks so good in the role of the confused, and always charming, Prince.  This is one of my all time favourites.  I shall not yield!  Indeed!  I'll end by adding... ...you have more conviction in one memory than i have in my entire being...  Let us all DROOOOOL! "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie took a lot of my energy and strength to see. I sat there. For what seemed like hours by the hours by the hours on end. It didn't end. And on top of that, the acting was so poorly done, it just irritated me. I usually really appreciate Drew Barrymore a LOT, but I really don't think she should have ever even considered playing this role. It's not her fault, but the movie, plainly, stunk. Don't waste your time. Please. "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A much better tale then the older versions, although quite corny at moments, it still had something beautiful about it. Maybe I was in a sappy mood but I really enjoyed this movie... Drew is a Goddess, I've loved her since E.T. "},{"Title":"Quite amusing","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, so we all know the story behind Cinderella.  The surprise isn't the plot.  The surprise is the way the story is told!  I could have never pictured Cinderella as a strong-willed, liberated woman. Hurray! "},{"Title":"Cinderella revisited (and revised)","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Cinderella tale revised (and some may say improved upon) by turning the title character into a 16th Century servant girl with a feisty spirit, an educated mind, and a fearsome right hook! Drew Barrymore vacillates between victimized puppy, coy young woman and pre-feminist challenger in the lead, convincing the Prince of France that she's of nobility while captivating him with her inner-strength; still, she's fetching, despite an uneven accent and too many movie-star close-ups of her self-conscious smile. Anjelica Huston is perfectly fine as the hissably evil stepmother (she's appropriately contemptible without stepping over into camp) and Dougray Scott is the twinkling Prince (with an over-sized codpiece which seems like a sight-gag nobody took note of). Lovely locations and production design, though the film disappoints by cheating us out of two very important moments--an escape and a ceremony--and by stretching this tale out a tad too long. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Based on ... a real fairytale.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Grimm brothers would leave their graves if they could see what was done to their wonderful and magic story of Aschenputtel with this film. The search for the foot fitting the lost shoe, which is a central element in the original, was cruelly reduced to a near-sexual ritual. The persons are set in actual countries, not magic kingdoms, and the whole atmosphere is clearly not fairytale-ish (There is even cement between the bricks!). The introduction of Leonardo da Vinci as the newcomer, a commoner by birth who - as he is a genius - has the power to change traditions is completely idiotic. Why? Hey, this is a fairytale! There are no real persons by definition! However, kids will love it, if they have not been read the original story. It's the same as in Die unendliche Geschichte (1984). Great filming, but a very, very bad adaption from the book. Hence, the actors do a very good job, especially Drew Barrymore, Anjelica Huston, Megan Dodds (who plays as if born and raised to that part) and Melanie Lynskey. Well, watch it, anyway - this is just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Two excellent actresses stuck in a mediocre empowerment fable","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have absolutely no problem with a revisionist, feminist retelling of the Cinderella story in which the heroine is a more assertive and self-reliant character -- as long as it's well done.  The problem is that well done is not a phrase I would use with regard to Ever After.  I suppose it's an OK movie if you're a 13-year-old girl, but it is an insult to the intelligence of any adult viewer, male or female.The movie is ALMOST worth seeing for the wonderful performances of the radiant Drew Barrymore as Danielle (the Cinderella character) and the deliciously wicked Anjelica Huston as the stepmother, Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent.  (Then again, I saw it on cable and didn't even pay the price of the rental.)  But these fine talents are wasted by an inane script with banal dialogue, characters who are both improbable and trite, and absolutely no sense of historical reality.I understand, of course, that this is not a historical film and is based on a fairy tale.  Yet the filmmakers chose to move it to a concrete setting in 16th Century France, and to introduce such real-life characters as King Francois I and Leonardo da Vinci.  If they do that, they should make at least a minimal effort to strive for some historical accuracy.  Yet the royal couple behaves more like modern upper-middle-class American parents; what we get here is a family with all the glamour of royalty and none of its class prejudices.  There's also a lot of confusion about the heroine's social status.  She is repeatedly described as a commoner, yet her name is Danielle de Barberac; the de is generally a signifier of nobility.  In fact, normally under the laws of that time, if the Baroness had married a commoner, she would have assumed her husband's status and become a commoner herself (and if Danielle was a commoner, so was her father).I don't mind Cinderella being reinvented as feisty, independent or educated.  However, when she is turned into an intellectual, a champion of social justice, AND an amateur athlete and swordwoman all wrapped into one ... well, that's a bit much.*** SPOILERS AHEAD***I can accept the scene where Danielle rescues Prince Henry from the gypsies by hoisting him on her back and walking off (after the gypsy leader promises that she can leave with anything she can carry).  In fact, I don't know if the filmmakers knew this but this scene resembles an allegedly true story from the Middle Ages when a city was under siege by an enemy force, and as part of the terms of surrender, the leader of the enemy forces promised to let all the women leave town, taking away anything they could carry.  The women walked out of the city carrying their husbands on their backs.On the other hand, the scene where Danielle gets away from the evil aristocrat to whom the stepmother has sold her as a slave is simply laughable.  She holds a rapier to his throat, forces him to hand over the key to the shackles he has put on her, and simply walks out of his castle free as a bird.  How ridiculous.  The moment the rapier wasn't at his throat anymore, he would have simply either run after her, tackled her and thrown her to the ground, or called his servants who would have grabbed her.  I guess it was so important to make sure that she wasn't rescued by the prince but rescued herself that reality could fall completely by the wayside.  "},{"Title":"Great Addition to the Fairy Tale Genre","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am usually wary of films based on fairy tales; with the exception of the brilliant animated classics of the Disney studio and the occasional musical (Rodgers and Hammerstein's version of this very story), most of them are boring at best and dreadful at worst. So it was a delightful surprise to experience EVER AFTER A Cinderella STORY, a film that brings a refreshingly feminist sensibility to the main character without violating the fantasy.We all know the story Cinderella (named Danielle here and beautifully played by Drew Barrymore) lives with her nasty stepmother (Angelica Huston, looking like a cobra) and her two stepsisters, Marguerite (Megan Dodds) and Jacqueline (Melanie Lynskey). Her father is dead, and her stepmother has relegated her to the status of household servant. Her stepsisters are not equally nasty Marguerite is as bitchy and spoiled as her mother, but Jacqueline is made of softer stuff and tries to make Danielle's life easier, though she isn't strong enough to actually defy her terrifying mother (at least not until the end of the picture).Of course, the core of the film is the romance between Danielle and Prince Henry (Dougray Scott); when they first meet she quotes from Sir Thomas More's UTOPIA, one of the few possessions of her father's that she has left; the prince is not only struck by her beauty, but fascinated that a commoner (and a woman at that, though this is left unsaid) can quote from great literature. Danielle hides her identity from the prince; when he asks her name she gives him the name of her deceased mother.I don't need to go into details. A few plot devices have been added, which is fine because this is the sort of tale that was probably passed on from mother to child in an oral tradition long before anyone put pen to paper. Drew Barrymore's Cinderella is not only breathtakingly lovely, she's fiercely intelligent and possessed of an iron will. Prince Henry is a refreshingly real character; in his first encounter with Danielle he reveals his contempt for commoners and is sharply instructed by Danielle, which does not make him angry but only fascinates him the more. The rest is mostly intact the ball, the Prince's discovery of Danielle's true identity, and his almost-marriage to a most unwilling Spanish princess in what is easily the funniest scene in the whole film.The cast is uniformly magnificent, though the accents are a bit variable. Aside from Huston, Barrymore, and Megan Dodds, all of the principal actors are some form of British (Dougray Scott is Scottish and was trained in Wales and Melanie Lynskey is from New Zealand). Of the Americans in the cast, Megan Dodds pulls off the English accent the best; in fact I was quite surprised to learn she was born in California. Barrymore's accent is adequate; the passion she brings to the role more than makes up for minuscule patterns of speech. Huston's accent is more Upper West Side NY aristocracy than anything else, but again, the actress throws herself into the role with a gusto that makes the rest easy to overlook.Also on hand is one of my favorite English character actresses, Judy Parfitt (DOLORES CLAIBORNE), who plays the Queen of France as a delightfully human woman, who loves her son and wants only the best for him, and also loves her husband enough that she can laugh and tease him, but when necessary she becomes regal, icy, and every inch the Queen, whom one can imagine yelling OFF WITH HIS/HER HEAD!!This sort of film is risky territory, because the tales we remember from childhood often remain vivid in our minds and it's a rare film that can take whatever liberties the writers and director take and still be pleasing. This one is probably one of the best; it is beautifully written, acted, and photographed, the costumes are sumptuous, and the writers cleverly inject enough comic relief to keep the mood light.As romances go this one hits a home run. "},{"Title":"Cin-Drew-ella","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Drew Barrymore's way of showing the Prince that she loves him is to throw apples at his pompous noggin.As the Cinderella of this Renaissance, Drew's rotten step-mother is Anjelica Huston who plays herself - an ugly ogre, while Drew pursues her Prince Charming concomitantly fighting off sibling rivalries Megan Dodds and Melanie Lynskey.The film-makers felt the movie would not be complete without an opportunity for Drew to tell off her step-mother informing her in no uncertain terms that she is a worthless piece of garbage, instead of having Drew say nothing and walking away with dignity.Sappy, but Drew is cute as usual. "}{"Title":"Delightful retelling of a classic fairytale!","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is beautiful, and I am not just saying that. The cinematography and costumes(especially Danielle's swan dress) was gorgeous, especially in the ballroom scene. I loved the fact that they made it 16th century, that was really clever. The music was so beautiful, that at times I was reduced to tears. Now for the characters. Drew Barrymore, with an excellent English accent, has never been more beautiful as feisty servant Danielle, and the twists Andy Tennant put in allowed the romance of her and Dougray Scott(also excellent) to shine even brighter. Angelica Huston was deliciously evil as Rodmilla the evil stepmother, and Patrick Godfrey was surprisingly good as Leonardo Da Vinci. The stepsisters were also a delight to watch. The witty dialogue had some truly funny bits, like the scene in the woods, and some tearjerkers, the death of Danielle's father. The introduction of the Grimm Brothers was also great. All in all, I highly recommend this movie to all those who love romance. 10/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"This movie had many inconsistencies but well worth the watch","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though this movie had many inconsistencies, I felt the acting was priceless. Everyone was credible. It is a silly tale, but every once in a while, people need to be reminded to look for what's inside a person (not outside) and not, as they say in the movie, define someone as what they are but rather who they are. As an English teacher, I'm very disappointed in Drew Barrymore's inability to recognize that the phrase, I could care less, (while she's flying the kite) is incorrect. As most English majors or minors know, to say I could care less, is incorrect usage of our priceless English language. Almost everyone makes this mistake and I'm sick of it!! Learn from this, Drew! The proper phrase is, I COULD NOT care less! In other words, if she cared less, then she would care less about something else! Most people, no matter how bright they are, will continue to misuse this phrase. Oh, well. The movie was entertaining. The best part is when Danielle picks Henry up and carries him off instead of vice-versa. I loved the humor in that. Anjelica, as always, is an astounding actress. I suppose she can do any role. Oh, and I want to thank that ONE person who did not agree with me....thanks....you're obviously lacking in the English language as well. lol. "},{"Title":"Revisionist Cincerella","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This version of the Cinderella story does much to include the contemporary events of the time of the fairytale, but it also does much to include the Political Correctness that infects the world today.The Cinderella story is based on The Cinder Maid by Joseph Jacobs, which can be found at the following link http//www.pitt.edu/~dash/type0510a.htmlIf the Cinderella of the movie existed, and behaved as Drew Barrymore portrayed her, she would have been executed for impertinence many times over. Women of the time in the story were nothing like she was portrayed. "},{"Title":"beautiful and engaging","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not only is this film really beautiful to look at (sets, locations, costumes, cinematography), the story is really engaging and the pacing is perfect. Drew Barrymore's performance is delightful and her character is much fuller and more interesting than your typical Cinderella. There are several really entertaining and humorous scenes, and some interesting treatments on the old theme such as Leonardo DaVinci instead of a fairy godmother. Anjelica Huston's performance is expectedly excellent, as well. Since the story is primarily a romance you might think of this as a chick flick, a genre that I rarely have any patience for. But the creative details in the story and characters make this a particularly satisfying romance even for those who avoid the genre. "},{"Title":"romantic Cinderella story","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the movie of Cinderella story that everyone know. It's simply awesome!I think this is one of Drew's best movies. It's really romantic movie. The costumes and story and acting are all wonderful. Also music is fantastic. The characters are believable and it is a great movie to watch. This is a heart-warming story so you can enjoy it. This movie is worth watching and one that you can actually show your family. Cinderella is a positive role model as a strong, independent female. I do recommend this movie!!! You feel happy watching ever after. "},{"Title":"All-around fantastic","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This may be a romance, but it honestly appeals to everyone. It's also one of very few movies I can watch over and over again without getting tired of it. The humor is adorable, and despite my distaste for some of the actors (Drew Barrymore included), they all did a great job. There isn't a great deal of realism involved - aside from the fact that it's a retelling of the fairy tale Cinderella, the main characters speak in British accents, despite supposedly being French. My European history is also quite rusty, so I have no idea whether the royalty in the film is appropriate for the time period. The story, however, can be applied to any time period and any situation; its accuracy is fairly irrelevant and easy to overlook.I've shown this to a number of guys who hate 'chick flicks', and I have yet to get a negative response. Ever After is not a film just for girls - it's a story for dreamers. "},{"Title":"Cinderella ...minus the magic.","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the story of Cinderella...as if it really happened. As if it was history, instead of a fairy tale. No mice who sew dresses, no Fairy Godmother, no pumpkin carriages,...none of that kind of magic. But...somebody needed to wave a magic wand in the production studio to make the story flow better in my opinion. I really did like how they weaved Leonardo Da Vinci into the story, and the costumes were gorgeous! The acting was fantastic, especially Barrymore and Huston, despite a rather trite and choppy script. The story fell flat...and even dragged in parts. There was no transition between scenes...they kind of jumped from one scene to another, and it got confusing after a bit.However, just like the classic fairy tale, Danielle (Drew Barrymore) wins the heart and hand of her prince, and they live happily ever after.In short It's no LORD OF THE RINGS. But if you want a historical take on the Cinderella tale, you might actually enjoy EVER AFTER.I give this one 5/10. "},{"Title":"This Movie is so good","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Ever After. Drew Barrymore is a real good actress. see the movie! Who The Hell cares if it s a little outdated. It rocks. I've seen it about five times. It may be another version of Cinderella, but it's a good one. It's not like she works and prince charming comes galloping along at the grand ball. It has more to the movie than that. it got great extra details. It's the best Cinderella i've seen. I love Ever After. Drew Barrymore is a real good actress. see the movie! Who The Hell cares if it s a little outdated. It rocks. I've seen it about five times. It may be another version of Cinderella, but it's a good one. It's not like she works and prince charming comes galloping along at the grand ball. It has more to the movie than that. it got great extra details. It's the best Cinderella i've seen. I love Ever After. Drew Barrymore is a real good actress. see the movie! Who The Hell cares if it s a little outdated. It rocks. I've seen it about five times. It may be another version of Cinderella, but it's a good one. It's not like she works and prince charming comes galloping along at the grand ball. It has more to the movie than that. it got great extra details. It's the best Cinderella i've seen. "},{"Title":"Great Re-Creation of Cinderella!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"                    All the Barrymore's were my favorite stars, John, Ethel, and Lionel, however, Drew Barrymore is following in her families footsteps and even rising to higher goals.   The film location and photography was perfect and Angelica Huston(Baroness Rodmilla DeGhent),Daddy Day Care,03 was a very wicked and heartless step-mother to Drew Barrymore (Danielle De Barbarac),Duplex,'03, who turned out to be Cinderella. This film is not just the typical story about Cinderella and even  Leonardo da Vinci played by Patrick Godfrey,My Brother Tom,01, gave a great performance with his art work and contraption that can walk on water!   This is a very enjoyable and entertaining film and if you love Drew Barrymore, it is a MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"Excellent retelling of a classic tale","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being the father of a nine-year-old girl, I expect I have to face the fact that I'll be watching a lot of fantasy romances. It's too bad that most of them won't be as good as Ever After.In this retelling of the Cinderella story, sans magic, Drew Barrymore stars as the downtrodden but feisty stepdaughter of the deliciously evil Anjelica Huston. Sure, there are plot holes, and problems with logic (what's the French court doing out in the countryside, anyway?), but who cares? Ever After overcomes any objection I might otherwise have had with charm, sweetness, and heart.Effortless direction, sterling performances and a lush score help to breathe life into an old story. But the real star here is the writing. It takes skill to turn such a well-known tale into something fresh and new. The idea of having the visiting Leonardo da Vinci (played to perfection by Patrick Godfrey) serve as the fairy godmother was brilliant, and the denouement, where Huston's evil stepmother is brought low, is wonderfully done.The only possible sour notes in this film are Dougray Scott as a rather flat prince, and Megan Dodds who, as the wicked stepsister was way, way over the top.8/10  "}{"Title":"Whoa, was THIS a surprise!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had absolutely no intention of watching this film...ever...in my entire life.  I mean, how many Cinderella stories can one take in their lifetime. But I gotta tell ya, you can open your heart up to one more. This is it.A wonderful reworking of the tale in a way that is plausable and understandable. Everyone in this film was wonderful! The Stepsisters were just..human! The Stepmother was really a Stepmother and not an overblown characture, The Prince was an a-hole but what man at any point can't be, the fairy god-person was unorthodoxed, and our little Cinderella was FAR from meek! I loved this version more than Pretty Woman. I laughed, I cried, I enjoyed with happened to the stepmother! This film is just a big surprise. I recommend it highly for viewing over and over again for hopeless romantics, for those who wish to see a mis-matched class love story, for fantasy, just for fun. Good Re-Working, Good Show! "},{"Title":"Couldn't sit through the rest","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched less than the half of this movie. Luckily, I rented it, so it was easier to stop watching it. Starting with the old lady's words What is that phrase you use... Once upon a time I knew I wouldn't like the film. I mean, that phrase really tells you it's gonna be a sappy movie. And i hate sappy movies. I don't give it a rating. It would be unfair since I didn't watch it all (though I really doubt it could have got better). "},{"Title":"An unremarkable movie !!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm very surprised about all of the good things that i've heard about this movie!!Nothing separates it from all of the other Drew Barrymore  vehicles.This film just proves that A film director has to do something with his material and not just go by the book.It also shows how lame all of these films are that re-tell  classic stories.The real Cinderella story is so much better,the filmmakers should have just have told it instead.  "},{"Title":"To long and old is sucked","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was to long and boring, the language that they used made it hard for me to understand.  The plot is freaking gay, like that would ever happen in a million years.  The only reason I wanted to see that movie and did, is because Drew Berrymore is feine.  Even though just about all of her movies suck except for the wedding singer. "},{"Title":"I could not bear it","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The contrived French? accents were tolerable... but as soon as we were introduced to Leonardo Da Vinci? as the amicable artist....  Yikes!  The painting rescued by the prince was supposed to be the Mona Lisa... rolled up all neat in a canvas, the real Mona Lisa is painted on wood.  And, genuis that he was, Da Vinci was not a teddy bear... at that point I had to stop watching. "},{"Title":"An anti-climactic, and frankly, overrated movie.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yawn. Some decent acting, but the story is anti-climactic and lacks the powerful pull of Anne of Green Gables. It does have a good ending, but the overall story didn't captivate my attention. Worth a watch to say you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Can I have my four dollars back and just wait for it to come to HBO?","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a good movie.  That is really all I can think to say.  Nothing in the movie really popped out at me as being great.  The dialogue was good at times, but really lagged most of the time too.  A bird could love a fish, but where would they live?  Come on.  How many times have we heard lines like that?  Usually only in the movies that we all love to make fun of for saying stuff like that (anyone remember the one-liners from Batman and Robin?  shudder).  Anjelica Huston was good in it, but it was far from her best role yet.  This is one of those movies that you hear is good, but you leave the theater wishing that you had gone to see something else instead and just waited for this one to be the HBO Friday Night movie that you watch only when you don't have something else to do that night, so can I please have my money back? "},{"Title":"I own Princess Bride.  I will not own this movie.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Decent, although I wasn't overly inspired.  Drew Barrymore's acting was passable, I still haven't decided whether or not to like her.  Anjelica Huston was wonderful to watch -- very expressive and funny.  I appreciated all the other actors, many of whom have appeared in only a few other movies. Marguerite (Megan Dodds) was deliciously conniving, the like of which I've only seen in North and South with Terri Garber as Ashton Maine.Funny twist  Leonardo da Vinci as the fairy godmother.I own Princess Bride.  I will not own this movie.  But, it was worth renting when my husband was gone.  "},{"Title":"Nothing to write home about...","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When a classic story is re-told, most people already know how it ends. Where Ever After went wrong was that it knew where it was going, and it knew that we knew where it was going, unfortunately it took two hours to get there. It had the potential to be a great film with the supporting cast it had. Drew Barrymore is surprisingly likeable, Anjelica Huston is perfectly hateable. Unfortunately all the characters were stuck in a very formulated plot that didn't stray too far from the original story. There weren't any major surprises, there weren't any new themes presented. Maybe they should have set it in the 90's like the latest Romeo and Juliet, at least then it would have been interesting. All in all, not a terrible movie, just not a very good one. My score 5 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Great But Not Terrible","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    This is a rather shallow movie. If you like intelligent well thought out  movies, don't go see this. Drew's character was well done but Dougray's  Henry was really annoying. His constant oozing over Danielle was  disgusting. There are better movies out there. "}{"Title":"If you liked Titanic......","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  you will like this.  All others besides pre-adolescent girls will want to avoid this movie.  The lines the actors recite are unbelievably inane.  Drew Barrymore doesn't seem believable at all with her breathless dialogue and fake sounding British accent.  Her tough-girl act seems really fake too. "},{"Title":"Campy and horrible","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is laughable, from its egregiously contrived appearances of fairy tale elements -- i.e. its explanation for the glass slippers -- to the utter asinine quality of the relationships (who would want to marry this Prince Charming?) to Drew Barrymore's fumbling British accent.  Oh, I forgot -- Hollywood uses British accents to signify foreignness in any way.Skip it and smash your head against a wall instead. "},{"Title":"A Diane du Pothers bio?","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   This is supposed to be the true story of the Cinderella myth, of a young girl who married the dauphin. I supposed that this is inspirited in the Diane (Danielle?) du Pothers life, a cult dame who became the mistress (not the wife who was the famous Catherine of Medicis) of Henri II the Valois, who rule the country with him until his death in 1558. The movies recreates very well  the Renacimiento ages, that includes one of the most prominent figures  Leonardo Da Vinci. But there is too much boring dialogue, Danielle looks too much strong and the historical failures are evident.(for example the Spanish dynasty was a German family so they were thin and blond, not like Cuban refugees, or Thomas More wrote Utopia only five years before Da Vinci Disease, so how Danielle could read that book when she was a child, Queen Mary was Charles the V sister, and was the step mother not the mother of the dauphin, also I can not remember if France have lands in America at that time etc).  I prefer one hounded more time Disney magical and charming movie, thing that here does not appear. However the cast was good. The best performance was made by Angelica Houston, a very versatile actress who needs more important roles. There is also good Dougray Scott as the prince, and in her little moments Melanie Lynskey (the perfidy girl of Heavenly Creatures). Even I still think that Kate Winslet was the best option for the role, Drew Barrymore looks beautiful, and her performance is not bad, more than that  she convinced as the goody heroine, this movie is a kind of lucrative Hollywood redemption to an ex bad girl. I give to this boring  movie a three for their performances and the age reconstrution..  "},{"Title":"A nicely revamped variation of the old fairy tale that comes only once upon a time.","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  EVER AFTER isn't exactly the same old Cinderella that has been copied off numerous times in the media. This is a refreshing charm at telling the old children's tale in updated flavor, and it sure is crafty. You knew what went on in Cinderella before, so now this becomes a remake of the events that suddenly turn irreverent. Still, why not be satisfied over something new and improved? The fine acting is what makes this a wholesome delight, even for the high school crowd. Drew Barrymore leads the 90s feminist revolution in what is one of her top performances as Danielle (not Cinderella, although her character is identical). Certainly, her role is a very genuine effort compared to her childhood years and independent movie days. Girls would be cheering for Barrymore in giving her stepsister the black eye, and carrying the handsome prince on back; feminism pays off quite a good sum. Anjelica Huston is also wonderful as the stepmother, and well casted. It's not very harmless except for some intense swordplay and lost clothing from princess Barrymore, but its screenplay follows a vintage classic movie. The highest point is what we all come to know and love a girl meets boy spectacle that leads to (almost) a very different twist of a conclusion. Young children won't get the true meaning of this one, as it is the opposite. Send them a copy of the Disney movie instead. Otherwise, a magically adolescent fairy tale that lives happily ever after. The end. "},{"Title":"What happens to a fairy tale when you remove the magic?","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film and expected to be deeply disappointed.  I mean what is so special about a fairytale when you take out all the fairytale elements? I have to admit, my hopes were not high, but I was most pleasantly surprised. The playing tended to be of a subtle variety, which was good, as most films of this type tend to go for pantomime play-acting.  Angelica Huston, in possibly the role that it is hardest to play subtly - after all she is the film's out and out bad guy - even managed to arouse sympathy for the situation through facial expressions only quite early on. I think having only one wicked step-sister made the film more balanced as to have only the Prince and Danielle herself the good characters would have placed completely the wrong tone, as the nature/nurture debate would have given lie to that situation. Drew Barrymore gave a good solid performance, not breathtakingly good, not astoundingly bad as may have been feared at the beginning, but one that shows she will have a good future as a straight actress. Dougray Scott made a great Prince (slightly wobbly english accent aside), he looked the part and certainly managed to convey emotional depths to the role which is usually sidelined to that of beefcake. I thought the costumes were wonderful, although the ball-gown (and make up) in the pivotal ball scene were too 90's and will date well before the movie itself does. All in all I personally found it to be a most enjoyable experience, and, even though it was not my choice of entertainment for the evening it is something that I would enjoy again. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know that I am in the minority here, but I really disliked Ever After.   The story's updating is good and I like the Da Vinci character, but the  whole thing just lacked anything in the way of conflict until the last half  hour.  I felt no compassion for the Prince and was bored for a solid 1 and  1/2 hours.  It needed to decide if it were a serious period tale of a  servant breaking free, or if it was a live-action Disney rehash of it's  successful animated tale; it teetered on the edge of both.  Not for my  taste, but the others I saw it with really liked it. "},{"Title":"What An Awful  Boring Movie","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this a year ago and im suffering through this drivel again as a favor and its still agonizing. I am a female and all for feminism and social justice but the way its shown is so unbelievable. Also, if someone in the status of Anjelica's character became a widow, I don't think she would still have been single and raising three children in that period. Also, as someone already mentioned she is shown as a tough, kick-ass girl but spent most of her life never fighting back her family, that i cant really see. Drew does an alright job as Cinderella but ,typical her, she plays the character like a lost, defenseless puppy. Add in the the prince who is played by the miscast Dougray Scott, and you've got one of the worst movie couples. The prince comes off as a boring, one-dimensional, rude, self absorbed idiot. I can only remember chuckling once through the whole movie where the Spanish princess sobbed at the thought of marrying the loser prince. The script is poorly written and the kind of thing only someone 13 and under would really enjoy. Pretty much, save your money and your time and pick ANYTHING else. I would especially recommend The Princess Bride, which has much more wit and humor. "},{"Title":"Next to the Chekh cinderella this one is bleak and worthless","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  O, lord is there a justice in this crazy world? User rating for this boring saga is higher than for the best ever filmed Cinderella-film Czechoslovakian `Three nuts for Cinderella, (Tri orísky pro Popelku (1973))' that I personally consider being a real masterpiece. It just proves how provincial the American audience has become and how USA addicted are in the rest of the world. Of course I admit that `Ever After' is not the worst film ever made but there is virtually nothing special about it. Mrs. Barrymore is bleaker than I could ever imagined, the Prince seems too old and serious, the story twist involving Da Vinci seems cheap (though it could have been rather interesting in more talented hands). The only good thing apart from rather nice costumes is Anjelica Houston. She is simply perfect in every scene and it's a pity that a great actress like her has not possibility to act in films that deserve her talent. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Strictly for the Titanic, Princess Bride crowd. If you found those movies saccharine, annoying, boring and overrated, you'll probably feel the same about Ever After. Drew's pathetic attempt at a British accent is only the tip of the time-wasting iceberg. There are so many bad things about this movie that I don't know where to begin. Any attempt to analyze this movie would only be a further waste of time, in addition to the hours already lost watching it. Or was it days? Ugh.  "},{"Title":"Easily the Most Overrated Movie in IMDb","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  How could such a stereo-typed movie be one of the top ten movies of all time (by imdb voting)? Fun, yes. Good acting can't salvage the boring dialog. The plot has few twists that aren't expected, and a few visual treats (the kite above a haystack?) don't do enough to enliven a well worn story.A 5 would be generous. "}{"Title":"Tres Mal... translation very bad","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever After A Cinderella Story... oh, how pleasing to the ear... but, alas, the picture is not as enjoyable as the name, in fact, Cinderelley would be very disappointed at this re-make. I'm not going to waste my time sifting through the poor plot connections and overall poor direction by Andy Tennant (who is responsible for other poor films like Hitch and Sweet Home Alabama).Honostly, i would rate the movie respectable, but after watching it for about 15 minutes i realized that even though they were in France, they spoke with English accents and not French accents like people who speak French would sound when saying words in English... Thank you Mr. Tennant, i blame you for wasting my time with this one... i will give Drew Barrymore a standing ovation though, she did deliver her best performance in Ever After... whoopedy doo "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Plot was watchable but predictable. Acting was adequate but predictable. Costumes were detailed but predictable. Lighting and cameras were effective but predictable. Music was well played but predictable.  "},{"Title":"Women Unite - Give this Movie a Low Grade! (Men Too)","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie wasn't so good. It didn't have a really original concept, it didn't rise above other movies playing on the theme of prince charming and opposites attract. The plot was lame (in my opinion) and kind of scattered around.After watching I said to myself, here's a waste of 2 (!) hours. Drew Barrymore has good intentions, but she don't know how to chose 'em!Now you can imagine how surprised I was to find out that 1) this movie has a 7.5 rating. 2) it is number 39 in the IMDb's 'Top 50 movies voted for by female users'. (http//us.imdb.com/Charts/Votes/female).Now that in my opinion is terrible, I was shocked, really shocked. Being a female myself, I call for all you out there, who watched this movie Women Unite - Give this Movie a Law Grade! Revote for it or just cancel your vote altogether, through your personal vote history. (http//us.imdb.com/register/votes/history). I personally gave it, after much thought, the grade of 1 out of 10, because I see that just as my humble duty.And to all you men, that happened to watch it too, give this movie a law grade, just because it was a bad movie. "},{"Title":"It literally stunk","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe I was forced by my parents to watch this trash. I don't like Cinderella-type stories, and I knew I wouldn't like this pathetic excuse for a movie. I turned out to be 100% right.A typical love story starring Drew Barrymore and Angelica Huston. According to some, the REAL Cinderella story. Gimme a break. The real story is the animated edition, which stunk almost worse than this one.Not being a fan of the Barrymore's, with the possible exception of Lionel Barrymore, I didn't find this movie very enjoyable.Trust me; This movie is not worth seeing anytime. It is among my Bottom Ten worse movies of all time. (My Bottom Ten is a list of movies that I have seen that I detested.) My Score 1/10. "}]