[{"Title":"Not bad, not great either","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The problem with Woody Allen is that he has made great films, a lot, and that expectations for his work are always high. With 'Celebrity' it was not different and therefore it is a little disappointing. If another writer director would have made this film I think I would have liked it better. Maybe that is strange, to compare it with his other films simply happens.In 'Celebrity' we follow Kenneth Branagh who plays Woody Allen, although he is named Lee Simon. A movie without Woody Allen himself is nice, but with a character that basically is Allen, why not play it yourself? On the other hand, Branagh does a terrific job. We see how Branagh divorces his wife and after that we have single episodes of his life where he meets women, tries to make them his, fails or succeeds, only to enter the next episode. At the same time we follow his ex-wife, Robin (Judy Davis), who meets a new man Tony (Joe Mantegna) and does settle.Branagh is a writer. He writes a novel, has written two novels with bad reviews and now he finished a screenplay. In the episodes he tries to offer his script or new novel to people who can change it into a movie or book. We have Melanie Griffith and Leonardo DiCaprio as spoiled actors, Famke Janssen as a girl who really likes him and could help get his story into a book, Winona Ryder as the girl he has some real chemistry with and Charlize Theron as a supermodel.The problem is that every episode feels like an episode instead of everything combined as a movie. The Theron and DiCaprio episodes are great, the Winona Ryder episode is sweet, the others are pretty standard. The intercuts of the ex-wife's life are pretty good as well, but still feel as single episodes.Although the film as a whole is not that great there are enough moments to enjoy it. You will not be bored. The black and white photography looks terrific and that is something that makes the movie more pleasant. It is well acted and of course directed, but for a Woody Allen comedy it is not my first choice. "},{"Title":"So you wanna be a celebrity....","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As Woody Allen is too old for the lead, Kenneth Branagh literally steps into his shoes and does such an effective job at playing Woody that he must have watched every Allen movie at least six times. The film is hilarious but deep--like his best films. It explores our obsession with celebrities and the media's obsession with them, and I wonder how much acting Leonardo DiCaprio did for this film. But the more I thought about it afterwards, the more I realized how sad the movie is at its core--the word help being written in the sky may be what Allen is thinking--is this what we have become? So obsessed with fortune and fame that we literally prostitute ourselves and become someone we aren't (i.e. Judy Davis' character)?The movie seems more timely now than in 1998.  Americans seem to be more interested in what Paris Hilton does on TV, or what J-Lo and Affleck are up to, than what's going on in the world.  Celebrity nails it, and like Deconstructing Harry, does it in a rather vulgar manner.  But you have to wonder how much of this is based on real events (again, I cite Di Caprio).  This was the second movie (after 2 Days in the Valley) that made me aware of the statuesque beauty of Charlize Theron.  I didn't think she could act worth a hoot (that opinion recently changed), but she sure looked like a rich runway model to me.   This movie is one of my favorite Woody films of the '90s, and one of his most underrated.  It's also visually beautiful, in black & white that recalls the photography of Manhattan.  "},{"Title":"Woody's best in years","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A lot of the reviews have said that this film is one of the weaker recent Woody Allen movies, but I actually thought it was his best since Husbands and Wives. It's much more subtle but every bit as scathing as Deconstructing Harry. Everyone says Woody's films just aggrandize himself, but I feel that his latest few have been exercises in self-loathing.Certain people (in these very pages) have felt that one is supposed to sympathize with the Branagh character. Certain people, we must remember, are on crack. Branagh plays a low-life louse who gives the word narcissim a whole new meaning. He is looking to revitalize his life by entering the world of celebrities. He is contrasted with his ex-wife (the always amazing Judy Davis... who doesn't she do more films?) who is also looking to change her life, but not necessarily by becoming famous. She does become famous, and near the end she says what I think is the key line I've become the kind of person I've always detested, but I'm happier. My friend and I had an argument later about what the film was saying a) that Judy has given up on seriousness and meaning by becoming a celebrity, but now she's happier, or b) that the entertainment products that these people turn out don't matter at all, and that if one can find personal happiness (Judy eventually becomes much more social and comfortable with people) by doing them, then that's great. I don't know, but this is a far more interesting treatise on finding happiness than the dreary Happiness was.This is also the funniest Allen film in years, with two total laugh-out-loud lines which I won't spoil here.Overall, I felt the celebrity part, and all the walk-ons we not at all the focus of this movie, it just uses that world as a backdrop. This film is also very sweet and real, with the scene in which Judy Davis visits a psychic being one of the most intimate and touching I've seen.One last thing, it's fun to see a Woody Allen film in New York City, because you can watch the audience trying to identify all the places where the scenes are set.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Branagh is not Woody","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the most brilliant Woody Allen's 90s' pictures, such a mockery of the beautiful people with some traces of a romantic comedy and some reflexions about couple troubles made in Woody. But there's an objection and that's Kenneth Brannagh. He's a great actor (no doubt about it) but in Celebrity you can't help thinking that he's imitating the character that Woody should've played. It's quite clear that Woody wrote this for himself, but he was too old to play a man that conquers Winona Ryder or Famke Janssen.Last but not least, what about Judy Davis?? God, she's magnificent, one of the best actresses ever, and that scene with the prostitute is totally hilarious. Woody should've married her instead of Mia 30 years ago!! So, if Woody would've played the role that eventually played Brannagh this could've been one of his best works. But Brannagh is not Woody, and that's noticeable.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Decent Allen film not his best, but still worth a look","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Judged against other movies, Celebrity rates higher than it does when judged against Woody Allen movies.  In other words, the director's consistent pace and huge body of work virtually begs for critics to keep ranking each of Allen's films against past efforts and so on.  Celebrity is not as good as Deconstructing Harry or Everyone Says I Love You (to cite just two of Allen's recent pictures), but it still bears the hallmarks of Allen's success great ensemble work, witty and intelligent writing, amusing set-pieces, and excellent photography.  Kenneth Branagh fills in as the Woody character, and channels Allen's vocal tics and mannerisms to the point of perfection or distraction, depending on one's point of view.  Judy Davis, a welcome sight in any movie, captures Branagh's ex-wife perfectly.  The remainder of the cast aids in Allen's dissection of modern media celebrity, and does what it can with this good, but not great, material.   "},{"Title":"Movie Stars Behaving Badly!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Celebrity (1998) Woody Allen accomplishes what  Bob Altman attempted in Ready  to Wear showing lots of  movie stars and model types  acting like, well movie stars  and model types. Pretty boy  Leo DiCaprio has a good turn  as a hotshot, teen throb amidst  orgies and dramatic posturing.  Lots of selfish, crude behavior  on the part of everyone makes  this a veritable How to Succeed  in Hollywood movie, though I wonder  if that was Woody's intention. "},{"Title":"Same formula, different protagonist","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must give Woody Allen credit for one thing At least he seems to have stopped pretending that every gorgeous woman on earth is standing in line to throw herself at his protagonist.  But what has he done instead?  He has simply cast Kenneth Branagh in his place as a somewhat younger and more handsome substitute,  but one who is, alas, no less frumpy, neurotic, unaccomplished and ultimately dislikable as Allen´s now-stock character has become in recent years.  Really, watching Branagh imitate Allen to a T may be an interesting idea for a skit, but after about 25 minutes it is painful, and by the end of the film it is downright embarrassing.  The Allen theme of womanizer gets his comeuppance is by now quite predictable, and this film does not deviate from it one bit.  Some of the social satire is clever, as usual, but Celebrity ends up dying on the vine because of its wildly improbable insistence that nymphomaniac supermodels and barely-legal literary beauties cannot keep their hands off of a male protagonist who neither exhibits any sort of charisma nor has any kind of achievements to his credit.  At least in many earlier Allen movies--and despite this and other recent efforts I am still a big fan of his work as a whole--there was a certain charm and allure to that one-note character of his.  But merely inserting Kenneth Branagh to talk and act exactly like Woody Allen was definitely not the solution to the creativity problems which have plagued his films lately. "},{"Title":"A Great Man Chokes","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of Woody Allen's worst films, a brilliant defense for anyone who considers Allen out-of-touch, self-indulgent, and irrelevant.  A storyless mishmash of tired, unfunny gags, Woody has absolutely nothing to say and takes forever to say it (uncharacteristic for Allen, who's films have been the last bastion of auteur-brevity, the movie is a trying two hours-plus). Sure, the movie looks dynamite, and sure it's got a great cast trying its best, but can anyone honestly tell me that this movie's humor wasn't musty, it's narrative wasn't rambling, it's attempts at satire weren't annoyingly weak?  A real disappointment, especially following last year's wonderfully vulgar, honest, and funny Deconstructing Harry.  This has to be the worst fall-winter film season in years. "},{"Title":"Allan does Altmania...","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nice to know he's there. Woody Allan does it again. It's funny. It's great. It's real. Actors act. Kenneth Branagh does a great Woody Allan. It's a love story with a twist. Big issues rounded up in the circle of celebrity. How do we choose our idols? Why do we worship them? And how can we become celebrity? It's all done with Altmania, but it's everything Prêt-à-Porter isn't. If you're a Woody Allan fan and you haven't seen this one yet there is something to look forward to... "},{"Title":"Winona is, once again, the grounding character.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As once said about Beetlejuice, Without Noni, the film would have floated off into the stratosphere.  Sure, this film is somewhat believable - another Woody Allen masterpiece -  but Winona Ryder's interpretation and presentation of her character, Nola, seems most believable.  She's a desperate movie extra, accepting of any role that comes her way, even if it means lying in bed with another woman... that was hilarious!  She's the most realistic, the most in-tune with reality... definitely the girl next door - or the girl I'd want next door, anyway. "}{"Title":"He does it again!!!","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's imagination is endless. Once again he manages to captivate with this very smart and subtle tale of interrelated stories while delivering a very strong punch of social critique. If you are an Allen's fan you will like it, if not... don't bother. This is only a movie for the initiated. "},{"Title":"overlooked gem","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of Woody's overlooked gems. It's held up remarkably well. Still very entertaining, funny, and all too timely. And what else had Charlize Theron done at this point? She's a revelation. Kenneth Branaugh is spot-on as Woody himself (even better than John Cusack was in that role in Bullets Over Broadway. Judy Davis gives one her all time great neurotic performances. Why wasn't she Oscar-nominated for this?! This movie offers among the best testimonials as to why so many actors want to be in a Woody Allen film. He raises the bar for nearly all of them, even while skewering their neuroses, egos, and the warped world they must thrive in. Party scenes topped only by back-stage chaos at TV talk show. "},{"Title":"I don't get why critics hate this film","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie a few days ago,and I loved it like any other Woody Allen movie.And I don't get why so many people hate this movie and also critics.some say this film s too explicit and etc.I think the story and the dialoges were great.One of the best things in this film was the Cinematography which was fascinating.And the actings imo are at the top.Especially,Judy Davis,Winona Ryder and Joe Mantegna did excellent performances and deserved nominations,and about Kenneth Branagh,many say is terrible in this because of doing a Woody Allen impression,but I can't agree with that.I think he showed his versatility and did a very sharp performance. Afteral,I think this movie didn't get enough credit as it deserved and is a very very underrated and btw misunderstood film. "},{"Title":"Better now 2010 than it was in 1998. Branagh does Woody Allen Shtick.","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this film in 1998 on the big screen & again Feb 20 2010. Lee Simon, unsuccessful journalist & wanna-be novelist, tries to get a foot into the door with celebrities. After divorcing his wife Robin, Lee gets to meet a lot folks of the rich & / or beautiful, partly through journalism, partly because he has a script to offer. But life among those from out-of-this-world is hard, & his putative success always results in defeat. Meanwhile Robin meets a very desirable TV-producer & takes the first steps in the world of celebrities herself. This film is really a marriage mid-life crisis type movie about luck. Who has luck & who does not have luck (actually they have rotten luck). The film is done in black & white. Kenneth Branagh plays the Woody Allen role. The film has a huge roster of celebrities in big roles & many big parts with this all star cast. If you were a famous somebody actor in 1998 YOU WERE IN THIS MOVIE!! HAHAH. Branagh does a terrific job-he is fantastic in this role. Kenneth Branagh does a wicked Woody Allen imitation, and what's most fun about it is that Allen wrote and directed the picture. Is Allen lampooning himself? Was it Branagh's idea? Who decided how far to take it? And what does this all mean in Allen's ongoing dialogue with his viewers. Branagh gives us the quintessence of Woodyism. This goes a good deal beyond the average nightclub comic's Allen shtick. What Branagh offers is a finesse job of skewering, homing in precisely on his target's speech patterns and mannerisms. I disagree with many in that I do not feel like this is just another Woody Allen movie & he is just doing all the stuff over again. Boy is that wrong. This is his best film since Deconstructing Harry & Husbands & Wives. The film is hilarious but deep--like his best films. It explores our obsession with celebrities & the media's obsession with them. He embarks on a string of neo-Felliniesque encounters with the rogue's gallery of celebrity actors who bring out the best in Allen's barbed dialogue. The movie seems timelier now than in 1998. This movie is one of my favorite Woody films of the '90s, & one of his most underrated. It's also visually beautiful, in black & white with that nice the photography of Manhattan. Cast wise there is great ensemble work here, with both witty & intelligent writing from Allen & amusing set-pieces, & excellent cinematography/photography. Allen's carefully crafted, anti-celebrity image -- the shunning of interviews and so on -- is just as much a celebrity image as anything he makes fun of here. But Allen remains a very potent fantasy figure for critics and moviegoers who want to see him as something like America's resident European filmmaker, untouched by the vagaries and vulgarities of the industry he works in. His familiar, formalized, art-film aesthetic reinforces that perception. It's impressive that, in the age of blockbusters, Allen has managed to keep making movies his way. Here he captures that vapid, empty malaise of celebrity life in a hysterical way. Five stars WAY better today than when I saw it on the big screen in 1998 "},{"Title":"Unjustly overlooked","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  CELEBRITY (1998) ***1/2The biggest irony in CELEBRITY is how long it took to be released in Brazil two years. This is not a common thing here, but it has also happened to DECONSTRUCTING HARRY, SWEET AND LOWDOWN and now SMALL TIME CROOKS. It seems that they have something against Woody Allen and his fans, but in fact it is a problem among the distributors. However, the wait was worthy CELEBRITY is a great film.It received bad reviews in the US for no apparent reason- here in Brazil the reviews were almost universally positive. Maybe the critics are tired of Woody Allen, maybe they just didn't get his point. The truth is that CELEBRITY is no ANNIE HALL, MANHATTAN, HANNAH AND HER SISTERS or CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS, but is a great film overall.The story is about a divorced couple- Lee and Robin Simon (Kenneth Branagh and Judy Davis), who try to find their position in the society. Lee is a journalist who starts to write about art, so he gets closer to celebrities. He gets involved with lots of women- the futile actress Nicole Oliver (Melanie Griffith) who belongs to her husband only down the neck, a supermodel (Charlize Theron) with an erotic failure, a cold woman (Famke Janssen) who wants to live with him, and a second rate actress (Winona Ryder) who is not his obscure object of desire as he thinks. He is between finish writing his novel (after the bad reviews for his first novel) and trying to sell a script- when he meets another futile star (Leonardo DiCaprio). In resume, his life is a mess with no way-back. In the meantime, his ex-wife Robin, an English teacher, ironically gets more luck than him she meets a TV producer (Joe Mantegna), who thinks she has a future as a TV presenter. With a good story in hands, Allen turns it into an acid, funny film. But you know the laughs in his films aren't gratuitous- they come naturally, or depending on the way you get into the scene. And they are also bitter (remember the subtitles scene in ANNIE HALL)- this taste of humor is not for everyone. The funniest, best scene is when the prostitute teaches Davis' character how to do a blow-job, using a banana. As usual, Allen takes great performances from the whole cast. Kenneth Branagh has been criticized for imitating Woody Allen too much, but I think he did a great job. We already know Judy Davis (especially), Joe Mantegna and Winona Ryder are terrific, but it is a miracle what Allen can do with Melanie Griffith, Leonardo Di Caprio and Charlize Theron, usually bland performers. Charlize is the most peculiar character and delivers a great and funny performance.The main detail of the film is the use of black-and-white. This is not the first time Allen uses that (MANHATTAN, STARDUST MEMORIES, SHADOWS AND FOG), but it is almost a character in this picture- it shows a world that is even more sufocating than ours. With that, he makes an acid critic about our society, that turns superficial, futile people into instant celebrities. This is not new, of course, but here these people are also victims of the sufocating society. If a society can be interpreted by who it chooses to celebrate, it is worse than it seems to be. Allen commits some mistakes here and there with his critic, but you don't find many films like this out there- clever, funny, bitter and realistic. Remember the HELP sign on the air... "},{"Title":"below average","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With Bullets Over Broadway, Mighty Aphrodite and Everyone Says I love You, Woodie had strung together a number of very likable and  quite funny films. With this and Deconstructing Harry he gets more serious. Too bad. This bilious mess could have used an editor. I think, because he can get so many big stars so easily, he writes too many characters into this film, without the spread-thin script being able to support all of them.  "},{"Title":"It was missing something...","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the coverbox for Celebrity, I thought that this would be an excellent movie due to the all-star ensemble cast and the fact that Woody Allen wrote and directed it. In reality, this movie did have it's good parts, but to be honest, I was disappointed. First, the movie was in black and white, which has worked for other movies (Clerks for example), but it was not right for this film. You need to see the bright lights and gaudy jewelry that is present in Hollywood today. Second, I am a fan of Kenneth Branagh, but his performance left something to be desired. It was though he was a puppet and Allen was the ventriloquist. If you watch one of Allen's movies that he also stars in and then watch Celebrity, you will see that Branagh is not acting as he normally would. He was acting just like Allen, and if I wanted to see Allen, I would have picked up one of his movies instead. "},{"Title":"Smart, funny, Woody","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a smart, funny, Woody Allen movie. It is somewhat annoying that Woody keeps writing about the same themes, but he still makes uniquely interesting movies. I laughed out loud a number of times, and that's always worth $7.50. It also made me think, about creativity, relationships, and fame. That's gotta be worth another $.25. Much has been made about Branaugh's imitation of Woody; how come nobody complained when they gave Michael Caine an Oscar for the same ticks and stammers in Hanna and Her Sisters? (For that matter, check out Mia and Diane Keaton in any number of his movies. His dialog and direction force many of his actors to sound like him.)  I was intigued by the relationship Branaugh had with the book editor who believed in his writing, then destroyed his draft novel when he dumped her.This is not one of those Woody movies, like Hanna and Bullets Over Broadway that will cross over to a wider audience. But to his loyal fans, it is a keeper. (Now Shadows and Fog...that stunk!) "},{"Title":"A more mature Woody Allen comedy","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh does an uncanny imitation of Woody Allen throughout the movie.  Too many cameos to keep track of.  The classic Woody Allen character, when played by Kenneth Branagh, is more believable than in the past.  He makes the same mistakes and has the same foibles, but isn't quite so wimpy.It is a slightly more optimistic view of life then the usual -- and still very entertaining.  It really is good to have some things in life that don't change -- the classic Woody Allen comedy is one of those things and still one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I honestly don't know why this film has been so critically destroyed. It was very well done and it is very culturally relevant. It also utilizes an all-star cast, but Woody doesn't emphasize on the star power.Kenneth Branagh and Judy Davis play Lee and Robin Simon, a divorced New York couple heading in separate directions after his mid-life crisis divorce. The film then explores and critiques their adventures and lives after.Lee divorced Robin because he had married too soon and wanted to explore what was out in the world. A travel writer, he tries to insert himself in the inner circles and this is expressed through clever and witty anecdotes. He tries to seduce an actress he's interviewing, Nicole Oliver (Melanie Griffith), only to be rejected because she is married. Then he almost gets his chance to have all of his sexual fantasies fulfilled by a Supermodel (in an erotically charged performance by Charlize Theron) only to crash his car and watch her walk away. Lee commits to Bonnie, his elegant editor girlfriend (in a charged performance by the reliable Famke Janssen) only to dump her for rising starlet Nola (a typically neurotic performance by Winona Ryder). Lee also has a wild time with the hotel-trashing, druggie actor Brandon Darrow (in a funny performance by Leonardo DiCaprio)and his wild entourage. He ends up alone however, although he had experienced what he wanted to.Robin meanwhile, nearly suffers a breakdown after the divorce and stays at a Catholic retreat with her friend. She tries to make herself over at a prestigious plastic surgeon only to get a date with charming, Tony Gardella, a news reporter. Joe Mantegna plays the supposed perfect person for Robin with grace. After an uncomfortable encounter at a movie premiere with Lee, Robin indulges herself into Tony's world. She gets her own TV series, a trashy talk show. In a quirky scene she tries to get help on fellatio from a neurotic hooker (in a too-brief performance by Bebe Neuwirth). She is about to get married to Tony, when she instead runs off, unable to bear how perfect it all is. After help from a psychic, she tries to find him.As the story winds down, Robin becomes a gossip talk show host, mingling with celebrities and married to Tony. She's also pregnant. Lee is alone, having dumped Bonnie for Nola and having watched his novel float away. His relationship with the neurotic mess Nola also dies out. Their meeting is bittersweet as is the ending as they watch the movie that is being filmed when the movie started.The film has a plethora of short but sweet performances. Dylan Baker plays a charming priest who befriends Robin at her retreat. Isaac Mizrahi plays a trendy artist, a friend of the Supermodel's. Anthony Mason plays himself as a suitor of the Supermodel's at a nightclub. Michael Lerner plays the prestigious Dr. Lerner while Debra Messing plays the quirky reporter doing a story on him. Larry Pine, a Woody Allen regular plays an editor. Gretchen Mol has a minor role as Vicky, Brandon's companion in a thoroughly funny scene. Hank Azaria plays David, Nola's boyfriend in a scene set at Elaine's. Allison Janney plays a real estate agent that is interviewed by Lee while Donald Trump plays himself in an amusing cameo. Aida Turturro and Tony Sirico both have small roles. Aida plays a psychic Robin visits while Tony plays a Mafiosi guest on Robin's talk show. Jeffery Wright also has a small role in the last segment of the film as Nola's pretentious director in a play.The film for the most part is quirky, funny and not as perverse as say Deconstructing Harry. The only complaint that I can make is that while Woody Allen satirizes the current celebrity society, he goes for the easy targets when possible. He is refreshingly self-referential and in a nice surprise, he references the New York art scene, the models and movies of New York, along with cultural references to current celebrities and references to people like Andy Warhol. The soundtrack is elegant and sophisticated. Despite my small complaints, the movie is refreshing and at times hilarious. A well-done picture. "}{"Title":"Branagh's acting by itself makes this movie worth watching","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is a witty, funny black film in which Kenneth B. plays the best woody allen of all times. The direction of photography is traditional compared with his last films.An excellent satire of celebrities with more believable less neurotic characters than I expect from a woody allen movie. The subtle critics to catholics (instead of jews) are good for a change.I would recommend this modern classic not only to woody's fans but to anyone who likes independent films.Besides, the rabbis and skinheads being accidentally put together in a waiting room (and getting along) is something you won't see in anywhere else. "},{"Title":"Allen in top form","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great film. Branaugh scores with a wonderful extended impression of Allen, backed up with the richest supporting characters this year.  "},{"Title":"One of Allen's most underrated films","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Celebrity, along with Melinda and Melinda are Woody's two underrated gems. This film pays tribute to Fellini's 8 1/2, along with other avant-garde cinema, down to the gorgeous black and white photography. Kenneth Branaugh plays Lee Simon, a celebrity journalist, who finds himself entangled with different women, using them as stepping stones to get to another one. Judy Davis is Robin, Lee's neurotic ex-wife. Branaugh is essentially playing the Allen role here, but puts his own spin on it making it more than just a caricature, although he does fit the type well. Davis is great as usual, and the all-star ensemble also bring depth and meaning to their portrayals. One of my favorite Allen movies. "},{"Title":"Brilliant. I love this film.","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't write many of these reviews, but upon viewing Celebrity again, and noticing that it is Woody Allen's lowest rated film - I felt that I absolutely must say something. As stated in my summary I think this film is brilliant. There are so many nuances, so many little things that work so well. What people fail to realize is that this movie is not about liking the main character. In fact, he is decidedly unlikable. But we are not supposed to empathize with him. We are supposed to feel sorry for him. Lee needs help as is clearly stated at the end of the film. What's more, the movie is about Celebrity. Plain and simple. It shows us every kind of celebrity from the TV Priest to Brandon Darrow's party boy character. It shows the ridiculous and cardboard thin nature of celebrity as the old woman clearly points out about a famous hostage what - he's a hero for being captured?Celebrity illustrates America (and maybe the world's) bizarre obsession with fame, by holding up a mirror and presenting the people as they really are. It also shows us how we as an audience can be fooled, and how we worship celebrities for moments of fabricated beauty. This is brilliantly shown during the Kiosk at Midnight scene between Nola and Lee. It's possibly one of the most beautiful scenes ever put on film - but it's between two perverse and loathsome people. But we are fooled - and just for a moment, all is right. Such is the nature of celebrity. 10/10 Give this film another shot. "},{"Title":"I could not stand Kenneth Branagh as Woody Allen","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie centers on Kenneth Branagh who portrays the speaking style, mannerisms, and neurotic attitude of 1970's Woody Allen.   I could not believe Kenneth Branagh in this role.  All I could see was an actor pretending to be Woody Allen.  I could find nothing funny in this movie.  I gave up on this movie when I got to the scene where Kenneth Branagh is giving a woman a ride in his car and she says she has mirrors on her bed and Branagh gets so flustered at that thought that he makes a left turn into a picture window and crashes the car.  I think it was supposed to be funny,  but the reaction was just illogical.       "},{"Title":"Lesser known Allen aims for Fellini, hits Allen.","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So, basically, this is Woody Allen remaking La Dolce Vita. The movie starts out with Woody Allen ('scuse me, Lee Simon, which is Kenneth Branaugh basically proving what I previously thought impossible -- that somebody who was not Woody Allen could pull off Woody Allen) at the highest in his life, getting beautiful women, enjoying the company of the famous elite, getting anxious over nothing... and his wife Robin Simon (Judy Davis), who is at her lowest point, being dumped by Lee and considering plastic surgery. Over the course of a year, their lives will completely reverse course, as misfortune hits Lee and fortune picks up Robin, and in the meantime no end to silliness and celebrity-related nonsense keep things chaotic, moving, and Allen-style funny.It's a pretty good movie but it's rather exhausting. At least this movie makes Allen's womanizing seem a bit more understandable, as Branaugh is much more charismatic. One of Leonardo DiCaprio's best roles is in here as a coked out screen star. Judy Davis does an amusing impression of Blanche from A Streetcar Named Desire, and then later performs fellatio on a banana. It certainly will entertain you, if you're the type to handle Allen's neurotic approach to humor. I for one am a friend.The point? Apparently, love, celebrity, all those things that people want just strips down to luck. Of course, whence in it, it all becomes so solipsistic, but this comedy of errors shows that the most solipsistic ones are the most blind to the precariousness of their position.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"very underestimated","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A precise portrait of Hollywood and its inhabitants. Superb performances all around(especially by Kenneth Brannagh, Judy Davis and the ever inspiring Wynona Ryder)and a wonderful screenplay, accompanied by a beautiful cinematography. Shame critics didn't understand that its harshness is redempted in the end. "},{"Title":"another satire from Woody Allen,though meeker than former","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just finished the B&W movie.Expectably funny marked by style of Woody.though,it felt a little meeker than his former ones <Sister Hanna><Bullets over Broadway><Purple Rose in Cairo>&etc.I heard some about the private life of Woody.I believe he has fully understood what celebrity life is like.and he has showed us that by gently satirizing and sober portrayal.Sitting before the screen, we r led to look into the inside of celebrity,how they got the fame,trying to sustain it,and the emptiness behind the flashlights everywhere.the performances r all satisfactory.Kenneth Branagh and Judy Devis are perfect,and Malenie as well.She's really charming. The background music is some Jazz,which seems Woody's favorite. fits the theme well.and the last pointI enjoyed Winona Ryder again.Thanks to Woody! "},{"Title":"Not one of Woody's better efforts","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's hot streak -- a series of excellent films -- comes to an end with CELEBRITY.  Not that the movie is bad, but it certainly doesn't come up to his other recent efforts.  The film suffers by a lack of something to say.  Allen appears to want to say something about the nature of celebrity, but the message is muddy.  Judy Davis's role (the best thing in the film) is clearcut -- Allen says that you are better off achieving celebrity by being yourself and achieving it as a byproduct.  Nice sentiment, and well down.The Kenneth Branagh story, however, doesn't seem to be saying much of anything.  (It seems to be intended as a parallel contrast to the story of Davis, his ex-wife.)  Branagh's character is too immature and self-centered to be likeable (unintentionally similar at heart to Allen's character in DECONSTRUCTING HENRY -- who wasn't supposed to be likeable).  It was also a mistake to have Branagh doing a Woody Allen imitation; you immediately compare him to Allen (who probably wanted to play the part, but was too old for it) and the mannerisms are distracting.As a side note -- and spoiler -- the fact that Branagh's character, a writer who has had two novels published doesn't have a copy of his third is ludicrous (though dramatic).  What with word processors and even carbon paper, it beggars belief that he doesn't have something as backup.Some of the elements are good ones -- Judy Davis and Leonardo Di Caprio, for instance.  But the Branagh character doesn't jell and neither does the movie.  Interesting for Allen completists, but definitely one of his weaker efforts. "},{"Title":"It simply works...","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I left the cinema happy, with a big grin on my face. I don't know many Woody Allen films, so I'm not into the usual comparisons, but the man is certainly still a master of his art. The film simply works It's sharp, witty, funny, and never boring. (And even Leo DiCaprio managed to pull something off... you have to imagine that) "}{"Title":"Branaugh does not = Allen, but a nice try","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As far as Woody Allen films go, this one was a little above average.  There are some funny parts, and the HELP wraparound at the beginning and end was very clever, but something was missing without Allen in a starring role. The cast was great though - Charlize Theron and DiCaprio in particular - but Kenneth Branaugh wears on you after a while...making you wish Allen took his place. "},{"Title":"surprisingly enough, I enjoyed it","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now, I went to this film expecting it to be an overly long, boring, talky film. For the most part, I was wrong. It didn't seem very long, it was not boring, but of course it was talky. (It's a Woody Allen movie. How could it not be talky??). I don't know why I enjoyed this movie as much as I did. One of my favorites, Winona Ryder, only has a small part (which she plays perfectly!!). Charlize Theron (who I had only seen in The Devil's Advocate) also impressed me with her portrayal of a supermodel who orgasms at the touch of someone. Bebe Nuewirth was brilliant as the hooker who teaches Judy Davis a few things about sex... and Judy Davis was the best thing about this movie. SHE WAS AWESOME!!! Leonadro DiCaprio was good as well, it was nice to see him so vile after the good guy he played in Titanic. One question though, HOW THE HELL DID KENNETH BRANAGH GET ALL OF THE HOTTIES IN THIS MOVIE?? SICK! But I would recommend this film to people. If you don't want to see some over-blown action flick, and you want to watch something with intelligence (don't get me wrong, I love my action flicks), go see this one. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen returns in top form with Celebrity","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With Celebrity Woody Allen revisits the cynical, often angry, side he revealed in Deconstructing Harry, except this time he's not quite as malicious, and --some might say-- vulgar as he was in his last magnum opus.  The film is a multi-layered story of individuals who either are or want to be famous, and how their quests affect their lives as well as of those around them.  Performances by a first-rate cast range from great to better. Kenneth Brannagh does a fine Woody Allen imitation.  Judy Davis deserves an Oscar as his long suffering (now ex-) wife.  The screaming teenage fans of Leonardo di Caprio will be shocked and disappointed by his daring performance as a not-so-nice Hollywood hunk.  The roster of celebrities putting in an appearance never lets up, as is typical for Allen's films.  Overall the movie is Allen's finest in a long long time, and not just by default.  It's funny, scathing, angry, and, in an odd way, hopeful all at the same time.  "},{"Title":"The world they live in","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The opening scene shows us movie making in the city of New York and Beethoven's 5th is playing.The skywriting says HELP.Woody Allen's Celebrity (1998) steps into the surreal world of famous people.Allen himself isn't seen in this movie.Kenneth Branagh takes his place playing Lee Simon, unsuccessful journalist, wanna-be novelist.But things don't often go his way and his ex-wife Robin (Judy Davis) has more luck in life.Kenneth Branagh, who is a Shakespearian actor really, surprises the viewers with his imitation of Woody.All the manners are there,the stutter, the neuroticism and all.This movie is filled with great celebrities.There's Melanie Griffith (Nicole Oliver), there's Winona Ryder (Nola), there's Charlize Theron (Supermodel), there's Leonardo DiCaprio (Brandon Darrow) and so on.Joe Mantegna does a terrific job playing Tony Gardella.Hank Azaria visits as David.Allen's movie from ten years back was made black and white.That was a good decision.Celebrity is a fine movie that criticizes the world these people live in.All the shallowness and stuff.Woody Allen is a good writer, and even though this isn't his best work it still does have the qualities of a good movie. "},{"Title":"We Always Think There's Something Better","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sporadically throughout his career, Woody Allen has tried to capture the stylistic essence of the filmmakers he idolizes, one of them being Federico Fellini. With Celebrity, he finally nails it. It's a beautifully Felliniesque film, not only in its structure but in Allen's affectionate use of black and white cinematography. In a Fellini film, every scene involves a large ensemble of people and infinitely busy goings-on. Hardly any more than one shot in the entire film has only one person in it. Allen, whether he likes it or not, is different. If Fellini is too dry to make the audience feel truly attached to his characters, Allen probes his own the way his own nebbishy characters probe themselves. This gives Celebrity a very effective and intriguing structure, as the film has about five million main characters, but gives them pockets of significantly focal screen time. Leonardo DiCaprio's time on screen here is told in an agitating, fast-paced vignette where we drop in smack dab in the middle of his character's personal life, watch how it spills without any self-control into his public life, and watch his oddly unpredictable and brilliantly drawn character as what can loosely be called the protagonist, Kenneth Branagh's journalist, tries to pitch his script to him and is taken aback by the overwhelming amount of distraction.Basically, Allen pinpoints the style he wished to emulated by creating a movie that is a story that could only ever truly be impacting as a movie. Like any Fellini film, there could never even be a worthy attempt made to adapt it as a play or a novel. It's too innately cinematic. Also, this particular time when Allen cannot help but seek to mold his own out of an homage to Bergman, Fellini, or Antonioni, it really truly works because he built upon it by injecting his own voice into the work. Interiors and Stardust Memories were like Bermgna and Fellini carbon copies.The cast works well for the most part, as DiCaprio plays his said role very acutely, Theron takes on a similar role with interesting reflective flair, and Judy Davis is a wonder of dramatic energy as always. Kenneth Branagh is a little awkward, though, and perhaps that's not entirely his fault. He is cast in a role that is clearly a screen personality of Woody Allen himself, but likely because Allen is too old to play such a specific role, he chose another actor, a personologically similar one but a lesser one nonetheless, not because Branagh is at all a bad or unaffecting actor but because Woody's screen persona is too much of a signature of his own. We don't want anyone else to play that role. But as one would probably imagine an actor trying to act like Woody Allen would, Branagh is smart enough to approach the neurotic, self-centrally worrisome part from his own perspective.Celebrity is much under-appreciated and is on par with the vast majority of Woody's filmography. "},{"Title":"Representative of Woody Allen?  Yes.  Great?  No.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen has an appreciation for great films. We saw him try his take at 8 1/2 with Stardust Memories. Now, probably more obvious, is his version of La Dolce Vita. It's the story of a celebrity journalist that dabbles in the lives of celebrities. That alone will most likely provide little interest to anyone. Jokes at the expense of shallow lifestyles among celebrities are what drive the film, though. And that's where all the laughs are. When I first saw this film, I thought that the cast was too distracting. Part of what I found memorable in the scenes had more to do with who uttered the lines than what the lines actually were. But as time has gone on, I believe that it's grown past this.It's amusing to see Kenneth Branaugh play the Woody Allen part in this movie. I think anyone would agree that it's a more memorable Woody Allen part than that of Jason Biggs some years later. "},{"Title":"A playful look at the lives of the rich and famous and the hangers on","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just loved this film. It's been a long time since I have been able to make it through an entire Woody Allen film, and I am a big fan of his earlier work. The only criticism I might have for this film is its length, but the continual surprises, excruciating embarrassments and screams of laughter more than make up for it. Brilliant performances by the astoundingly famous cast. Besides Woody Allen, only a few other writer/directors can draw this kind of participation. First of all, Kenneth Branagh, known chiefly for his Shakespeare adaptations is hilarious as basically, Woody Allen. With absolute flawlessness he creates the speech pattern, the accent, and the self deprecating persona. Judy Davis gives us an amazing transformation from jilted house wife to TV talk show host. Her scenes with Branagh are priceless. In each scene another celebrated person appears to take us on a roller coaster ride of delight and terror. Along the way, Branagh's character, Lee Simon, tries to sleep with most of them. To sum it up, it is a comedy of epic proportions. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Sometimes love is like life on a merry-go-round.","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Written and directed by Woody Allen, CELEBRITY is quirky, witty, sexy, funny, tragic and very New York City. An all star cast makes a mediocre story worth watching. A tabloid journalist(Kenneth Branagh)is going through a mid-life crisis and confesses infidelities to his wife(Judy Davis). The couple separates and their lives take off in different directions. She has a typical emotional breakdown. And he goes from one romantic flirtation to the next. A myriad of stars make this vehicle move. My favorite two being Charlize Theron and Melanie Griffith. You will also recognize Joe Mantegna, Bebe Neuwirth, Winona Ryder and Leonardo DiCaprio. It is sometimes funny what people will do to keep what they have or do to get what they think they want.   "},{"Title":"The Mystery of Celebrity","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The director is the CELEBRITY, and everyone wants to be in his movies! How else do you explaina)  Kenneth Branagh being reduced to doing an impression of a neurotic New Yorker with a thing for women much younger than himself.b)  Melanie Griffith using her head with the director's impersonator.c)  Charlize Theron being polymorphously perverse.d)  Judy Davis and Bebe Neuwirth fellating bananas together.e)  Leonardo DiCaprio sharing his bed and two women with the director's impersonator.f)  Winona Ryder (looking gorgeous) in a scene where she kisses another woman.g)  Winona Ryder in a relationship with the director's impersonator.How many director's fantasies can fit into one movie?All in all, as a true fan of the Woodman's work, it did make me laugh. Highly recommended to all the Woody lovers out there who have made him the CELEBRITY that he is. "},{"Title":"Celebrity is THE best WA film in years...!!!!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A few years ago I took my girlfriend to the IMAX screen in neighbouring Bradford to see the comedy musical 'Everyone says I love You'. She went along because she quite likes Goldie Hawn. She quite enjoyed it.Since then I have persuaded her to see some more of Allens excellent films, such as Manhatten (just about the best film ever made) Play it again Sam and now Celebrity. Again at the IMAX we revelled in the truly magnificant performance that Brannagh gave, quite clearly playing the role that was/is Allen, but playing it so well.There were some of Allens best lines in this movie, some of his best visual gags, and some excellent performances from people who, on the whole are not renowned for their acting skills. As usual Allen gets the best from people and he deserves applauding for this.The cinematography, as usual, was excellent, the dialogue first rate, the score as ever will make another exspensive but wonderful album.Over all, I would say that this is the best film since Manhatten. In years to come this film WILL rank as one of the best films he has ever made. The fact that he was playing to a 75% full cinema at 4pm on a Tuesday afternoon is a testimony of the draw that this man has. And herein lies the dichotomy. He fills the 'arty' and off-beat cinemas, but main stream won't show him. Some films never even make it across the water. Yet Allen has films that main stream would die for, if only they were not fed the big budget Hollywood dross of the Armegeddon genre.Woody Allen films should be shown along side the  big budget special fx driven films with thin plots and see though dialogue. They should be made available to all, to see how real film making can and is being done.Long live Woody Allen and long may he make films of the quality of Celebrity.As he says in the film, 'It is amazing who the public choose to celebrate.'I choose Woody Allen.  "}{"Title":"Woody's best in years","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is Woody Allen's best film in about 3 years- since Mighty Aphrodite, at least.  Obviously too old for the lead, Kenneth Branagh literally steps into his shoes and does such an effective job at playing Woody that he must have watched every Allen movie at least six times.  The film is hilarious but deep--like his best films. It explores our obsession with celebrities and the media's obsession with them, and I wonder how much acting Leonardo DiCaprio did for this film. But the more I thought about it afterwards, the more I realized how sad the movie is at its core--the word help being written in the sky may be what Allen is thinking--is this what we have become?   So obsessed with fortune and fame that we literally prostitute ourselves and become someone we aren't (i.e. Judy Davis' character)?  A terrific movie.  "},{"Title":"I've seen worse Woody Allen movies","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Celebrity much more than all these critics did.  It is by no means brilliant, but there are several memorable scenes  and performances. Leonardo and Famke Janssen are fantastic, and I have never enjoyed Winona Ryder as much.  The cinematography is really great, too.  I did not feel that this was a copy of earlier Woody Allen movies, either. The audience I saw the movie with enjoyed it as much as I did, it seemed to me. "},{"Title":"great movie. very well done.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  god, this movie was fantastic. it was brilliantly photographed in black and white and leonardo dicaprio had an award-winning performance as the dysfunctional movie star. i would definitely see it again. "},{"Title":"Woody coasting, but amusingly","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is mid-level Woody Allen, stylishly filmed in black and white, fast-paced, well acted, semi-cynical, semi-affectionate, and entertaining enough as it passes, but not terribly original, biting, or funny.  Kenneth Branagh, Famke Janssen, and especially Judy Davis are brilliant in their roles.  Charlize Theron and Winona Ryder are also very effective.  Worth checking out, particularly for Woody Allen fans. "},{"Title":"Star-spangled clanger.","Date":"7 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nope, sorry, I may as well say straight away that I disliked this movie and never want to see it again. It's the worst I've seen from writer-director Woody Allen and that's because it's one of his few comedies that tries hard to be smart and funny and almost completely fails.So why the 5/10 rating? Well, like any Woody Allen movie, there is still plenty to enjoy within the assortment of one-liners and the stellar cast.The plot revolves around writer Lee Simon (Kenneth Branagh providing an irritating caricature of Allen's typical on screen persona), his ex-wife (the great Judy Davis) and the various celebrities that he encounters.The movie spends almost two hours hammering home the same points the celebrity lifestyle is often vapid and unsatisfying, people who adore celebrities can also be celebrities themselves in the eyes of others (it's all relative) and lots and lots of people idolise artists without always understanding their work.These are all things that we already know and, when surrounded by the in-jokery and homages present here, just end up feeling like a smug witticism from someone who has found one smug witticism he likes to unveil at any cocktail party he happens to get invited along to. Which is a shame because I don't really think of Woody Allen that way. He has plenty to say and is usually very good at saying it.The negatives are, fortunately, offset by the big positive of an absolutely superb ensemble cast. Joe Mantegna is fantastic, Leonardo DiCaprio is a lot of fun as a monstrous film star, Charlize Theron is all-too-believably desirable, Bebe Neuwirth is as great as ever, Famke Janssen does well and here are just some of the other faces you will see, however fleeting their appearances Melanie Griffith, J.K. Simmons, Dylan Baker, Jeffrey Wright, Winona Ryder, Hank Azaria, Gretchen Mol, Sam Rockwell, Debra Messing and Aida Turturro (best known nowadays for her role as Janice Soprano).Perhaps it's an intended irony that a movie entitled Celebrity all about the effects of celebrity should only be made palatable by the big star names who pop up throughout. "},{"Title":"A waste of Branagh's Incredible Talent!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is pretty bad even by Woody Allen's standards!I'm not one of those absolute Woody Allen haters.  Annie Hall is a good, good film.  That said, Celebrity is a summation of the worst of Woody Allen Cliches! The adultery, the whining, the self serving nature, and the feeling that the title character SHOULD have your sympathy even though there's no way he could in a million years earn it are all here!Basically this feels like a film that Allen wrote 20 years ago and only just recently dusted off to make.  By the time the movie got made Allen was far too old to play the libertine leading role.  Undaunted he chose the best actor in film today to do a dead on impression of Woody himself.  The celebrity cameos and a performance by the incomparable Branagh as the Woody character may cause many to attempt this film.  Do not.  As a Die-Hard Branagh fan (especially the 1996 HAMLET), I can say I've never been so disappointed in a film of his!This didn't get my lowest rating, as a few redeeming qualities can be found if you search with a fine tooth comb!  Among these are Branagh's dead-on impression of Woody Allen (this is the only film in which I wanted to slap Branagh), Interesting Cameos (which still can't save this film), and the fact that the detestable main character does ultimately lose in the end and all those that he wronged seem to prosper.Unfortunately the bad far, far outweighs the good.  Make no mistake, this is not a Kenneth Branagh film, it's a substandard Woody Allen movie that should be avoided at all costs!  "},{"Title":"Fifteen Minutes Too Many","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like The Purple Rose of Cairo, Celebrity leaves it's central character sitting forlornly in a movie theatre, thinking what might have been.  Unlike that fine film, however, this is a pretentious and shallow mess that never convinces and is rarely funny.  Allen's over-lapping ad-lib dialogue style runs rampant here with little scripted text.  It's just as well because the scripted lines sound hack written (Who knew that angels flew so low?).  Branagh (standing in for Allen and almost imitating his put-upon demeanor and stumble-bum delivery at times) and co-star Judy Davis are both affecting American accents - fake number one.  Other stars rush in and out of the picture like they've got plans elsewhere. After the first ten minutes, the audience will feel likewise.  Phoney plot contrivances (writer with only one copy of a novel; bride runs from her own wedding) only make matters worse.  Final skywriting scene says it all - HELP! "},{"Title":"Almost done with Woody","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a waste of Kenneth Branagh - although he did a dead on impersonation of Woody Allen, I'm not sure we needed another one. For an actor I admire, he certainly wore out his welcome after the first 30 minutes.Moreover, the film is rife with situations that just do not seem real. The scene with Charlize Theron was unbelievable - sure, a jaded New Yorker like Lee would certainly drive off the road because of some sexual comment; and of course a writer who had already written two novels would only have one copy of his third; and of course a women getting ready to be married would see a hooker about the fine points of fellatio (an absolutely abysmal scene with Bebe Neuwirth); and of course and of course and....the movie is full of those moments. This is a below standard Woody Allen film with none of the charm of some of his best. He goes to the well often enough with his films in terms of style and content, but this time he certainly brought a teacup. "},{"Title":"Another fine outing for the great director","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Celebrity is a unique, funny, intelligent comedy that's beyond comprehension.  And the black and white helps accentuate the behind-the-scenes atmosphere.  There's a constant array of big celebrities that fill the screen, with one grand performance after another.  I have to especially commend Kenneth Branaugh for his dead-on portrayal of Woody Allen--he's not directly portraying Woody's real-life character and has a different name, but Branaugh displays Woody's every neurotic mannerism and gesture perfectly to the point where you actually think that's Woody on screen!!!  The script is filled with unique, entertaining characters and though some may feel there are too many--I thought the characters all interlocked perfectly and Woody brought everything together in a slick, focused manner.  There are some landmark moments, like when Judy Davis (the ex-wife of Kenneth Branaugh's character) comes to her friend, Bebe Neuwirth, for sex advice.  That scene had me on the floor!If you're expecting sharp, insightful humor that can only be delivered by the Wood-meister, you won't be disappointed!  You will laugh the whole way through!   My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"My general impression","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen many Woody Allen films, and have tired of his nervous stuttering.  I thought I might be spared that in this movie because he does not appear in it.  Unfortunately, the star mimics Woody's style, which is worse than watching Woody himself. "}{"Title":"Without question, one of Allen's most polarising films","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A lot of people like this film - and indeed, I suppose it could be argued that there are a number of things that work in its favour - however, for me, it is easily the worst Woody Allen film that I have so far seen, and I own 28 of them. Call it a matter of personal taste, but the main problem I had with the film was the complete lack of interest in any of the characters or the situations that they find themselves in; with Allen creating a shambolic, Fellini inspired freak show filled with grossly caricatured pantomime players parading from one scene to the next with no thought or feeling. When you think about the ideas behind the film, this particular presentation becomes almost genius (albeit, unintentionally so) and should have really led to some wicked satire on the nature of celebrity and the lengths that people will go to in order to maintain it. Unfortunately however, the film fails to build on this premise and becomes disengaging; largely because it has absolutely nothing of interest to say!I suppose if it was simply Allen's intention to truly capture the sense of vapid, empty malaise of celebrity life in a way that created a similar feeling for even the most inattentive of viewers, then he certainly succeeded with this; creating a film in which pretentious, narcissistic characters wander from one improbable scenario to the next, continually complaining about the dissatisfaction of their personal lives and relationships, whilst never quite seeming to realise that their actual problems are really a result of their own repugnant, self-infatuated personalities. One of his more recent films, Melinda and Melinda (2004) suffered from some similar problems - with the idea of affluent, well-to-do characters complaining about how hard life is from the comfort of their Park Avenue penthouses really crippling the identifiable elements of the drama - but even then, Allen was able to offer at least some level of technical invention and an approach to the story that was interesting and unique. Here, the style is generic and unadventurous as we follow Branagh's self-infatuated and highly deluded writer/journalist and part time Allen-caricature from one assignment to the next, usually resulting in a comic seduction of an incredibly attractive woman, and a lot of talk about his supposedly great, unfinished novel.Unsurprisingly, the lack of focus and Allen's inability to put his ideas into context or character, results in a difficult film that is sometimes OK, and other times woefully embarrassing. I understand Allen's ultimate intention and what he was trying to achieve with both the film and the characters, but for the episodic plot to really work he had to offer us some original insights, moments of imagination and a series of larger than life characters that were truly iconic. There's nothing here that is as unique, exciting and exotic as something like Nights of Cabiria (1957) or La dolce vita (1960), two films that Celebrity (1998) seems most heavily indebted to; with the characters generally trying to outdo one another in terms of bland pontification, snobbery and self-delusion. Certainly, I can understand why some viewers would enjoy the film - the cinematography is impeccable, there are some definite laugh out loud moments and some fine supporting performances from the talented and eclectic cast - however, there's nothing here that hasn't already been said before in far greater films such as Manhattan (1979), Stardust Memories (1980) and Husbands and Wives (1992), to name just three.Both Branagh and Davis are terrible as the divorced couple central to the narrative, with both actors employing the usual quirks and ticks of Allen's regular on-screen persona in their own delivery and mannerisms, with Branagh in particular trying to act the part of Woody Allen, albeit, with none of the comic timing or genuine feeling of self-deprecation. Davis is just as bad - woefully over-the-top and shouting her lines in a way that was at least fitting when she played the same part in Husbands and Wives - whilst the scene in which her character and Bebe Neuwirth's prostitute perform Fellatio on a pair of bananas is cringe-worthy and really beneath a filmmaker of Allen's great stature. Many of the other members of the cast are fine however, including Charlize Theron as a seductive supermodel, Leonardo DiCaprio as the typically hedonistic Hollywood trouble-maker, Joe Mantegna as Davis' sensitive love-interest and Famke Janssen as one of Branagh's numerous bedroom companions; but ultimately the lack of an interesting central character is a real handicap that severely affects the impact of the film.Ten years on, and Celebrity still remains one of Allen's most difficult and polarising works, and a close relation to Deconstructing Harry (1997) in terms of dissenting critical opinion amongst long term fans and admirers. For me, it is simply a film that I didn't enjoy on any level; whilst the people that did like it probably liked it for the reasons that I failed to connect with it. I suppose there are some individual factors that are interesting enough in their own right, however, for me it simply felt like Allen repeating himself; going over the same old themes and scenarios that he'd already expressed in far greater films and creating something sluggish and lazy. I'd still rank him as possibly the greatest living American filmmaker, simply off the strength of the films that he produced in the 70's and 80's, but this is surely a middling, or perhaps even mediocre effort by anyone's standards? "},{"Title":"The selfish generation","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen is certainly a celebrity if attention from the tabloids is any judge and well qualified to write a film about Celebrity.He lives openly in Manhattan amongst the rich yuppies he loves to write about and has attracted plenty of tabloid attention to do with his private life. Whether he has succeeded in presenting a film about the concept of celebrity is debatable though because this film throws itself in probably a dozen directions, not really leaving familiar Allen territory.His films usually feature himself playing a character very like himself or a character who is recognisably Woody Allen. He's portrayed as a dithering, well meaning but self serving sophisticate who's friends and lovers spar their way through self induced minor crises of the heart.Allen's films usually contain a myriad of set pieces, often centered about religious guilt and a fear of commitment, and they're nearly always very funny.In Celebrity the English master actor Kenneth Branagh has taken the Woody Allen part playing a journalist Lee Simon with terrific energy and authenticity.Lee is facing a mid life crisis. He confesses infidelities to his wife Robin (Australia's Judy Davis - in another wonderful performance) and then bounces from one disappointment with women and with his career to the next. He wants to write a novel but can't get together the courage. He no doubt fears he lacks the talent.Robin on the other hand has a classic female Woody Allen female break down but then haltingly blossoms when Tony (Joe Mantegna) falls unreservedly in love with her. But can she cope even with this? In fact Woody Allen films are so much about lack of confidence and are seemingly so autobiographical that it's a wonder Allen hasn't lost his nerve in real life and ended up not being able to face Central Park or a movie studio at all. It's a wonder he's not permanently in therapy (perhaps he is!)The secret must lie with the generosity and concern he feels for the rich cocaine and diamond social set he  shares. His humor is warm and never cruel, although women may take issue with this.There are some particularly demeaning (but not nasty) scenes for the women in Celebrity although humiliation isn't confined to the women. The men are often equally lost and at the mercy of their uncertainties and lack of clear direction in life.Oh to be so spoilt! Woody Allen films are often about the nearly idle rich and more importantly about the selfish generation. Love affairs always seem to be temporary affairs, even if they last years, ready to make way for a new model.Viewers, as often happens in a Woody Allen film, can play the star spotting game. As well as Kenneth Branagh and Judy Davis and Joe Mantegna there's Leonardo DiCaprio, Gretchen Mol,, Famke Jansen, Winona Ryder, Bebe Neuwirth, and Charlize Theron to recognise.The wit is often sharp and very funny with solid stabs being made at Catholic idolatry, the media, supercilious film directors and spoilt brat stars. There's a fine moment of two some, hilarious, some touching.The Woody Allen moaning becomes a bit of a whine once or twice but Celebrity wins hands down with plenty of fine, fun dialogue and beautifully realised photography and a final meekly despairing plea from the scared to be committed. "},{"Title":"Somewhat Less Than Scathing","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen's seriocomic sendup of stars behaving badly falls somewhere between his more astute films and his handful of duds. There are many great moments here, but they fail to come together as a whole. Kenneth Branagh does a decent job impersonating Woody Allen, but it's sad that a role so clearly written for the Allen persona had to be performed by someone younger. Judy Davis' performance is way too overwrought and manic. Couldn't wait for her scenes to be over and there are far too many of them. It's a role that would have been more well suited to Diane Keaton at a younger age. Other stars fare much better. Charlize Theron excels as an oversexed fashion model. Leonardo DiCaprio's episode is a shrewd display of egotism run amok - I don't think Leo's ever been better than he is in this movie. Winona Ryder comes across well as a struggling young actress who leaves a string of broken hearts behind her. Beautiful black and white photography of New York City, an Allen trademark, keeps things visually interesting. Celebrity should have said more with less. "},{"Title":"The parts are greater than the whole","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Celebrity rambles seemingly without a purpose for most of its running time; you may wonder why a film that has so little story needed to last 115 minutes. And yet, there are sporadic choice moments / lines / situations in it, like for example the restaurant scene where Branagh meets Ryder again after a long time and tries to start a conversation with her while the other people at their table continue their own talking. Although there is no apparent reason why this film had to be shot in black & white (in fact, in one of the best jokes in the film, a director who always shoots in black and white is called an arty, pretentious a**hole!), the cinematography itself is exquisite. There are some pointed jabs on the issue of celebrity; on a more personal note, the final shot of the film is perhaps one of the brightest ideas Allen ever had. Judy Davis stands out in a huge cast, giving an all-out comic performance (some cast members are not used to their full advantage). And Winona Ryder has probably never looked as transcendently, glowingly beautiful as she does in Celebrity. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"A disappointment from Woody Allen but not that bad","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It seems like Celebrity is one of Woody Allen's most polarising films and that is understandable. It is one of my least favourite films of his along with What's Up Tiger Lily, To Rome with Love and Cassandra's Dream(remember September, Shadow and Fog and Curse of the Jade Scorpion not being very good, but all three need a re-watch), but that is not to say it is terrible because it isn't. It is wonderfully photographed(by far and away the best thing about the film), not surprising seeing as this is Sven Nykvist- responsible for a lot of the photography for the films of Ingmar Bergman, the best of which are some of the most visually beautiful and best films ever made- we're talking about. It does have some funny and witty lines, the best of which really sparkle, not to the extent they're quotable but they are funny still and raise a good smile. There are some scenes like Bebe Neuwirth teaching Judy Davis how to improve her sexual skills and Leonardo DiCaprio's tempting Branagh, or at least trying to, into group sex that are memorable. Allen's direction is a little unfocused in places but his style is unmistakable still, so Celebrity at least feels like a Woody Allen film and it has enough quirky moments to not be too dull. The performances on the most part are a lot of fun as well, Winona Ryder, Bebe Neuwirth, Leonardo DiCaprio(who had the most energy in the cast) and Joe Montegna being particularly so. Famke Janssen is appealing too, in short though this is a case of the supporting cast being better than the leads.Kenneth Branagh I have to agree doesn't work here(a shame because he is a great actor and just as talented a director), giving a rare irritating performance that is so careful channelling Woody Allen that he comes across as a pale imitation instead with no sense of originality or coming into his own. That his material is not the best works against him as well. Judy Davis is a little better with some signs of charm and humanity but a lot of her performance is way overdone, for somebody who was so good in Husbands and Wives it was disappointing. The script and gags have their moments and much of it is most admirable, but the humour could have been more biting and more acerbic. It was a very good example of humour that was funny in parts but wasn't consistent, it wasn't clever, sharp or thought provoking enough and came across as mean-spirited in places. And there are scenes that just don't work, some of the blow-job jokes did to me come across as distasteful while the scenes with Davis's doorstepping television interviews, Ryder's rehearsal in seducing women and the opening of the gallery in Soho were particularly risible. The story could have been much tighter and could have dealt with its themes more freshly, much of it is very muddled, painfully predictable and rambling as well as dealt with in a self-indulgent way and paced ploddingly. The characters don't have much personality(excepting DiCaprio's) and very little of Celebrity rings true, the risible scenes being very difficult to take at face value. In conclusion, definitely could have been worse considering the dislike it has but Celebrity personally was a disappointment. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's back again","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What makes Woody Allen so good (besides the witty dialogues) is the striking way in which he failed (and to a lesser extent succeeded) customers can bring in pictures. Often Allen's films run the relations piece for reasons you often hear around you. The power of him is that he often credible and interesting to capture on film.In Celebrity, it is not about nothing, but it is about something... the fraud of celebrity existence, having relationships in this world, no longer appreciating your current relationship, falling in love with another, or rather thinking that you are in love with another. For me, Woody a great director who knows me regularly to laugh at, but also knows how to intrigue with his outlook on relationships between people / loved ones and know me in a fresh way to point out the common pitfalls.Normally I find Woody himself comfortably in the lead in his films, but in Celebrity, he made a good choice to give the role to someone else. Woody namely fits less in the world of glitter more than glamour. His replacement is also good and again I have again enjoyed a Woody movie. "},{"Title":"Fame for everyone - The main concept here is Andy Warhol's phrase that today everyone can have his 15 minutes","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen is concerned about what is happening to his intelligent characters. And he is crying Help! right off the screen. Because they are reasons to fear. The world begins to look like a TV show. Fame has depriced. Instead of real qualities it gives us a parody of them (a preacher from TV thinks about whether The Beatles were more popular than Jesus).The main thing is how to find yourself in this world. Allen seems to doubt. He think that we might be zombificated. Let's look at Robin Simon (Judy Davis) from his movie. Soon ago she was an English teacher, A specialist in Chaucer's poetry. Then she met a handsome producer Tony Gardella (Joe Mantegna). She becomes a host of a TV show and makes stupid interviews. What's worse, she feels good doing that. She sees nothing inappropriate in walking into Charles Manson's (the massacre at Polanski's villa was his inspiration) cell with camera. The TV producer seems to be a modern wizard. At a family party his relatives ask his to do this or that. He can do everything.The character of the film, celebrity journalist Lee Simon (Keneeth Branagh), can't resist of that kind of life's luxuries. His first two novels weren't successful. He has problems with finishing the third one. He'd rather work on a movie screenplay. It's bigger fame and bigger cash. Only a simple old woman, Gardella's grandmother is left with the remains of sanity. She is disturbed when hearing about a guy that was being held hostage by some thugs and now he is giving performances in schools as a hero. She asks surprised whether it is enough.Celebrity is a great fun about revealing the rules of that crying game that involves selling your own identity. The memoirs of a star taken back to the house she used to live in, seem like if they were written for a tabloid. A young actor Darrow (self-ironic DiCaprio) demolishes the hotel room, but the owners have nothing against his destructive actions. His presence in the hotel is in fact an advertisement. Darrow pretends for a second there that he takes life seriously. Just as he treats the script given by Simon. But all in all Darrow is interested only in parties, women, drugs and boxing fights. Nola, the statist (Winona Ryder) will go to bed with anyone who will make her an actress.In Woody Allen's movie people are attracted to fiction. Nola allows Simon to seduce her when he speaks to her with words take out of a novel. The reality gives no one satisfaction, need re-editing. That is why everyone is after Dr Lupus, a plastic surgeon.For many years now it is said that Allen is repeating his own motives and frustrations. Maybe it's true, but he still does that perfectly. He is even capable of making fun of directors shooting in non-color, while his own film is shot in that technique (cinematography by Sven Nykvist). The greatness of Allen allows the viewer to accept with astonishment such scenes that they would have been inappropriate if made by anyone else. That includes a runaway bride five minutes before wedding and a couple breaking off in a moment the removal company places her stuff in his apartment.A master is a master. "},{"Title":"Witty as always","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one more of Woody Allen's intelligent (but not too intellectual) and witty movies, slightly ridiculing the world of movie and TV celebrities. However the first part is much more brilliant than the second one. The latter loses a bit of the brightness and cleverness of the former. Kenneth Branagh who replaces Allen as a talking machine gun analyzing everything and most often undecided, does a splendid role. The sequence with Leonardo DiCaprio is particularly funny in its crazy development seasoned with a pinch of nonsense which makes it delicious. The problems of marriage and divorce are once again present and as usually treated in a humorous way. Not the best of Allen's movies but one of the best indeed. "},{"Title":"Modern version of La dolce vita","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yet another Woody Allen... It seems like he can't get enough of those neurotic characters that he bases more or less all his pictures on.Kenneth Branagh is a disguised W.A. and practically plays his role; he actually mimics W.A., which is somewhat annoying. Like usual in W.A.'s films, Branagh's character is a man who doesn't have a hard time finding - and getting women; his weak spot is rather that he never get satisfied with them (which is pretty hard to feel sorry about). So, what does this movie have that other W.A. pictures didn't already bring us? Most of all, it has a tremendous (to use a typical Allen word) beautiful photo. However, you could argue if this is the kind of film that fits well with Nykvist's black and white photo. Some scenes do, and they are great, but on the whole, I am doubtful.The movie does get better towards the end. It's not bad, but it could have been better. I think W.A. should have loosened up his traditional movie-making style in this picture. Replaced the main character with his Allen gestures and made it a little more classic French/Italian-inspired.3,5 / 5 "},{"Title":"An intelligent and revealing look at celebrity","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a funny and intelligent picture. Kenneth Brannagh, who usually puts me to sleep, is shockingly good here. You think that he is Woody standing there and doing his usual shtick. Judy Davis is also very good, as are the other leads and cameos. This picture sheds light on the empty adulation of celebrities that has become second nature to Americans. This brings me back to Brannagh, I just can't stop being amazed at this performance, which brings out all the neurotic desperation, fear of death and ultimate sadness which underlies Woody Allen's comedies and perhaps all great comedies. The photography and the direction is terrific, I caught echoes of Manhattan, Stardust Memories and even Annie Hall; somehow it just works and doesn't seem at all redundant. This film is a little gem.  "}{"Title":"A muddled but enjoyable spin on the effects of fame","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After continually bringing his audience through one high after another with a brilliant comeback in the 90's, Woody Allen has a little bit of a letdown - but still manages to entertain - with Celebrity.  There are many components of the film that make sense, but the whole balance between showcasing the pratfalls of fame and chronicling his usual neurotic-Manhattan marital fallout don't always work.  Why Allen cast Branaugh to play Woody is puzzling.  Perhaps Woody is all too aware of the audience's despondence with him cuddling up to women one-third his age, or maybe Branaugh was used just to see what kind of response it would provoke.  Either way, Branaugh does well; it just depends if you can stomach him playing Woody.There are as many good jokes here as any other Woody film, but the frame of reference is different.  His jokes don't exclusively concern the absurdity of fame, but also how ridiculously far it extends into American culture and how it's now seen as the ultimate power play.  The fame of religion, sex, excess, the lack thereof and the just plain fame of fame (It's all showbusiness! Branaugh complains).  Allen acutely demonstrates how fame corrupts a person (Branaugh shamelessly hawking his screenplay) and how some seem to find normalcy in life despite it (Joe Mantenga's easy-going TV producer).  We also see how the culture of celebrity affects everyday people and how they think.  Witness the scene where a group of rabbis, appearing on a talk show, calmly ask beforehand Have the skinheads eaten all the bagels?  Meaning it didn't matter to a group of Jewish clergymen that they were sharing a green room with Nazis, because they're about to be on TV.  Also consider the scene where the wonderful Judy Davis (somewhat reprising her excellent role in the fantastic Deconstructing Harry) seeks out a high class hooker with nervous, star-struck adoration in search of sexual advice.Just when the film starts to sag (or seem in search of a plot) we are given a brief jolt by the crafty Leonardo DiCaprio.  Woody may have predicted the attention DiCaprio was about to attract with Titanic and offered him this role out of sympathy.  DiCaprio gives a frenetic cameo as Brandon Darrow, allowing him to lampoon his public image before the press ever constructed it that of the young, spoiled movie star.  With this bit part, DiCaprio joins Woody in extending his middle finger towards the media (as Woody had been doing in his work throughout the late 90's).  Overall, the film is quite puzzled in its presentation.  The black-and-white cinematography is a nice touch, it's doubtful Woody chose B&W for the same panoramic methods he held in the late 70's / early 80's.  I assume the B&W photography was designed to impress you with more of a behind-the-scenes feel.  Maybe some of the humor got lost in Woody's determination to hold contempt for the famous high life, but Celebrity is worth one look if you consider yourself a mild Woody fan. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Films Of 1998!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I guess it would be evitable that most people would draw comparisons with this movie and Fellini's La Dolce Vita. Woody Allen's Celebrity is basically a harsh criticism on modern day society, I say it had it coming! Allen is trying to show us the we (the American public) like to accept odd things, which is perfectly true about us (and to be fair, so people don't think I'm being a snob, I freely throw myself into the ring also). As in the movie, when people do terrible things, they are turned into celebrities! Why do we do this? This is what's at the core of Allen's film. Why are we so quick to give a basketball player 20 million dollars, but, shy away from giving that same amount of money to some sort of medical research? Why has politics turned into some sorta daytime soap opera? These are things Celebrity trys to answer. The only problem I have with the movie is, it's not mean enough. It's not tough enough! The movie needed more bite to it. I think perhaps one of the reasons many people hated this movie is because Allen is trying to tell us, we're stupid. I know not one person who likes to hear someone bad mouth them. And the same goes with this movie. If it's telling us we do moronic things, some people could get a bit mad. Now, do start to think that's why I feel everyone hates this movie. The other reason is because Woody Allen wrote and directed it. I often wonder if Allen would keep his name  away from his movies if people would go see them. It's as if once people find out Woody Allen made the film people are turned off. Kenneth Branagh and Judy Davis star as a divorced married couple, Lee and Robin Simon. Lee (Branagh) is a second rate journalist who is trying to sell a screenplay. Robin (Davis) is trying to get her life back on track and put Lee behind her. After Lee interviews or has run in's with people like famous actress Nicole Oliver (Melanie Griffith), and a supermodel (Charlize Theron) Lee starts to think his life is meaningless. And who are we to disagree. I don't want to give away all of the plot here, but, Branagh by the end of the movie is where Robin started and Robin is where Lee dreams of being, happy! The acting by Famke Janssen and Winona Ryder is delightful to watch, especially Ryder. I thought Bebe Neuwirth was very funny as a hooker who trys to teach Robin a few tricks. And Joe Mantegna was pretty good as well, only problem is he wasn't given enough screentime. I absolutelly hated, Leonardo DiCapro! He just cannot act, I'm sorry all you Leo fans. All he does in his scene is scream, while yes, I'll give him credit, he has a very loud voice, that doesn't make up for his zombie look through his part. Wonderful black & white photography by Sven Nykvist, truly one of the highpoints of the film. And Allen has written a very sharp and witty script that is just as great as his directing. This is not Allen's best, but it's not his worst. I see it has one of the best films of 1998. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Leo steals the show!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although Celebrity is not one of Woody Allen's best films there are some good things about it.  Leonardo DiCaprio steals the show and perks the whole film up with his performance.  He proves once again how talented he is.  As far as people saying that he is  playing himself or even implying that he is, is just plain stupid if not unfair.  Leo is ACTING!  I don't see how anybody knows if he is playing himself unless they know him.  It would be nice if people could get that into their heads.  All the rest of the cast such as Judy Davis, Charlize Theron, and Winnona Ryder are very good too. This story of a journalist (played by Kenneth Branagh) trying to interview the Celebrities is sometimes funny but not that bad.  If nothing else watch it for the great performances by an all star cast. "},{"Title":"Gets better with each viewing...","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For me Celebrity has gotten better each time I have seen it.  I wasn't completely sold on it in the theaters, but I have since warmed up to it.  I don't understand the it's not funny comments this movie gets; I wouldn't consider it a comedy any more than I would consider Stardust Memories a comedy.  A serious drama can contain humor, which Woody Allen is great at incorporating, but go see There's Something About Mary if you just want to laugh.  This isn't that type of movie.  I just want to through out there that Kenneth Brannagh did not annoy me for a second.  If Woody Allen had starred in it, there would have been criticism about his use of young actresses and him; you can't win either way...Just watch it again, it may grow on you.   "},{"Title":"La Dolce Woody","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen ends his string of celebrity-laden movies of the 1990s with the aptly titled `Celebrity,' which uses the notion of fame to tie together the best installment of Woody's post-Mia self-examination.  The usual themes are here--failed marriages, writer's block, sexual voraciousness--but Woody makes it fresh again.  In fact, Celebrity is a summation of the last decade of Woody Allen movies, and may well be one of  his very best.Whereas in Deconstructing Harry (1997) Woody finally achieved his version of Wild Strawberries, the much-admired and emulated Ingmar Bergman classic, Celebrity is his answer to Fellini's La Dolce Vita and 8 1/2.  As in those two films, Celebrity examines infidelity, aging, and fame.  The central figure (the Woody Allen character of course) is played by Kenneth Branagh who gives a superb performance albeit eerie in its realism.  He perfectly captures Woody's famous neurotic personality.  As Lee Simon, he's a travel writer who interviews the rich and famous, pedals a movie script and an unfinished novel, and has an eye for beautiful women.  His marriage to Robin (a zany and sensational Judy Davis-again!) has fizzled (in his eyes), so he ends it and becomes a mid-life crisis in an Aston-Martin.  Ultimately though, he succeeds only in screwing up his emotionless life.  Meanwhile, Robin finds not only emotional stability and unquestioning love in David (nicely underplayed by Hank Azaria), a successful TV producer who accidentally enters her life, but unexpected fame of her own.This central story line is expertly woven with numerous very funny but seemingly unconnected sub plots and episodes.  The various cameo performances by Winona Ryder, Leonardo DiCaprio, Charlize Theron, Melanie Griffith, and others are terrific, the beautiful black and white cinematography by Swedish veteran Sven Nykvist is a visual feast, the script excels with great dialogue, and of course the tight direction all make this one of Woody Allen's best.  "},{"Title":"Good comedy. A neurotic La Dolce Vita.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It seems that the better Allen films don't have Woody Allen in them. Alice is a perfect example and so is Celebrity I just wish I could stop feeling I've seen this film before. La Dolce Vita kept coming to mind but the moral quandary element was not explored. "},{"Title":"not funny but still make you think","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  well its not so funny but if you are a guy it gives you something to think of. i did had some argues about the issue of living together and sex,but if you are not in the mood for words... "},{"Title":"Fun but not a classic","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not as bad as some have made out, this one. There are still plenty of great jokes (the skinhead/bagel one is a classic), and the performances are of the usual high standard (especially Judy Davis - this may be her finest hour). The self-reflexive irony is a new and welcome departure (eg criticising B&W films for pretension).Nevertheless, there are longueurs, the guest stars are treated even more as walk-ons than usual (especially Winona Ryder, whose part seems to fizzle out as soon as it's got going), and one would have expected a more in-depth and incisive treatment of the cult of the personality - at least, one would from a different film-maker (to be frank, Altman has done it much better).Branagh isn't half as irritating as many have made out, though it's obvious he's impersonating Allen (not all that badly, to be fair, though he's obviously not Jewish). That the film is still one of the better ones showing at the moment is a testimony to Allen's genius. As someone else has remarked, this is B+, not A. But I enjoyed it - and, as a novelist myself, there was plenty in it which spoke to me.By the way, has anyone else noticed how many more black people are in this film than we expect from Allen? Is he softening? "},{"Title":"A pretty good Woody Allen film, not the best but still very good.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Celebrity Allen did not make the mistake of casting himself (unlike Deconstructing Harry) which is what really saves this film from becoming mediocre. The pace of the film is very engaging and the cinematography is fantastic as usual. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh plays the role Woody would have . . .","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just as John Cusack did in Bullets Over Broadway, Ken Branagh plays the neurotic writer that Woody himself probably would have played had this film been made a decade or so ago. And what a difference to see Branagh this way! Some good character performances and funny scenes. Definitely worth a look. "}{"Title":"Woody Allen's Comes Out","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though I did like this movie, I am somewhat perplexed and disappointed in his Woody Allen's latest film Celebrity. This film, more than any other film in his career, gives us all his sexual fantasies(warts and all), his confusion on how he should live his life and his fear of growing old and dying(Notice at the end of the film, the skywriting that spells out the word HELP). The writing was good, Judy Davis, Famke Jamsen gave good performances. Kenneth Brannagh was too much of a caricature of Woody Allen. Visually, Chalize Theron, Famke Jamsen and Winona Ryder were stunning beautiful( especially Ms. Theron). This movie did not break any cinematic ground as far as artistic value. What it did do was reveal sides of Woody Allen's psyche that I would rather not know.    "},{"Title":"Hmmm... I Wonder","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After reading several critics' opinions on Celebrity, and then the comments here on IMDB, a question came upon me. What if Celebrity had been released under a pseudonym? What if nobody knew it was Allen's latest work? Ok, ok, YES people would have thought the Branagh character was very much an imitation of Allen, but besides that? I think people would better sense the quality of a film if they went in with fewer pre-conceived notions. Can you imagine if every time you met somebody new the person would be handed a list of your best moments/ characteristics, and then would chastise you every time you acted otherwise? I agree, this is not Allen's best, but I also don't believe it deserves as much criticism as it is getting. The cinemetography is brilliant, and the performances by Judy Davis, Winona Rider and Charlize Theron are wonderful. Perhaps the Allen imitation is overdone, but Branagh is appropriately pitiful, and so the movie works.  "},{"Title":"We can now forever watch Bebe Neuwirth without seeing Lilith","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Gotta like the Wood-man. This is a damn funny movie where the Woodster bares his butt warts and all for the world to see.Woody's too old to play himself getting chicks and still be believable so he gets Kenneth Branaugh to be him. Yeah right.OK so we'll suspend reality for that one. It's amazing Woody can make good movies without knowing any normal people. The characters in this flic are so superficial they make the cast of Seinfeld look like Ghandi, Mandela, Mother Theresa and a few Buddhist monks. The Allen/Branaugh/whomever character is the most despicable, narcisistic, repulsive person on the planet. Much like Woody himself.The movie tells us that there are celebrities on every level of existence. You can be a celebrity in your house, your family your neighborhood whatever; but whatever level of celebrity you reach you always feel insecure and insignificant. It's best to be yourself, do your best and try to be happy. This is a great movie and I don't use the term loosely. It's not preachy, it just turns over the rock of urban American society and lets us peek at the disease and garbage underneath.Joe Montegna and Judy Davis do Oscar quality work. DiCaprio is in a great segment that is so good it's hard to tell if he adds anything or not; probably not. Winnona Ryder is lovely as usual. The big model whose name escapes me is beautifully awful. I think Woody used a terrible actress on purpose to get back at all the models who have rejected him. Finally Anthony Mason is da bombThis is the best dialogue in my Woody memory and I will definitely see it again. Another reason to see it is that New York Times political columnist Maureen Dowd absolutely killed it. Be Well Jimmy Bagga Doughnuts "},{"Title":"If you're a Woody Allen fan, you will like it.  If not, well...","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a rather typical Woody Allen film.  It is overly written and has a large cast of today's well known screen personalities with some stars.  The dialogue is the usual talkly Allenesque verbiage, for which he has become famous.  Kenneth Branagh has the Woody Allen role, presumably because Woody has become too old for it, and performs Woody's ticks and mannerisms to the point of parody.  The weaknesses in the film are (1) that Branagh is able to earn the interest of such attractive women (never believable), and (2) Joe Mantegna's interest in the Judy Davis' paranoid, goofball character is never remotely believable and is in fact never explained.  What is remarkable is that Allen is able to bring out a wonderful performance by Winona Ryder, something I have never seen before from this wide eyed, cupie doll actress.  This film is probably only going to be really enjoyed by strong Woody Allen fans and fans who like to see a lot of movie stars parading across the screen.  "},{"Title":"Where's Woody?","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Branaugh's excessive aping of Woody Allen in every scene will make long-time fans yearn for the real thing.  Allen must have decided that he is finally too old to play the familier role. "},{"Title":"As Allen films go, this is a B+, not an A","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Allen's satire of our celebrity-mad society (filled with celebrity preachers, celebrity victims, celebrity weathermen, etc.) may get more attention, but this is actually a study of Allen's familiar question If I'm so successful, how come I'm not happy. Branagh desperately searches for fame, while his ex-wife has it fall into her lap. It's all a shot in the dark, but there are some very funny sequences along the way (including the banana scene). "},{"Title":"It deserves better","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Normally Woody Allen movies get a very high rating on this website - even though they aren't always the easiest to watch - and when I saw that this movie only got a 6.2/10, I was a bit reluctant to give it a try. I'm not too familiar with the man's work yet, but what I've seen so far was OK. Now that I've seen it, I'm puzzled about the fact why this movie doesn't score any better, because in my opinion it really wasn't that bad. One thing that worked well for instance was the story.Lee Simon hasn't got a successful career. He has always been a journalist, but what he really wants is to become a famous writer. He has already published two novels - both were sabred down by the press - and has finished a movie script. After divorcing his wife Robin, he tries to meet as many rich people and celebrities, models,... as he can, but he isn't all that successful in that either. In the meantime his ex-wife meets a very desirable TV-producer and takes her first steps in the world of celebrities, a world which she has always despised...Even though this is a Woody Allen movie and this story is clearly based on his own life, you'll not see him in it. That's OK with me, but somehow it also felt a bit strange. Why would a man like Allen write such a movie and than not perform in it like he always does? I really don't know, but I'm sure that he had his reasons for it. But don't let that be a reason not to watch this movie. Kenneth Branagh is at least as good in the role. His performance was really good, although I must say that he wasn't the biggest surprise in this movie. Personally I was more surprised by Charlize Theron who played the role of a supermodel and did a great job with that role. Of course all other actors were more than just OK as well, but what else can you expect from people like Melanie Griffith, Winona Ryder... What I also liked in this movie was the typical humor and the sometimes biting criticism on Allen's own world. Take for instance the part in which he lets one of his characters say He's terribly pretentious. He is one of those assholes who film in black and white, while this movie too has been shot in that way. Another great moment is when he makes fun of movie critics, but there are so many good jokes and laughs included in this movie that it is impossible to name them all. I guess that if you can't stand Allen's kind of humor, you better don't even watch this movie, because it's full of it, but when you like it, you shouldn't hesitate to give it a try, because there are some fine examples of it to be found in this movie.All in all this movie deserves a lot better than the actual rating of 6.2/10. The acting is nice, the story has been well written and is full of excellent jokes and biting criticism. I really liked what I saw and I believe that this movie deserves at least a rating in between 7/10 and 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Branagh does Woody","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So-so Woody Allen film with Kenneth Branagh portraying an Allen type neurotic whose love life and career are a mess. Despite an attractive supporting cast including Wynona Ryder, Judy Davis and Melanie Griffith, its basically just a meandering film that gos nowhere.Not to say that the movie doesnt have its amusing moments but not what I look for in a Woody Allen film. Watch for promising newcomer Molly McCann as a Leonardo DeCaprio groupie in hotel scene. "},{"Title":"Annie Hall Goes To Hollywood","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" OK, nicely shot, nicely acted, story starts off interesting (brilliant, even -- with HELP! written across the New York sky) but then slowly but increasingly starts to lag, and Kenneth Branagh pretty much mimics Woody Allen which is irritating. This is pretty much the attempt to update Annie Hall -- amorous trials and tribulations of neurotic Manhattaners, this time with a celebrity twist to it -- but unfortunately in such a way as to make you wish you'd be watching the original. If you haven't seen Annie Hall then you might find this refreshing, but you'd still be better advised to watch the original instead. The problem is that our old friend Allen Konigsberg doesn't have anything to say about celebrities that really needed to be said, that would make this movie worthwhile. Instead, the inclusion of high-falutin' celebs only adds to this movie's implausibility (such as when filmstar Melanie Griffith basically falls over herself to offer our everyman hack Branagh oral sex). Almost more than with Allen you keep wondering what that endless string of divas, supermodels and budding actresses see in Branagh's character. Are stutter and occasional rhetorical diarrhea really that cute?On the other hand, great performance from Judy Davis, and her storyline is more interesting too. It's also fun to see also those then budding young stars such as Leonardo di Caprio, Charlize Theron and Winona Ryder, who have since all become staples, at a time when they hadn't yet dropped their thespic gonads (figuratively speaking).PS a few later, I've pretty much forgotten this movie. Not a good sign. "},{"Title":"Genius + Talent = Celebrity","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen is a genius filmmaker and writer. There is no debate. It's a fact. Look at the things he has written and any critcism reeks of ignorance. Forget about his private life, it has nothing to do with his work. Forget about taking Leonardo DiCaprio down personally for playing a character in a movie. (It is entirely lame to see people on these boards feel that Leonardo's characterization was a personal affront.) The list of great works by Woody is totally admirable if not astonishing The Curse of the Jade Scorpion,       Small Time Crooks, Celebrity, Deconstructing Harry, Everyone Says I Love You, Mighty Aphrodite, Bullets Over Broadway, Manhattan Murder Mystery, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Radio Days, Hannah and Her Sisters, Purple Rose of Cairo, Zelig, Interiors, Annie Hall, Love and Death, Sleeper, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex* But Were Afraid to Ask, Play It Again Sam, Bananas, Pussycat, Pussycat, I Love You, Don't Drink the Water, Take the Money and Run... the list goes on. 'Celebrity' is a satire. People who don't understand satire and deadpan wit will not get it. It's your loss.              "}{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must have been the only one on the planet to not have known this was a Woody Allen film.  Caught it on pay-per-view and missed the first 2 minutes, so didn't see the credits.  Could not for the life of me understand why Kenneth Branagh's role would require a distractingly less than perfect American accent.  ( I now realize a big part of his appeal is the accent.) Could not understand the point of having Judy Davis speak like someone with emphysema, taking a big breath, raising her head up and flailing her arms around before each and every sentence. Could not understand why Melanie Griffith's character would offer herself so quickly to such a whiney little yuck, (Yeah sure, what dirty old man's fantasy is this?)  From this I finally figured Kenneth had to be doing a Woody Allen imitation. Of course! But still WHY? What was the point?  An homage? (Hollywood's newest favorite word?) Why such a strict adherence to the Woody formula?  The ending mention of assistant to Mr. Allen gave it away finally- This WAS a Woody Allen film.  O.K. this all makes sense, I guess.  But then all I could imagine on the set was Woody telling Kenneth, No, stoop down a little more, touch your head here, st, st, stutter your lines a bit more, I mean, I mean, I mean you want to sound more like you can't, you know, more like you can't, you know, really get, really get your thoughts out in a timely manner.  Jeez how bizarre would that have been?  "},{"Title":"Manhattan Transference","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  And so, to Manhattan. A couple (Branagh and Davis) split after 15 years and move in entirely different directions. Leigh (Branagh) becomes obsessed by the glittery world he has only observed as a journalist, but discovers he is, in Allen-speke, a thinker not a do-er, paralysed from participating successfully. The twist is that his neurotic Catholic ex-wife accidentally ends up working in fluff television doing lifestyle pieces on the stars, and in the inevitable looking glass world of tv, becomes a minor celebrity herself. Along the way there are plenty of swipes at the United States own plastic monarchy, the eponymous celebrities. Its a mess. Despite some good jokes and a truly arresting performance from Judy Davis this is probably the worst film of what has been Allen's renaissance decade. Chief blame must lie with the director for casting Kennenth Branagh as his middle-age stand-in. Allen's films are in the main carried by his leading man (himself, natch) and Celebrity is no different. If the public long-ago became happy to lose sight of the division between Allen the man and Allen the character this is one sudden wake-up call. The charmingly self-effacing yet witty persona has gone badly awry here. The same lines and mannerisms delivered by a light English actor sound cloying, derivative and irritating. When one considers the success of John Cusack (Bullets over Broadway) in a similar 'substitute' role one can only wonder at how Allen took his eye off the ball in casting one of Peter's friends. Worse, the themes of a man unsure of his emotional and career goals are all borrowed from 'Manhattan'-era Allen; even down to discussions of 'polymorphous perversity' and the sublimated masculinity inherent when bookish types buy period sportscars. The characters endlessly talk about celebrity without really ever making any substantial criticisms. Yes, it makes for a colourful backdrop, but to what is essentially a lukewarm Allen-by-the-numbers midlife crisis-comedy. Shame. Alex Mayor "},{"Title":"The worst Woody Allen film","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Celebrity is Woody Allen's worst film ever. The script is as pathetic as Kenneth Branagh's impersonation of Woody Allen's character in Deconstructing Harry. The jokes are predictable (especially the ones about blowjobs) and the whole movie goes nowhere, without making a point. Really awful. "},{"Title":"Waiting To Laugh","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An hour into Celebrity I realized it wasn't going to get any funnier, Kenneth Branaugh wasn't going to look any better or become interesting, and that it had been a long time since I actually enjoyed a Woody Allen film. Anyone else tired of his wet-dream movies?  I mean, there was a time when we went to a Woody Allen movie to get away from crassness.  Now, every fifteen minutes he seems compelled to provide us with another blow job reference.It's nice that he gets Melanie Griffith out of the way early on so we don't have to keep worrying about her showing up again and scaring us with her lips, and Judy Davis gets a bigger role than she's had in awhile (who could get tired of her?).  The little girls can squeal at Leonardo DiCaprio, who still appears pre-pubescent (it's best not to dwell on what appeals to his fans), Winona Ryder still shows promise after 12 years on the screen, but the movie fades after 15 minutes.  I forgot I saw it. "},{"Title":"self-pitying deluded decline of woody","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Superiority and egotism masked as self-pitying passive aggression. b&w is as gorgeous as in Manhattan but allen is licking his bruised ego and takes a stellar cast and makes them a trite parody. His brilliant days are over. but not in a quiet way. but in an embarrassing attempt to defend his own celebrity, his own decline and his scandals (which don't concern me). I felt so sorry for K Branagh playing woody even though he did a great job of imitation without overplaying it. when woody was in his prime he did a film called Stardust Memories that touched on similar themes. His cruelty and disgust for his audiences and what he thinks are normal people was evident but his film-making and writing overcame the faults and it's still a valuable movie to see. but celebrity made me wince.  "},{"Title":"Celebrity staleness","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I always scan the comments to see which one jives most with my impressions of the film. congrats,stat-8! you won. the film's few refreshing moments come when davis and branagh are either absent from the screen or overshadowed by one of the few watchable co-stars. a real downer for a Woody fan or any viewer for that matter. maybe woody considered this therapeutic, hopefully preventing him from creating such self-indulgent trash in the future. "},{"Title":"A failed experiment, to say the least.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  God bless Woody for pushing the envelope.  In the last 20 years or so he's made two kinds of movies.  The first category I call New York stories, starting with Annie Hall then Manhattan, Hannah and Her Sisters, Husbands and Wives, Radio Days, Crimes and Misdemeanors, etc.  The second category I call Experimental Cinema, Like Zelig and Purple rose of Cairo.  In this second category he's had some tremendous successes. Films like Another Woman,  Bullets Over Broadway and Everyone Says I love you.  Scenes From a Mall is an example of a mild failure.  Celebrity however is an excruciatingly dismal failure.  What was he thinking?  Another one of those ideas that probably sounded ok on paper, but after filming it and realizing that its a turkey, what do you do?  Throw it away?  Its too late.  But its not too late for you, gentle viewer, if you haven't seen it.  See every other movie that Woody has made first, then, if you feel you must see this, go ahead, but put in your mouth guard because you're going to grind your teeth.What's truly astonishing about this film is the number of top actors that were willing to participate.  The script could not have been impressive to them.  All they wanted was to be in a Woody project. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Luckily I saw this on DVD and could skip to the next scenes after I ambitiously suffered through the first 30 minutes. I felt very much like this was made simply to satisfy an ego, and hey, if that's the point, good for Woody. And I kept hoping color would magically appear somewhere, whether in the dialogue or action or hairdo, I didn't care. Something. In short, it sucked. "},{"Title":"Ho-Hum","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very familiar territory revisited here...I kept thinking of  Laraine Newman in 'Stardust Memories' saying I've seen it all before.  They try to document their private suffering and fob it off as art. It's well made but not very interesting (at all). The scene where Judy Davis is given oral sex lessons from Bebe Neuwirth was particularly un-funny. I normally love Woody Allen films but I could not/would not recommend this one. "},{"Title":"I think I've finally had enough . . .","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" . . . of Woody Allen. Ever.Watched (as much of) Celebrity (as a could stand) last night. Ugh! It's painful to watch the evermore narcisistic Allen playing himself in his movies, but I felt like he was taking his self-love to entirely new dimensions by directing another actor to play Woody while Woody watched. And Branagh as Woody was just downright painful. And the blatant, pointless, gratuitous oral sex scenes . . . . I walked out when Melanie Griffith was giving Branagh a Bill-logic blowjob, then passed through again on my way to the kitchen to see Bebe Neuwirth choking on a banana after showing Judy Davis (who I normally adore, but who seems to play the same shrill/hysterical character or are ALL Woody characters that way? in each of her Woody films) how to fellate it.Were there others? Dunno . . . . couldn't watch. This was an ugly movie by an ugly man, clearly riding his reputation. Blech! There will be no more Woody in my house when I'm here, unless I decide to rent Sleeper at some point for nostalgia's sake . . .  "}{"Title":"Dull, Dull, Dull w/Branagh at His Worst Ever...","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must say, I didn't expect much from this film to begin with.  Yet, it even managed to fail in the little bit of hope I had for it.  Branagh was abysmal in his performance.  He may have been aiming for a young Woody Allen but instead comes across as a pathetic caracature of half wit with a speech impediment.There was not a single character in the movie that you could care about, either enough to love or hate them.  No one in the cast brought enough dimension to any character to make them anything more than cartoons...and not interesting ones at that.Perhaps this is supposed to be some grand statement on the character of 'Celebrity' in our current society.  However, if that was the intention, it backfired in making a film so dull that you have trouble retaining any interest at all.Woody, please, if this is the best you can do these days, stick to playing your clarinet.  With this last effort, it seems you have lost your knack at making a decent film.  "},{"Title":"One of Allen's most disappointing","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Any director as prolific as Woody Allen is bound to have some successes and some failures.  In this case, Celebrity is mostly a failure; it's not a terrible film, but when compared to most other Woody Allen movies it reveals itself to be a truly mediocre effort.  While I don't have a problem with the grittiness that Allen has chosen to portray, and I don't think it's bad that the movie is in black & white, the movie itself just isn't very satisfying - there aren't very many funny or dramatic sequences.  It sort of feels like Allen is going through the motions.  For Woody fans only. "},{"Title":"Should have been called the Hindenburg - its a disaster.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Where do you begin with a Thanksgiving main course like this? Woody's take on Celebrity, which seems to be his attamept to play catch-up to The Player is the biggest bomb since Nagasaki. Bad enough that you have Branagh trying to PLAY Woody in the film, but none of it is convincing. Stars DO NOT jump into bed with 40-something nebbishy acting freelance (freelance!) entertainment reporters. Woody says almost nothing about celebrity here except for his own ego and narcissism. Pass it by. "},{"Title":"Managed To Entertain The Viewer","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Black-and-white Sven Nykvist cinematography highlights this Woody Allen comedy about fame and obscurity among Manhattan celebs in this film entitled,Celebrity. The screenplay focuses on the divergent paths a couple takes following their divorce.It has an all-star cast in Hank Azaria,Kenneth Branagh,Judy Davis,Leonardo DiCaprio,Melanie Griffith,Famke Janssen,Michael Lerner,Joe Mantegna,Bebe Neuwirth,Winona Ryder and Charlize Theron.This comedy-drama film is written and directed by Woody Allen.Lee Simon is an unsuccessful novelist turned travel writer who immerses himself in celebrity journalism following a midlife crisis and subsequent divorce from his insecure wife, Robin, a former English teacher, after sixteen years of marriage.As he stumbles his way through both professional encounters and sexual escapades with performers, models, and other players in the world of entertainment, Lee increasingly questions his purpose in life. He blows numerous opportunities due to his fame-seeking and neuroses.Meanwhile, Robin trades her many neuroses for a makeover and a job with television producer Tony Gardella that leads to her own celebrity interview program. She takes advantage of numerous opportunities and ends up happy and successful.This film pinpoints the excessive role of celebrities in American culture and their impact in the average American.The black-and-white film is impressive, but the tale is shallow and diffuse and has little to say about our media- saturated life and obsession with fame.It was scattered but it nevertheless managed to be entertaining. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Believe it or not, while a lot of you out there found this film utterly shambles, I found it absolutely fantastic and very well directed!  Now, given that, I have never seen Woody's other films, nor want to, Celebrity was always one I wanted to see in general, NOT cause of DiCaprio.  My opinion?  Kenneth (yeah for another great Northern Irisher!), was absolutely brilliant as writer Lee, in fact, Im convinced that Ken had to act like Woody ....in that he played Woody's character, and played it so well!  Ken is one of those actors who can look and act completely different from one film to the next, something very rare in today's actor world...and I just found this 'story of his life' in diff. chapters interesting and funny! Esp, when it comes to him visiting Brandon, and he is trying to get a word in edgeways while Brandon is freaking out, and I laugh my head off at Lee's hairdo when Brandon is letting him out the hotel room the day after.........jaysus that bit craics me up big time!  LMAO!  And Judy Davis was very very good.....shes lovely.  And DiCaprio did shine in that movie, may not have been a big role, but I have always stuck by DiCaprios work in that the boy can deliver well on screen.  So playing Brandon, who never shuts up, *LOL*..D, was quite funny.  Remember u need as many diff types of characters as possible to make many movies work, and Celebrity does just that.......its like one huge circle and we are all travelling round it through the diff Chapters of two lives.......excellent!Well done Woody! "},{"Title":"It's Not Classic Allen...But It's Fun Nonetheless!","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't really understand why this movie is hated so much. Sure, it's not a 'classic' Allen film, but it has some definite funny moments and sly social commentary. The only thing that really annoyed me about this film was Kenneth Branagh's poor and painful attempt at mimicking Allen's 'screen style.' (The stuttering, the neurotic behaviour/attitude, etc.) Judy Davis is delightful as Branagh's wife and Winona Ryder is wonderfully droll as a wannabe actress. This is the sort of film that grows on you with subsequent viewings. Like I said previously, it won't ever be a 'Classic' Allen movie, but it's a fun little romp that pleases nonetheless.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Celebrity not the Woodman's best","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was somewhat disappointing for a Woody Allen film. It was mostly tiresome and dry. I fear the Woodman's vast talents are slowly disintegrating and found Deconstructing Harry a more pleasurable romp. One thing I can say for Allen is that he always picks a mean cast - undoubtable in their abilities. I would have to agree (despite some very funny scenes) that the brilliant Judy Davis' immense talents where wasted and I'm tiring of her neurotic, edgy characters in his films. Nobody does it better than Davis, surely, but she has so much more to offer.  Please Woody, put us out of our misery and write a decent, funny role for Davis. She deserves better.The skywriting finale was most appropriate and me thinks he's trying to tell the world something...  "},{"Title":"Typical Allen","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To start with, I'm not a Woody Allen fan. In fact I can't stand him or his work so I would have passed on this had I known he was involved. I was focused on the cast and admired everyone there with the exception of Kenneth Branagh so again another disappointment, that out of all that talent, he had the major male role. Being committed I went ahead and tried to watch it but not surprisingly I gave up a third of the way through. It is so typical of an Allen film, especially those of his that are set in New York. If I didn't know better (I actually don't) I'd think that everybody in New York is neurotic and talks extremely fast which only means that Allen has written himself in to yet another role. Not a good idea for diversity but if a director must he ought to consider if his character is likable or not. The only Allen films I've liked were those that he wasn't in or had an Allen like character. Because I didn't finish the film I can't write a proper review but just a warning to those who are not fond of the Allen personality, and there are a lot of us, don't be fooled by the fact that Allen isn't listed as a cast member. He sent Branagh in his stead. "},{"Title":"Understated classically Allen flick","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A funny title for this film. The celebrities are the incidental characters. The principals are pinballs in the Manhattan playground of the celebrated. This lead couple, Lee (Branagh) and Robin (Judy Davis) Simon, find differing fortunes when they try and engage in or eschew the company and lifestyle of infamy.The film is typically whimsical. It doesn't have the same fable quality of Manhattan, his previous b&w movie and it's nowhere near as good as La Dolce Vita, the film on which it is based. Even with the late, lamented Sven Nykvist in charge of the shots there's only one really striking image for me (Famke Janssen on a ferry). I don't feel I've learn much in this clear three acter.The film lives or dies then by the cast. I can now bracket Branagh with Julianne Moore; capable of almost anything on screen (his American accent is flawless and his assumption of Woody Allen's character is unimpeachable theft) but tethered to a core persona I can't get on with. The perennially neglected Judy Davis is just as good but more appetising. The supporting cast do what they're told very well. 5/10 "},{"Title":"It's good","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When you've seen many films by the same director, and you consider yourself a fan of that director's work in general, it is almost impossible to approach a particular film without a certain set of expectations.  This isn't fair, no, but it's inevitable.  While I will certainly admit that Celebrity is far from Woody Allen's best work, I did endeavor to focus on the film itself and try to ignore the disappointments that come from dashed expectations.  In that light, I'm pleased to report that Celebrity is a good film.  First, let's get something out of the way.  I'm sick to death of people complaining about Kenneth Branaugh imitating Woody Allen.  Ok, so if you happen to find it irritating, well, then it'll pretty much ruin the movie for you.  That's fair.  But I don't find it irritating in the least.  Moreover, I think it's a legitimate artistic choice which succeeds in what it sets out to do.  Consider  it wasn't Woody Allen's idea for Branaugh to ape his own screen persona.  In fact, Allen did all he could to discourage Branaugh from this approach, because he knew critics would skewer it.  But Branaugh decided to play it that way regardless.  Why?  Well, perhaps to make it funny.  Looking at the script, it's a perfect role for Allen to have played himself, and Allen would have made it extremely funny.  However, the role really needed a younger, more handsome actor.  So, what's the ideal solution?  Get a younger, more handsome actor to deliver the same performance Woody Allen would have.  You can debate all you want whether or not this is a good idea (as, presumably, Allen and Branaugh did), but I think it's a legitimate artistic decision.  Anyway, it isn't Branaugh that pulls this film down, in my opinion.  It's the lack of focus.  Allen's films frequently include a number of major characters.  This allows him to explore an issue from several different viewpoints.  He does this here, but Celebrity seems to lack the central core that binds most of his films together.  It's exploring the idea of celebrity, and raising all sorts of questions and issues about it, but it seems to lack a coherent, central thesis.  It doesn't seem to have any strong premise at all.  So, the film consists of disconnected pieces fitting together into a sort of formless, unsatisfying whole.  But the pieces are funny, insightful, well-acted, and gorgeously shot.  So how bad can it really be? Plus, I think what framework the film does have is overlooked by most of the audience.  Some viewers here have said that the film is about making movies in contemporary Hollywood.  It's not.  That is one aspect of celebrity that this film explores.  But this film is packed with almost every conceivable form of celebrity, from movie star to senator to literature critic to TV weather man to coma patient.  Yet people seem to fixate on the Leonardo DiCaprio sequence (in my opinion, the weakest part of the film).  Why?  Perhaps because Leo is such a celebrity.  As usual for Allen, this film boasts a tremendous supporting cast of famous and not-so famous actors.  Charlize Theron, Joe Mantegna, Bebe Neuwirth, Famke Janssen, Hank Azaria and Winona Ryder all put in strong performances in supporting roles of various depths.  The only weak link, acting wise, is DiCaprio, who is entirely unconvincing.This film, while quite legitimately not numbered among Allen's strongest films, has never the less been unfairly maligned.  It's funny, it raises interesting issues and makes insightful points about it's subject matter, and it looks great.  What more do you want?  "}{"Title":"not bad, but Branagh's Allen is painful","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Celebrity.  It would be hard to go wrong with such a strong ensemble (although we all know it does happen).  I've yet to be disappointed by the often-overlooked Bebe Neuwirth.  But Kenneth Branagh doing Woody Allen in the film was terribly grating by the end.  It was a great impression, and I can usually stand Woody, but two Woody Allens is too much. "},{"Title":"This would have been great in 1968","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This would have been considered a sleeper in 1968, but trite and cliche in 1998. Branagh appears to be trying to do Woody, who apparently allowed this travesty. This Manhattan murder was no mystery.  Although the character's conflict were Catholic guilt/sex and neurosis, Branagh desperately imitates a classic neurotic Jewish writer, even doing Woody's stammers and stutters. What were they thinking? It was death without love. I found only one or two slight grins in the interiors of this psycho-comedy, the largest was when I went to the restroom knowing I wouldn't miss anything.  The second when I fantasized Branagh saying TB are not TB (cough, cough)that is the congestion from Everything You Wanted to Know...I hate to be deconstructing Woody, I weep for his past genius.  He is either bananas or he decided to take the money and run. Now he is remaking Manhattan/Annie Hall hoping they won't be seen hiding under a new title.  If you ever watched an old friend tell the same tired story over and over hoping someone will cheer it again, you'll cry for Celebrity.  Don't play it again, Woody.  You're no longer the champ and you will never be again.  It is better to stand on your laurels, than soil your Depends. With all of the real celebrities you'd think this movie would have been touted from all of the NY/LA roof tops, but I imagined the Celebs, paid not to be associated with this sick flick.  Maybe young film makers will look at this and say, When my day in the sun is over, just shoot me, don't let me make a movie like Celebrity. "},{"Title":"One heck of a piece of...","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just flat-out annoying is the only way to describe this new comedy from the master of overrated films like Deconstructing Harry and Everyone Says I Love You himself, Woody Allen.  When I first heard of this film, I was glad to know that Allen himself wouldn't be on-screen, and that's what convinced me to rent this movie; I don't know, he just bugs me.  Well, thanks for nothin', Allen.  You cast Kenneth Branagh and told him to imitate your every movie.  Beurk!  Thanks for stealing nearly two hours of my life. I would have quit in disgust or fastforwarded  (like I did for other ensemble work pieces like Robert Altman's 1994 fiasco Ready to Wear)  if I didn't like the cast.  But even Leonardo DiCaprio couldn't save this trash. The sole redeeming value was Winona Ryder's bright performance as a perky extra in films.  She's only in it for about a minute in the first hour or so, but she becomes progressively more important.  She looked great, with her Beetlejuice hair.  I think that might have have been an homage to Beetlejuice, which was released ten years ago when Celebrity come out in theaters.  Anyways, don't waste your time.   "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had pretty high hopes for Celebrity because it looked like it could be pretty good in the trailer.  Boy, was I wrong.  I don't know if all of Woody Allen's movies are like this (because I haven't seen most, if any, of them), but I just cannot take a movie that says, Find a few relatively intertwining lives and just pull a random 110 minutes from them and call it a movie.  There's no beginning or end, and not even a shot at closure.Besides, Kenneth Branagh is doing a Woody Allen impression throughout the movie.  Was Allen intending to cast himself in this role?  Plus you come to hate Branagh's character for being so stupid as to walk out of positive relationships in search of something better that doesn't come.And Allen is obviously satirizing the TV and movie industries, but he lays it on far too thick and makes it way too obvious.  One character remarks how pretentious black-and-white films are (clear self-reference and only funny the first time you hear it).As movies go, I can think of bigger wastes of time than Celebrity.  But, I have to admit, not very many.  D+ "},{"Title":"More Than He Could Chew","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We have here a movie that looks like it was filmed in about 6 months when it could have used two years. The story is there's no story.  Woody has now come to the conclusion that life comes down to lust vs. luck. The mania has led to a kind of aesthetic sloppiness.  We end up with an immense and great cast inadequately rehearsed and directed in a gorgeously photographed movie with inadequately developed characters, dialogue and ideas.  Do you like to see actors stepping all over each others lines, film as rehearsal?  This is the movie for you. There's just too much.  The only director I can think of who might have been able to do justice to material of such a broad scope  would have been Fellini.  Allen needs desperately to get centered, simplify and think Eric Rohmer, Eric Rohmer, Eric Rohmer.  Perhaps take a couple of years off - away from the influence of Robert Altman and Mel Brooks. Branagh's Woody persona, a wonderful novelty at first, wears very thin. Automatonic performances by the likes of W. Ryder and a host of others. Who can blame them? They found themselves in a series of sketches.  Still, though, worthwhile and at times fun, if only to watch Judy Davis go ape in her early scenes with Branagh.  Plus a few beautiful images, several funny lines.  "},{"Title":"Waste of talent.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very disjointed and jumbled and not very interesting. After watching 35 or 40 minutes, we were so bored that we hit the rewind button. It was mildly amusing to watch Kenneth Branagh doing his Woody Allen imitation, but when that novelty was over, not much was left. "},{"Title":"POLYMORPHOUSLY PERVERSE AGAIN?","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  1. How can you cast Kenneth Branagh and then have him do an impression of yourself? 2. How many times can ask Judy Davis to play a vicious, scorned woman? 3. Why does she keep accepting? 4. How is it that your character, a bumbling, ineffectual schlub, continues to not only land gorgeous, young, intelligent women but break their hearts as well? 5. Why do actors continue to prostrate themselves before you for small parts in progressively worse films? 6. After making fun of fans who longed for you to make another funny film isn't it embarrassing to try and fail? 7. Did you forget that you used polymorphously perverse before? 8. Are you ever going to make another funny film again? "},{"Title":"The weakest Allen in years","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think Woody Allen could make a film that wasn't worth seeing, but he's managed to do so with Celebrity.Much of the blame must lie with Kenneth Branagh, who doesn't just play the Allen role in the movie, he gives a truly painful Allen impression. It gets very tiresome after about five minutes. The rest of the cast give much better performances, but unfortunately it's Branagh who gets most of the screen time.The cinematography doesn't help, either -- the insipid black & white just manages to make everywhere look washed-out and dull. It's hard to believe it's from the same director that gave us the paean to New York that was Manhattan.Celebrity is certainly not _all_ bad. There are a number of truly funny moments -- it is Woody Allen, after all -- but on balance these don't add up to a good movie. "},{"Title":"Allen once again spinning his wheels","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've been a huge Woody Allen fan since I was a kid, so it hurts me to say this, but I think after DECONSTRUCTING HARRY and this, Allen might be spinning his wheels creatively.  The former at least had the virtue of being funny, but while some of this is funny, it's not enough to mask a somewhat shallow and half-hearted enterprise.  This also reminded me of Altman's READY TO WEAR; another satire that, considering who it was coming from, left me wanting, but again, at least that one was funny.Kenneth Branagh is a great actor, but it took me awhile to warm up to his doing a Woody impression.  Judy Davis, Joe Mantegna, and Winona Ryder are always watchable, and they're good here.  But the surprise was Leonardo DiCaprio.  His sequence is the only really laugh-out-loud funny moment of the movie, and it's nice to see at this stage of his career that he can laugh at himself.  "},{"Title":"Celebrity Uneven and Undeveloped","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Upon the first viewing of Allen's latest, I extremely enjoyed this new look on a society that took a wrong turn somewhere. The sexual jokes (really, the only type of jokes were sexual) wore thin during the second viewing and the fact that the screenplay was underdeveloped and sub-Allen became more apparent as did the poor choice of Branagh being cast as the Woody character. Why do so many find Branagh's impression insufferable? Perhaps because his very character is unnecessary. If Allen had taken the time to tie the chracters together with a device other than a very weak and soul-sick character, the movie would have been much more watchable. Although certain critics were harsh with his greater films like Deconstructing Harry, this one deserves some of the criticism. The other actors are well cast, though they are put in with the horrible Branagh, who ruins the film. There are other inconsistencies (like Tony's attraction to Robin) and undeveloped glimpses of genius (like Lee's line about writing about his perfect woman and then meeting her), none of them hurt the film as much as the main, yet unnecessary character. "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A pointless mess, tedious and a waste of an excellent cast.  Scenes go nowhere and the actors founder given their bits to do.  This film says nothing new or at least interesting about fame and celebrity-worship in our culture.  Of all people Woody Allen should have crafted a biting, weighty or at least stimulating account of our fame-obsessed media.  What we get is a turgid and unfunny comedy.  Charlize Theron and Famke Janssen are quite good but the brilliant Judy Davis is wasted despite a couple of decent scenes as she climbs the celebrity ladder as an unwitting participant in the fame game.Wasted my time with this one.  A bore.  Good luck with your next one, Woody. "},{"Title":"A disappointingly dull jumble, very few funny moments","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a Woody Allen fan, even I found Celebrity to be rambling, dull, and difficult to watch.  Of course, there are a few masterful moments that let you know this is an Allen film, but mostly I kept asking myself why I should stay.  Neither funny, nor profound, this reminded me more of Pret a Porter than any of Allen's films.  Certainly, many will blame Kenneth Branaugh for his slavish Woody impression, but ultimately, sloppy directing makes Celebrity a bore. "},{"Title":"boring and shallow","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would call Celebrity a disappointment, but after the fiasco of Deconstructing Harry a mediocre, boring, shallow film like this is a step up. Kenneth Branaugh is a bizarre choice to play the Woody Allen role (you can tell when he does the trademark stammer, e.g. `I-I-I-I-I'm awash with uncertainty here.').  As with Deconstructing Harry, we have a main character who is untalented, abusive, obnoxious, pathetic, and led entirely by his penis, yet we're supposed to be sympathetic.  The film isn't so much about celebrity but one man's quest to rationalize his decisions to reject supportive women and submit to physically attractive but emotionally unstable women.  There are a few good lines here and there, and most of the actors excel (particularly Judy Davis as the Branaugh character's ex-wife) but the whole screenplay is shallow and devoid of any insights into the human condition.  I give it a 4 and may have to re-think my policy of seeing every Woody Allen film that comes out (although, as with Deconstructing Harry, there will be scads of critics who will lap it up). "},{"Title":"Overkill","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I would love to see a Woody Allen movie in which an actor does not become the Woody Allen character.Allen's writing has always had me coming back to his movies, craving his movies. The brutal honesty, the varied (but still carbon copied from movie to movie) characters, the merging story lines...Today, while browsing the satellite menu, I saw Celebrity listed on IFC. I turned it on (not remembering it was an Allen movie), saw Judy Davis, and kept it on.Then I heard Kenneth Branagh talk and I knew I was watching a Woody Allen movie. I'd have been thrilled that it was a Woody Allen movie had Kenneth Branagh not been acting as Woody Allen.Allen is creative enough to be so much more creative than he is, and he's appreciated and known enough for his writing and his characters alone to be able to spread out, a little. To let a movie exist without his character stuttering and floundering around in it.It could be argued that the Allen character is what makes a Woody Allen movie a Woody Allen movie.I disagree. There is and has always been so much more to his movies than just the neurotic and confused older man that they would do just fine - and maybe even better - without other actors being assigned to play a character that lends little more to an Allen movie than a sense, for the viewer, of having seen that movie ten times,already. Even when they haven't seen it before. "},{"Title":"Pulling Teeth","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My goal for the year is to get through every Woody Allen movie. This was the ninth one that I've seen and by far the worst, which really caught me off guard because all of the others I've enjoyed. This one was like having teeth pulled.Now, let me talk about the positive things in this film before I go on with the negative. Woody got Bergman's cinematographer to shoot this, so the whole thing looks beautiful, even if the film is trash, it still looks good. However, the whole thing just meanders! Nothing really happens. Kenneth Branaugh does a pretty good Woody Allen impression, but I can't understand why Woody didn't just play himself. I've read that people would find that unbelievable, which I can't understand. Woody has always had beautiful women falling all over him in his films, why would this be any different? The real problem is trying to understand why Woody Allen felt that this film had to be made. Maybe that year he was fresh out of ideas.Anyway, take warning before you pick this one up. It's endlessly dull and unredeeming (sans the cinematography, which is glorious.) "},{"Title":"HOW?!?","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh my goodness.. how could anyone have liked this movie? I bought it on sale at movie gallery for $2 thinking I couldn't go wrong b/c it had one of my favs in it  Leonardo  and it was cheap.. but I was wrong. DEAD wrong! I went in thinking the movie would be pretty bad.. just so I would like it even in the smallest measurement when i watched it.  Overall, there were a few parts i liked.. basically i only liked the character of the ex-wife Robin. The movie actually had a half decent plot, but a SORRY script and pretty bad and boring acting at some points- also the B&W thing.. very blah. It would have been a lot better with some color.. and flavor. I found this movie to be extremely dull, stupid, and quite frankly DRUG TERRIBLY SLOW IN MANY NUMEROUS places!!!  Save your money.. do not rent this movie! It's terrible. I don't think I've seen anything else directed by Woody Allen.. but if it is anything like this picture.. I don't want to.  "},{"Title":"Woody Hits Bottom With This One","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Celebrity,' written and directed by Woody Allen, is one of his most anxious, neurotic, caffeine-driven works ever, and he even includes what can be construed as a disclaimer of sorts  the scene is the screening of a new film by an artsy-type director, whom someone refers to as pretentious; his movie is shot in black & white and is apparently self-serving and self-indulgent. This film by Allen is shot in black & white, is pretentious, self-serving and self-indulgent.  There is a story in here somewhere that seeks to explore the nature and effects of fame, but toward that end the viewer is subjected to a vast array of unsympathetic characters, mediocre performances and a lot of endless stammering and hand wringing.  Kenneth Branagh should be happy with this one, however, because for him there is no place to go from here but up; this is far and away the nadir of his film career.  He plays Lee Simon, a writer, a role written by Allen obviously with himself in mind, and Branagh does little more with it than give a Woody Allen impersonation throughout the entire movie.  Inexplicably, he fails to create any semblance of an original character, so caught up apparently with `doing Woody,' and the result is a ridiculous caricature that lacks any credibility and is annoying in the extreme.  How a terrific actor like Branagh, with so many personal tools at his disposal, could produce such a pretentious portrait is beyond comprehension.  Judy Davis comes off looking bad as well; playing essentially the same type of role as she did in Allen's `Deconstructing Harry' (which she pulled off so well), she has been `over-Woodied' in this one, taking her character of Robin (Lee's wife) to a teeth-clenching extreme.  Watching such a gifted actress give such a fingernails-scraping-the-blackboard performance is almost beyond endurance. Also wasted in this film are the talents of Hank Azaria, Leonardo DiCaprio, Melanie Griffith, Famke Janssen, and Michael Lerner.  The only actors who managed to keep their heads above water in this one were Joe Mantegna (as Tony, the only character you could come close to caring anything about), Bebe Neuwirth (as a hooker), Winona Ryder (as an aspiring actress) and Charlize Theron, who was probably the most memorable, in a convincing turn as a supermodel.  Allen has made some great films over the years, but unfortunately `Celebrity' isn't one of them.  This is vapid drivel that will do little more than leave you jittery and have you reaching for the antacid tablets.  I rate this one 2/10.  "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why everyone wants to do a Woody Allen film.  He always gets a plethora of name actors that wave their normal fees just to be in his films.  But why?  What is the intrigue?  Where is the greatness that you would think his films should stun us with?  I have never admired Woody Allen films.  Never.  I enjoyed Husbands and Wives and Crimes and Misdemeanors.  Everything else, including the abyssmal Annie Hall, I find pretentious, silly and so incredibly boring.  Deconstructing Harry was one of the worst films I have ever seen, and even though this film isn't as bad DH, it is still awful.  What I don't understand is why Hollywood producers continue to fund Allen films.  Do they actually make money?  Does the studio ever turn in a profit after all is said and done?  I don't see how.  And at first it surprised me as to all the positive comments on here about this flick, but then I realized that it is only hard core, die hard Allen fans that will comment on this piece of garbage anyway.  So it is only natural that most of the people in here are going to like Celebrity, because they already like Woody Allen as it is.  I guess that would be like me seeing a Bill Paxton film, no matter how bad it is, I will always like it ( by the way, there are no bad Bill Paxton films!!!).  Celebrity is a film about one character going through a journey after his marriage breaks up.  And of course his marriage is in shambles because of infidelity.  What else could it possibly be?  After all, even though I could never believe that Allen could ever get a fraction of the women on screen that he has, his characters are always screwing everything that moves.  At least Brannaugh is at handsome enough that you can see how he could bed some of the women in here, but still.....Celebrity is slow, pointless and pretty much awful.  When Allen has his brilliant final shot, it was supposed to be symbolic of the main characters life.  To me it was symbolic of how I felt by sitting through this film.****  There is one final comment that I have to make.  It has little to do with the film itself except to say that it concerns Leonardo DiCaprio.  Why is it that Hollywood is claiming that he is now the hottest star in the world?  They claim it because Titanic was the biggest film ever made and teenage girls were throwing themselves at him.  People say that he is going to be the next Tom Cruise or Will Smith in terms of box office appeal.  But do people not remember that it was the film that made Titanic as great as it was, and as good he was in it, he was but one part of the movie.  If that was true ( that he made the film the hit that he did ) then Celebrity would have made 100 million just from his name alone.  But it didn't.  It didn't because young women don't want to see him in this kind of role, they want to see him in Titanic.  If you remember before Titanic, he was always considered a great actor that no one really knew about.  But now he is in Titanic and  Oh my God, he is the hottest thing since Marlon Brando from the 50's.  Tell me why no one went to see Celebrity if Leo is so hot.  Why?  I'll tell you why.  Because Leo is not as hot as people say and think and because Celebrity is not a good movie.  That's all I got to say about that. "},{"Title":"For whom the toilet flushes","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Deconstructing Harry left many viewers wondering how close the central character was to the real Woody Allen. Well, Celebrity leaves one with the impression that it might be close enough. The film is as misanthropic as its predecessor, but it's also misogynist while the humor is shallow and obvious. The basic plotline echoes La Dolce Vita, as a journalist (Kenneth Branagh), who aspires to but never succeeds in being a serious writer, follows the various New York celebrities and simultaneously fails to establish any long-lasting relationship with the women he meets. His neurotic ex-wife (Judy Davis) dates a TV director (Joe Mantegna), who virtually adores her, but she almost manages to blow the whole thing. Branagh does such a faithful imitation of Woody Allen's screen persona, with all the ticks and mannerisms intact, so it verges uncomfortably on a parody. Judy Davis basically reprises her role in both Husbands and Wives and Deconstructing Harry, which is a woman on a verge of a nervous breakdown. The female characters, portrayed either as sex-crazed dumb blondes or beautiful but insecure career women, are all inexplicably attracted to to Branagh's self-loathing, neurotic loser. It looks dangerously as an old man's wishful thinking. It seems that Woody Allen desperately needs new themes and style, otherwise&#133; as Branagh's character put it `Don't ask for whom the bell tolls, or rather for whom the toilet flushes.'  "},{"Title":"good effort from the Woodster","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film a lot more than I expected from what I had heard about it. Woody Allen is a very insightful and acerbic social critic when he wants to be, and his intelligently witty sendups of the pretensions and vapidity of the trendy, cutting edge social set are always dead-on, and this movie is a fine vehicle for them. There many, many very funny moments and situations, and the characters are an amusing bunch, portrayed by an excellent cast. An underrated movie well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"The latest in a series of recent Woody Allen failures.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's latest film, Celebrity, proves that his noticeably acerbic, angry and dull-witted string of recent films (from Mighty Aphrodite onwards) is symptomatic of Allen's diminished skills as a filmmaker/writer.  At turns appallingly misogynistic and predictably cynical to downright boring and generic, Celebrity is perhaps the film that has finally forced me to give up on Allen as a serious filmmaker and concede the fact that his cinema is completely comatose.  Mired, it seems, in an unassailably rigid state of self-justification for his widely criticized life - his films are thinly veiled vehicles of explication.  As if Deconstructing Harry wasn't a sure warning sign of a man/filmmaker at the ends of his creative tether, Celebrity's final sequence perhaps provides the audience with a clear and emblematic image of cinematic distress.  And, as it turns out, a perfect surrogate for myself sitting dumbstruck in the audience; recalling the mess I had just witnessed and thinking about what might have been. "},{"Title":"Uuuuugghhh!","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a general rule, I won't comment on a movie that I did not sit all the way through.  So I forced myself to endure the pain of watching this film beginning to end just so I can say with honest sincerity  To me, this movie was awful...but maybe I just don't get this kind of rambling self-absorbed cynicism posing as cleverness.  I must just be dumb.  If you liked this film...you'll love Robert Altman's Pret-a-Porte. "},{"Title":"Brown water","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An earnest couple split up in a passion and, instead of getting back together, spin off into the chaos of the celebrity universe - one sets a pattern, the other drifts into oblivion. Or is it the other way round?Amazing cast, and the best performance is by Theron who uses everything she's got. Ryder is also excellent with her close ups, and Caprio rips it all up. The rest are pretty good, although puffy-faced Brannagh doesn't cut it channelling Woody Allen is OK at first, but mostly irritating. The female lead also struggled. And Sam Rockwell gets his perm wet in the bath.It's stylish, but impossible to discuss without mentioning the actors by name. So something went wrong with the story, and it dragged a lot - at 60 mins I thought, Crrrp - 45 mins to go. Poor story, despite the clever script.Music is good, and the New York boroughs look great.Overall, lots of lovely detail swirling in a bowl of brown water. "},{"Title":"This Celebrity is Just Not that Famous to Me **","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Kenneth Branagh assumed the part that a younger Woody Allen would have had in Celebrity.As always, this Woody Allen creation deals with relationships. Judy Davis steals this film in the role of a plain-Jane looking woman who is divorced by Branagh, as he is looking for more fulfillment in his life.While in an office regarding a face lift, the English teacher Judy meets up with a producer who is doing a feature on the facial doctor. Joe Montegna plays the producer and he falls for her without her doing anything to her face.Davis shows her adeptness at comedy. In fact, she is even better here at being funny than when the role requires more serious acting.One line I regarded as utter stupidity by Allen. It is when Branagh states that he would do something even if it meant getting terminal cancer. Besides being a horrible thought, this line was totally insensitive to cancer patients.Davis can't believe that she has fallen in so good. In fact, it is she herself who almost ruins things by jilting Joe at the altar. A seer saves the day. By film's end, we see Branagh having nothing in his life other than a few trysts with others who prove themselves to be faithless and dimwitted. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen at his worst","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a previous commenter stated, Branaugh literally steps into Woody Allens shoes by playing, well Woody Allen complete with obnoxious stuttering and self pity. While Annie Hall and Sweet and Lowdown are definitely on my top 100 list, Celebrity ranks with plan nine from outer space because of its sheer absurdity. Whenever Allen makes a movie that is so blatantly related to his own personal life, the outcome is never good. Branaugh stutters through a mid-life crises in the same manner I'm sure Allen did himself during his divorce from Mia Farrow. He deals with the ups and downs of being single, middle aged and sort of successful by dating younger women and immersing himself in the world of actors and actresses who are certainly out of his league. Thankfully Allen did not cast himself as the love interest of Melanie Griffith or Wynona Ryder. I hardly believed that Helen Hunt would have fallen for him in the curse of the jade whatever... In any case watching a younger version of Allen at his most obnoxious stumble through life in the shadows of the young and beautiful was to be frank, boring. The only satisfaction I derived from this movie was the end when the title character ends up alone and miserable. I have not seen matchpoint or whatever the studios have allowed him to create in recent years but I can say he is getting too old for this business. The studio executives should've deconstructed his career after Sweet and Low Down for as a famous singer once said, it's better to burn out than to fade away. "},{"Title":"What kind of a director would ...","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What kind of a director would take a pretty good actor like Kenneth Branagh and make him sound like an early Woody Allen character?  Really, they could have done the situation and some of the character tendencies, without getting stuck in the precise rhythms of the stammer, hesitations, rewinds of the speaking manner.  Those are mannerisms, not something to adopt so wholesale. "},{"Title":"Fellini'esque","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Technically, this is one of Allen's best movies for pure fluid camera movement. Watch how he goes thru crowd scenes here, you can't look away. However, many of the actors in this story look uncomfortable, especially Judy Davis, who never seems to relax in any of her scenes. It may be just her character is supposed to be played this way, but it looks like Davis herself couldn't calm down at all during filming. That aside, I love the beginning and ending with the Help in the sky and the final sequence at the film premiere is haunting. Sure, this is a Fellini knockoff but who better to imitate? On a more physical level this has to rank at the top for Charlize Theron's sexiest time on screen. She looks almost unapproachable here, like beyond super model status. Her moments are all too brief but memorable and most of them hit the wow factor without any dialogue. She could stand in a corner and still be a knockout. And Allen really gets a great, equally short performance from Melanie Griffith. Her and Theron should have been the leads. "},{"Title":"Woody's substitute","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's no secret that Woody Allen is getting old. Moreover, he seems to have noticed that exhibiting his adventures with women who are often three times younger (Juliette Lewis in Husbands and Wives, for instance) no longer appeals to the audience. But his obsessive vigor has not been extinguished after all these decades, enabling him to clock out at least one film per year (a feat that no living American director can duplicate). In 1998, Woody has to resort to other venues of expression a computerized ant and the former Prince of Denmark himself, Kenneth Branagh. For Celebrity, the usually well-articulate and consistently noble Brit transforms into a bumbling, confused version of Allen, laying it on like some sort of an Elvis impersonator strangely amusing and absurd at the same time. Branagh's act is not terrible by any means, but one cannot help realizing that it's a mere imitation of a master whose style is unique and unreproductible. Aside from this fundamental flaw, and the not-so-subtle homage to a certain Fellini masterpiece about a journalist trying to run with the Bohemian pack, (just as Deconstructing Harry the year before was to 8 1/2) , the film is as good as anything that Allen made during the 90's. It's all pure, undistilled Woody cynical, exhillarating, malevolent toward every aspect and product of society (except old Jazz), and of course, saturated with appropriately hilarious sex jokes. How this doesn't become redundant from one movie to another is known only to the director. As always, the pace is lightning-fast, with virtually no pauses in the dialogue, or dull, lingering shots something seldom matched in indie film and practically unheard of in Hollywood. The five supporting females are in most excellent form from Judy Davis (typecast as a neurotic) who inexplicably generates sex appeal, to Winona Ryder, who is simply beyond description. Leo DiCaprio's brief semi-autobiograhpical turn is the definite highlight of what could have been Allen's best film of the decade if he had only tried to create a protagonist whose mannerisms were slightly different from his own. "},{"Title":"A giant piece of fakery.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Celebrity is an amazingly fake movie.  For example1) Branagh is faking an American accent, pretending to be Woody.2) Judy Davis's character is an (apparently) fake high school English teacher who thinks Chaucer wrote Beowulf.3) Davis's character is also an (apparently) fake woman who doesn't feel a twinge of regret that her lavish wedding was spoiled.4) Woody Allen is faking having any new ideas to make movies out of.Too bad... "},{"Title":"The Same Old Song","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have enjoyed many Woody Allen films over the years. But after seeing Celebrity I wondered, has Woody run out of original, exciting ideas? Go rent Manhattan, Hannah and Her Sisters and Crimes and Misdemeanors and you will get all of the plot situations of Celebrity done better. The story besides being unoriginal, tries to do too much. Celebrity has too many characters which bog down the story. (For instance, the Winona Ryder role seemed tacked on.) Instead of having one Woody Allen type, Celebrity has two! But while Judy Davis handles the insecure neurotic role well, Kenneth Branagh is so extremely whinny sometimes that his voice sounded like finger nails on a chalk board. His role needed to be drastically edited down and it might have worked. Why the music from the 20's and 30's? This was ok for a period movie such as Bullets Over Broadway but it made me think that Woody didn't have the money to pay for a decent film score. Why black and white? If a movie has mundane scenes like Celebrity, then why not shoot it in color? A black and white film calls for spectacular photography like Manhattan.Now that that is off my chest, I must say that I did enjoy parts of Celebrity. Judy Davis is a terrific comic actress and has several good scenes. Leonardo DiCaprio has a fine cameo as the spoiled movie star. The car crash scene with Branagh and Charlize Theron is very funny. In some ways Allen is trying to bring more ethnically diverse characters into his stories which makes sense when the locale is New York City. But these Italian Americans or African Americans are just a backdrop for the same Yuppie type of characters from his older films.I give Allen credit for taking on an ambitious subject. The overall plot about the confused gossip columnist/publicist reminded me of Fellini's La Dolce Vita and I think Allen again tried to draw inspiration from Fellini, one of his main influences. I just wish he had done it in a fresh, interesting way. "}{"Title":"Woody, Get A Day Job","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Celebrity solves the riddle of why movie studios are willing to give 25 years old millions of dollars and gamble that they'll make decent films. I'd rather see a bad film by someone who cares than a mediocre one by someone who doesn't. Give the NY angst thing a rest, Woody, it's been done. You did it. Twenty years ago. "},{"Title":"not bad, Debra Messing deserves a bigger part.","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think Allen ran out of gas fifteen years ago, so I don't expect much from him; I love some of his earlier films.  Branagh--I don't think he's that much of an actor, certainly he's overrated, and he does a terrible American accent, let alone Woody Allen-impersonation.  This is a movie to watch with a friend and enjoy because it's so bad that you can enjoy it (on video, of course) making cracks and laughing your head off at each other making fun of the movie.But, ah--if the lovely Debra Messing had been given a much larger role, instead of two or three seconds, whatever it was, she might have singlehandedly saved this thing.  She's great. "},{"Title":"seen it all before","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody's early comedies rank up there with the classics.  Some of his later efforts were spellbinding (Crimes & Misdemeanors) and at times hilarious (Bullets Over Broadway and Everyone Says I Love You).  However, his latest tome is a sad, pathetic and thoughtless film.Over the last 15 years of his career,  Woody has introduced us to the flawed world of the affluent and neurotic New York upperclass.  However, the more we are reintroduced to these people the less we can relate to them.  These characters were fascinating in early Allen drama/comedies; however, now they have become so fake and predictable that frankly they just aren't interesting anymore (therapists, pills, infidelity, neuroses, blah blah blah).  The hollowness of their dialogue and their formulaic interaction has become annoying.  It's time for a departure, Woody.  Where is the ambition to take a risk (remember Zelig and Purple Rose of Cairo)?Branagh as the Woody clone seems so uncomfortable in his skin that he becomes hard to watch.  Judy Davis is so manic and breathy that she crawls on you.  Joe Mantegna does his best.  Winona is a non-factor.  Bebe Neuwirth is wasted on a lame scene.  Famke Jansen is very good.  But the scene stealer is  Leo - he is amazing.I know the first rule of writing is write what you know but that shouldn't apply to someone as prolific as Woody Allen.  It's time to take risks and explore another world.  This one is tired.HELP "},{"Title":"well...","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it wasn't all that great.  I've seen better Allen films beginning with Annie Hall and Mighty Aphrodite.  I think I even had more fun with Manhatten Murder Mystery.  This one is different for one reason.  No Allen on screen.  Kenneth Branagh plays Allen's usual role of the neurotic writer who ends up with incredibly beautiful woman and no one can understand why.  Despite the tired character present in every Allen film, who honestly is no longer that funny to me anymore, the film made some good points about our society and who it chooses to celebrate and ridicule, as well as the incredible force luck plays in our lives.  Bebe Neuwirth appears with a bit part that I rewound and watched again because I laughed so hard, and Judy Davis is wonderful.  Kenneth Branagh doesn't do a bad job playing Woody, but he's just not Woody.  It's worth a rent, but nothing more. "},{"Title":"Had potential, but...","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie really could have been good. But instead of offering some real insight, this film did nothing but repeatedly remind us that it was indeed talking about the chaos of the celebrity world and the average person's fascination with it without making any point about it. This movie's only redeeming aspects are perhaps Kenneth Branagh's impersonation of Allen (although he spent the movie just impersonating, not actually acting - that is, putting any real emotion into his performance) and the bit about the young star played by Leonardo DiCaprio. That was the only brilliant sequence of the film, very well-acted and actually funny. Wasn't Celebrity supposed to be a comedy?  "},{"Title":"Recycled Joke","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A character describes herself as polymorphously perverse; that line is recycled from Annie Hall.  Woody, if you can't be original any more, at least use a thesaurus! "},{"Title":"Okay, we've got the cad, we've got the babe...","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, we've got the cad, we've got the babe...er, babes...and a good deal of summary regarding each character's various skills and hang-ups,  socially and in bed...But we have an ersatz Woody with really bad timing and no funny gestures, and no wide-eyed chick who just wants to LEARN Woody Allen esthetics!Woody Allen's movies have been suffering for quite a while from a sort of emotional inertia, moving always in the same direction, but getting more and more frantic and overstated. Lately I've seen no reason to pay attention -- but I have anyway. Why? Because Woody Allen, himself, is FUNNY.He is, in fact, the best thing left in his movies; and now he's not there at all. What does that tell you? "},{"Title":"Kenneth, what hast thou wrought?","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quite a leap for Kenneth Branaugh whom I last saw in a Shakespearan role. Kenneth, unquestionably a versatile actor, proves that he's also an exquisite mimic in this dreadful film of Woody Allen's. Drably filmed in black and white, this colorless drama is the same old shtick with a new face. I couldn't help wondering if the film was in black and white because Woody's having more trouble financing his films these days. I could find no other compelling reason why he would do it in black and white. The lack of color only succeeded in adding to the film's tedium.I can't figure out why anybody would want to see Kenneth Branaugh play Woody Allen. I kept thinking that had Woody Allen just played himself, rather than finding someone else to play him, at least it would have been a little easier for me to suspend disbelief. As it was, I just found the Woody Allenish mimicry of Branaugh to be gratingly annoying and totally unbelievable. The character depicted by Branaugh lacked much of the lightness and humor of earlier Woody Allen films. In the final analysis, he came off as a pathetic caricature of Woody himself, probably not what Woody had intended. "},{"Title":"Too Much is Not Enough","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Without the celebrities in the cast this movie couldn't hope for box office appeal.  Kenneth Branagh plays Woody Allen's screen persona well enough (if a bit goyish);  that he plays it at all illustrates my point.  Woody Allen relies on celebrity to sell his movies instead of writing interesting stories.  If that's one of his subtext themes it doesn't wash with me; he's been using this celebrity-casting crutch throughout the '90s.Cute gags and interesting scenes (those who've seen it know what I mean!) do not a good movie make.  Sitting in my seat I kept thinking, there isn't a character or place in this flick I'd want to know in real-life.  It takes 30 minutes longer than it needs to make its unsurprising end.  In some of his recent pix Woody tries to be clever by letting us know that he hears our comments about his writing and directing style;  like a joke we've heard before it just gets old.About the only thing I can say in its favor is Kenneth Branagh shows he can play Americans. "},{"Title":"wait for video","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has its moments but is an overall shoddy effort.  Some scenes worth watching are anything with Bebe Neworth or Leo!!!  Check it out for these two when this thing hits the video shelves. "}{"Title":"An Unfairly Dismissed Woody Allen Movie","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Celebrity was pretty much maligned back during its initial release, but my wife and I had a blast with it, and I think it deserves a second look from people who dismissed it the first time around.Kenneth Branagh is an able Allen stand in, playing a writer struggling with all of the things characters in Woody Allen movies struggle with. But it's the story of his ex-wife, played by Judy Davis almost as a parody of herself from other Allen movies, that's most memorable. One of the film's highlights is Davis's character receiving advice on how to administer oral sex from a hooker, played by Bebe Neuwirth. Let's just say a banana and a close call are involved.The night my wife and I saw this, we lost our car in the parking lot of the movie theater and wandered around in a frigid Chicago night, giggling because we couldn't find it. The situation was made even funnier because we kept crossing paths with another couple who had lost THEIR car, and were giggling because they couldn't find their's either. Maybe that's why I have such fond memories of this movie.Grade A- "},{"Title":"at least he's making fun of rich New Yorkers","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the late '90s, we began to find Woody Allen's work stale because he was focusing on neurotic rich New Yorkers and the various goings-on in their lives. Personally, most people could give a rip about that stuff. Deconstructing Harry was better since it showed these people as more vicious, and Celebrity goes so far as to make fun of them. Kenneth Branagh plays Allen-esquire magazine writer Lee Simon, who has to be surrounded by various and sundry celebrities. Leonardo DiCaprio has the best role, basically playing a parody of himself. Probably the best line is when they see Andre Gregory's character, and they say that he's one of those directors who's gotten into...well, I'll let you find out for yourself. But this one is worth seeing, unlike Everyone Says I Love You. "},{"Title":"Nearly his worst save for one thing","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This would have been Allen's worst film hands down if not for one thing and that is Charlize Theron's face.  Anything with this striking woman has at the very least going for it her beautiful face.  Otherwise this is so dreadful.  The banana scene is Woody at his lowest.  "},{"Title":"a grisly failure","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	Those who doubt the ability of cinema to delineate the inhuman will have their minds changed by this catastrophe of a film.  Kenneth Branagh, doing a dogged but effective imitation of the film's director, Woody Allen, plays a self-obsessed would-be novelist circulating in the demimonde of Manhattan artistic chic. He is plagued with a pointless case of satyriasis;  his incessantly propelling lust seems to have neither a emotional nor, weirdly enough, even a physical dimension.  I thought of the shades circulating and moaning in the eight circle of Dante's hell.  Humorless, solipsistic (a literary critic in the film uses that wonderful word to describe the character's writing), fretful, unfetching, he brings to mind  the classic lament of the unrealized dweeb  `I'm not much, but I'm all I ever think about.'   	I found the film both sad and frightening, although it was intended to be neither.  I also was reminded of the famous play of Sartre, although here the Huis Clos is all of Manhattan, rather than one room.   I will mention only a single humiliating scene, that in which a hooker, teaching Judy Davis to administer oral sex, chokes on the banana serving as the instructional tool and has to be administered the Heimlich maneuver.	I'm sorry that it took 9/11 to overshadow this artistic train wreck, and to convince us that that city has both love and soul, and is populated not with Dantean shades sniggering as they lavish their emptiness on each other, but rather with real people and their attendant hopes and agonies.  By contrast, all the characters in this film were nothing more than colliding oil slicks. 	Woody has enlisted the talents of some of the world's great actors, but to what end?  Branagh is a consummate technician, and there is not a single false note in his American accent nor, indeed, in the speech of any other non-American native in the film, including Judy Davis.  One should carefully compare Branagh's performance in this film, though,  with that in the masterful 2001 tv film  `The Conspiracy.'  The subject there is the Wansee conference wherein the details of the final solution were hammered out.  Branagh plays Oberstgruppenfuhrer Reinhard Heydrich, Head of the Security Police and Security Service, the architect of the master plan to rid Europe of its Jews.  Powerful, charismatic, twinkling with irony, deeply frightening, Branagh's portrait of this ubermonster is flawless, and the contrast with the present performance suggests, disturbingly enough,  that evil, at least artistically,  may sometimes be more moral than vapidity. "},{"Title":"You Gotta Like the People!","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that most of what I would have said has been said.  I think what bothers me is that Branagh is playing Woody Allen (so why didn't he do it himself--it would have been visually more fun).  At no time to I care an iota whether this cad gets anywhere in life.  When his great novel is destroyed, he has it coming.  He acts with nothing but contempt toward everyone in his life; abandons them, and then is left unhappy.  His efforts to promote himself find him in bed with equally callous and uncaring jerks (like Leonardo DiCaprio), and he finds himself on the wastepile of life.  So what. Had it been the witty Allen, I would have empathized just a bit.  There are some wonderful acting performances here, but where is the heart? "},{"Title":"Not even slightly sincere","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Before everything, I like some of Woody Allen's movies. Some of them are undoubtfull masterpieces. But. There's special kind of mazochistical experience in viewing them more that it's necessary. That means seeing them more than once. I wish it could be different - but for my taste, Woody Allen as director and screenplay writer should not indulge himself too keenly in explaining his unbearingly huge psychological dilemmas. For some time that can be tolerated, in his earlier movies it's even laughable.Celebrity is not that kind of movie. It is not that Freudian phenomena has much higher temperature than usual - it's just that with Celebrity Allen's movies stopped being sincere. What is Woody Allen's movie without Woody Allen? Or worse - why real celebrities plays celebrities? I won't say that Celebrity is a pompous movie, it wouldn't be true, but on the level of screenplay it simply doesn't work.Although - it's worth seeing it (once), Celebrity has the best photography I've seen in years.  "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE TERRIBLE TERRIBLE!!!!!","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  God!!!  What an awful film!!!! Sad thing about it is that I LOVE Woody Allen movies.......what the heck was he thinking when he made this stiff???  I did NOT laugh, chuckle or even smile at any given point throughout this overly long anoying piece of garbage.  If there was a point to all this mess.....it lost me early on.  I got soooooooo sick of seeing Kenneth Branaugh do a cheap impersonation of Woody.......why......why.....WHY?!?!? Woody himself should have done his own schtick without involving someone doing an awful job imitating himself. I have had more exhilarating root canals done in my mouth than what I witnessed with this flick. Please....Woody......no more of this!!! "},{"Title":"The King of The Me's!","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Woody Allen finally admits he's a stinking pile of dung! In fact, everyone in Celebrity - which I caught on IFC last night - is a stinking pile of dung! As others have noted, Kenneth Branagh plays a WASP Woody, a narcissistic, misanthropic, self-loathing a--hole, only the self-loathing a--hole is an act because no self-loathing a--hole would tell you he is a self-loathing a--hole! The only bearable character is Tony, who's too nice (or stupid) to realize that his family are a bunch of parasites. But even he can't accept the woman he loves as herself until he remakes her as this bubble head slobbering over other bubble heads!Why should this surprise us? When has Woody Allen ever been interested in anything besides Woody Allen and how the universe - and everyone in it - should revolve around him? His films are little more than testaments to his megalomania. Ditto his giving cast members only the script pages on which they have lines. After Stardust Memories - his one-finger salute to the faithful - why do people still plunk down their hard-earned money to see his movies? Why do actors still lap up the crumbs he tosses? I remember a story Tippi Hedren told of Charlie Chaplin's fear she wouldn't want to work with him in A Countess from Hong Kong. Paris Hilton will win an Oscar before Allen would even think of displaying such humility! As long as critics and moviegoers (and actors) cling to this idealized vision of him as this pure soul who is unsullied by the vulgarities of his profession, he will continue to have his cake and eat it too! "},{"Title":"Funny, but not too great","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Woody Allen's Celebrity would've been better, but instead of Allen playing the lead (as he usually does) he gives his role he should've played to Kenneth Branaugh.  This wouldn't be too bad, but Branaugh's character acts too much like Allen would.  He plays a journalist who is in love troubles and is mixed up with a supermodel, actress and others while in a marriage.  Not all of this film is funny though, most of it seems like a lash-out from Allen after all the bad tabloids about him.  Still, there is a lot to laugh about here, including a OK performance from Leonardo DiCaprio and some great black and white cinematography from cinematography by Sven Nykvyst.  A- "},{"Title":"not funny enough","Date":"23 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Lee Simon (Kenneth Branagh) is a womanizing celebrity journalist. He flirts with Nola (Winona Ryder) and movie star Nicole Oliver (Melanie Griffith) trying to pitch her his screenplay. He had divorced his teacher wife Robin (Judy Davis) after 16 years of marriage. She is stressed out and goes to a religious retreat. He follows model (Charlize Theron) and crashes his car. He starts dating Bonnie (Famke Janssen). Robin goes to plastic surgeon Dr. Lupus and meets TV producer Tony Gardella (Joe Mantegna). While Lee's life slowly crumble, Robin finds new life in the celebrity world herself.Kenneth Branagh is mimicking Woody Allen except the comedy doesn't transfer completely. There is something about Woody's nerdy jitteriness that is inherently funny. Branagh isn't a comedian. Add to the fact that this is in black and white, this feels like an inferior shadow of better Woody Allen movies. There are lots of celebrity cameos in the cast but I can't get rid of the feeling that this is an empty Hollywood shell. I guess that's part of the point. It has some funny moments but not really enough. "}{"Title":"Disappointing! 3/10","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Review I really couldn't get into this movie. Kenneth Branagh's babbling, fake American ancient was really annoying and the back and forth storyline wasn't that great. I did have high hopes for the film after seeing the cast, but once again, I was terribly let down with the outcome. Basically the movie is about a journalist who has just broken up from wife, after many years of marriage and he decides to play the field and make the most out of his single life. After falling in and out of love with many different beautiful women, he struggles to complete his novel but he still goes around mingling with the rich and famous. His wife struggles to find herself and after trying many different methods to find pleasure in her life, she ends up with a well known television producer who helps her through her difficult break-up. With all of this material, you would think that the movie would be interesting or, at least, entertaining, but I honestly got bored after a while Branagh's stuttering, which Woody Allen is famous for, really didn't suit his persona. All of the famous people like Charlize Theron, Melanie Griffith and Leonardo DiCaprio, only had brief parts in the movie but when they were on screen, it did make the movie slightly interesting. In all, it's a waste of a great cast and I just found the movie to be a bit of a drag. Disappointing! Round-Up I'm surprised that Woody Allen still gets these big budgets when he has lost so much money at the box office. He still is highly respected in Hollywood, but I'm really struggling to see why! Anyway, the leading character was a bad choice by the director, but I was impressed with the young DiCaprio and Judy Davis who put in a emotional performance. There are a couple of decent scenes, like when DeCaprio is arguing with his girlfriend and the scenes with Charlize Theron but that was about it. Like many other Woody Allen movies, you have the usual New York backdrop and he chosen to film the whole movie in black and white, for some unknown reason. Anyway, it's not the greatest Woody Allen movie that I have seen and judging by the box office takings, I'm not alone.Budget$12million Worldwide Gross $5millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a journalist who leaves his wife to play the field amongst the stars in Hollywood. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Debility (dvd)","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, one of my last 1 rating was another Allen movie so he really collects mine.Here, he offers a dull movie with no plot (it's just a collage of meetings)and totally drowned under streams of babbles. By chance, Allen is to movies what men magazines are to publishing as he got money, he can always cast sexy actress for this one he chose a young Charlize and it was good to see again Ms. Onatop.Beyond making a movie about movie stars is as pointless and void as the concept of celebrities. It's the same thing when TV makes shows about TV. It's cultural cannibalism or artistic myopia. My opinion is that artists and celebrities are two different breeds. The first bring emotion and inspiration through art, the former had just their poor and material life to offer to the audience. One delivers a message, the other runs after money.Let's make the difference and skip this movie for example! "},{"Title":"Bland and highly uninvolving","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	This is (and will likely remain) the only Allen movie I have seen, and it is boring and never funny for even a second. There may be a deeper meaning beneath the visible, but I was too tired of the characters and script to care at all about finding it. In most films black and white is used to help create a mood or enhance the film in some way, but here it just gets in the way.	An excellent cast (including Kenneth Branagh, Winona Ryder, and Leonardo DiCaprio) is wasted, and apparently the studio didn't care enough about it to give it much of a release. So if you are out looking for a good laugh, keep looking, as there's nothing to see here. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen meet Spike Lee","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To borrow a line from the movie 'A Bronx Tale' somebody should tell Mr. Allen the saddest thing in life is wasted talent. This movie had potential flowing out of every orifice that it is truly tragic. I know at least ten directors who could have made this script humm like an engine on a 57 Chevy. First mistake was having the lead male Kenneth Branagh do a Woody Allen impression. I sat there saying to myself over and over what the hell are you doing. Next mistake was making the movie have absolutely no character you can connect to and feel some kind of emotion for. Maybe that was good from a standpoint that it reminds you that you need someone the audience can connect to in some way otherwise you're left with a grand canyon like void. One of the few redeeming scenes was one involving DiCaprio as a young immature actor. I am almost positive that anybody watching him tear up his hotel room and cavort around with gorgeous women, drugs included, couldn't help smirk at the likely hood that he has had some practice at situations like that. Bebe Neuwirth had the other redeeming scene as a prostitute attempting to showcase the art of fellatio on a piece of fruit, alla 'Fast Times at Ridgmont High', unsuccessfully. Melanie Griffith has a small ineffective role, Judy Davis struck me as extremely repulsive even towards the end of the movie, and Joe Mantegna gets a shot to display more of his limited acting ability. What potential flushed down the toilet we call Hollywood. Why do I say Woody meet Spike in my subject line? Because those two filmmakers have made movies that have amounted to nicely formed piles of dung. Spike has at least at times shown potential for getting out of his untalented hole but Woody seems to feel driven to continue to use his name solely as a driving force. And all those actors still buy into it and his outdated potential. Shame on them! I know and you know they have talent but they continue to put out movies that fall shorter in results than a soldier on the first day of basic training. How do you sit in an editing room and look at the final copy of this film and say 'oh yea this is a great film.' This movie definitely puts Woody on one of those one hit wonder shows. It seems like a long way from 'Annie Hall' and he still can't find that magic. Somebody get this guy a road map or at least make him take filmmaking 101 over again.      "},{"Title":"A Rare Misfire for Allen","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Celebrity (1998) ** (out of 4) Disappointing feature from writer-director Woody Allen has him taking shots of celebrities but the end result is just bland. Kenneth Branagh plays a Manhattan entertainment writer who starts to lose control of his life after getting a divorce from his wife (Judy Davis). A year later he's trying to get a script and novel off the ground while his ex hits a string of good luck after suffering a breakdown. CELEBRITY was mangled by critics when it was released but over the past few years it seems to have gained a small cult following but this time out I must say I'm on the side of the critics. I'm sure there were some good ideas going around Allen's head but whatever happened between his mind and paper is something rather shocking because the problem here is without question his screenplay. It's weird to think but at 113- minutes this here is actually one of the longest running films from Allen and what's so amazing is that it probably says the least. The film is certainly trying to make fun of rich New Yorkers and stuck-up and spoiled Hollywood types but there's never any hint of insider's knowledge and it's as if Allen didn't want to go all out. I'd probably go as far as to call the screenplay lazy. Just take a look at a young, violent actor played by Leonardo DiCaprio. The entire sequence with him screaming and trying to beat up his girlfriend just comes off very weak. You even have a bit with a model (Charlize Theron) who has an orgasm no matter where she's touched. Neither of these segments are any good but the sad thing is that they're perhaps the best stuff in the film. Another problem I had was with the performance by Branagh. There's no question that he's one of the most talented actors out there but he's just horrible playing what's basically a version of Woody Allen. The mannerisms don't work and the actor just never captures that nervous twitch of Allen. One of the best performances in the film actually goes to Winonna Ryder playing a love interest in the film. Davis is also pretty good in her role but the screenplay doesn't do her character any favors. Michael Lerner, Joe Mantegna, Gretchen Mol and Melanie Griffith round out the supporting cast. CELEBRITY is without question a rare misfire from Allen. The only real thing going for it is the brilliant cinematography by Sven Nykvist who makes the film look a lot better than it actually is. "},{"Title":"Allen should have known better","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A piece of advice that directors should religiously follow DO NOT make a film about the making of films.  And another if you must make a film about the making of films, whatever you do, don't make it about Hollywood.  Films about Hollywood are invariably tedious.  At least, they're more tedious than they would have been if they'd been about something else.You think there are exceptions?  Look closely.  I can think of two obviously brilliant films about Hollywood Singin' in the Rain, and Barton Fink.  (The former is Stanley Donen's best work, the latter is the Coen brothers'.)  Both these films are set in the past - even Singin' in the Rain was set twenty-four years in the past - and don't purport, in any way, to be about the present.  You need to be able to place some distance between yourself and your subject matter in order to photograph it properly.  So it's really films about CONTEMPORARY film-making that die on their feet, and even then, it's not the subject matter per se that kills them it's the insidious little worm of self-reference.The film that comes closest to being an exception to THIS rule is Sunset Boulevard, which works for a variety of reasons it's less about the present (i.e. 1950) than it is about the past, the strongest scenes are the ones which place themselves most outside any particular era, Wilder was a writer and director with enough hard-headedness to distance himself from anything - and for all that, Sunset Boulevard is one of his weaker films, precisely because the worm of self-reference DOES eat away at it, at least a little bit.  In any event, Sunset Boulevard is the BEST that can happen.  A more likely result is something like The Player, which is ENTIRELY about contemporary Hollywood, and has been so eaten away by the little worm of self-reference that there's nothing left.  It might as well be its own making of documentary.  (Indeed, making of documentaries themselves prove my point they're only of the slightest interest when they're made by outsiders looking in, and these days they never are.)Celebrity is more fortunate than The Player, but the little worm has left Woody Allen with a hollower than usual script.  Even Manhattan Murder Mystery had more substance.  Luckily, the central character (played by Kenneth Branagh) is NOT a celebrity, and it's the clash between his work OUTSIDE Hollywood (the novel) and those sections of his private life that are also outside Hollywood, that generate what interest there is.  The image that sticks in my mind is the climax of this conflict, set down at the docks - I suspect you, too, will have difficulty remembering much else.  This scene alone inclines me to think that the film is, in the end, good, but all the same it IS Allen at his weakest.P.S.  Someone else wrote Why black and white?  If a movie has mundane scenes like Celebrity, then why not shoot it in color?  Because if it had been shot in colour, it would have been just as appropriate to ask Why colour?  If a movie has mundane scenes like Celebrity, then why not shoot it in black and white?  Just because colour is the industry default doesn't mean it should be treated as such.  Obviously, a work in black and white should USE the medium, and Celebrity does fall short of Manhattan - but it doesn't fail to realise the potential of black and white nearly so badly as most modern films fail to realise the potential of colour. "},{"Title":"Masterly filmmaking","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh here plays the Woody Allen role and gives an uncanny imitation. At first I found this slightly irritating but I soon settled back to enjoy it. I was uncertain as to how his character was supposed to illustrate the pros and cons of being a celebrity since he is only a newspaper feature writer with very little public visibility. Consequently, it is not really clear why so many beautiful women throw themselves at him. I think this film is really a cautionary tale about the consequences of infidelity. Lee (Kenneth Branagh) is a serial philanderer who is always willing to abandon a relationship on the promise of something that may be better or newer. He walks out of a 15-year marriage with Robin because he wants to play the field. He gets involved in a relationship with Bonnie that is successful both personally and professionally but he gives it up for the promise of something new in the shape of Nola. Counterpointing Lee's descent into the abyss is Robin's rise from neurotic ex-wife to blissfully married successful television personality. Judy Davis as Robin is always a joy to see in any film, even though she does go several miles over the top in this one. She just cannot believe how happy she has become and concludes that happiness is just a question of luck. In this film it is just that but it does not make a very convincing thesis.This is masterly filmmaking by anyone's standards but because it came after Deconstructing Harry and because it is not quite the tour de force of that film, some critics have expressed disappointment. To me that reaction is churlish. This is a fascinating, funny, thought provoking film by a master at the height of his powers. It is understated, fast moving, subtle and literate with a script that must be about 10 times the length of the average Hollywood production. I would particularly pick out the scene where Lee and Nola eye each other across a crowded restaurant table and they know that they are going to start an affair. The hand-held camera circles slowly around the guests, everyone is talking except Lee and Nola, who just look at each other.I also enjoyed the scene where Robin visits a hooker in order to have lessons on performing felatio. The hooker demonstrates on a banana, accidentally bites into it and ends up choking herselfThe film is nicely framed by an opening scene of a skywriter writing Help in the New York sky as part of a film-shoot and ends with a disconsolate Lee, at the premiere of the film watching the same scene.Celebrity seems to have had a greater commercial success than Deconstructing Harry, probably because of a small role played by Leonardo da Caprio as a hellraising film star. For once the music is rather disappointing, even the Billie Holliday song is one of her less memorable numbers. "},{"Title":"This movie was terrible.","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It starts out slow and doesn't appear to go very far by the end.  It is sad to say, but I could have told you who wrote this movie without seeing the credits.  Many of the talented cast play a stereotypical Woody Allen role.  At least now I know for sure, that Woody Allen writes the way he acts.  I could not even enjoy this movie on a cultural level and feel that the movie industry has really let down the viewer by allowing it to be made. "},{"Title":"self-pitying deluded decline of woody","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Superiority and egotism masked as self-pitying passive aggression. b&w is as gorgeous as in Manhattan but allen is licking his bruised ego and takes a stellar cast and makes them a trite parody. His brilliant days are over. but not in a quiet way. but in an embarrassing attempt to defend his own celebrity, his own decline and his scandals (which don't concern me). I felt so sorry for K Branagh playing woody even though he did a great job of imitation without overplaying it. when woody was in his prime he did a film called Stardust Memories that touched on similar themes. His cruelty and disgust for his audiences and what he thinks are normal people was evident but his film-making and writing overcame the faults and it's still a valuable movie to see. but celebrity made me wince.  "},{"Title":"Bad Woody Allen impersonations","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I generally like Woody Allen's movies. I couldn't get half way through this one. Robin Simon's and Doug McGrath's Woody Allen impersonations were very irritating. Can you say overdone? Why would a good director like Woody Allen direct his stars to do bad impersonations of himself?Most of Allen's movies have a throwaway scene or two that degenerate into his nervous stream of consiousness, but this film's main two characters just rambled on like 2 mental patients. Sweet 'n Lowdown and Bullets Over Broadway had those moments that reeked of leftover standup material. They detracted from the flow of the movies but were over quickly. All of Celebrity is made up of one 2-hour long such moment.I didn't even see Leonardo DiCaprio to criticize him. Halfway through, I caught myself realizing that the two neurotic victims would just get back together in the end, and I was simply waiting for that to happen. I bailed.Maybe this film could use some quality kills. And a couple of flesh-eating zombies.Sad. "}]