[{"Title":"Clubs were not as loud then as they are now","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Several people have commented that the conversations in the club would have been impossible due to the loud disco music. I was a regular bar goer in the 1970s and 80s and though some rock and roll bars were deafening, most dance clubs were not as loud as they are today. Conversation was a possibility back then believe it or not. I think that is one retro idea that should be revived.As for the rest of the film, I liked it. I did not think all of the elements worked however. For example, I would have liked to have seen more proof that disco was on its way out. Having guys walk around in shirts that proclaimed Disco Sucks and footage of a death to disco rally at a baseball game between the Detroit Tigers and Chicago White Sox were both evident in 1979 when that game was played. I watched that game. Incidentally, the Tigers won by forfeit as the Chicago field became a disaster area. I would have liked to have heard more of the change in music. We did hear some Blondie, but this film was supposed to take place in the early 80s. I think the song Bette Davis Eyes would have been a good choice.If you are looking for a celebration of Disco, this film isn't it. It does have some realistic portrayals of people who might have been involved in the scene. I watched the film because I disliked the whole disco scene and thought that a film showing it dying may be interesting and it did not disappoint me. If you are looking for a plot, this film doesn't have it. Not all of it worked and I was scratching my head a few times, but I think this film may become more enjoyable with a second viewing. I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"the dialogue is fresh and chances are you'll be grinning from here to Bolivia when the Love Train rolls through the subway at the end.","Date":"15 December 1998","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  `You have no idea what men think about women's breasts,' womaniser Des McGrath (Christopher Eigeman) pleads. No, not a rehash of Boogie Nights, but the third instalment, following Metropolitan and Barcelona, of Whitman's `yuppie' odyssey.This New York yarn centres on publishing assistants Charlotte (flawless snotty American accent by Kate Beckinsale) and her best friend/biggest rival Alice (Chloe Sevigny). Bitchy Charlotte - `In physical terms, I'm cuter than you, but you're much nicer than I am,' - and Alice fall in with a parade of self-absorbed fellows in pullovers and drab ties. The `verbal' action between this set of intellectual folk takes place at a ludicrous dance palace in the very early 80s, with the `disco movement' decaying and Reagan's soul-devouring materialism taking hold.In the main these are disagreeable people, but as much as you urge yourself to loathe them, you can't quite do it. Whitman's wildly self-indulgent and witty script (`Do you think the neurological effects of caffeine are similar to that of cocaine?') makes them impossible to ignore and eventually their awfulness becomes disturbingly compelling. A bit like Friends, only without dumb Joey and flaky Phoebe.Although, aesthetically and visually Whitman's film doesn't quite ring true &#150; clothing looks too 90s and they'd never be able to talk so much in a club &#150; the dialogue is fresh and chances are you'll be grinning from here to Bolivia when the Love Train rolls through the subway at the end.- Ben Walsh  "},{"Title":"Oh, to be Young","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The Last Days of Disco follows a group of newly minted adults in the New York of the early 1980s.  They're affluent, and recent products of Ivy League educations but they really don't have much of a clue as to what adulthood is all about. They're groping, but they're not sure for what. They all have jobs, but their lives revolve around a posh disco where they mate, mingle, and talk. There's not much of a plot; The Last Days of Disco is mostly a series of conversions. But the conversions are wonderful. Whit Stillman's dialogue is a delight; he nails what its like during those first years of adulthood when the life of the group is replaced by a mature individuality.  The ensemble cast is wonderful to watch, not overplaying their characters. I recommend this movie very highly "},{"Title":"I think Scrooge McDuck is really sexy!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This very witty film hasn't received nearly enough praise for its effortless humor, great ensemble acting, and brilliant script.  The film is a portrait of loosely-connected friends at the end of the disco era, with Alice and Charlotte at the center.  You'll get more of a boogy rave rush from this talky indie than Ryan Phillippe's hot body in 54.  Damn, do I love Chloe Sevigny, who makes Alice so real and vulnerable while Kate Beckinsale turns Charlotte into a hilarious bitch.  They go clubbing, become involved with guys, there's some scams going at the club they frequent.  It's sweetly hilarious and without a doubt worth seeing. "},{"Title":"There's something sexy about Scrooge McDuck.","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Like his first film, Metropolitan, Whit Stillman's The Last Days of Disco is about young, white kids from an upper middle-class background with a talent for witty repartee and intelligent conversation. More importantly, like Metropolitan, Last Days is also about group dynamic in the late 20th century. In other words, this engaging, and entertaining, film is an anthropological study of a certain subtype of human-being WASPy disco dancers from the early 1980s. As such, it should be reprehensible, right? I mean, didn't American Psycho set us straight on yuppie-dom? Well, evidently not, because Last Days of Disco is a wonderful achievement for a number of reasons. First, there is the satire. Yes, the film likes its characters, but it is not above acknowledging their inadequacies. No one is entirely likable nor is anyone a clear cut bad guy. They're all vaguely reminiscent of college-educated adults in their early 20s smart and funny but still occasionally mean and prone to bouts of foolish behavior. They're not great people but you can't hate them. Second, there's the narrative style itself. It focuses, more or less, on Charlotte and Alice but involves their friends, acquaintances, and lovers as well. In doing this, characters will show up unexpectedly (like Charlotte and Alice's roommate) and disappear just as quickly. I like movies that acknowledge that they're concerned with a certain number of characters and regard everyone else as incidental. Minor characters in a film need not remain static. They can and should change from time to time, for such is life. Third, Last Days of Disco is a paean to that danceable sound. For all the truck disco has been given over the years, it really was a remarkable period of music. Yes, there was a lot of garbage--as there is with any musical movement--but the amount of innovation that took place during the years of 1976-1980 is impressive. We continue to feel the effects of disco and are beginning to accept it as a viable musical outlet. One of the nice points made subtly by Last Days is that, in a sense, discotheques were Utopian communities at night where the Upper East Side WASPS danced next to (gasp!) blacks and gay men! The climate of the discos was accepting of people of all colors and sexual orientations. It's nice to have a film display this belief and show the disco movement its due credit. As much as I love Last Days of Disco, I think it is nevertheless an acquired taste. The dialogue, which I find scintillating, grates on the ears of others. Like the films of Wes Anderson, Whit Stillman's movies are a little precious. I like them; not everyone does. If you like interesting, though arch, dialogue and well-constructed characters, I suggest this fantastic film to you. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and sardonic view of yuppie/disco life","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Another winner from Whit Stillman! This is a very clever, well-written film in the Eric Bogosian or Hal Hartley style of a play for the screen. This film really does feel like theater in many ways, especially the funny and clever, tightly written dialogue.Superb performance by almost the entire cast (the one exception being McKenzie Astin, who was fairly awful, but was barely onscreen so it was shrugable), raised the film to a level above its potential. Kate Beckinsale was the perfect bitch, so annoying that I wanted to pull her out of the screen and shake her repeatedly;) Christopher Eigeman nearly stole the show as Des, he played the character perfectly, his voice and tone always on edge, the defensiveness and womanizing, the stories he told, all a brilliant package. But Chloë Sevigny more than held her own, with her best performance that I've ever seen...everything from her line release to her body language stuck out; she became Alice.This film is a definite must see...a great soundtrack, great sets, brilliant writing and better acting. It's a bit long, some scenes feel unnecessary, and at times he seems to be over-hammering his point, but Stillman has still provided us with a near-masterpiece, 8/1. "},{"Title":"Witty Movie about Wasp-y relationships in early 1980s","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, before you see this, ask yourself if you either a) want to engorge yourself with lengthy witty banter, or b) see a Wasp-y version of the weaving of people in and out of relationships like Seinfeld or Woody Allen but with a bigger cast? If your answer is yes, this is your movie. If not, not.This movie is FAR more like Stillman's others (Metropolitan and Barcelona) than like anything you've seen about disco - which is simply the background. I was surprised that these yuppie characters were so freely admitted to Studio 54 (the set of the film), but perhaps it indicates disco's waning popularity by the early 1980s. I enjoyed it very much - but it's not everyone's cup of tea.  "},{"Title":"Aiiiee, almost no reviewer here quite gets it ...","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" 1) There is no action in this movie. If you need *something*, then avoid this movie like the plague. And while one may think to themself, dayam, those actresses look fine, there are no gratuitous skin shots. Its not a movie like Honey, where you turn off the volume and just stare at Jessica Alba.2) Its not really about the End of Disco (despite the title). The soon to be dead Disco era is a BACKDROP for the theme of the movie. Casablanca was not about WW II. It was a romance movie, and the War was a backdrop. No one bitches about the authenticity of the airplanes, uniforms, historical details of the politics or legal procedures, or portrayal of the Moroccan culture. Yes, I wish the filmmaker was a bit more zealous about period dress and music. Oh well. And while there are reminiscent touches, its not a movie who's focus is dedicated to capturing the Disco period. If what you want is an homage to Disco, then you won't like this movie.3) It IS a Coming of Age movie. It is about vapid, just-out-of-college Americans starting out in the real world. The movie mostly skewers them, but I can't help but feel a bit of nostalgia and loss for a period of life that will never come back to me (early twentysomething). I strongly suggest you avoid the movie if you're under 35. You do not need to have lived through the disco period to appreciate the movie, but you do need to be an old fogey. Definitely a movie for adults, in the non-NC17 way.4) The actors put on superlative performances. They were portraying vapid, witless, bland, soon to be full-blown yuppies. The time period is perfect for reflecting on the contrast of soon-to-be-over perceptions of life and the world from youth to early adulthood. You can almost see their worldview evolve within the one(?) year time period of the movie. There's nothing sucky about the acting. The characters are mostly sucky people; that's why they seem wooden, vapid, and lame. (And Kate Beckinsale does an AWESOME American accent; because she's British, and there isn't a hint of her native tongue.) Yes, their dancing seems lame, because the general public are generally lame dancers. People did not break out like John Travolta on the dance floor every night. Its not a movie about dancing.5) One should be appreciating the dialogue from a detached distance, and be struck by its wit and humor. Not living through these people in a first person perspective. This is for people who can appreciate reading James Joyce, Harold Pinter, or Evelyn Waugh, or any great novelist/playwright who doesn't beat you over the head (usually with a voice-over) with the meaning of every aspect of a scene. (Apologies if these writers aren't good examples; I'm having a problem recalling an ideal choice.) If the movie seems to drift and be aimless, its because life is not a continuous series of epiphanies, and this is not a typical Hollywood feature. If you need something more obvious, you WON'T like this movie.Its actually a bit hard to like this movie, but I do. I have met people who have lived through the Disco era and waxed poetic like Josh towards the end of the movie. They're actually yearning for the illusions of their youth; which is kind of what the movie is about. "},{"Title":"The love train goes express to Oz.","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Chloe Sevigny, the independent film princess, lands in the great emerald city by the sea. The final moments of the disco period are about to expire and she must dispose of her wickedly evil roommate, Kate Beckinsale. The disco is the epicenter of the film, the Oz if you will, where the wizard appears to control the music and lights of the city. Whit Stillman produces movies as often as the Olympics come around, but I like the tone he achieves here. Check-out the eighties publishing world depicted in the film. What's missing? No computers. The office seems less cluttered and more soothing to the creative spirit. There's an off-the-cuff reference to J.D. Salinger and his different works. There are many such random references scattered through the frames of the film. The director keeps you on your toes. The highlight of the film arrives on an iron horse by means of an impromptu dance sequence. The extemporaneous dance number spills out onto the subway platform and beyond the station. Nice touch. "},{"Title":"Clever dialogue but lack of plot may frustrate some people","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In the early 80's a group of friends interact around a Manhattan disco, desperate to climb the local social ladder.  With an investigation in the disco's financial dealings and the end of disco approaching the friends attempt to carry on as normal.Director Whit Stillman tends to go for comedies that look inward and have strong comedic dialogue that follow social observations and comment on different cultures and periods.  However plot is never one of his major concerns and here is no different.  The story here is less important that the period of disco which is the real focus.  This may be a bit frustrating to some as the story doesn't seeming to have any one direction.  However the characters and the dialogue will generally hold the interest sufficiently.  Some of the script is a bit weak and the characters occasionally are a bit too unsympathetic but for the majority the sharp script compliments the characters.The performances are good throughout - these socialites are not people I'd ever like to meet but they are funny from a distance.  There is much to like here if you like this type of humour.  But the story is almost non-existent and this is a slight problem.Overall a clever, funny look at the life of a couple of party girls around the time disco started to suck. Not to everyone's taste and what's that credit sequence ending about? - is it a bit of fun or is it trying to say something? "}{"Title":"Do you really think the neurological effects of coffee are similar to that of cocaine?","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a review of Damsels in Distress and The Last Days of Disco, two films by writer/director Whit Stillman.Released in 2011, Damsels stars Greta Gerwig as Violet, the leader of a band of young women. As they have been deeply scarred in the past, the girls invent new personas for themselves and attempt to help other wounded people by embarking on various altruistic endeavours. One of their schemes involve inventing a new form of dance, in which dance becomes akin to a political movement used to spread togetherness, love and happiness.Stillman's godfather, sociologist E Digby Baltzell, authored Aristocracy and Caste in America and helped popularise the term Wasp. Stillman's films, meanwhile, tend to focus on the haute bourgeoisie, though he's more obsessed with questioning the naive assumptions they hold toward responsibility, culpability and leadership. In this regard, his films are preoccupied with characters whose well intentioned good deeds lead to disasters, or seemingly horrible characters who inadvertently help others. The intentions behind deeds are also examined is altruism really altruism if it's unconsciously rooted in selfishness? Why do good deeds do damage? And why do the noblest of intentions oft lead to unforeseen disasters? All these questions arise during one subplot in which the girls date boyfriends who are less cool and less intelligent than they are (their intention is to transform the boys into something better). In another subplot, the girls hand out soap to unhygienic male students. Both plans backfire spectacularly, with the soap turned into a weapon/game and the girls' relationships with the guys having less to do with reformation than their own personal insecurities and hangups. The film then ends with our heroes dancing to Things are looking up, originally sung by Fred Astaire in the 1937 film A Damsel In Distress.Stillman was born into a very politically active, radically left-wing family. Many critics tout him as being one of the few intellectual conservative directors, whilst others see his films as being reactionary responses to his parental upbringing. This is, after all, a guy whose films are often about vindictiveness and self-centeredness unintentionally benefiting others and well-intentioned meddling causing damage, which is of course the credo of many far right groups. But Stillman really embodies a postmodern scepticism regarding both the political left and right. When you're an egoist, none of the harm you do is intentional, characters in his earlier pictures state. And later Today barbarism is cloaked with self-righteousness and moral superiority. Elsewhere he has characters defending conservative values (marriage, monogamy etc) because, though they're simply rooted in ritualistically enforced behaviour, such behaviour was itself once deemed unconventional but has been adopted because it works for society. This argument is of course true, but also wrong in many instances. Stillman's films tend to present both sides of the coin.These contradictions become most apparent in Stillman's The Last Days of Disco. Set in the mid 1980s, Disco centres on a group of articulate urbanites. They're descendants of wealth, but have a hard time making ends meet. This at first seems like an apologia for the upper middle classes, until various mouthpieces in the film mock the troubles of our cast, even as Stillman sympathises with them.The film then watches as the college graduates of the Me Generation set about co-opting disco trends and the totems of the sexual revolution. The openness of these social movements, however, quickly gets perverted into an arena of exclusivity, money, rules and regulations. The result is the creation of a false elite those cool, attractive or pushy enough to get into the clubs and those willing to subject themselves to the club's arbitrary, superficial and capricious rules.The film then contrasts two characters. One's Charlotte (Kate Beckinsale), who's elegant, sophisticated, and always unintentionally harming others with her needle-like tongue. The other's Alice (Chloë Sevigny), a quietly sensitive woman who has no idea what the sexual revolution means for people like her. Acting free and sexy gets her stigmatised as a whore, whilst acting bookish and intellectual gets her stigmatised a prude. The disco dance floors epitomise this new sexual minefield, where there are no known steps, no clear partners, where attentions constantly shift, where no one touches for long, yet where there seemingly exists no boundaries.Control your own destiny. Don't wait for guys to call. Charlotte says, which is your typical Stillman fact, in that its conservative counterpoint is then shown to be also true. Infinite choice has its own problems and self expression need not be free but a product of influence.Interestingly, Alice embodies a modernist sensibility. She has standards, values and is constantly judging and categorising. Charlotte embodies a postmodern subjectivity, which, of course, is couched in a aura of nonjudgementality, in which its deemed okay to insult and criticise because what's said is always just a silly personal opinion anyway. Charlotte's lines frequently highlight this contradiction People hate being criticised she says, before complaining that Alice was too moralistic and judgemental in college. Later Alice sleeps with a character called Tom, who promptly ditches her when Alice follows Charlote's advice to become a sexual predator. I crave sentient individuals who don't abandon their principles, Tom says, disgusted with the cheapening of romance and relations, whilst, ironically, sticking to modern conventions of openness with these lacerating speeches (and it is he who gives her a STD!). I'm beginning to think, Alice later says, that maybe the old system of people getting married based on mutual respect and shared aspirations, and slowly, over time, earning each other's love and admiration, worked the best. For Stillman, mores, commitments, values and manners have everything to do with what distinguishes us as human, they're just very fickle, unreliable things.8.5/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Oh joy, oh bliss...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Third chronologically, but second logically of a divine trilogy, this look at the cusp between youth and adulthood in 80s New York shows Whit Stillman's Metropolitan wasn't just a flash in the pan, and 'Barcelona' didn't signal a slow decline. Gorgeous characterisation with magic Chloë Sevigny shining from her every frame. And if, like me, you though disco music was crass, this elevates it to another plane... A film for all ages. "},{"Title":"a few too many characters","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's the very early 80s in NYC. Alice Kinnon (Chloë Sevigny) and Charlotte Pingress (Kate Beckinsale) are recent graduates working at a publishing house as low pay readers. Dan Powers (Matt Ross) is their annoying co-worker and Holly (Tara Subkoff) is their quiet roommate. Jimmy Steinway (Mackenzie Astin) tries to bring his elderly client into the club. His club manager friend Des McGrath (Chris Eigeman) throws him out. Tom Platt (Robert Sean Leonard) is a charming environmental lawyer who gets together with Alice. They and others spend the nights in and out of the disco club.The cast of characters is a bit too large. I wish Whit Stillman could trim a few out of the group. Alice and Charlotte are quite a pair. They're not real friends but rather opposites stuck together. Their relationship is fascinating. There are fun bits coming from Charlotte like Des' gay mouth. Chris Eigeman continues to be the best of the Stillman disciples. Dan is probably a necessary evil. I would like this movie more if the membership in the group is more stable and restricted to fewer people. "},{"Title":"At least they got the music right","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Back in '98, it was The Last Days of Disco soundtrack I'd bought, trying to get into the genre (just look at the song list, a better disco primer there ain't). If a CD can wear out, it would've been that one. Fantastic album.As for the rest of the movie - which I just got around to actually seeing . . . well it's not that I need a plot to enjoy a movie, just that the dialogue used to carry this one emanated from characters I really didn't like. Credit Whit Stillman's ear for dialogue, but there's also a vapidity to these people (ivy league educated but they've got no damn sense). It really was the music that kept me watching this. Although it seems the only thing that can sour a good Bernard Williams bassline is a proceeding Blondie song (agh!).One other thing about this; that can't be what they thought the early '80s looked like. Outside of the workplace scenes, these actors could've stepped onto the streets of 1998 with no crowd reactions. It's bizarre.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Sincere And Earnest Depiction Of The Disco Era","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The Last Days of Disco is a dramedy that was loosely based on the events of the nightclubs in Manhattan - including Studio 54 - during the disco scene of New York City during the early 80's.It stars Chloë Sevigny and Kate Beckinsale together with Chris Eigeman,Mackenzie Astin,Tara Subkoff,Robert Sean Leonard,Matt Keeslar and Jennifer Beals.The story centers on Alice Kinnon and Charlotte Pingress,two young Manhattan professionals fresh out of college who work in a New York publishing house.They frequent a local disco house together in search of music,dance and romance.Both have different personalities with Alice being intelligent,quiet and soft-spoken while Charlotte being outgoing,conceited and giving Alice constant advice.The film follow the events that both women experiences especially during the last days of the disco scene.This is definitely a great movie about the disco era.It was a sincere and earnest depiction of the scene as well as that of friendship between two strikingly different women.Definitely,well- done with great dialogue and outstanding performances from Sevigny and Beckinsale.Also,worth mentioning is the outstanding soundtrack particularly I'm Coming Out by Diana Ross.It definitely is one entertaining movie and one would definitely become curious of the disco scene especially the young generation watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Missed Good Characters and a Good Plot","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The plausible reason the Disco's gone in the 1980's, the period portrayed in the movie, was that people needed something different, something that would define a new era with new songs, new groups of people and many other things. Disco was becoming an corny attitude in the 1980's. Now we're entering in the movie. The reason given by the writer and director (this is my opinion based on the way I saw what was showed on the screen) Whit Stillman why Disco was through is that everybody focused on their work, they didn't have much time to go party, to dance and everybody's frustrated in their relationships (sexual relations and/or not helpful friends). Here we met all sort of characters, liars, arrogant, stressed, non trustful at all, but lacked one to make this movie nicer the likable character. Where's it? Where was it? Why a friendly and nice, she or he, didn't appear in the whole movie? I didn't liked any of the characters and even the one I liked it in the beginning, turn out be a jerk.The ensemble cast is overwhelming. Chlöe Sevigny (Boys Don't Cry), Kate Beckinsale (The Aviator), Mackenzie Astin (The Evening Star), Robert Sean Leonard (Dead Poets Society), David Thornton (Alpha Dog), Matt Keeslar (Splendor), Chris Eigeman (I didn't remembered any other work with him but he's got a tremendous job in this movie), Matt Ross (American Psycho) and Jennifer Beals (Flashdance). But none of them has a likable character. It's almost impossible to relate to one of them. The story itself was boring. People come and go out of the blue and their motivations on doing things are unfunny, ruthless and without a single care to bring the audience to the experience. The female characters are completely dead inside, talk to much and overreact to a simple touch of a stranger, or look into someone in the eyes and make an character judgment simply calling him as gay or non trustful. The ideological aspects in this sad movie doesn't work. If we're watching a movie that the main plot is to tell about the last days of disco why we're seeing people who aren't having fun, aren't dancing (dance in this movie was not convincing) and their only preoccupation is how to pay the rent? Only the discussion between The Lady and The Tramp was effective and kind of funny. I'm giving 5 stars to it because it was not a case of bad acting, and not even bad directing. The songs played in the movie are quite good but it lacked joyful moments where it could be played in a memorable way. The main problem is an story with no positive characters. In the middle of The Last Days of Disco there's a conversation between Kate and Chlöe and one of their bosses about how to make a best-seller's book. And the response of their boss is partially right and the writer of this movie should have thought about it and include some nice characters in it. Then this would be a hit! 5/10 "},{"Title":"holy sh*tballs, is THIS a piece of crap! is whit stillman flipping burgers now?","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm only giving it a 2 because there were a couple of marginally interesting bits of dialogue, & the female leads were outstanding. But overall...WOW does this movie suck! All the things everyone has written before apply non-period clothes, sets & props; pretentious dialogue that came off as totally banal & unrealistic; REALLY horrible acting (love that they make such a big deal out of the little part by JENNIFER BEALS!!! WOW is she a terrible, terrible actress, excruciating even!! ... & what was up w/ that dude who ran the club, the one w/ the greasy hair & monkey face? Did he EVER work again after this??); but my biggest complaint, which I've had about 54 & other films set in clubs, & which other reviewers have mentioned here, is...WHY do they make clubs look so incredibly BORING???? The TV miniseries Tales of the City, famously set in 1970s San Francisco, had several totally believable period scenes in clubs & bars, as have many other movies in which discos figure heavily into the backdrop (Carlito's Way comes to mind). Like other reviewers here, I'm wondering have the people associated w/ this film ever actually BEEN to a club? I have seen the three films in the Stillman trilogy now & am totally perplexed as to why this guy was hailed in the 90s as such a genius? I've come across much wittier (& better-written) graffiti on the toilet wall of my favorite bar, & a zillion blogs. Was his father or brother in the movie business? Seriously, WHO thinks this is remarkable film-making? These are very well done student films, at best. You know it's a bad sign when, 45 minutes into a movie, you start READING A BOOK (exactly what I did, looking up at the movie on occasion, then going back to the book). Save your time, you will thank me. "},{"Title":"The Disco Movement, Free Will and Destiny","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Snowed in Sunday, I watched Whit Stillman's Last Days of Disco. Though void of a plot, sympathetic characters or anything resembling an homage to disco, the movie had a few cute scenes with some lofty life questions to contemplate. It was no Barcelona, but I sort-of enjoyed it. Although, I can't think of too many other people who would like it at all.A common theme of movie is the idea that we are programmed from a young age to be a certain way. An environmental lawyer mentions the perhaps that entire environmental movement was caused by Bambi. A nation of little kids witnessed the hunter shooting Bambi's mom and, a score later, the environmental movement comes along. Another character worries that Lady and Tramp was teaching girls to be vacuous and to be attracted to assholes.In the end of Disco, the characters learn that they may have been programmed at a young age, but it didn't matter too much. Stronger social forces push their direction more than anything else. One character, fearing she's a prude, tries to sleep around only to catch herpes. The affliction forces her back into an exclusive relationship. Another character wonders if he is happy in a relationship, but a job takes him to away from that relationship before he makes the decision for himself. A third character, though perhaps mentally unstable, is now able to live a normal life thanks to modern medication. None of them are at the mercy of their internal desires and personalities, but all of them are at the mercy of the winds of social change and luck.The characters do not even know if they truly like disco. The movement is ripped from them before any of them chooses to abandon it. Furthermore, the characters do not know even if they like each other. They are thrust in and out of each other's company by larger forces and great deal of luck (where one went to college, economic forces, who happens to be in the club on a particular evening). There is a great deal of talk about controlling one's destiny, yet no one is able to.Though I find in real life people are slightly more decisive and a lot less introspective than in Disco, the movie makes an interesting point. We look often inward and strive to improve, change and mask ourselves. Perhaps we are all programmed and full of baggage, complexes and fetishes. Whether or not we can escape our programming is an interesting question, but dwarfed by larger forces. We may have control over ourselves, but that doesn't mean we have control over our destiny. "},{"Title":"Where did the story go?","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I can't say that I gave this movie a try because of the great era this movie talked about, because of the director or because of the magnificent cast. I'm not interested in the late seventies or early eighties and disco is a form of music that has never appealed to me in such a way that it influenced my life. And since the director is a complete stranger to me, just like the majority of the cast (The only names that I immediately recognized were those of Chloë Sevigny and Kate Beckinsale), there could only one reason be left why I watched it. I gave this movie a try because there was nothing else on TV and I didn't want to spend my evening by watching some stupid game show or soap opera.The story in this movie is centered around the lives of a group of friends with different backgrounds, who spend all their weekends in a famous disco. They are all looking for something. Some are looking for a nice partner, while some don't care as long as he's rich. They all have a job that demands a lot of them and the best way to forget about all their troubles is to throw themselves in the sparkling night life. It's a life of sex, drugs, music and a lot of weirdness, but when the place where they all go out is closed, their way of life abruptly ends, leaving them behind with the most important question Is disco really dead or not? The main problem that I had with this movie is that during the first half of the movie, the story didn't seem to go anywhere. This was a movie about people full of themselves, who don't care about anything or anyone as long as they can have their regular dose of drugs and partying. The characters and there dialogs had absolutely no depth and that's about the worst thing that can happen to a movie. Only in the last part, this all got a little bit better, but by then the damage was already done, making me lose interest.But it has to be said, not everything about this movie was bad. The acting for instance was OK. Even though I hadn't heard of most of them, I must say that they really did a nice job portraying these yuppies. They can't help it that they don't get any good dialogs or script to work with. That's Whit Stillman's problem, not theirs. Also good were some of the jokes, especially the one about the movie Lady and the Tramp was very witty. Still, it wasn't enough to save this movie and to make me forget about the lack of any story or real plot. That's why I give this movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"second time is the charm","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I just didn't get it. Like many I was put off by the nonstop dialog but something happened when I caught it on cable later that year. I found myself intrigued with the relationship between Alice and Charlotte. Beckinsale's bitchy self absorbed personality is the perfect compliment to Sevigny's dry understated performance. I think people are disappointed at first by the lack of over the top 70's camp, but I myself enjoyed the more realistic feel. You still get your retro fix (watch the street scene toward the end you wont find a car newer than 1980 in the background). Studio 54 really tried to wow you with how 70's it could be, this movie with its waspy yet eccentric cast began to reel me in. If you didn't like it the first time try it again you might find be surprised. One last thing everyone keeps saying that the look of the film isn't true to the era but in 1980 we were past the leisure suits and not quite into the dynasty style shoulder pads and big hair. 1979-82 was a very preppy time. "}{"Title":"Great music, unsatisfying movie","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Two New York chicks, Alice (Chloë Sevigny) and Charlotte (Kate Beckinsale), live in New York at the time when disco was extremely popular. Almost everyone went to clubs to dance to disco in the evenings, but somehow the era is going towards an end. Meanwhile, Alice and Charlotte try to find love and earn enough money so that they can keep living in that lovely apartment of theirs.The biggest problem with The Last days of disco is that the characters aren´t interesting enough, except for Alice and Charlotte. All the men are too anonymous and unappealing, I couldn´t even keep them apart. The movie tries to follow many people and their lives ala Pulp Fiction, but fails.There is lots of talking and little dancing in this. And what kind of clubs are these anyway, when you can hear each other perfectly clear without shouting. Because of the high music, you wouldn´t be hearing each other at all, but since it´s a disco-movie I guess that´s okay.Lots of talking, yes. And the dialogue doesn´t really sparkle. The only time it became really interesting was when the group discussed what the Disney movie Lady and the Tramp was really about. This could have been in any of Quentin Tarantino´s pictures, but otherwise the script contains way too much plainness chatter.The movie also jumps between different time periods without telling the viewer, which makes it difficult to follow. And it doesn´t explain that well why the disco era ended, more than a simple People just stopped go out on the evenings, which didn´t satisfy me at all. This could have been given more time, and made the movie more interesting.Good things with the film are the gals. Sevigny and Beckinsale both look marvellous in their dresses out on the dancefloor. It was mainly thanks to them I decided to see this, since I was curious on two of Hollywood´s most promising actresses. Chloë Sevigny is gradually starting to be a favorite actress of mine, with good performances both here and in American Psycho. And the music was great! All those great disco-songs were in here, which was a real treat.But the music doesn´t save a movie, that contains way to much uninteresting dialogue for it´s own good.* * ½  "},{"Title":"How can a film with such a great premise turn out so drab?","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I decided to watch this film despite all the negative comments on this page. Unfortunately, they proved to be right!How can you aim to portray an era in a big budget movie, then cock up on such simple things as fashions and music? It's supposedly set in about '81. la dolce Vita by Ryan Paris didn't come out till late '83! The fashions were more 86/87. Even the song the film ends on Love Train came out in 1972. So what era was it really trying to portray?Added to these anomalies, the dialogue was dull, pseudo tarantino and impossible to concentrate on. The characters were drab and not as Des professed larger than life.it's difficult to say what the film should have been, but one thing I'm certain of is another director could have come up with a far more entertaining movie given this idea and budget. "},{"Title":"if you've ever had a secretly vindictive friend, check this one out!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Kate Beckinsdale delivers what may be the best bitch-in-disguise-as-a-best-friend performance since the lovely trio of lasses in Muriel's Wedding.  or Heathers for that matter.  She epitomizes the destructive, selfish and spiteful nature that exists in a lot of of friendships.  Some other recent films (All Over Me, whatever) touch on this topic, but none with the acerbic bite of last days.  Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"Who needs a plot, anyway?  Certainly not Whit Stillman...","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Warning do not see this movie unless you are feeling intellectually alert. There's no violence, no major conflict, no overarching plot and no dramatic or severe characters.But, if you are feeling intellectually alert, this movie is one of the most fun movies I've ever seen.  Whit Stillman fans will recognize the quirky dialogue and references to Metropolitan and Barcelona, and people new to Whit Stillman... well, people new to Whit Stillman need to find out what they've been missing.  Last Days of Disco doesn't offer anything particularly new to the genre - it is at least 95% intellectual bantar, with little plot or scenery to distract you from the conversation.  But it is my favorite of the genre, if for no other reason then for what I felt were better and more developed characters, particularly the wonderfully tormented Des.  Certain moments in this movie last better in my mind then Metropolitan and Barcelona - the debate over Lady and the Tramp, for instance, or Des' discourse on to thine own self be true (everybody assumes that 'thine own self' is a good thing to be... what if it's not?  What if 'thine own self' is fundamentally bad?  Should we still be true to it?)All told, this movie isn't spectacular - I'm not sure any Wilt Stillman movie could ever be called that - but it is interesting and amusing, which is more his style.  If you're a fan of intellectual comedy, you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm new to Whit Stillman, but if this is typical of what he can produce, I'm going to rush to find 'Metropolitan' and 'Barcelona' on video. Some of the sharpest, wittiest, funniest dialogue I've ever had the pleasure of hearing in a film script. Sure, there are too many characters who are not properly introduced, and the criminal sub-plot is so peripheral it disappears off the side of the screen, but somehow none of this matters. Stillman appears to love and hate the bourgeoisie at the same time - if he's anything like me, he'll feel at home among the middle classes, but constantly curse them for not being better than they are.Beckinsale has had a somewhat Pollyanna image in the past, but her bitchy performance shatters that. I also found Eigeman sympathetic - don't we all know someone like Des?And credit to Stillman for not including any Abba/Bee Gees tracks.Isn't Chloe Sevigny gorgeous? "},{"Title":"wonderful ensemble, dont be so critical","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Was this a perfect film?  No, not many are, but there were too many good elements to count it out as easily as some have. Everyone comments about the style of dress and hair not fitting the period, and I'll agree to some extent, but as someone who was around during that time, I can tell you that the style of the early 80s was not as dramatically different from now as that during the heart of the 70s. I would have liked to see some older style cars in the background, and more people with over the ears hairstyles, but they were professionals and had to look the part of people going to pro jobs.Do ivy league people speak that way in real life?  I'll bet some do, but I don't really care, because I don't always want real life in a movie.  I loved their wit, sarcasm, and wordsmithing skills, and thought Eigeman and Keeslar delivered their lines brilliantly.  The plot was weak and loose, if existent at all, but I enjoyed it as a window on some quirky peoples lives,regardless of whether it went anywhere.  I am sooo glad it wasnt another cliched disco movie about sex and dancing.  Overall a fun character study worth seeing twice to catch nuances, as Des would say. "},{"Title":"Witty stylish comedy","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't be deceived by the title. The Last Days of Disco is essentially an incidental theme to Stillman's third film, the plotline really revolves around young Americans falling in and out of love at the same time as commenting on the various mores of their social set. The film is heavily laced with irony, as is typical to Stillman's other films Metropolitan and Barcelona. Again, many of the jokes and humour will pass over the heads of some people unfamiliar with Stillman's style but it is well worth sticking out and/or viewing again. Stillman's obvious fondness for snobbery in modern American society is matched by his sharp perception. This third in an often (and perhaps erroneously) claimed trilogy examines the context of the club-going social set in the early eighties, unlike Metropolitan which examined the debutante set and Barcelona which was rooted in foreign perception of American culture. All are set in the early Eighties and make particular reference to those times. In this film, in particular, spot the many Disney references and the folly of the Railway Apartments. The film has a very glossy look to it, especially in the actual disco, and this draws clever comparison to the later scenes in the characters house, where affluence (or lack thereof) is denoted by the mise en scene. The film's soundtrack is excellent, featuring many forgotten disco hits. Kate Beckinsdale and Matt Keeslar deliver outstanding performances in their roles with Chloe Sevigny and Chris Eigeman providing their usual excellent work.  "},{"Title":"Last Days of Disco","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Really didn't enjoy this film even though it came highly recommended by some friends. None of the characters were likable and all of the male characters just blended into one another. The group of characters just repeatedly go to a highly regarded disco club and have relentless, banal conversation. It's a talking movie like a Linklater film only nowhere near as good. There's a very thin sub-plot about tax evasion and drug taking at the club but it really doesn't add any substance.The club had no appeal, the music had no appeal, the characters had no appeal and the story had no appeal. "},{"Title":"Come back Fred and Ginger","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I came to this film warily, fearing a couple of hours of glamorous John Travolta and Olivia Neutron-Bomb wannabe airheads. After 30 minutes I would quite happily have settled for more glam airheads than you can shake a stick at. Rather than a movie about the demise of the disco it's more about a group of uninteresting recently-left-college-and-got-jobs-in-New-York embryonic yuppies. Yes, yuppies, so that places us firmly in the 80s, although the main characters are so bland that it could be anytime really. The whole thing is a sort of rites of passage, stage two.The only two characters that have any standout personality are Alice (Sevigny) and Des (Eigeman). Alice plays second fiddle in the sexy stakes to her workmate &#150; Charlotte (Beckinsale) - with whom she also shares an apartment. Charlotte is bitchy, but that's hardly an idea that came down with the last shower of rain and although Beckinsale does a reasonable job the bitchiness is a bit low key. But it's sufficient, I suppose, for Alice to be the focus of our sympathies. Des works at the disco, although goodness knows what he actually does, apart from get into regular trouble for letting in the wrong clientele. But Eigeman at least makes an effort to inject some character.The rest of the group drift in and out without ever making an impression. It's all far too talky; even in the disco itself everyone looks thoroughly miserable. A few odd characters float about in the background at the disco and they would probably have been more interesting than the group we're forced to be with. In particular Bernie (the owner cum drug-dealer and money-launderer) and Dan (Bernie's right-hand man who ensures only the `right' people are allowed in) would surely have made for a good story.I assume the eulogy to disco offered by one of the characters towards the end was meant as a joke. And what on earth was the closing scene &#150; everyone dancing on subway trains and platforms &#150; all about? Perhaps the production company insisted on an upbeat ending so that disco fans wouldn't leave the theatre in tears as the doors finally closed on their era.Maybe if you're into disco music this will fill your sandwich. But, in truth, you'd be better off buying a CD. Otherwise it looks like a pilot for an unsuccessful TV series. `Friends' and `Sex in the City' have nothing to fear from this.  "},{"Title":"Emergency!  Chloe Sevigny stuck in wet paper bag!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie reminds me of a junior college play--self-conscious acting, forced dialogue, and tired sets.  I don't mind a movie with no plot, but I need something to keep me interested--which this film does not deliver.The acting is uniformly stiff.  Chloe Sevigny's lack of effort (or skill) makes her supposedly educated character seem slow-witted.  She appears to have learned how to act by watching local-cable auto dealer commercials (Bill Smith Ford is ready to deal (smile wanly at camera)). The supporting cast seems to be reading off cue cards at times, highlighted by an embarrassing cameo from Jennifer Beals.  Only Kate Beckinsale occasionally rises above the mediocrity with a crisply acted scene.I suppose there are people who talk the way these characters do, but I've never met them.  Not even the most pompous pseudo-intellectuals I've come across consistently use such stilted syntax.  This could be forgiven if the words were compelling.  Unfortunately, 95% of the dialogue is used to set up the 5% that is interesting.  There are flashes of good writing, but the setups are so long that the jokes fall flat.The most disappointing thing about the movie is the lack of visual flair. The characters try to elevate disco to cosmic meaning, but the film makes the inside of the club look dull.  Whit Stillman trots out a man painted silver every time he needs to make the club look glamorous.  The clothing and hairstyles seem to be out of place as well.  Nothing on the screen is as outrageous and fun as the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"SUBTLE!!!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Last Days is a rather convoluted, uncompromising exploration of the ivy-grad social circle in NY during the end of the disco era.  Stillman is interested here in expanding some of his favorite motifs such as, of course, disco, intellectualism (for lack of a better word), wit, snobbery, and relationships, and sacrifices very little for a mainstream audience  thus, a lot of loose ends, difficult to follow dialogue, disagreeable characters, and a generally scattered storyline.  Though the average movie-goer may see these as shortcomings, the experienced Stillman watcher realizes that much of the film's charm comes from this relatively unconventional style of filmmaking.  With overwhelming subtlety, Stillman develops his characters and their situation through vignettes and bits of dialogue.  More so than Barcelona or Metropolitan, Last Days demands the viewer's attention, as important details are easily missed as the dialogue rattles by; unsurprisingly, many viewers are left angry and embarrassed because they just failed to dig Stillman's latest groove.  For those who like to leave in the middle of the movie for more popcorn, this is not the flick for you. But, for those who pick up on the subtext, Last Days is as hilarious as Stillman's other movies, and would certainly be the most quotable if one could just catch all the lines.   "},{"Title":"Wooden acting, insipid characters, no plot, inane dialogue","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I rented this by mistake, thinking that my wife wanted to see it.  I'm lucky she didn't divorce me after 10 minutes of this stupid drivel.  The acting is uniformly bland, the characters are uninteresting, the production values are mediocre, and the script is a reminder that socializing in the disco era was probably only tolerable because everyone was in a drug induced stupor.  The only positive aspect of it was that now I feel like a great dancer, after watching so many overlong scenes of uninspired disco dancing.  "},{"Title":"Someone, please, smash the 'Eject' button. Now.","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  LDOD fails where Diner, Swingers, and Seinfeld shine. A flick with a non-existent plot? No problem. A flick with a non-existent plot and thin, contrived dialog spun out by two-dimensional characters, jerkily bobbing up and down in a vacuous, tepid sea of inane scenes, their gutless delivery played out in a backdrop intentionally devoid of drama, humor, or anything else that even approaches interesting... Well then, that's a problem.At least for me it was.The movie had no spice, no flair, nada. Everything was as flat as Sevigny's hair. It wound up in the vein of a St. Elmo's Fire, but without the Fire. Or even the melodrama. LDOD is one of those rare films that keeps you hanging on, even from the first scene, hoping and praying that it will get better. That something will actually... eventually... happen. I don't think I'm spoiling the movie when I say that even after seeing it a second time, I'm still waiting, though I've given up hope. And prayer.What's done is done, and this lemon and disco are beyond recovery.  "},{"Title":"Are You Kidding Me?! I Dance On This Turd's Grave!!","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Disco was a high energy, drug fueled, frantic, primal experience that was beyond rationality, that defied nature, that reveled in absurdity. But this film is a bland, somber, melancholic chat fest that demands that its audience forget everything its ever heard about or seen of or actually experienced at a disco. It's beyond stupid. The whole premise is flawed, that disco died in the early eighties - it didn't, it mutated into an even more frantic, outrageous club scene. But this true fact doesn't deter the film's creators from their inaccurate pointless fantasy.A couple of discos may have closed down or changed style in Manhattan but clubs where people danced were actually even more popular and numerous. The celebrity glitz factor may have faded, but the intense social scene was charging ahead. Cocaine was everywhere by the bucket fulls at the time, not just up Hollywood's noses, and the nightlife was running hot on its power. It was insane, deranged, unbelievable. But this dumb flick wants you to believe that a whole world was collapsing, that an entire generation of party animals quickly went extinct. Wrong.If this movie is meant to be a comment on the virus like spread of Reagonomics into every aspect of American culture throughout the 80s, then having a grand Disco as the setting pretty much mandates that the film be a broad parody. But it isn't, it's just a self conscious exercise in style. But even the style is wrong. Power suits and ties wouldn't be fashionable till the next decade. No real urban hipster in the 80's would be seen dead in a pinstripe. Designer jeans were what the heavy weights were sporting, even the upper crust. So the look is off, which leaves the substance to carry the project. What substance there is is vacuous, vapid, and very annoying.The dialog is all stilted, awkward and overly literate - unnatural. It's like listening to a lit student read his or her first script. The acting is uneven and unfocused. No one seems to know what the point of this movie is, and all the talk and gestures don't add up to anything greater than themselves. It's just a series of smugly clever comments and shallow observations, but there's no direction to any of it. Chloë Sevigny is interesting to look at for a little bit but her acting is so flat and boring. Her partner, Kate Beckinsale, tries to do pump some life into the lame words she's given but there's only so much she can do with this corpse of a script. As wrong, and absurd, and demented as it was, Disco was a massive whale of an international phenomenon, but you'd never know it from this puny limp fish of a failure. "},{"Title":"Chilly wit, great soundtrack","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I found this film to be elegant and stylish, if a bit superficial. The dialogue is incredibly intelligent - almost too much so, but this is probably to be expected, given that the main characters are editorial assistants at a book publisher. UK-born Kate Beckinsale's American accent is quite impressive, and I've never seen her play a character this unlikeable, but she pulls it off well. Chloe Sevigny's performance is understated but fine. Mackenzie Astin has some of the most memorable lines. Overall, I don't think this would appeal to a mainstream audience, but its wit and a wonderful soundtrack are definitely in its favour. "},{"Title":"an okay dramedy","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Better than Metropolitan, this is okay as a dramedy. I admired the performances of Sevigny, Keeslar, and Eigelman; if their was one performance I despised, it was Astin's, as the neurotic Steinway.  This movie was more about the charcters than the setting and time period.  Most people may hate this feature because of its lack of action, the characters' neuroses, it was less focused on the disco scene, or any other reason.  But I liked it and am proud to say that I added this to my collection. "},{"Title":"Characters and nothing more- what's wrong with that?","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie and gave it a 7- it was good, but not great.  I had no problem with its lack of plot; much like an action movie is all action and no character, this movie is all character and no action.  And this, I am certain, is the way the makers intended it to be, or they wouldn't have had dialogue in 95% of the movie.  In any case, Seinfeld was immensely popular (though I actually did not like it), and it never had a plot.  And to me, its characters were exceedingly more disgusting, despicable, and immoral than the characters in this movie.Yes, some of the characters were selfish, pretentious, manipulative, and otherwise possessing negative traits; in fact, none of these characters was without flaws.  But neither are any of us, and most of us would probably not be willing to acknowledge that we or our friends possess some of the abhorrent characteristics.  I know that I have met more than one person who behaves like Charlotte, and have been on the receiving end of such behavior. And no, I don't like Charlotte, any more than I like the people who have treated me like crap in real life.  But why should all characters be likable? It is true that if you find all of these characters without merit, then this movie would suck.  But I did not dislike all of these characters. I understand Alice very well, and while I have not seen any other movie Chloe Sevigny has been in, I saw the acting that others call wooden as very true to the character she was playing.  Alice is supposed to be timid and uncertain about everything (which sometimes caused he not to say much, and perhaps appear stupid in some people's minds), etc, etc.  I do agree that she was very uninteresting for the first bit of the movie, seemingly just following Charlotte around like a puppy, but when her true character is revealed, I think her wallpaper act is quite appropriate to her personality.Even those characters I found morally repugnant, like Des and Charlotte, I still could understand them and have some small sense of sympathy for people trying to be good but being bogged down by their own self-absorption.  I also liked Mackenzie Astin in this movie, even though he didn't get to do much; what is a bit disconcerting is that he still looks so much like he did when he was on The Facts of Life when he was about 12.  In too many movies, the protagonists are all simply good and the antagonists are all plain bad; I do like movies that have flat characters, but it is nice to see a movie where the characters are more tangible and don't seem like something out of a fairy tale.At the very least, this movie showed that not only bad people get STDs. In most movies, such things are not discussed, and if they are, it is always the slimy characters that have the STD (unless it's a movie about AIDS), which is hardly the way it works in real life.  To show a sweet, perhaps naive, girl like Alice who gets a little something extra the very first time she has sex sends a certain message about knowing people and their sexual history before you sleep with them, without coming off as horribly preachy.This movie is about real people; so what if the setting wasn't accurate (though I have no idea myself if this is the case) or the songs weren't current? And some people do talk like that- believe those of us who have met them.  And even if it was played up a little bit- hey, it's a movie.  "},{"Title":"Decent for Stillman thanks to music and two leads","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of Whit Stillman.  He writes good dialogue, and I have to admit he directed a good episode of HOMICIDE LIFE ON THE STREET, but I find his characters, for the most part, to be shallow and uninteresting, and while METROPOLITAN didn't need much of a plot, since it was a slice-of-life film, BARCELONA was poorly plotted, and this one suffers from the same problem.  Also, some of the characters are shallow again.However, this is the first Stillman film I've somewhat enjoyed thanks to, again, his dialogue(like the whole LADY AND THE TRAMP sequence), but more importantly, the two leads and the music.  Kate Beckinsale fufils the promise she showed in COLD COMFORT FARM, here playing not only a convincing American, but making us understand an unsympathetic character.  Chloe Sevigny also fufills the promise she showed in KIDS and TREES LOUNGE, playing Beckinsale's best friend; she knows how to be vulnerable without being maudlin, and even shows a little sneakiness of her own.  Also should mention Chris Eigeman, who brightened up Stillman's first two movies and does the same here.  I never hated disco, and still like some of it, and the choices here are good.Speaking of those choices, some have said how the music is late 70's, when the movie is early 80's.  First of all, it may be a rights question, as to what Stillman could get.  Secondly, the movie, in this sense, is similar to THE ICE STORM, in that both movies are about what happens when the middle-class finally gets ahold of a major trend(in THE ICE STORM, it was the sexual revolution, here it's disco), so it's appropriate that the music is from disco's peak period. "},{"Title":"A very funny and subtle comedy of romance and ideas, set against an elegant Manhattan nightclub backdrop with great disco songs and -- outside the club -- other great music, with much R&B and early Jamai","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A very funny and subtle comedy of ideas and romance, which is clearly over the head of some of the audience and those who fail to realize that the film is also making fun of -- THEIR attitudes too.  It is absolutely dead-on accurate of the upscale Manhattan clubs of the early-80s but there is no way for those who take their ideas of that world from lesser movies and pop culture cliches to know that. The film's many delights repay, not necessarily close viewing, but the sort of attention you might pay an attractive first date. "},{"Title":"Seeing this movie just after Great  Expectations I feel that New York City must be one of the most photogenic cities in the world.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Forget about the plot, just wallow in the perceptive observations and the sharp clever dialogue. Stillman is a master at making us care about basically shallow people. Well worth seeing and highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Cluttered but fun.","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The yuppies are on the march, herpes is the disease of the day and disco is king. It's the early 1980s and things are about to change. Cluttered and cautiously paced but cerebral and fun. Notable for a fantastically bitchy turn by Beckinsdale and some terrific dialogue. You do really need to be over thirty-five to fully appreciate it. I'm not so (7/10) "},{"Title":"Great snapshot of an Era","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a much better movie than a casual glance at existing reviews would indicate. It's already a cult classic -- take a look at the prices for OOP copies on Amazon -- and it provides a picturesque look at some of the wretched excesses of the end of the disco era. When it comes to understanding the American experience in the twentieth century, there are important parallels between the Roaring 'Twenties and 'Seventies. Both eras ended with a kind of hangover from the initial exuberance and expansion that kicked them off. Maybe it's a bit of a stretch, but in a limited way, the Last Days of Disco is as good a meditation on the end of its era as The Great Gatsby is about the end of the Jazz Age.Some people won't like this film because they'll have a hard time relating to the yuppies who are the major characters, but the character development (or lack thereof) is one of the movie's major strengths. Director Stillman is in perfect control of the dynamics of their interactions. He knows all these people very well from real life.Although it's a wee bit stilted at times, another strength of the movie is its dialog, which is very original and first class. The Last Days of Disco is a superb tableau of the morality of its times and deals with a number of themes that are central to the human condition.All in all, I think this movie deserved a better fate than it has received so far. I'm afraid that it was probably as big a failure as Barcelona was a success, and I find it sad that Stillman, whom I regard as a very original voice in American movies, has perhaps been unable to find backers for new projects since that time, although I understand that he may soon (2007) finally have another release in the offing. If you like The Last Days of Disco, you will almost certainly enjoy his two earlier films, Metropolitan and Barcelona. "},{"Title":"The last in a trilogy by Whit Stillman","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The Last Days of Disco is about friends meeting up at the end of the disco era. It is a stylishly written comedy drama with strong performances from Chris Eigmann,Kate Beckinsale,Matt Keeslar,Robert Sean Leonard and the lovely Chloe Sevigny.For me the film has one of the strongest soundtracks and this infuses all the club scenes with a fun energy that evokes the period well. It shows how some of these places nurtured corruption behind the scenes. I really liked the use of the song Dolce Vita as heads start to roll in the hierarchy of the disco scene and at where Love Train  gives the film's denouement a feel good boost! "},{"Title":"the '70s all over again","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" With the '70s nostalgia sweeping the country in 1997-98, there were several movies to carry it along, including The Last Days of Disco. This one portrays some young women in the Me Decade trying to establish relationships and wondering where their lives will lead. I personally thought that Chloe Sevigny carried the movie (then again, I might just be thinking that because of her role in Boys Don't Cry). But she and Kate Beckinsale do a great job with the roles. I've never seen any of Whit Stillman's other movies, but if this is any indication, his others must be impressive. Certainly one that I recommend.So does spurting count? "},{"Title":"Excellent - especially if you lived those days!","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I tuned into IFC to watch tonight based on the excellent cast and, yes, the era. It is excellent especially if you lived those days...anywhere! I live far from NYC but can still relate to the content and music. Next, I'm looking for the soundtrack. Chloe Sevigny is a favourite of mine, Kate Beckinsale is excellent as well. I think when we (40+'s) are in our 80's, this will be the classic our children will watch. It is NOT Party Monster - a movie I LOVED but a life many of us did not live, but it is far more realistic to the rest of us. By the way, Chloe Sevigny is terrific in the HBO Series Big Love. An amazing feat of television. Some of the characteristics seen in this movie are carried over to her character in Big Love.... OR Maybe that is just her. If you danced at discos in the late 70's and early 80's and weren't into drugs (heavily) and were trying to hold down a job....YOU will enjoy this movie. Keep on dancin' dancin' dancin'..... PO) "},{"Title":"not for everyone","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The negative comments on this film surprise me, because I loved it. Maybe some help, though it has been years since I saw it 1- this is not about the disco era, but rather about a certain socio-economic group as the disco era was ending; 2- the humor and dialog is subtle and quirky-- many people evidently do not get it. If you think most sitcoms are stupid, you probably will like this. 3- though not plot-driven, there is a plot. Innocent girl in NYC, surrounded by self-confident and self-indulgent companions, who are the best she can do in the absence of real friends (a situation any young person arriving to a new big city can understand). Friends encourage her to do things at odds with her instincts...conflict and consequences. "},{"Title":"More than a boogie.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's not all about Disco, but the end of an Era. A time when the politics are a changing, AIDS is on the horizon and the Corporate Eighties comes in like a tidal wave. All this steering the World into ignorance oblivious. Mind you, it never makes it that obvious in the film because Stillman is too clever for that. Instead he shows the subtle changes through the lives of some pretty interesting darn characters who will be effected by all this global change in some way or another. Great music, clever dialogue and excellent performances from an unknown cast makes it a simple but effective treat!  "},{"Title":"woody allen goes to the disco","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Nice comedy with a lot of talking, not unlike a Woody Allen movie. The dialogue is very good. The characters are self-absorbed and should be annoying but you tend to like them anyway.  Kate Beckinsale is especially good as a bitchy, insecure yuppie girl. The club scenes are well done but the clothes are more 90´s than 70´s. Not so much a film about the disco culture, rather a story about sex and relations before AIDS. "},{"Title":"Whit Stillman's movies are elegies to lost eras","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Having seen all three of Stillman's films- Metropolitan, Barcelona and nowThe Last Days Of Disco, which I caught on the Canadian Showcase network- Inoticed that all of his films comment on the passing of eras that were thought  to last forever; the end of the old-money debutante party scene inMetropolitan; the passing of American imperial influence overseas inBarcelona; and here, the passing of a seemingly ephemeral era in popularculture--disco-- that has resurfaced in the 21st century as the rave and techno  scene. Chris Eigeman is again brilliant as the witty cad, and the film contains  enough highbrow quips to keep you smiling all the way through, if it never is  laugh-out loud funny. What I found interesting was Stillman's weaving ofcameos from his two earlier films. The Sally Fowler crowd fromMetropolitan and Charlie Boynton (Taylor Nichols) from Barcelona bothappear at the club, and if you read the credits, you'll realize that Josh shares  the same last name (Neff) as Fred from Metropolitan- they are probablyrelated. In fact, whole scenes and exchanges seem to be lifted fromMetropolitan - the taxi ride over the bridge, many of the conversations- Joel  seems like another Tom Townsend and Alice seems to be the new AudreyRouget---even down to the voice. What is largely puzzling about the cameoswas the fact that Metropolitan seemed definitely set in the mid-to-late 1980s  and Barcelona in the 90's- not so much from pop culture references, sincethere were none, but from costumes, hair and surroundings and exterior shotsof New York and Barcelona. Then, we're asked to believe that both thosemovies took place *before* the late 1970s? In fact, aside from the soundtrack,  there were no clues or costuming to place this film in the early 80s (Blondie  appears on the soundtrack - that's about it). If he was going to celebrate the  passing of an era, Stillman could have paid more attention to that- but in his  defense he did avoid the white-polyester-suit cliches of the era. However, it  seems more like disco is peripheral, instead of integral, to the lives of the  characters, even as it purports it to be.... That club was awfully brightly lit,  and the haircuts and suits were completely 1990s. It seemed to share artdirection more with Less Than Zero and American Psycho than with 54, That70s Show (which doesn't exaggerate that much, believe it or not) or BoogieNights. Fine performances all around, fantastic dialogue, a  great evilcharacter from Kate Beckinsale, and Chloe Sevigny is sweetly radiant. But,like the best films, it isn't for everyone...only bad films are for everyone. "},{"Title":"Well-written, witty, and educated-- not a teen flick","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although I had already seen and admired Barcelona I put off watching this film because I feared, like the era it portrays, it might be shallow.  Big mistake this is a Great Movie.This director makes his own genres and writes some of the most intelligent dialog on celluloid.  He doesn't have to exaggerate life to make it interesting.  I rented Heat (a star-studded Michael Mann crime orgy) on the same night.  LDoD is the perfect contrast to that kind of absurd Hollywood formula blockbuster. Heat bore no resemblance to reality, was packed with glamorous locations, hot sex, spectacularly cold-blooded violence, tragic soap opera catharsis, and famous actors posing with guns but it failed to be anything but predictable.  LDoD makes the commonplace into a fresh and compelling story.Alice and Charlotte are two pretty college graduates living it up at their favorite disco club in New York.  Charlotte is confident, shallow, hypocritical, ruthless, and manipulative.  Alice is decent and intelligent but not sure enough of her own natural charm to be herself.  She lets Charlotte persuade her into playing psychological games with men to become more popular.  Competing for their affections are Des (the male version of Charlotte and a professional night club flunky), Jimmy (a junior ad executive desperate to get his clients in past the hostile owner), and Joel (a sincere, noble, and thoughtful assistant D.A. dogged by a bad rep from a nervous breakdown in college).The plot is supposed to be about shady dealings Joel is secretly investigating.  The real STORY is about whether the basic goodness in Joel and Alice will prevail in an era that glorified everything but.All the characters are in love with Disco's allure-- the romantic dreamworld where they can escape from their diffucult careers and find happiness with anyone on any given night.   The script's best lines are not about the characters, but the times.  This is not a sendup of stereotypes like John Travolta and white polyester suits but a lovingly crafted recreation of an era that exists only to many of us as a joke.  This is The Apartment with music and wit. "}{"Title":"Interesting look at the Disco Age.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Highly enjoyable with a terrific soundtrack - Last days of Disco was a pleasant surprise. The music was terrific - the soundtrack has some catchy numbers - from Chic, Blondie etc. Standout performances from Chloë Sevigny and Christopher Eigeman. One of Sevigny's early films - definately worth watching. Movie Rating 7/10 - Soundtrack 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly dull, but then again so were the 80s yuppies it portrays...","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There is a moment in The Last Days of Disco when one stops and realizes that the actors do not seem to be enjoying themselves at all.But, perhaps this is terrific acting, considering the characters are not supposed to be enjoying themselves. They are early 80s yuppies, just out of college and they've just missed the disco era by a hair.Their after hours lives are dull, their problems are dull, their personalities are (say it with me) dull. The movie never picks up, never gets more interesting, just like the lives of these characters.I can't call The Last Days of Disco a bad movie, because it isn't. I can't blame the actors, because they are quite good at portraying, essentially, dull people. I can't blame the writers and filmmakers because they were out to make a nostalgic piece (I'm assuming).The Last Days of Disco is just a film that one cannot say much about. So, there. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Lovely strange dialog.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movies best part is the dialog. They talk about strange subjects and never seem to listen to each other. I like that. The movie is about the disco era, how it started and how it ended. Since I was to young to take part in it I liked to see a little bit of what it was like. If I where to choose between 54 and this movie I would rather see this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I rented the video and the jacket said it was a feel good movie - I wouldn't recommend it as such; if anything I was tempted several times to turn it off.  I'd like to see more of Chloë Sevigny though.  I barely recognized Kate Beckinsale from Shooting Fish - at least now I know she's capable of playing a b**** as well as a more sympathetic character. "},{"Title":"excellent character study","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just rented this film on video and must admit it was one of the most enjoyable films I have seen for quite a while. I believed each and every character in the film, maybe the actual story was not that strong but because of the depth in the characters it kept my interest throughout "},{"Title":"Disco Inferno","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I think of The Last Days of Disco, one word automatically comes to mind CHATTY.  There came a point in the film where I just wished the characters would shut up for one minute and cease all talking.  All that dialogue was NOT necessary, however, the two lead actresses made me forgive that flaw and overall, like this film.Alice (Chloe Sevigny) and Charlotte (Kate Beckinsale) are like the female odd couple.  One's quiet and sweet, the other's a talkative 'you know what'. Together they go out to 'the club', work and hang out with a bunch of other yuppies.Chloe has made a fan out of me with her soft portrayal as Alice, the only character who I felt sympathy for (not to mention she's hot!).  Everyone else in the movie is great, but I didn't care about what happened to them at all.Oh, and last but not least, AWESOME SOUNDTRACK. Though I'm only 19 and missed living in the 70's by one year, there's still a big place in my heart for disco music.   "},{"Title":"Typical Stillman -- good talking, decent pacing","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've seen two of Whit Stillman's three movies -- Metropolitan and now Last Days of Disco. It's been a while since I had seen Metropolitan, but once Last Days opened I immediately recognized the style -- young Ivy Leaguers in the professional world waxing philosophical about their lives and everything around them. The good news is that unlike Metropolitan, which I remember to be a little stilted and heavy -- with the exception of Chris Eigeman -- Last Days tries to be a little more breezy. That's saying something, considering Last Days has moments when it does drag. But I choose to remember this movie as having some excellent scenes, such as when the characters discuss Lady and the Tramp and pretty much nail it. Once again, Eigeman does a great job with a multi-faceted character, while Chloe Sevigny and Kate Beckinsale hold the movie together relatively well at its center.  "},{"Title":"Whit Stillman uses clever writing and interesting characters to create a wonderful comedy.","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Whit Stillman excels in presenting the art of the young, witty intellectual (or at least fake intellectual) conversation. His characters spend a majority of the time in his films simply talking.  And unlike the forced hip language found in a score of recent movies and popular tv shows, Stillman's writing does fit with the way some people actually talk.  In the Last Days of Disco, he uses the setting of a popular disco club as a forum for some fascinating character interaction.This film contains a terrific ensemble cast of relative unknowns that shines within the confines of the intriguing script.  The best scenes come from Chris Eigeman, a Stillman regular. He has a habit of playing apparent jerks who end up becoming the most likable characters in the film.  He has mastered this personality type in Stillman's Barcelona and Metropolitan, plus Kicking and Screaming and Mr. Jealousy, two great Noah Baumbach comedies.  In the Last Days of Disco, his sarcastic, frank demeanor works masterfully as Des, a nightclub manager who has some problems with drugs and women.  Eigeman always comes out looking good, however, and delivers some of the funniest lines in the film.After playing a kind, upper-class helper in Cold Comfort Farm, Kate Beckinsale is a surprise as Charlotte, a girl with a big personality who puts Chloe Sevigny's Alice through hell for much of the film.  Because of her exceptional beauty, it takes a little while to realize the extent of her selfishness and egotism. Once she gets going though, there's no doubt she cares for only only one person, herself.  The film also features a likable performance by Mackenzie Astin and a silly cameo from Jennifer Beals as one of Des' spurned lovers.Whit Stillman has an amazing method of combining a bunch of story lines into a coherent whole.  He takes the disco era as a background and expands it into much more because he lets his characters talk.  At this time, I still regard Barcelona as his best film. I grew more attached to the characters, and the foreign setting provided an interesting subtext on relations with America.  However, after watching the Last Days of Disco a second time, it's beginning to win me over. It's nice to see Stillman continue to grow as a director.  The dance sequences are dazzling and fun, but he doesn't overdo it and sacrifice character development.  Plus, although I'm not a huge disco fan, I really enjoyed virtually all of the songs.The Last Days of Disco works because it's very funny, has great acting, and is totally different from a majority of the movies coming out today.  It's entertaining without insulting the audience by dumbing down the characters. They are intelligent and yet still live fun, interesting lives.  How strange is that? "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Intelligent but Unengaging","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Surprisingly incisive, literate dialogue-- good period details-- but the characters just aren't terribly sympathetic, which may be the point, but, well...  "},{"Title":"yuppies anyone?","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  ok so i expected to be watching another 54 when i sat down to watch this movie...how much disco can one person take? well i was wrong...this movie was 100 times better than 54 ever could have imagined being...the plot focused much more on people and their interactions with those around them...and it wasn't just one type of person...we had your good girl, we had your manic depressive, we had your sleazeball...we had it all...the best part about this movie you ask? two words for you Matthew Keeslar. he has got to be the best new actor of the past couple of years...he blew me away...heck...i even sat through all of the stupids just to see how he did(good might i add for such a stupid part)...keep your eyes on this one "}{"Title":"Interesting and one of the best independent films of the year","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved this film, thought it was one of the 15 best of the year. Soundtrack was great, acting was sharp and clever and I loved Ms. Sevingy's performance. Would like to see more of her work. Recommended for lovers of nostalgic comedy and much better than 54. Would love to see it again...! "},{"Title":"One of the year's best","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of the year's best films.  The dialogue and acting by all leads were sensitive and charming and a joy to witness.  This is much better than the similarly-themed 54.  Excellent choices of famous disco hits. "},{"Title":"There are not enough Whit Stillman films","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Within the first few minutes it is clear that this is going to be an extraordinary film. Too often in his earlier films, Stillman does not trust the camera or the actors to make the point. But for some reason you can feel a greater confidence right from the first scene.Given the intelligence, wit, and insight Stillman gives to young characters--an age that most films only present as either ridiculous or in a clichéd manner--why have young actors sought not worked to develop projects with Stillman? This film was such a breakthrough for him artistically....then nothing.....Has Chloe Sevengy ever been better, luminous with bad posture. "},{"Title":"Its the time to disco!","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I cannot believe that less than 4 thousand people saw this film and it rates a 6.A classic tale of young men and women growing up in New York, the hunt for hang out spots, meaningful relationships, career advancement - what's to not like? Chloe Sevigny is luminous as Alice - vulnerable, impressionable, confused. Kate Beckinsale has done her finest role ever as Charlotte. She is unintentionally bitchy, destructive and selfish - reminds me of all the harm that one can do without ever wanting to. Chis Eigman is brilliant as Des - he was the one to watch in Metropolitan and he is the one who walks away with the kudos here. Matt Keeslar does very well as the slightly disturbed, taking no for an answer Josh.There is cynicism is in the real life moments of drugs, sex, disease - but the film is quite naive and sweet in how the good guys get the goodies in the end.The mood is well done - the disco club exciting, but the conversations in the club were almost incomprehensible over the music. This is one film that needs to be out of DVD so I can watch it again with subtitles. It was delightful! "},{"Title":"Sloppily Made","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I seriously thought this movie was about the retro craze. The hairstyles and clothes are COMPLETELY inaccurate. I'm no expert but I think the cars are inaccurate as well. It just comes off as lazy and sloppy. People didn't even talk that way back then. It's obvious the movie was made in the late 90s because the director made NO EFFORT to make people look or act any different. To me this is distracting. Another reviewer pointed out the conversation about Lady and the Tramp. To me this was the high point of the entire movie. Maybe it was the whole point of the flick. Also, it was accurate for them to play music released before 1980 or 81. A dance club at that time would have done that. They were still playing the hustle right up until the end. Besides, Disco was pretty much dead already by then, so there weren't too many new Disco hits to choose from. If you want to watch an accurate movie about that time period, the best I can think of are Summer of Sam and Detroit Rock City. Better yet, just watch Saturday Night Fever, Three's Company episodes (if you can sit through them) or the new DVD releases of The Midnight Special. You'll get an entirely different, but more accurate depiction of that era.Oh well, maybe this movie was historically inaccurate on purpose. "},{"Title":"A pleasure to watch.","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved Whit Stillman's other films and enjoyed Last Days of Disco as much as Barcelona and Metropolitan. Here's a testimony to how amusing the film isMy husband actually wanted to see it a second time. What I appreciate most is that Stillman captures how thinking, well educated people actually talk. The film is witty and complex-for example, when three characters deconstruct Lady and the Tramp the film works on multiple levels. The disco-scene is a curiosity. People thought this was fun? "},{"Title":"Too realistic or not realistic enough?","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Many people will not like this movie because it is too realistic.  There is not a lot of action, because think about it, how much action do you have in your life?  Most people's lives are filled with mostly dialogue, just like this movie.  The dance scenes are not flashy, stereotypical examples of disco like you might find in Saturday Night Fever or 54, because most people don't dance like that.  Not everyone is John Travolta.  Also, noone in this story is all good, nor all bad.  There is no good guy and bad guy - they are just people, and like in real life, they have traits and flaws. Many other people will not like this movie because it is not realistic.  For me, it was this part that ruined an otherwise great film.  I mean, who talks like this?  Every other line was a great speech, and every other word was a 10$ word.  Every conversation was philosophical and intellectualized, such that every character's lines had the same personality.  Similar conversation was used in Pulp Fiction, but not constantly, and not beyond believability.  In this movie you don't hear even one mundane phrase (Like pass the salt, whats up?, or groovy, baby). If you like lots of action, and don't like intellectualized conversation, then you probably won't like this movie, but otherwise I recommend it.  7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a deep film about a shallow era","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is about a group of Harvard intellectuals on their way to yuppiedom in the early Reagan era. At first, I wasn't sure about this film. It is very slow-moving, does not have much action, and most of the characters are not very likeable. And yet, something about this film intrigued me so I watched it again. The dialogue sounds real--if you have spent any time with NYC intellectuals, they do sound just like this. And yet this movie also manages to poke fun at them. The humor is very subtle and hard to catch at first viewing, but it's there alright, most obviously in the character of Des, a disco manager who lets his friends in through the back door, and ends his relationships by telling the women that he is gay (he isn't). The only problem with this film is the blandness of the rest of the male characters--they are hard to remember and their parts could easily be interchanged since they seem to all be playing basically the same person. The two female leads are the most developed characters--Alice (Chloe Sevigny, of Kids), basically reprising her role as a quiet, sexually naive young woman and her psuedo-friendship with the bitchy and shallow Charlotte (Kate Beckinsale). Though Charlotte initially appears to be the character with more confidence, as the story unfolds we see tha she is actually rather pathetic and that her hardness is really just a cover for her insecurity and envy of her quieter friend. Des is quietly hilarious, with his huge pop-eyes and pained facial expressions. Josh (the manic depressive) seems a bit too normal, but it fits that he's the one who ultimately wins Alice in the end...or seems to. The selection of disco songs is wonderful, with a number of great but forgotten songs. Anyone expecting another Boogie Nights or an ode to the '70's will be disappointed--as this is really a comedy of manners and a social commentary on a certain group of people rather than a period-piece. A bit stagey, but a great film in its own right, with a lot to say about human nature. "},{"Title":"So Cool and Dry","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think Walt Stillman is one of our better directors. He shows his characters with cool detachment. The actors use such dry delivery of his humorous dialog that I often have to stop and think about it. My mind is usually running about five seconds behind the movie. "},{"Title":"Good Reason Disco is Dead","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was the worst.  It had absolutely no plot and ran on and on with no goal or purpose.  And are we supposed to believe people really talk like that??  Do people give thesis-paper reviews on The Lady and the Tramp while hanging out at a club??  Do women who hate each other get apartments together?  Did this movie have a point or a reason to get made other than the production studio needed to make something to combat Studio 54? "}{"Title":"The last days of disco sucked","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I was wondering what a young person watching this film ,in say 2030, might glean about disco from watching this turgid film. They might surmise that disco was incredibly dull,frequented by boring individuals with no redeemable features to their characters ( there was hope for the Chloe character), with clothes and music as bland as the 90s,and maybe there was some connection with disco and going to Harvard.I thought Studio 54 had plumbed the depths shallow, superficial films about disco- this went one step further, and it was all the way down. ( By the way, Boogie Nights and Summer of Sam portrayed disco beautifully).There were shreds of a plot- (sort of like St Elmo's fire but not; far less interesting) and and there was a problem with the editing -so one had to guess what the time intervals were between various events- .And unfortunately, you just didn't care one or another about the characters; they were fairly unconvincing, in fact.Fairly interesting dialogues, but nothing you haven't heard before in a film or indeed on a college campus ( if you were unlucky).And what arrogance to think that disco's role was to be a somewhat exotic backdrop for these uninteresting neurotics. This film was so bad it was empty, bland; you didn;t get a feel of late 1970s society at all, though some Disco sucks footage was crammed in. I stayed with this film cos I was thinking this has got to get better and I was amazed that a film could be so bad.This was about a group of lame, empty, self-obsessed Yuppies, whose horrible dancing was the most entertaining thing in the movie, and who I suspect were responsible in their own sweet way for the demise of disco ( why would you go to dance disco in a tie and suit?) "},{"Title":"More, More More","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" There's a bit of an ungainly plot, and you never buy into the period vibe it goes for, but the real problem with this Whit Stillman film as I see it is there aren't more of them to compare this to. Generally, The Last Days Of Disco presents a wonderfully hilarious multi-character piece that builds with multiple viewings.Alice (Chloë Sevigny) and Charlotte (Kate Beckinsale) are a pair of young assistants to assistant editors at a mid-sized Manhattan publisher, circa The very early 1980s. How early? Disco is still going on, particularly in one local club frequented by the two girls and their college friends.Stillman movies always make for a certain disconnect. You can read it in the reviews here, about the dialogue that doesn't sound real, too term- paperish. I have another favorite writer who often has his characters speak in iambic pentameter, and I've learned to get over it. The problem with Stillman here is certainly not his inability to write clever, piquant dialogue.I still consider myself a loyal adherent to the disco movement?It's a movement?That's like something out of the Nazis!Every time you made love to me, you must have wanted to vomit!No, no, no. You're beautiful. You don't have to be some sweaty horny hetero he-ape to admire and appreciate female beauty.Of course it's formulaic. It's a formula!It's true, Des, your mouth does look gay.And for those people who say, not without merit, that Stillman can't come up with a decent piece of dialogue that doesn't involve twelve adverbs and six past imperfect verbs, I submit one from this movie that consists of a single letter H!What Disco has going for it, beyond all else, is the performances of its two stars. Beckinsale is incredibly beautiful here playing a wonderfully coy and slightly evil American vixen. She's a b-word, but with a heart of silver, not insensitive to the effect of her slings, who wins our heart despite herself. One thing I've learned is people hate being criticized, she says at one point, as if surprised herself at the insight.Sevigny is even better as the heart of the film, a gentle character whose reaction shots sell us on the story more than anyone else's words. Whether she's with the dicey but delicious Des (Stillman regular Chris Eigeman) or the quietly intense, somewhat unstable Josh (Matt Keeslar), Sevigny keeps your sympathies centered around her character to a degree no other lead in a Stillman film ever has.That's about the highest praise I can offer Last Days, that Sevigny and Beckinsale represent the best female performances in a Stillman film. It's not as well-balanced as Barcelona or Metropolitan, the two other films of Stillman's I've seen (and some of whose characters pop up here.) The disco music is welcome though the period atmosphere is lacking, as I see this as a product entirely of the 1990s, the decade in which it was made. And the joining of Alice and Charlotte's stories with that of the fall of a club which is but isn't Studio 54 doesn't gel as well as it could have.But speaking as a Stillman fan, I love this film every bit as much as his other two 20th-century offerings, even if I can't recommend it as unreservedly. He was rushing to get this out, and it shows. But there's no shame in being a Stillman fan like I am when this is his weakest film. "},{"Title":"Less than nothing, no more than zero","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I do not mean it as an aesthetic judgement, just a sort of an essay in translating in logical terms the hard to pin down effect it had on me, for all the shallow characters on display, it is affectively rich.It is a film difficult and at the same time deceptively simple to summarize - the only way I feel I can do it is pin down the tone as I see it Chloe Sevigny plays Alice who is not in Wonderland or Oz (even if the occasional characters appear in Discoland) but actually seems more like Voltaire's Candide, candid even when confronted with her best friend's common, constant, bitchy smugness, who in fact turns into some kind of likable caricature in the end, likable that is when you think she is some kind of irony's scapegoat she simply HAS to end up in TV, that is the crippled purgatory she deserves.Along with Alice, Josh (Matt Keeslar) has his Candide moment in the end, as outsider spokesman for the disco era I do not think Stillman is ironic here - and the reason why is that in the comedy of human flaws Stillman wants to present us, we get our ironic portion of that in Chekhovian levity, so I do not think that anyone would end up something in a flat note.The film ends in a lively manner that is also nostalgic and shorthand, that is affectionately shorthand as, one supposes, all Stillman's films are. How can it be otherwise? Here he offers us - could we call it a vision? - Candide (in his simple, clear morality) in a Chekhovian play keeping time in Bret Easton Ellis' era. It can't equate into more than zero, but it warps itself out unbalancing that 80's nothing, proving in a blink of an eye the famous less is more. "},{"Title":"Get on board ...","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I am old enough to remember the disco era and I can say that Whit Stillman captures one essential element of that particular time.It was fun. Oh yes. It was a dance floor party.Sure, it was cheesy and the clothes were a little ridiculous. Plus, it cut into live music in a bad way. Plus, it was pure studio product. Plus, in places like New York it fed into an unhealthy velvet rope scene.But, I'm here to tell you that in Baltimore, where I'm from, it was totally healthy, whoa-baby, party-down fun. I also think it was a major gay-straight bonding thing, which the movie is very clear about. Also, it kept America dancing through a time too many people where enthralled by Led Zeppelin and the Allman Brothers, who ruled the airwaves but who you could not dance to.Chloe Sevigny is perfectly cast here. She's a downtowner who comes across with a level head. She has a look. Prominent upper lip blonde with sharp chin, but still pretty. She's cool in every scene. The dudes in the movie are practically interchangeable. They are all Squareheads aspiring to hipness.Whit Stillman is the poet of hip New Yawkness and all of that is on display here. The young women are aspirants in the publishing industry. They look good and the movie dotes on them. They belong in nightclubs.I didn't live in Manhattan in the disco era. But it's cool to visit with people who did. And you won't get a better visit than in this movie. "},{"Title":"Disco Fever Cools Down.","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" A group of 20-somethings led by Kate Beckinsale and Chloe Sevigny frequent a Manhattan disco in the early-1980s. Everyone in the group seems to be searching for something but most are not quite sure what. Talkative dribble has young adults acting like they are in a mid-life crisis. Makes itself out to be smart and witty, but is more contrived and silly. Beckinsale looks good, but shows no acting ability. Sevigny is annoying and out-of-place. Everyone else, along with the female leads, are shallow and flat caricatures. The production wants to express nostalgia and compassion to a part of contemporary history (the disco era) that ran its course by the time the 1980s rolled around. Instead the movie is a giant sleeping pill that talks itself into a corner that it never does get out of. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"I'm not an addict. I'm a habitual user.","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If you found that line witty and funny (like I did), and persist in quoting it to mystified friends every couple of years, than this film is probably for you. If not, well, that probably says something very, very bad about you. Seriously.Anyway, it's nice to see that some directors can fall into the same deep rut that the rest of us do, repeating the identical patterns over and over. Like his two previous films, Stillman concentrates most of his attention on young urbanites with think too much and act too little. The settings change, somewhat, along with the cast (natch), but he has pretty much made one long six-hour plus movie over the course of his entire career. Enjoyable, yes, but sometimes it hits a little too close to home. "},{"Title":"Warning about DVD screen-format selection","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is yet another DVD release which lies outrageously about the screen-formatting of the two versions of the movie present on the disc.  One side of this DVD is widescreen and the other side is standard full-screen.  The DVD states that the full-screen version has been cut down from the original wide-screen version, which is a lie.  This movie was filmed in a full-frame Super35-type process.  The widescreen version on the DVD has a tiny amount more of the original image on the left and right sides of the frame, but a giant chunk has been cut off from the bottom.  The result is that the standard full-screen version contains much more of the original camera image as filmed, not less.  The bottom-line is that there is no point in watching the widescreen version, unless you happen to own a new 169 widescreen display. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and entertaining film, nice period piece.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Whit Stillman will be a brilliant director (moreso than Woody Allen, who he is often compared to) and this film, while not a defining point in his career, is a great example of where he will one day go.  This was a beautiful movie about boring people (as are most of his films).  Perhaps boring is too harsh a word, normal would be better.Stillman has a rare ability, he can make films about relatively banal events with tragically normal characters and he can make them interesting and entertaining.  This film was a pleasant and engaging slice of life from the late 70s early 80s in New York.  There is really not much to say about the characters or the plot, only that they are peripheral to Stillman's style.  The man could make boiling water seem interesting.Overall, I would recommend this film highly to anyone who has any interest in Wood Allen-esque films (at least his earlier stuff).  Stillman is much more subtle than Allen, but I think that they are directors in a similar vein.  Good stuff.  "},{"Title":"Positively dreadful!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A root canal would be preferable to seeing this movie again. I despised the characters, the plot went nowhere; I could go on and on. If sitting through the endless dialogue of pretentious idiots (with some extremely pathetic dancing mixed in) is your idea of a great time...by all means, go for it. Perhaps if you relate to these people and this lifestyle, you may enjoy it....I, however loathed them. Many other things irritated me, besides the characters...the 90's look of every single person in the film, which supposedly took place in the early 80's... the discussions in the club which were so unreal...enough said. I am sorry I wasted my money renting the video. "},{"Title":"Come for the music-Stay...if you must","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Last Days of Disco was most notable for it's excellent choice of music. A soundtrack full of disco can easily have been intolerable but the songs are excellent. Aside from that, neither the plot, the dialogue, nor the character study elements are anywhere near interesting. The pseudo-philosophical yuppie banter is clumsy when it tries to be hip and casual, tired when it tries to be insightful, phony and forced when it tries to be real.  Woody Allen and 50 other filmmakers have covered this territory already, and in a fresher, sharper, simpler way. The witty conversation consists of the actors spouting over-articulate, long-winded monologues at each other, and ending up not saying much at all. Reminded me of a long, highbrow episode of Friends(     that's not a good thing). The performances were mostly good, actually, they were just undermined by the dull, redundant script. "}{"Title":"Tries too hard to be an intellectual comedy","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie tries way too hard to be deeply witty, and esoterically hip. I love a good intellectual movie as well as a good comedy, but this is neither. I haven't found it this hard to sit through a movie in a while. This movie in my opinion, was a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Lifeless People","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has nothing. I had a lot of expectative for it, since it had good reviews in Argentina. But it was one of the boring movies I saw this year. The characters are from another planet. They never smile, never care about nothing, let the others pass over them, talk stupidities (all the movie), etc. Even the dancing scenes are boring (really don´t know how there was someone in the credits that made the coreography, because I think that a six years-old child without knowing anything about disco can do the same or better). All this things depressed me, because I can´t think in people living in such pointless and dull lifes.I rate this film with a 3.5 out of 10 .-  "},{"Title":"Enough Gen-X Schtick","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Every so often I see a film that is so awful that it is not only an unpleasant viewing experience, but it can ruin other films that I had previously admired.  Such was the case with Last Days of Disco.  For years I had been a big fan of the Gen X films.  Sure critics said that they were self serving, preachy and essentially about a bunch of kids who whined about how good life was.  Balderdash.  Films such as Metropolitan, Singles, and Slacker showed the alienation of this generation and the ways in which young people today tried to cope with taking their place in the world.  By the time Pulp Fiction came, this art form had been nearly perfected.  Then something happened.  These movies kept coming.  Kicking and Screaming, The Pompotus of Love. More and more films came out about nothing more than disinchanted college grads sitting around talking about fruit loops and the hidden meanings behind the smurfs.  But I stood by these films, pointing to the earlier classics.  Then came the Last Days of Disco.  Here it was every criticism ever made about the genre of films of young people was plainer to see than ever before.  These were uninteresting, overeducated, pretentious wimps whining about nothing.  For hours.  By the time this monstrosity was over I tried watching Metropolitan again but it was of no use.  Ruined.  Slacker.  Can't watch anymore.  The lesson to be learned here is stop when you've reached the limit.  "},{"Title":"The first DVD I ever walked out of","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Do not see this film unless you are attracted to snotty waspy rich ivy league grads waxing intellectual.Period.After about 10 or 15 minutes, I asked my wife, They've introduced all the 'bad' guys, so when are we going to meet the good guys.'About two minutes later, after watching a dark-haired little pixie 22-or-so year old blather on intelligently and pretentiously about this or that, I decided I had had it up to here (pointing to well above my eyebrows) with this stuff.  Quentin Tarantino's films are filled with similarly annoying discourses, but at least his films have moderately likeable and/or watchable characters.  These kids were despicable (to me personally).An hour and change later, my wife and her sister emerged from the family room, and said that I made the proper choice.  "},{"Title":"Good, but disappointing","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The music, the costumes and the whole 70s look make The Last Days of Disco worth seeing, but after seeing Stillman's Manhattan and Barcelona it's somewhat of a let-down. The pedantic dialogue of the earlier movies is there (there's a funny seen where the characters wonder if anybody can be a yuppie if no one identifies themselves as one.), but it's just not as riveting. During the middle of the movie, I was tempted to reach for the fast forward button. "},{"Title":"A mess of a movie, not entirely without interest.","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A lot of this movie is a mess. The characters lack any depth and  many are hard to tell apart. Most of them are unlikeable. But what got me the most annoyed is the sound mix the characters are in a disco blaring music and they are able to speak to each other in normal volume!   I don't know if this was intentional for some kind of effect but it caused the scenes in the disco to lack any energy.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In many ways, this movie could be argued as the worst movie ever made.It is supposed to be about a group of bright people who are trying to find a moral center. It takes place in discos.Yet it is obvious that the people who created the movie have never been in a disco, and have never heard intelligent people speak.These elements make it rather difficult for them to create the right ambience.Given a choice between this and The Postman, give Costner the nod for the brighter, more realistic script. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Pretty much everybody agrees that this film is filled with witless, dopey, self-absorbed dialogue. Your opinion of the movie will depend on whether you think that dialogue was put into the characters' mouths to satirize the dopey, witless, shallow denizens of the discos. It seems to me that the creators of the movie simply are incapable of writing anything unless it is dopey and witless. It seems like the presumptions of not-so-smart people of the way that smart people must actually talk.Very little interaction occurs. Mostly the characters wait during the other characters' speeches until it is their turn to deliver an equally trite and windy response. Every single guy does a John Lithgow-20-years-younger impression. Chloe Sevigny, the only semi-likeable character, moves through the movie as if in a trance, responding to questions by first consulting the spirits of the dead.My personal favorite aspect of the movie is the fact that the characters are able to sit naturally in a disco and exchange their truisms in a natural tone of voice, as if they were sitting in the silence of a cafe in Finland. Couldn't have been much of a disco if the music was that quiet. Seems like before writing a movie about discos, it might have behoved the authors to go in at least one.Whether you view the dialogue as the writer's keen ear for the poetry of the times or the writer's complete lack of a clue, you will like the movie if you like listening to inane speeches followed by inane rebuttals. You won't if you don't.Personally, I felt it was a complete waste of two hours of my time.  "},{"Title":"The Most Underrated Film of the 90's","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" You don't need to have lived through the 1970's to enjoy this film, and unlike a lot of the other Disco-era films, this picture follows a group of working professionals who not only use Disco as an escape from their mundane lives, but also as a mask to hide behind. The film isn't as much about the end of a genre of music as it is the end of a generations youth. The final sequence of the film depicts our ensemble coming to the realization that they're old because they've officially lived through a popular-art movement.Overall, the comedic touch of the film stems from it's straight faced dry sense of humor that has become a staple of Whit Stillman's comedy brand. Chris Eigeman gives a fantastic performance, and Kate Beckinsale is that best friend that you love to hate.Overall this is a most see and a wonderful film! "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I do not believe anyone could make a film more boring than The Last Days of Disco if they had a thousand attempts. This pic works better than a sedative to numb the senses.If you manage to stay awake for the first hour and a half, you may then be treated to a few clever lines and original diatribes. Most of the movie is horribly contrived however.What really kills the film is the hopelessly uninteresting characters. The audience will quickly forget who was who, if they ever bother to figure it out. A terrible excuse for a disco flick.Friday, November 27, 1998 - Astor Theatre StKilda "}{"Title":"disco's dead (thank god)","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Where's an asteroid when you really need one? That's what I want to know. I mean, okay, maybe I missed the point here. After reading a couple of the reviews in papers and zines and what-not, I was prepared to think that my walking out of the cinema after just 20 minutes might have been a little too hasty. But then the other day a friend hired it on video and she only managed 15 minutes before switching off, so hey, I think I was fairly generous giving it that extra 5 minutes... Now and then I consider watching it again to re-evaluate the film, to at least TRY and see in it what others seem to have. But you know, I simply cannot bring myself to sit through another torturous session of mind numbing banality. Yes, yes, I got the point of their lives being boring and shallow and that the characters being portrayed this way was intentional, but that doesn't make it an interesting film by any stretch of the imagination. So, while I respect the fact that Whitman might be a talented director/writer, I simply did not appreciate what he was doing here -- nor can I be bothered trying to. As for the comparisons between him and Woody Allen -- give me a break. Totally different types of director for a start. And if Whitman ever is going to wrestle the crown from Allen's head, he will have to come up with something a damn sight more interesting/entertaining than this. At least for me, anyhow. As the song goes, I was walking with my friend, when my friend said, relief to my soul, disco's dead. Whether or not it ever was actually dead is open to debate, of course, depending on the nostalgia factor of your memories for that time.  But this much I do know if it WASN'T already dead, then this film went a long way to reminding people why it should never, EVER be resuscitated... "},{"Title":"Timeless moments from a vintage era.","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This story about young people trying to find themselves and have a good time  in the waning days of a passe era, mixes intriguing conversation with  intelligent comedy.  A refreshing reminder that a good story can stand  alone without a big budget or special effects.  Last Days combines  convincing performances by young actors with some great Whit Stillman  dialogue.  Though some in the film may claim that Disco Sucks, The Last  Days of Disco definitely does not.   "},{"Title":"Well written, not-so-well directed, definitely worth seeing.","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Whit Stillman, despite being a better writer than director, has produced an extremely funny and intelligent film. While it focuses on Chloe Sevigny (weak at first, but becomes stronger) and Kate Beckinsale (brilliantly bitchy), it also encompasses a far wider cast of preppies, yuppies and disco fanatics. Set at the tail-end of the disco era (obviously), it closes with a eulogy to the spirit of Disco itself, and precisely articulates the feelings of those who felt themselves to have lived through an important but now disparaged era. Occasionally flat, and over-long, it is redeemed by the repartee in The Club and by the myriad bit-part turns. The Lady and the Tramp discussion alone gives this film an 8. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is not a nostalgia film, nor a coming of age film, and not even a whimsical look at the wild side of life.  It is a complete waste of time. The story/director never gives us a reason to like or care about any of the characters.  The acting is weak and flat.  The entire movie seems like a collection of scenes that you'd would find in the Deleted Scenes section of a DVD, where you'd keep thinking to yourself oh, thank god they didn't put that in the final cut or I can see why they edited that scene out. I can't understand how a movie like this gets made. "},{"Title":"All wrong.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Maybe I missed what the producers of this movie where trying to do, but the hair and clothes are all wrong for the time period they are trying to emulate.  I found the lack of a real plot or point to the movie is really annoying.  This is one of those movies that you end up seeing twice because you forgot that you saw it a first time. "},{"Title":"This movie has no substance","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't get it. This movie was just dialogue and nothing more. No plot, no interest, nothing. I can't believe this movie actually has people liking it. I am surprised I didn't fall asleep watching it. "},{"Title":"There's three bucks I'll never get back.","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't you hate it when movies try to be cool and hip by using Tarantinoesque dialogue, but just can't pull it off?  Welcome to The Last Days of Disco!  It's Singles on prozac!What a waste of film.  I didn't care about any character, the plot was nonexistent, and--for a movie that was set in the late seventies/early eighties--the look was exceedingly nineties.Frankly, I can't say enough bad things about this movie, but I can sure try. Whatever you do, don't see this--walk your dog, unclog your sink, pick lint out of your bellybutton--ANYTHING!  JUST DON'T SEE THIS FLICK.  You'll thank me later.It's lucky for Last Days that IMDB doesn't allow you to post NEGATIVE voting scores to a film...  "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can't explain to anyone who has not seen this film the extent to which I feel I wasted my life having spent two hours watching it.  This disappoints me mainly because I was somewhat intrigued to see Stillmans's most recent endeavor, as I thought both Metropolitan and Barcelona were quite funny in their quirky sort of way.  But to be totally honest this film lacked any charm whatsoever.  The characters were entirely despicable.  I had absolutely no interest in seeing where the film would take me.  This is one of the worst films I have ever seen in theatres.  "},{"Title":"excruciating","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Oof, this one is a doozie. I had to keep pausing the VCR to take hits off the oxygen tank and shots of horse tranquilizer before I could keep going. But somehow I made it through so I could stand back at the edge of this chasm and warn others.The dialogue is exquisite torture. Its delivery only makes the agony sweeter. Kate Beckinsale is appalling as always, though she's definitely found her niche here as the unsympathetic viper. Chris Eigeman and Robert Sean Leonard on the other hand maintain their usual goofy likability even while spewing out this gorgonzola, to the point where you may actually end up caring a bit about a couple of the characters in this catastrophe. (Chloe Sevigny is generally about to fall asleep, so she didn't make much of an impression either way.)I thought the commentary of the intellectual character Dan marked the low point, until I reached Kate's non-ironic rendition of Amazing Grace. Really. As for a high point, I guess I'd pick watching one of the characters being brutally beaten with a bat. Coulda gone for more of that sort of thing.An analogy imagine if you will one of those Brett Easton Ellis milieu novels, with all the properly racy bits taken out. Now imagine it adapted for the screen, with the dialogue cowritten by David Mamet and Kevin Smith. And now imagine the high school drama club performing it.Oh, and there's a non-ironic social message about the cultural importance of disco and the tragedy of its demise. Really. "},{"Title":"More, More, More","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Any film that plays the Andrea True Connection disco classic song More, More, More ... twice ... can't be all bad. The film's impressive, mostly disco soundtrack is by far the best element of this film.The story is razor thin. Several attractive, twenty-something, upwardly mobile preppies shuttle back and forth between work experience and nightclub. They are employed variously in advertising, book publishing, and law, and are preoccupied with the usual concerns friendships, sex, romance, philosophy, and job prospects. The script's dialogue is voluminous, and most of it rather vacuous, which matches the characters.But story, plot, and characters aren't really what this film is about. The Last Days Of Disco is dedicated to that era in American history sandwiched between the turbulent 60s and the materialistic 80s. Most of the plot takes place at a Manhattan disco, a cavernous, rather opulent, room where an eclectic mix of people dance disco, surrounded by strobe lights and confetti. Here, the ensemble cast order their favorite drinks and chitchat about this and that, their web of social connections a tad confusing at times.I liked the casting of not-so-well-known actors. But some of their performances were a bit wooden. Costumes and production design mirror the era glitter quite well. This is a big-budget production.A lot of viewers will find the thin plot annoying, and the shallow, self-absorbed characters off-putting. But as nostalgia, The Last Days Of Disco works, helped mostly by those terrific songs. If only the soundtrack had included Fly, Robin, Fly. "}{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Superficial, shallow, boring, and pretentious. This describes this movie, it's characters, and nightclubs. If the point of this movie was to show how shallow and bland Disco culture was then it succeeded. A group of yuppies who may or may not really even like one another(it's hard to tell) sit around upstairs at  The Club  and talk intellectual. I've personally heard more insightful conversations on Friends. This movie made 54 look good.  "},{"Title":"What a disappointing bore!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a one of those the trailer was better type movies.  The characters were lame!  I didn't give a rats a** about any of them.  The only thing it had going for it was a good performance from Kate Beckingsdale.Chloe Sevigny is such a dull and emotionless actress that I couldn't stop wondering how she ever gets parts in films. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An awful movie based on the famed NYC club.  The weak storyline revolves around the early 80's disco scene; drugs, sex, and wealthy corrupt youth. Sound interesting?  Nope.  The acting is some of the worst I have seen in years, the dialouge poorly contrived, the cinematography un-innovative, the settings mediocre, and the conclusion predictable.  In essence, a sophomorish effort.  "},{"Title":"This is a truly awful film.  The worst I have seen!","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is perhaps one of the worst films I have ever seen.  It is obvious, contrived, poorly directed and unrealistic.  It involves a bunch of shallow Harvard graduates who come and go from a disco in NYC in the early eighties.  The dialogue among the characters is trite and unclever (although others have said it is ironic, it tries to be but is not). They are one dimensional beings, played half heartedly by a group of apparently disinterested actors.  The disco scenes are unrealistic.  Nobody can carry on a lengthy, existentialist conversation about, for example, Lady and the Tramp in a night club, reclining around a coffee table and speaking at a normal sound levels.  This goes on throughout the film!  This film is a big disappointment after Barceloa, which was slick and clever.  I would caution anyone against spending money seeing this film.  "},{"Title":"a waste of time","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I finally have come to the conclusion, after seeing all 3 of his movies, that I will never again see another Whit Stillman movie. They all have the same feel, creepy--almost voyeuristic and with no characters that anyone can care about. The dialogue is intense and the whole of all of his movies. That's not necessarily a bad thing but when the characters are unremittingly ugly inside, it just becomes wearing on one's psyche. That the relationships and the dialogue are unusual and particularly characteristic of this director/writer, is what makes me imagine why he is a darling with the critics. I feel certain that unusual all by itself goes a long way toward getting a good review from people who have to watch an unending parade of painfully similar, simplistic and bad Hollywood films.His dialogue is uniquely his in much the same way Woody Allen's is in his movies. I guess you either love it or hate it. So if you liked Barcelona and Metropolitan, you'll probably like this one too. If not, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"time wasting...","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this one the other night and it was a waste of time. why?1. boring characters that are in most cases lacking credible personalities.2. the characters aren't interesting and do not stick. with day jobs as book publishers and advertisers in the 80's, who can really care.3. clumsy flirts with studio 54.4. the script is unbearably wannabe-clever and the dialogs are most of the times Gilmore Girls-ishly swift.5. it's hard to understand the real meaning of the film, it just hasn't got any purpose... 6. it's too long!I actually enjoyed watching two of the main characters get severely beaten up by a redneck in a disco sucks T-shirt.HOWEVER what saves this movie from a 1 or 2 is of course the wonderful Chloë Sevigny, who's playing the lovable alternative reactionary girl who of course gets a job promotion and the right boyfriend in the end, while the others' splattered lives can only be seen as disappointments. "},{"Title":"Thank God It's...All Over","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a load of rubbish.  It has nothing to do with disco at all.  The title is very misleading indeed, as all the main characters do is aimlessly wander AROUND a disco, moaning about their inane lives.  What they've tried to do here, is a sort of American Graffiti multiple stories thing, with a group of yuppies thrown into the mix. But the script is too weak to hold the attention, and the acting lame.  Kate Beckinsale and Chloe Sevigny look wonderful, but act poorly.  Maybe it was the fault of the paper thin script, and not their acting skills which caused their poor performances. Also, it just doesn't LOOK like the late '70s or early '80s.  I just wish that whenever people make a film like this, they could at least get the fashions and the hairstyles right.  And, it doesn't really show you what partly brought about the demise of those heady days; A thing called AIDS.Dazed And Confused, Thank God It's Friday, Saturday Night Fever, even 54...These are better 'coming of age' or 'rites of passage' movies, which are set or actually made during the aforementioned time. "},{"Title":"The movie Simply couldn't hold my interest.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I enjoyed 54 tremendously, I really did. What happened with this one? One of the other reviewers on this site talked about the lack of a specific plot -that was my major gripe here but even movies that don't have a MAJOR plot-or even occasionally movies with NO plot can survive if they have depth of characters or something to make the movie involving.Unfortunately, you don't get involved with these characters at all. I love movies about the glitsy disco days so, from my thinking a movie's gotta have something missing if it can't even hold my interest on an interesting subject matter.I also enjoy movies that are dialogue driven but in this movie's case, for some reason, the extreme talkiness detracted from my enjoyment for some reason. In any event-to each their own, I know people who hated 54 which I thought was well done. In any event-this one I was a bit let down by and probably wouldn't see again. "},{"Title":"Could This Be the WORST film of the 90s?","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  **THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS**I was so disappointed with this film. The paralells to Studio 54 are quite clear (the employee/club owner relationships and the secret stashes of money, the way the club and characters met their downfall when the club went down in the early 80s etc)... The plot seemed to advance SO slowly it was rediculous. I viewed it on video, and we skipped alot but even an hour into the film we noticed the characters were still interacting the same way, talking about the same exact things etc. This film did such a terrible job of portraying the era. The characters did use old phones at their offices, but almost all the costumes, especially for the girls at the night club, could have been pulled off store racks in the late 90s, as was infact probably done. They looked more like evening gowns for new years parties in 1999 than anything that would have been worn to a night club in the disco period. I kept hoping for a glimpse of long sideburns, long hair etc, but the best we got were a few retro-ish hairstyles on the blonde girl, nothing really to make us think we were in 1980.I feel that the film has failed on every level. The slow script takes far to long to go anywhere, the characters were visualised so badly that it looked like the film was taking place in the year it was made rather than 1980. The club scenes had so much talking going on, and at such a low voice level, that it was un-believealble. They WERE in a dance club after all... The only 2 good qualities in the film were the fun music, but it was badly matched to some scenes, so the characters werent even dancing on the beats, and also the night club set was quite well presented. Too bad that we had a vast array of images of people, mostly looking like they were from the late 80s to the late 90s instead of a uniform presentation of people who were living in 1980. "},{"Title":"I had more fun lighting my shoes on fire.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have trouble commenting on this vomit so forgive me if I misspell or throw my computer out my window.  I thought this trite, exhausting look at a culture that doesn't even exist was, well, trite and exhausting.  I was so mad that I watched it previews to credits, much like watching a WB sitcom because you need to confirm that people this awful actually exist.  To borrow from 'Fight Club', this movie was like one of those sores on the roof of your mouth that would heal if only you could stop tongueing it.  At no point did my expression veer from angry with raised eyebrow, I was basically daring this film to get worse every ten minutes or so.  Boy was it up to the challenge.  The 'jokes' are meant to be the kind of dry sardonic wit that 'Intelligencia' will chuckle heartily at.  I chuckled harder when I had my appendix out.  I know that many people loved this film and I am sure there was a lot of backslapping and we did it's thrown around the post-production studio.  That's just sad.   "}{"Title":"awful","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is possibly the worst film I have ever had the misfortune of watching. Utterly boring story-line and the most pedestrian direction I have seen outside a TV show.  I cannot think of one good point about the film, even the performances were totally average.  Total rubbish. "},{"Title":"Wake me up when it's finished","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film has got to be one of the most boring films that i have ever seen. The acting was terrible, the plot was pointless/non-existent. I have nothing further to say except what a load of rubbish 1/10. "},{"Title":"lame script, wooden performances","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films I've seen in a long,long time.  The contrived, overwrought dialog had me laughing and disgusted at the same time.  Chloe Sevigny is so affectless it's like she was hypnotized throughout the whole film.  Kate Beckinsale was awful, as was every male character in the film.  The one line I did agree with was Disco sucks! "},{"Title":"An exercise in extreme boredom","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I gotta say out front, I had LOW expectations for this film. I had heard nothing good, rumors from friends left me discouraged, so I decided to wait for video.  Well I just finished wasting my 2 bucks and 2 hours, and found that low expectation don't necessarily save a film. The story idea is simple, so simple in fact that it isn't even present. Trying to describe this film is like trying do describe Seinfeld It's about nothing. The whole film is dialogue and background so unevenly pieced together, that I was having trouble figuring out who was who (since most of the male actors are so much alike in personality and appearance) and also because the film started out slow, denying me a chance to get know and care about the characters. And when you don't care...what's the points of watching. In fact the only emotion any of these people inspired in me were dislike. The guys were snobby, wannabe intellectuals who babbled lines they seemed to write before they left home. And the conversations they have were supposed to ignite dislike or at least distrust in the female characters but this doesn't happen. They fall for the guy, although this really doesn't matter because there is no right guy. They're all Ivy League yuppy scum miscreants lacking charm and wit. So all in all this film fails as a love story, cuz no one falls in love.And as a social study, because were viewing an era of history known as disco, where the characters don't really love disco. They either love the fact that thay can get into a club or that they are in fact part of the disco era. They're living a lie.And finally as a good movie in general, because it commits the cardinal sin It's boring.  It expects me to care about characters I hate, and thus I hated this film. "},{"Title":"Simply awful","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I actively hated -- I mean HATED -- this movie while I was watching it. I've calmed down, and now I merely loathe it.No one talks like the people in this movie, not even the overeducated yuppies it depicts. The dialog was even more stilted and unnatural than the most extreme Mamet dialog. And when dialog is stilted and wooden, it's distracting -- I kept losing track of what little story this movie offered.But what REALLY got me were the raves from otherwise intelligent reviewers who seemed to think the writer has a fine ear for dialog! Go figure... "},{"Title":"What the heck was this movie about?","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched a half hour of this movie and then  turned it off.  The movie attempted to develop the characters too fast and assumes you know about them already (like its a sequel). It is possible that the movie gets better, however I didn't care to find out. "},{"Title":"strange","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The Last Days of Disco was either boring, annoying, or completely odd. There were points in the movie in which I thought that I had dropped suddenly and missed a scene.  The plot was absolutely horrible, the characters unlikeable, and the movie's pace painfully slow.     "},{"Title":"The dialogue was painful and the story line banal.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm sorry but I couldn't sympathize with any of the characters. I found the dialogue to be a balance between superficial and over-done. There were moments in the acting of some of the characters which I found sufficiently redeeming to raise it from a 1 to a 2 but when you find yourself checking your watch halfway through the movie, it's not a good sign.  "},{"Title":"Did I miss something - like a plot?","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I got really confused in this movie.  The music was loud and all the characters mumbled.  All of the men in the movie looked alike, and there was absolutely no plot.  What was the point of this movie?  What did it have to do with disco?  You could have set this movie at any place at any time, and the story of the relationship between these folks would still be the same - and it would still stink! "},{"Title":"A bad movie centered around good music","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I sat through the 105 minutes still not knowing what the point was.  It wanted to be a hip movie, with the young crowd having drug, sex, and relationship problems.  What we got was a bore.  There was no dialog that actually lead the story somewhere.  The acting was okay.  2/10  "}{"Title":"SOMEBODY OPEN THE DUMPSTER, CUZ THIS MOVIE STINKS","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Man, what can I say... nostalgia movies usually stink, and 80's nostalgia movies are the worst of that genre, and this farce is the WORST of THAT genre... With the exception of the beginning of the movie, where they told you the setting, nobody has any clue whats going on, and I'll bet the cast and crew didn't either! The dialogue was elementary at best, the set designers obviously have never been in any kind of club (except for maybe chess club-i mean, who talks at a normal level in a club?), and the music, although some songs were decent, could have included a MUCH better selection of unforgettable songs in a rather forgettable decade....This movie is a HUGE WASTE of time, and i'm that much closer to becoming a bitter old man because of it... I have only walked out on one movie in my life, and that was Medicine Man (1992). But if i had seen this in the theater, i would torn down the screen... As it turns out, i watched it at my friends house, and now i owe him $300 for a new TV... Curses to anyone affiliated with that project...  "},{"Title":"Good but not great, worth seeing once, but probably not twice.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was my first Whit Stillman film, and although I wasn't awestruck, I was interested enough to want to check out his other works (Metropolitan, Barcelona).  I liked Charlotte's character at first, but she seemed to become more and more bitchy as the movie progressed.  I enjoyed the development of her relationship with Alice, although I think that Holly's character could have been a little more developed.  Perhaps I was just tired, or maybe it's just my eyesight going, or maybe it was just the fashion of the early 80's, but I found several of the male characters similar enough in appearance that I had trouble distinguishing them as the film progressed.  Jimmy Stillman's commentary near the end about how disco will never truly die was very well done, and rings true in my ears, and is evidenced by the very existence of the movie.  All in all, I enjoyed it, and I might watch it again to further analyse it for my own benefit, but I doubt I'll ever count it as a favorite film. "}]