[{"Title":"It's that good","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movies that will never have an Oscar do not possess the following 1. Extensive gripping plot of historical nature, or about a famous personality (read `The English patient,' `Braveheart,' `Titanic,' `Beautiful Mind') 2. Unreal or almost unreal plot twists (read `Lord of the Rings') 3. Clearly morally defined characters (read Billy Zane character in `Titanic;' Mel Gibson's character in any movie he is in). You either love them or hate them. 4. Long viewing time. 5. Sense of the plotline ending at the end of the movie (you pretty much can picture the life of Forrest Gump after the movie end, and you know what's going to happen to Rose from `Titanic', at least key things) The movie `She's so lovely' is a tale of  Eddie (Sean Penn), a drunk with a mental problem, and Maureen (Robin Wright Penn), a drunk with lots of other problems. They are in love, he goes to mental institution, she is pregnant, but marries another, Joey (Travolta is for once in a movie he really belongs in, and does a terrific job). Ten years later, Eddie comes out and comes back for Maureen. All of these characters are semi-crazy, semi-abusive, semi-kind, semi-dumb. How can you love someone who hit his wife then tells her he loves her? And how can you not love that same person for being a dad to 3 little girls, one of them not his own? How can you forgive a woman for divorcing her husband while he is sick, and then not sympathize with her when she paid for it by 10 years of being separated from the man she loves? And what to think of a man who comes to take a woman from a family she made without him because he clearly sees her love for him? Penn's performance is as always vulnerable and smart. Wright Penn is the most under-appreciated actress of our time; I still cannot forgive the aforementioned academy for not even nodding her way with her brilliant performance in `Forrest Gump.' These two actors can act with their eyes alone, seems fitting that they are together also in real life.Having said all that, `She's so Lovely' is clearly not an Oscar material. It's too real. It's too good.  "},{"Title":"Wanna See Sean Penn In A John Cassavetes Film?  Here it is.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of the people who review flicks here continually amaze me with their complete lack of film knowledge.When I heard an interview with the always-extraordinary Sean Penn, in which he said he was upset that so few people had seen what he considers to be his best work this film and the excellent At Close Range, I knew that I had to catch this.Then, finding that it was based on an unproduced John Cassavetes script, I was all the more eager.That final statement should scare off anyone who expected a happy, romantic Hollywood film, as they clearly haven't seen any of the late writer/director's stark, realistic films.  Cassavetes' work relied heavily on tortured, unlikable or unredeemable characters who can act their brains out quite often portrayed by his wife/widow, Gena Rowlands.We're talking serious fare, folks ~ required viewing such as Husbands, Woman Under The Influence, The Killing of a Chinese Bookie and Gloria the brilliant Rowlands original, not the adequate Sharon Stone remake.Now comes his former B-movie star & son, Nick, who dusts off papa's script and enlists the type of actors who are eminently qualified to play a group of true undesirables Sean Penn, Robin Wright Penn, James Gandolfini, Harry Dean Stanton, Debi Mazar and the newly-retalented John Travolta, who appears in the last reel.Even Mom Rowlands, of course gets a small but important role.And the adorable Kelsey Mulrooney, playing Penn & Penn's nine-year-old daughter is terrific without stooping to precociousness.Is this a brutally honest film?  Yep.  Is it vulgar in nearly every way?  Of course.  Do the leading characters have any chance of redemption, moral or otherwise?  Not likely.Do I care?Let's just say that there's more passionate acting in She's So Lovely than was evident in nearly every other 1997 film.And that's certainly good enough for me.So there. "},{"Title":"An unsuccessfully delivered narrative with confused actors and a terrible mix of dark relationship drama and comic moments produces a roundly poor film","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Maureen is a bit strung out and pregnant from her low-life husband Eddie. Their lives are an unpredictable mix of actions that mostly involve drinking and scamming round on the fringe of society. When Eddie is away for a few days, Marueen falls in drinking with neighbour Kiefer, who tries to rape her but then just beats her. She explains this away to Eddie so as to keep him from going crazy at her or anyone else but when he does start to flip she calls the paramedics to take him into care for his own safety. However when he shoots one of them, Eddie is sentenced to a mental institution. When he comes out he finds that Maureen has divorced him and has moved onto a much more stable and reliable man in the form of Joey, with whom she has had more children.Almost halfway in it becomes evident that this film isn't going to work out that well because, before the 10 years later jump, the love between the two leads hasn't been established to a convincing degree. Given that the narrative is using this mutual attraction (despite all the negatives) as its lynchpin this is a bit of a problem. Other than establishing that both are unstable and using each other for meaning, the film doesn't do that much for all the time it takes up. The second half isn't that much better as Eddie comes out as a sort of watered down Rainman and disrupts Maureen's new relationship with Joey. The script then asks us to swallow that she still loves Eddie to the point where the mere news that he is released sees her flush the last ten years down the toilet.I can sort of understand what the script was trying to do but it didn't manage to produce anything interest in the aggressive relationships that it paints in the gutter. The characters are where the main failing is. Maureen's character is poorly defined and Wright-Penn doesn't appear to understand what motivates her character and thus turns in a really mixed performance that pushes emotional buttons in each scene but is never consistent. Eddie is OK in the first half of the film as he just seems like a drunk unstable loser but in the second half he is unconvincingly soft. Likewise Penn is strong in the first half but he is unconvincing in the second. Their performances aren't helped by a weird mix of tones &#150; at times a dark love story, at other times a cringingly awful comedy complete with jaunty music being played over a fight on the front lawn or that horrible scene at Joey's bar. Travolta is a bit better and Stanton is a reasonably nice addition in a small role.Overall this is a shocking mess of a film that spirals downhill from the mid-point onwards. The first half shows potential but doesn't manage to pull off the formative stages of the central relationship and thus fails to set up the second half. However the second half isn't helped by poor development and a terrible mishmash of comic moments that simply feel crass and out of place &#150; I suspect even if the first half had been a stormer, this second half would have been poor enough to drag it all under. Even the acting talent seems all at sea and unsure of where they stand or who they are. A load of rubbish with little or no value. "},{"Title":"Dear Lord, this was dire...","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"40 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sean Penn does method, John Travolta chews scenery, the kids are cute enough to make one diabetic and Robin Wright Penn's performance keeps banging away at the same note over and over and over again. The characters were so unsympathetic I didn't care the least bit what happened to them. There is no plot to speak of. The cinematography ranges from grunge to bland and I don't understand where the romantic comedy angle comes in. What's so funny (or romantic) about abuse and codependency taken to sociopathic levels on all fronts? And I would definitely wave off anybody who has ever suffered from mental illness, because they would find the flick downright insulting.Of course there are real people like this out there, but so what? If I don't waste any of my precious time on this earth watching the denizens of Jerry Springer, why would I want to watch their fictional counterparts? You want a movie about an irredeemable person that is worth seeing? Go rent Citizen Ruth. It is infinitely better than this horrorshow.This might have worked as a ten-minute indie movie, but as an hour and a half Hollywood flick, it's a complete waste of celluloid. I watched it (sporadically) on tv for free, and I still regretted it. Whatever you do, if you must watch this piece of crap, use a free video store coupon to do so. Chances are, you would regret spending any money on it. "},{"Title":"She's not all that lovely...","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suppose that the point of this movie is that love, and people in love, are not necessarily very proper and jasmine-smelling. Fine, I agree, but by the time the movie ended I was not sure it was love this movie was about. Quinn and Mrs. Quinn amply deserve each other that there was hardly any point in making a long movie to demonstrate that. The pity is, that the movie was well done, well directed, with some nice touches; the actors were also good, but the script, or rather, the characters are a mess. In any case you might even tolerate the failures of script and characters but it is impossible to get past the inanity of the protagonist Mrs. Quinn she just doesn't make sense. In the second part of the movie Mrs. Quinn is as messed-up as in the first part, only ten years, a new marriage, three children and a change in her social standing are supposed to have happened in between; nevertheless, only her clothes and her makeup have changed. How can that be? I am not the same as ten years ago, and not so many things have happened to me. Also, she's supposed to be the pivot of the whole conflict, but she's not solid enough to justify that.    "},{"Title":"Meaning of 'true love'?","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was just about the worst movie I've ever seen.  All I could think about during the early days part of the film was how terrible some children must have it when they are born to mentally and emotionally unstable parents. I did think Sean played his role well, but the story sucked me into a pit of despair and made my stomach churn at stupidity of Mrs Quinn.  I noticed the accent mutilations as well.  So true love is ditching your current husband and three young children for a guy you haven't seen ONCE in the last ten years?  Sounds like those two should have shared that cell at the sanitarium.Many of the character interactions didn't make sense, the story had ample amounts of LAME, and the funniest part was the very very end where we see the 'happy couple' and their two loser buddies DRINKING and DRIVING down the road in that stylish 1968 Buick Riviera.  Classy. "},{"Title":"CASSAVETES DOES IT AGAIN!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a filmmaker John Cassavetes was always challenging his audience. He wanted to shake people out of their traditional patterns of the way people watch movies. He wanted to constanly stay one step ahead of viewers and challenge them to keep up. If you know this, any Cassavetes movie is a rewarding viewing experience. If you are unaware of this, you will surely be lost like so many reviewers I've read here are. SHE'S SO LOVELY is Nick Cassavetes paying tribute to his father's unique and often misunderstood style. The characters, like real people, do not know what they are going to do from one moment to the next. This is what makes the movie so funny, unpredictable -  and so honest and true to life - that it makes some uncomfortable. Alot of critics have stated that it is unrealistic that a mother would ever leave her family under the circumstances presented here, but until you've been in a similar situation how can you really say? At any rate, one thing you can never accuse this movie of being is predictable. John Cassavetes often recut his movies even when people liked them. If he were still alive, he would probably be delighted to read all the negative reviews here, because they all point to one thing Cassavettes has done it again. He has shaken people out of their set ways of watching movies and no one seems to be hip to it - yet. Like any great jazz artist, the work of John Cassavetes may be misunderstood at first, but finds it's audience eventually. He is somewhere laughing, knowing he has done his job. If you don't agree, keep this review in mind and watch this movie again/for the first time. Like all of his films, SHE'S SO LOVELY improves with repeat viewings.  "},{"Title":"Very good movie about very bad people","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" None of the major characters in this movie is particularly redeemable, yet it remains a fascinating film. Eddie (Sean Penn) is a hard-drinking working guy, devoted to his friends and passionate about his wife Maureen (Robin Wright Penn). Eddie's mentally unstable; he has a very weak grasp on the concepts of time and space, and thus often vanishes for days at a time without realising how long he's been gone (and without understanding why Maureen worries about him). Maureen is equally passionate about Eddie; but he's been gone for three days at the start of the film, and their neighbour Kiefer is pleasant and more importantly -there-, and she accepts his offer of drinks and later of dancing. Kiefer pushes it too far, however, and though Maureen tries to keep the truth from him, Eddie finds out. His tenuous grasp on mental stability snaps at this point, and this is really the climax of the film. As has been mentioned before, this is not an Oscar-winning film. Not because it's not excellent -- with a script by John Cassavetes and command performances by both Penns (spectacular, really, both of them, in roles that would have been poorly played by clumsier actors) and John Travolta, and excellent supporting roles all around -- but because it isn't a Hollywood movie about Good versus Bad, with Good ultimately triumphing. People don't make good choices. People aren't particularly good parents. What ultimately happens isn't supposed to happen in the movies. But it does, and it's true to the characters, and it lifts this film up above the usual sugar-coated drabble we're so often fed by the cookie-cutter that is Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable plot line seriously undermines well performed flick.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Was very disappointed in this film.Where to start? Well first of all, most of the movie is really just set-up for the last 1/4 of the movie yet nothing really much happens in all this time so I found myself just wondering when John Travolta would enter the picture.I guess the major problem with the movie is that Robin Wright Penn's character doesn't progress at all. Though there's supposed to be this time span of ten years between the first 3/4 of the movie and the last.So in the last 1/4 of the movie we find Robin Wright Penn's character in this home in the suburbs, married with kids and all, yet it's played as if she just stepped out of the gutter of the proceeding portion of the movie. Really makes no sense at all.It's a fairy tale and totally unbelievable.***SPOILERS AHEAD**** And to accept the fact that she would just run off with Sean Penn's character (who's been in the nut house for 10 years) even though she hasn't kept in touch with him in all those years and has a new husband (Travolta) and kids and a whole life, yet she just leaves it all behind is just so silly.A similar scenario was played out much better in the end of the movie Castaway with Tom Hanks & Helen Hunt. In that movie he returns from the dead after having been stranded on an island for years. When he returns, he finds Hunt married with kids. Though they profess their love for each other, she of course, says she simply can't run off with him and leave her kids and her present husband. THAT folks is reality.What we have presented in this movie is just so much silliness. Shame too, because the acting's not bad.But basically what you have is a movie where the first 3/4 of it is one long boring set-up followed by a quick totally unbelievable last 1/4. "},{"Title":"Should have left it at the video store","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It distresses me that anyone who has watched this movie thought that it had any redeeming qualities.  From the beginning, with totally unreadable credits, until the outrageous ending, it was a huge waste of great actors and expensive celluloid!  If you know anything about film making, you know that entertainment is a larger priority than art. Although, most good films have one or the other. Great films combine both. Unfortunately this is neither entertaining nor is it art.  I am disappointed that anyone thought this movie was good.  I was especially angry by the good reviews especially the thumbs up. There is nothing remotely entertaining or artistic about this film, not even those adorable kiddos. To exploit those children for the sake of a film is unforgivable. No they did not shock me with any of their actions, they just made me sad.  It also saddened me that any one those quality actors, involved in this film, actually allowed it to be released. I encourage anyone thinking about seeing it to pass it by. "}{"Title":"Truly Lovely","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't know what to expect from this film, but whatever I got is about ten times better than whatever I was expecting, if that makes sense.The characters are so likable. And the acting is just phenomenal. There were several scenes I had to back up and watch again just because some of the layers of small gestures and expressions and emotional choices are so genius, I just couldn't believe how thoughtfully turned out it all was.(Hint Watch Penn's face when he is asking his tired, pregnant wife to put on heels and a nice dress for going out. Men, that is how you get your woman to say YES!) And I love the theme of honesty in this movie. The characters are all more honest with themselves and each other than anyone you'll meet in the world, and they're also more tolerant of other people's honesty than real people are. It's beautiful, and it's not brutal honesty. And everything is beautiful until that honesty is taken away (by good intentions).Yes, I agree they oversimplified the whole missing ten years thing, but I don't mind because this was such a stunningly original, surprising little love story.Remarkable.Oh, and extra credit for including Tito Larriva! "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!(Hope this commentary is not a 'spoiler'!)","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems as if, as I read through other comments, that many people either do not understand the film or have not paid attention to what is going on in the story.  I've read one that stated something along the lines of, How could a man go so insane that he's locked up for ten years because he's mad about another man beating his wife?!If one pays attention to the context clues, it is apparent that Eddie has a history of mental illness.  The story does not begin with the opening scene. You have to pay attention to the film's details and its allusions to pre-existing circumstances.I thought this film was excellent.  The characters are not likeable people on the surface.  If I knew someone like Maureen in real life I'd probably detest her.  Maureen left her children to be with her lover, she drank while pregnant, and she's dumb as rocks, but you have to look past the character flaws and focus on what this story is about.  It's not about morals and reasonable, rational decision-making.  Those concepts do not typically make for artistic expression.  This story is about love and obsession - two human conditions that are not often pleasant but very real.  Anyone who has been in love knows that it can drive you mad.  It's such a drag; at the same time, there's nothing else that can make you so high the way love does. You have to appreciate the feelings that Mo and Eddie have for one another.I don't understand how one can NOT appreciate, how one can NOT absolutely love, some of the hysterical dialogue in this film.  Maureen tells Eddie she wants to smash bottles over peoples heads and then adds, Because I love you.  That thought of Maureen's becomes something later in the film that Eddie says repeatedly.  Mo's thoughts become a part of Eddie's self-perception.The defining moment in this film is when Eddie and Mo reunite.  It's the look that they give each other as they drive off leaving her family.  The look in their eyes is real, and you can see that, at least to them, there was nothing else for her to do but go with him.  To them it was the only right thing in the world.      "},{"Title":"Just like his old man.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nick follows in the footsteps of his old man, John Cassavetes, who supplied the screenplay and you can tell because the down and out characters walk about with cigarette in one hand and a glass of booze in the other. This is a very simple tale of manic love told with care.  "},{"Title":"Love is often not a kind thing.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This romantic and somewhat humorous drama fails to arouse much interest. I really enjoyed the rain scenes, otherwise it seems the effort was put together at the last minute. A hard luck woman(Robin Wright Penn)tries to make for a better life while her volatile husband(Sean Penn)spends ten years in the 'looney bin'.There is a lot of wasted talent assembled hereJames Gandolfini, Harry Dean Stanton and John Travolta. This movie seems to take too long to deliver its message. Not a very attractive story and the strong language needed for realism gets old very quick. "},{"Title":"Great, crazy movie! Nick is following in his fathers footsteps.","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sean Penn and Robin Wright Penn fall in love, but their lives are everything but stable. Sean Penn is sent to jail for a number of years and when he is released he returns to his love Robin Wright Penn. She is now married to John Travolta and they have several kids. Normally this kind of family business would take months or even years to solve, but these crazy people and kids settle everything in one day. This means emotions, actions and dialog concentrated to the very essence of these peoples lives. Quite fascinating to watch and reminding of the way director Nick Cassavetes' father John Cassavetes used to make movies. Sean Penn always puts his soul into his work and the other actors do a great job. This movie is great fun. Watch it!!! "},{"Title":"Phenomenal Acting and A Splendid Story With Poor Executions.","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" She's So Lovely is one of the many great flicks to come out in 1997. The movie received lukewarm reviews with the acting being praised and the plot being criticized as wasted potential. The iconic John Cassavetes was about halfway done the script before he died, leaving his son Nick to finish and direct. Nick's take-over could have been better and the ending could have been so much better by anybody else.The first half of the movie is about Eddie and Maureen Quinn (Penn, Wright) who live in the ghetto part of town. Maureen is pregnant but still smokes and drinks. Both her and Eddie are stupid trashy people, which is kinda funny to see. Despite living in the slums, they both try their hardest to make and satisfy their love lives. When Eddie goes missing for 3 days and Maureen is raped by their neighbour (Gandolfini) Eddie suspects Maureen is lying about falling and he goes on an insane rampage to destroy him. The backstory that's given on their lives is good and just enough time for the movie to really take off. After nearly killing people on his way, he is taken to a mental institution where he remains for the next ten years. In that time Maureen divorced Eddie, married Joey Germoni (Travolta), had two more daughters and moved to a big house in a nice neighbourhood. When Eddie gets released, Maureen must choose between Eddie who loves her to the extreme and is overcoming mental problems and Joey who also loves her and their daughters and nice home. Sean Penn gives his most underrated performance and was cheated out of a potential win. He did better in this than most of the Oscar nods that year. But given his screen time and position in the film, it is kind of hard to see if he is really the main character. Robin Wright is arguably the protagonist. Either way, Penn's performance is nothing short of spectacular. Anybody with a vast knowledge of acting can vouch for this. Penn's transition from psychotic lowlife to a reformed hermit is great in the eyes of all, but it is the way he does it that goes unrecognized. A lot of the great acting performances feature people with tons of energy just belting out screams and cries. Yeah this is great to see--don't get me wrong--but it is even harder to try to hold it in. Crying and screaming often feels good, but trying to contain it is much harder and is often painful which makes it even that much harder. Sean Penn does exactly this in several scenes. I was blown away at his restraint. Robin Wright also gives restraint, but less often as Penn. Travolta may not have restraint, but he is the energy factor that carried the rest of the movie when Penn gets better.She's So Lovely doesn't quite seem to find its place in what kind of movie it wants to be. It seems like it tries to be a drama, romance, romantic-comedy, and dark comedy all at once. If John Cassavetes finished the script then gone back over and edited it himself, he would have been able to figure out where he went wrong and what could have been strengthened. The story is great and original, just what genre is it? The movie is about two totally opposite men trying viewing for the same woman; with a story like that and acting this good, it can affect anybody that sees it. Aside from the style of the movie being unclear, the ending is a complete fail that can ruin people's experience. I bet that most people that did not like this movie was overwhelmed by how bad the ending is. A great story with a fuzzy style poorly executed. We all know that Maureen will end up with Eddie again once he gets released, but after seeing her family we change our minds. When Maureen winds up with Eddie at the end, Cassavetes tries to say that love is eternal and true love can conquer all (or something like that). There are two reasons why this doesn't work. First, we don't get a good look at Maureen contemplating who she she wants. More of this would have strengthened the story. But she is so stupid for leaving her three daughters for an unstable man she hasn't seen in ten years! That just shows that she loves her first spouse more than her own children. I've seen this movie a few times and the ending always angers me. All parents that I know would die for their children. If she didn't have kids, this would not be that big a deal. She should have either stayed with Joey and her daughters and talked it over with Eddie, or have a scene after she leaves with the kids at her's and Eddie's apartment. I do recommend this. Just be prepared for the second half to plummet. "},{"Title":"She's So Lame","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a big disappointment. It went from having potential to becoming and absurd piece of Hollywood crap. The acting was mediocre at best (with the exception of Travolta)- I counted a half dozen times where Robin Wright's accent changed during the course of the film.What makes this movie so uncomfortable to watch is that all of the leads are considered fine actors, but they are hopelessly trapped in a boring, ridiculous, confounding movie. "},{"Title":"That's it?","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I kept waiting for this movie to begin and then the credits began to roll. I was very disappointed, especially with stars John Travolta and Sean Penn working together.  "},{"Title":"Beyond Promises, But Not Beyond Hope","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" She's So LovelyBeyond Promises, But Not Beyond HopeCassavetes the younger's She's So Lovely is proof there's a culture gap or a perception gap or something out there. Few films get such starkly opposing reactions from ordinary viewers. Worst movie they've ever seen? Wow, I don't agree at all...but the movie is a litmus test, a continental divide, a knife's edge. Sometimes, one aspect to a movie, a single quality, can set off a viewer so they just hate (or more rarely, love) a movie.I'm guilty of tilting against a movie like that--Mel Gibson's The Passion of the Christ was so horrible to me I had to shut my eyes through half of it (and so I can't review it). I really hated it. But I know that there were aspects to the movie that were remarkable. If I did venture a review (I can't imagine trying to see it again for any reason, but let's pretend I did), I would try my best to find those things that did work, and to rise above the gut level repulsion I had for it. Because, in the end, I need to be able to find balance, to appreciate the best in a troubling movie--the filming of Triumph of the Will, for one obvious example. Can She's So Lovely, a movie that has stellar acting, good filming, a plot that holds water (and rain, lots of rain), and strong emotional content, really be terrible? Even if the content grates on the viewer so badly they can't stand watching it? People are reacting against the movie, because it's troubling, depressing, and raw. It has characters with flaws so big you can can't always see their virtues. And that isn't the fault of either of the Cassavetes men, the dad John who wrote the script or the son Nick who retrieved it after his father's death. In family tradition, real life wife and mother Gena Rowlands has an affecting role as a release counselor, and this is curious because John Cassavetes used Rowlands long ago to scuff up stereotypes of mental illness in the difficult and penetrating A Woman under the Influence, among other films. I wonder if people who had trouble watching She's So Lovely would have trouble with the earlier movie? There is another side to seeing a movie that is unbearably emotional or depressing. And that is learning what it is that makes it so for the viewer. For me, why exactly did I find the violence so impossible to watch in The Passion? Was it the violence itself, or the fact that the violence seemed so wrong, or inaccurate, or gratuitous? Would I watch a movie where someone horrible was being tortured that way, say Hitler? (The short answer no.) The point being, a movie that is so affecting might have something to teach me.And what is it in this Cassavetes film that works the viewer over, for good and bad (there are as many positive reviews as negative ones)? Maybe it is the entry into a very real world that isn't so extreme or unusual--though we are shown an especially awful and pivotal moment in that world--a milieu present in every small city, and common in a big one. We can really feel that scene, and the players inside, and that alone makes the movie compelling. Give us five or so great performances, from the two Penns in love in the first half to John Travolta in the sunny (and shorter) second half, and you have something that really gets under your skin. Isn't that what makes a movie valid? Don't we want intensity over entertainment? Sometimes?Now to the best part humor. It arrives in small ways throughout, but at the end there is that chaotic comic nonsense in the front yard? It's the worst of all possible situations, a mother willfully walking away from her three kids and decent if goofy husband, but it gets violent in silly spurts as they tussle on the grass. Is that supposed to soften the facts so we don't melt down totally? Or is it saying that the whole film is a little, just a little, tongue and cheek? Surely the excesses earlier might be excessive. I mean, how many dance hall ticket takers are so nice they not only let the couple in for free but loan them money on top of it? Or just after that, does the couple really arrive at an old friend's flat in the middle of the night and have a beautiful family meal prepared for them, an idealized cliché of the Italian mother feeding everyone? Is this movie really about true love or about something mistaken for it, an obsessive attachment, almost an animal bonding where the two of them need each other, even when it's bad for them. Blame the drugs, blame the bad brain chemistry, blame the poverty, they do cling together when they shouldn't. They cling even ten years later, leaving her new husband out of her heart, that convincing suburban dad (Travolta), imperfect and yet successful, who has given his life to her. Would you really prefer stability and superficial happiness over depth of feeling? And true love?I bought the whole package. The direction was flawed, maybe a result of inexperience more than anything. But what really works, really works. For me. I don't want to be them, I'm not jealous in any way, even of their attachments, but I like these for their best parts. And I like the movie for its best parts, too. "},{"Title":"don't know what to think","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this one on TV on a weekend, when I was cleaning house and had the tube on, and it started, and I watched a few minutes of it, and I thought, OK, I want to see what happens to this wretch of a girl. I think she played the part brilliantly. Eddie really loves his girl. The thought that him and this girl are going to procreate...>shudder< but the little girl turns out really cute, sweet and unbelievably normal in the end...more on this later... I liked the way they went up to the restaurant when it was pouring down rain and just asked for food... that was pretty cool...seemed old fashioned. I also thought the way Eddie was getting edgier and edgier as the film went on and finally broke was played well, and the fact that he had no clue he was gone so long...he seemed like he really didn't have ONE CLUE about what was going on. Then comes the day when he gets let out and here is where the film actually struck a raw nerve with me. He gets out. The girl has been married to this other guy for like 10 years, and Eddie comes back, and she's like, OK this is your Daddy, THIS guy we've been living with all your life is NOT your dad...he's your two sister's dad, but NOT yours. And this poor little girl has to absorb all of this AND meet the guy and he has to tell her and it gets all emotionally draining way too much way too fast. (There goes the normal life!!!) And then the mom LEAVES WITH EDDIE!!!! WTF???? SHe has been married to this guy for 10 years, has cleaned up her life and was living in a wonderful house and had a wonderful life, and then she leaves(leaving her husband of 10 years and her kids behind!!)and goes with this bonehead. In a way, it was beautiful that,I guess, her love for him never died. But it came across as shrill and like she just 'used' him all those years until her 'true' love came along. I guess she never knew the meaning of 'moving on' or 'getting over him'. Maybe this film is just too 'real' for me because I personally have dealt with this same thing.(I was the little girl in a similar, but not quite the same situation) Not to such an extreme degree, and it just grated my nerves. It was weird, different, and unforgettable, but I wish I could! "}{"Title":"So this is a COMEDY?!!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some people consider it necessary that I warn you that Crucial Plot Elements are exposed in my review.  I feel it is more Crucial that I Warn You to not see this movie.  Here's whyNever before have I felt so misled by reviews from you-know-who (2 Thumbs Up?!) and this site's resident reviewer (3 stars?!), not to mention the jacket cover, all claiming this be to be a Fun Comedy.  Well if your idea of a comedy is watching a woman get drunk, get beat up, almost raped, live with a psychopath, turn him in to protect him from himself and others, give birth to their child alone, re-marry a guy who's filled with as much rage as the 1st hubby, and then, when the 1st hubby returns, leaves her 3 kids and 2nd hubby without so much as a I'm gonna miss you - then this is your kinda a comedy.  So pop some corn, cuddle up, and prepare to laugh your head off???If I had known this was an edgy drama I would have been better prepared to properly judge this movie, but I kept wondering when was it going to get funny, even if only in a black comedy kind-of-way, like War of the Roses. It never did, save for 4 lines (Yes, I counted them all.  There was little else to do.) And one of those involved swearing at a 9 year old and telling her to shut up and drink her beer. (Oh, and it was so endearing when the 9 year old gave the adults permission to swear because after all she has heard worse.)What really gets me is that all the reviews described this movie like this Hip Comedy about a woman who remarries after her 1st hubby goes to jail, and then 10 years later when he is released must choose between the 2.Well that part about the 1st hubby going to jail doesn't happen until more than an hour into the story, and by then you have figured out that it is a no-brainer - she will always go with this guy, no matter who else she marries - even if it's John Travolta.And don't bother watching this for John Travolta.  He doesn't make his entrance until the last 30 minutes and is in only 3 major scenes.So I guess the point of this movie was more of a social commentary on the irrational thinking involved with love (She's de-lovely.  Ha Ha! Now I get it?! Oh palease!) and dealing with life's difficulties in general?  Well I guess I am now Officially Un-Hip, because even in retrospect - No, I don't get it.  "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Acting was great, but I was disappointed with the story.  Rather depressing! I sometimes wonder why some movies are rated three out of four stars by the critics, but don't live up to that rating imho.  I guess that is why I like ratings by actual viewers! "},{"Title":"It's So Awful","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was an abomination.  Possibly the worst I've seen.  I waited and waited for some meaning to surface, but was disappointed.  The movie, to be sure, was purely character driven.  The problem was that these characters were not likeable.  They were unbelievable and stupid.  And just what was the point of the little girl drinking the beer?  Travolta never should have gotten mixed up in a movie like this.  His talents were wasted.  The only saving grace for Travolta is that most people never heard of this movie because it was so awful. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has so many holes in the story I can't believe John Cassavetes wrote it and Nick Cassavetes directed this utter garbage. I didn't care what happened to any of the characters, even John travolta's character was supposed to be the rock solid 'marriage & family' kind of guy, but with his disgusting foul language around the 3 daughters and the appalling disregard for any sense of discipline and wholesomeness for them was shocking. I know, this is real! This is the way it is out in the world! If this be so I truly see the dumbing down of America. These people didn't even have the common sense to come in out of the rain. Hustlers, thieves, not an ounce of compassion. Where do they get the money to produce these things?? I can understand the actors want to make a buck doing whatever. But I can't believe this movie made a return on anybody's investment. "},{"Title":"She's So Monstrous","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yuck. What a terrible movie. I really can't phathom how combining a great actor like Sean Penn (Dead Man Walking, the Game), a good actor like John Travolta (Pulp Fiction) and an ok actress like Robin Wright Penn (Forrest Gump) can result in a monstrosity like this. The Penns play Maureen and Eddie with absolutely NO charm, with as result that the first half of the movie is almost unbearable. Travolta at least seems to try after that, but the sheer stupidity of the story is too large an obstacle for even him to overcome. Conclusion a real waste of time, money and talent. "},{"Title":"She's So Horrible!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever rented. Sorry it had one of my favorite actors on it (Travolta) in a nonsense role. In fact, anything made sense in this movie.Who can say there was true love between Eddy and Maureen? Don't you remember the beginning of the movie ?Is she so lovely?   Ask her daughters. I don't think so.  "},{"Title":"Less plot than a bad porno movie","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We could only stick this one out for about 45 mins. Travolta should buy the rights and burn it. The owner of the movie rental store said she couldn't watch it either. The characters were all right off the Jerry Springer show. "},{"Title":"It's sad that so many commentators on this just seem to lack human empathy.  just too tired of  feeling sympathy for anyone but your own, sad and lonely selves ?","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people have a hard time getting through their lives. For multitudinous reasons.This film portrays a very touching and passionate marriage between two pretty unhinged people. Played by great actors, Robin Wright and Sean Penn, who also became spouses, in real life. And the chemistry shows, in a way that romance chemistry rarely does in Hollywood films, sad to say.Then there are the terrific actors James Gandolfini, Harry Dean Stanton, Gena Rowlands, and the charming daughters, etc.And John Travolta actually upped his game for this. He was terrific in a difficult role.Screenplay written by the late great John Cassavetes, and directed well by his son, Nick Cassavetes.I found it to be a bit sentimental, but moving "},{"Title":"She's Not Lovely.","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" She's So Lovely (1997) Dir Nick Cassavetes / Cast Sean Penn, Robin Wright, John Travolta, Harry Dean Stanton, Debi Mazar Repulsive bag of trash starring Robin Wright as a revolting little brat who is anything but lovely. After she is raped Sean Penn goes mad, gets drunk and then shoots somebody. They send him away in a nifty white jacket. Released ten years later with the news that Wright remarried and has a daughter. John Travolta plays her husband who feels that his stepdaughter should meet her father. The plot is contaminated because Nick Cassavetes shoots it like a bad sitcom. Penn is completely unsympathetic with an outrage that somehow never comes off convincingly. We are to believe that he is within the right here but since she is now married, his plea is more nonsense. Wright has this weird habit of tripping. She is even less sympathetic than Penn with a final scene that is more shameful than anything. Travolta delivers one-liners while waiting to get screwed over. His scenes are merely sitcom fashion within stagy sets. Harry Dean Stanton plays a friend of Penn who accompanies him and observes the outbursts. Stanton is often joined by Debi Mazar, who sits out the useless climax. It is a pathetic film that should be puked upon by every intoxicated person who resorted to alcohol upon seeing it. Message about alcohol is thwarted by its revolting ending. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"great performances","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Maureen (Robin Wright) is a mess. She's pregnant and desperate to find her husband Eddie Quinn (Sean Penn). Her neighbor Kiefer (James Gandolfini) comforts her and then violently rapes her. Eddie takes it badly and attacks somebody landing him in a psychiatric hospital. He is released 10 years later although he keeps thinking it's only 3 months. Maureen had divorced him and remarried to Joey Germoni (John Travolta) with three kids. The oldest girl Jeanie is Eddie's.These are not sweet people. They are all a mess in the first part. The first part has great grimy gutter feel. Robin Wright brings so much to her character. Everybody does great performances. The second half is grasping a bit. It would be helpful to show where Joey is coming from. I think it's more dramatic to have Joey be normal but it's still compelling to have Travolta act a bit crazy. "}{"Title":"A strange kind of love","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Maureen and Eddie seem like a pair of losers, they live without purpose, to most of us, yet what is amazing is they are in love, a love that is not shared, even with their own child. You wonder how this can be? It is a story about two persons who live life on the edge, yet have a binding, perhaps blinding love. They are two of a kind and both know it. Before Eddie goes off to the mental institution, where he spends ten years, Maureen enters a secure marriage with a man who she does not really love her the way Eddie had; it is more a marriage of convenience and Joey, played excellent by John Travolta, is a husband who feels his wife owes him for saving her from a life of debauchery.As hard as it seems imaginable, she never loves him, in fact, she resents him for changing her. Maureen is not a typical woman by any means; she dislikes Middle-Class life and being a housewife, as she is unfit to have a career. Same with Eddie, he may have improved some after ten years in a hospital; however, he is back to his drinking and slumming, which appeals to Maureen.We find this strange love off-beat, yet it does happen in real life. This film is very strange, yet realistic for a small minority of persons who eschew the value of stability and security. Maureen has always loved Eddie more than Joey, and as hard as it is to imagine, she leaves her children, her home, and stable husband for the love she has only found with Eddie.It is really a better film than most think, because it shows a side of life that seems so undesirable. It is as sad as it is fulfilling for the two long parted lovers. It funds itself in an unfamiliar territory, yet this does happen and as much as most feel it is a waste of life, it reveals the nature of individuality.I think Penn went out on a limb making this film, it is much like abstract art, it can only be appreciated by those who see past the social conventions most adhere; they are not ordinary people and may end up broken unhealthy middle-aged alcoholics, but they live for today. "},{"Title":"Amazingly touching tribute/gesture to john Cassavetes","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't know what to expect of this movie, being a John Cassavetes fan. it was very surprising to find that this is in fact a tribute to Cassavetes Sr. Sean Penn is brilliant and actually seemed to be acting it the way John would have. same goes for Robin Wright, who seems to be acting Gena Rowlands style.all in all i think this is a must see for John Cassvetes fans who crave too see what he would have done next, if he had the chance. this film has a lot of heart, and Cassavetes Sr. fingerprints all over it.thanks to Nick for this loving tribute to his father. a very underrated film. "},{"Title":"One of the Least Appreciated Films of the Decade","Date":"8 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" She's So Lovely (1997)**** (out of 4) Eddie (Sean Penn) literally goes insane with his love for his wife Maurine (Robin Wright) and gets put in an asylum for ten years. When he gets out he learns that his now ex-wife has married another guy (John Travolta) but Eddie still plans on getting her back. I watched this film the first day it was released into theaters and I thought it was one of the best films of the year. Today I still considering it one of the most neglected and overlooked gems of the decade and I know I'm in the minority but I see it as a real masterpiece. I think a lot of people are turned off because of the subject matter and because the three lead characters are all so ugly and do some pretty vile things that they have a hard time connecting or feeling anything for them. For me, I think the film perfectly captures that love that these types of people can still feel. I think most people want to see love stories about beautiful people who do beautiful things. They don't want to see love between a bunch of losers like Eddie and Maurine. Nick Cassavetes directs his father's screenplay and I think he perfectly nails the situations, the atmosphere and the all around lifestyle of these two deadbeats. The first half of the film takes place when the two are together, living in filth and the entire situation is certainly one that you'd call unhealthy. The rawness is these scenes is just so real that Cassavetes deserves credit for keeping everything together. The second half of the film gets even stranger when Eddie goes to get his woman and the impact this has on her other family is something that I'm sure will outrage many. Penn gives a terrific performance and it's a real shame this here didn't get him any Oscar consideration. The way he plays Eddie early on is something he could do in his sleep but the real amazing part comes during the mental breakdown sequence and how different the character is in the second half. Penn is basically playing three different people here and he does a marvelous job on each. Wright is also terrific in her part of the conflicted wife and Travolta gives one of his best and funniest performances here. Harry Dean Stanton is terrific in his small bit as is James Gandolfini as a scumbag neighbor. Again, most people are going to be turned off by the material and some of the harsh things that happen but to me SHE'S SO LOVELY features Penn at his greatest and its low story is just so raw and powerful that I can't help but love it. "},{"Title":"She's So Lovely is A Way We Were ***1/2","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a lot of good psychology in this 1997 film where a woman who is told that her husband will never recover from mental illness, divorces him while pregnant and soon remarries and builds a new life of her own.Problem is that the ex-husband, well played by Sean Penn, is released and havoc ensues when he reenters her life.We were basically dealing with low class people here from the beginning of the film. Penn,as Eddie, with his emotional hang-ups and ultimate outburst leading to his confinement.Despite the home he has made for her and their children, John Travolta shows the same vulgarity and violence prone inclinations as did Penn.Some may view this as a comedy, but I don't due to the psychological and social ramifications. The ending may be disappointing to many, but it's a vary of the theme of a way we were. Some people are destined to their previous life, no matter how difficult and what it means what they give up in the end. This is a perfect example of this. "},{"Title":"Stunning performances by Penn, Penn and Travolta","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I lived 30 years in Germany and now 11 years in Canada, and back home I would have thought, that there are no women like the one portrayed by Robin W.Penn. But now I know better! I know personally several women exactly like her and that makes that movie incredibly realistic.All actors here portray real people and the only ( respectable) character in that show is played by Travolta, as the well off contractor and he seems at times dumber and less sensitive than the people he would consider bottom end of the food chain. This movie is typical America a society where you can still make it, if you consider working 70 hours or more a week as acceptable, where sappy movies supply religion and philosophy for the masses, where funny religions are ultra wealthy and where people with education/money have serious attitude dispositions. I am generalizing of course,because people like Penn, Bukowski, Cohen and Lynch etc. have always given me a sense of hope, in a fu..ed-up world. And that is what this movie is about. "},{"Title":"Psychiatric hospital redeemed.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's go back in the past;1975a woman under the influence,John Cassavetes.Gena Rowlands plays a misfit,we follow her through two phases of her lifebefore and after the confinement in a mental hospital.The treatment she underwent had disastrous results because she tried to commit suicide soon after her release.Now 1997 she's so lovelyGena Rowlands plays -fleetingly- either a shrink or a social worker,I cannot make up my mind.Sean Penn plays a misfit,we follow him through two phases of his life;before and after..well you get the picture.Her,against all odds,the treatment made wonders for Penn's mental health;if we consider the end of the movie.Alas,Nick Cassavetes is not his father,and we do not find here the overlong,sometimes infuriating scenes ,devoid of any dramatization,close to improvisation ,John Cassavetes' trademark. All what remains is ,save for the bizarre and far-fetched ending , simply mundane.John Travolta is miscast.The main reason to see this movie Sean Penn.One of the best actors of his generation,he runs the whole gamut of emotions,and definitely demonstrates how an actor can single-handedly save a movie from mediocrity.He makes us believe in his  unbelievable character.I wish Penn could have his dream come truePortraying the late Phil Ochs! "},{"Title":"Disappointing posthumous John Cassavetes endeavor","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The beginning credits were difficult for me to read, thus I was not cognizant of the writer or director. Sometime into the film, I pondered the striking resemblance of numerous scenes to the work of John Cassavetes. Later, I impressed myself with the discovery of his name on the video package. Cassavetes wrote and directed some excellent cinema, but this film is more akin to his dismal Big Trouble. The script is fragmentary and lacked character motivation. The story introduces Penn and Wright as urban lovers, then suddenly switches pace when Penn has a mental episode and is institutionalized. Resuming ten years later, Penn is released only to find Wright married to another loser. As her husband, Travolta reminded me of his Pulp Fiction character constantly cursing and chain smoking. Unfortunately, the scenes between Penn and him are flat. I don't understand Travolta's emotional reactions to his unrealistic predicament, while Penn remains mentally incapacitated like De Niro in The Awakenings. Wright is fine, but her role is ill-defined. It was good to see Harry Stanton with a sizable part, and Debi Mazar is alluring with her Betty Page looks. I would recommend skipping this film and seeing Husbands, Faces, or A Woman under the Influence. 2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"She's So Selfish","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are a lot of movies with characters who have worthless lives with little substance or morality. Maybe it was the title that indicated to me that somewhere in this awful film about a woman's undying love for her emotionally unstable husband, I would find a trait or two that would give these people merit or make them pathetic enough to be lovable.Most of the acting is good. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know most people probably didn't like this one and it's because it isn't some cliche special-effects bore. Sean Penn and his wife are amazing actors. Just the face expressions say enough. And for people who only rented it for Travolta, it's going to be a disapointment since he dosen't appear before the second half but fulfills his role. All in all 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It avoids Hollywood cliches quite successfully","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a good movie. The characters are fresh enough, the plot avoids Hollywood cliches quite successfully. The movie says that crazy people have the right to love, too, and it shows how they realize this right. It is another answer to the questions what is love and do love and morality have a lot in common. The weakest point is the ending scene. First, it made me feel that something needs to be added - a cue, a situation, anything  - and, second, it resembles The Graduate too much. The last scenes of the 10 years ago part are very good, Nick and Sean!   "}{"Title":"It avoids the Hollywood cliches","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie. The characters are fresh enough. It avoids the Hollywood cliches quite successfully. She's so lovely says that crazy people have the right to love and shows how they realize their right. It may also be considered another (and not bad at all) answer to the eternal questions what is love? does it have anything in common with morality? The last scenes of the first part are very good, Nick and Sean! The only thing I did not like was the ending. Firstly, because it made me feel that something needed to be added a cue or minor characters' story denouement - just something. Secondly, it resembles The Graduate too much.    "},{"Title":"The greatest love story ever told (sort of)","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find this one of the most moving stories because it is not a frolic through the daisies, walking along the beach and live happily ever after stories. The leading man is not the prince charming that it is rumored most women seek. The heroine is not the perfect girl-next-door sweetheart that has men lining up for a dance. Their lives are not enviable. Their relationship is not coveted. I can't even say that the characters are admirable or likable. In fact some might find them contemptuous. However, it is a story about love that doesn't shy away from a reality of true love that few dare to portray - pain, sacrifice and possibly doing the wrong thing. "},{"Title":"I really appreciated this unique and interesting movie","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found my initial disturbance of these characters living way too close to the gutter, amazingly moved to an affection and an eyeopening awareness. The deep emotional pains of these characters are obvious, and yet presented in such a tender way, one can bear and become intrigued to look into this side of life and be moved, touched and understand. The result an enriching trip.Sean Penn's scenes are always amazing, but there are at least 3 that make the movie worth seeing alone. One scene where he speaks for the first time to his unknown 9year old daughter, one where he speaks of love being SO difficult and one when he has been confined to a straight jacket. This character's portrayal is so beautiful and unforgettable.John Travota too portrays an unforgettable character and performance.I cant help wondering what was the childhood to produce these people as they are, a young 9year gives a hint. "},{"Title":"terrifically original","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is excellent because it's both entertaining and new. The filming and lighting are great, but that's the least of why it's so good. These are possibly the best performances that all three of the leads have ever given. It is unquestionably Sean Penn at his best playing a lunatic and doing it so convincingly. He might be crazy, but he is a fun character and we enjoy watching his way of life. The woman who loves him is played by his real wife, Robin Wright Penn, and she is equally convincing. The story is good, but it is not nearly as good as these characters and performances. That story is about the lifestyle of the two of them before Penn goes to prison and then the lifestyle after he is released ten years later. That doesn't sound like there's much conflict, but that's why John Travolta's in the movie. When Sean Penn is released, Travolta is married to Robin Wright. So who gets the girl? That's the conflict. She has created a life and a family with Travolta, but she is still in love with Penn. This movie is excellent because of a new story and amazing performances. It's a romantic drama, and nine out of ten times I hate romantic dramas, (Like At First Sight), but unlike most of them this one doesn't sell out for happiness and corny messages. "},{"Title":"Outstanding performance by Robin Wright Penn","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's so lovely as a very talented actress! Travolta with his boring mannerisms don't deserves her love despite two common babies. We're told a story with a love so strong like earthquake, love that did not die even after ten years of separation. High-class acting by Robin Wright Penn, Sean Penn and Harry Dean Stanton. Older daughter is very good too. To Travolta fans it is NOT HIS film, it IS film about true love between Robin and Sean (like in real life, I hope). A must-see picture (10 out of 10).  "},{"Title":"What is this movie?","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is awfulness. This is hideous. I have wasted 2 good hours of my life with this madness. The filmmakers (and actors) should be fined for this. What did I just sit through? Complete stupidity. There should be a warning before every showing of this film that you will experience deep anger, regret, fury, malice and a strong desire to harm the nearest person to you when you finish viewing this film. Why, God, why? I guess the lesson you take from this is, once you know just how bad it can get, you appreciate the merely not good ones. I am offended, appalled, disgusted and dismayed. This is the worst movie I have ever seen. Ever. "},{"Title":"The movie should be renamed as 'She's So Hopeless'","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER The plot is simple and the whole movie can run within 30 minutes. Time is wasted on dialogs too long and too many for the plot. To quote a phrase from the film 'Amadeus', this film is 'too many notes'. There are no twists, no turns, and no surprises of any kind. Just a man (Sean), being drunken, was so mad about his wife having been beaten up, shot a government official from the institution suddenly and aimlessly. He became mad (why?) and was kept up in the asylum for ten years. I am not convinced as there is room for development to explain on a man to become insane. When he got out from the institution, his ex-wife decided to leave her second husband and two daughters. That is the end of the story. A bit strange for such ending because what I think of is that the wife deliberately used the second man for support for those ten whole years. I cannot believe this is the norm among American people, if it is.The message from the writer may be 'Love is difficult' just as Sean Pan said it in the movie. That kind of love of the girl to the boy, and vice versa, are 'blind' ones, per se. If the girl was determined to 'love' without cause, why she was getting so depressed and hopeless. With that kind of 'love', she would certainly get hurt sooner or later. Someone would be hurt at the same time. Pity on her because she did not know what she was doing, especially to the second man and her other two daughters. The latter three persons did not do anything wrong and they should not be treated in this way. When the girl was leaving, I don't understand her facial expression. Was it guilt? Self-pity? Or, Relief?Despite all these shortcomings, the figures in the film were at least honest people, except the neighbor who wanted to rape the girl. My impression is, however, that the figures in the film are not doing things with their head, rather with a low grade of mixed feelings. So, why is the movie title so lovely? If you are in bad mood or that you don't want to think, watch this film, but you will nonetheless be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Sean's So Lovely","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film earlier in the year expecting some ordinary performances but most of all to be really twisted thanks to Nick Cassavetes. I'll say this, the movie is a little twisted but the acting was anything but ordinary.Robin Wright Penn plays off her character, Maureen and her real life husband so well that it effects her performance of a mobster's poor girlfriend.James Gandolfini is great as a sleazy, creepy neighbour Kiefer, another great portrayal from James even though he isn't that big of a character. He's done so many different films but it always seems to be him who sparks up the film. He was great as the father in The Mighty he was fantastic as the gay hitman the disappointing The Mexican, as the tough Bear in Get Shorty and i'm sure he's going to be magnificant in the next Coens movie / musical. He never seizes to amaze me.But the real gem here is Sean Penn as mobster Eddie. I know he won Best Actor at a festival, to which i'm not so sure but he shines in this movie. His love for Maureen is really sweet as he'd do anything for her, whatever it takes. There's this one scene with Sean and Robin where Sean displays some incredible acting ability. I haven't seen I Am Sam yet but i heard that it isn't that great of a movie but he must have done something right to earn an Oscar Nomination. I only hope he doesn't get washed up because it really would be a pity.Travolta played a character simular to the evil Sean Archer in Face / Off but times 10 in this. He plays Joey but in order to explain his character would spoil this movie. Even though he only appears for the last 20 or so minutes, you have to remember this was the kid Saturday Night Fever and Danny Zuko from Grease. He remains one of a kind and shows that he can pull off playing a bastard good too.The story is not the greatest but it is a sweet movie that has violent turns. The screenplay has it's moments but it's the actors who make the movie. To simply put it... It's So Lovely! "},{"Title":"Not so lovely","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The characters in this film do NOT act like real people.  It's just not authentic.  I sat in the theater thinking no woman would do that to her family.  When I can't recognize the characters as real human beings, that's when I have a major problem with the film. "},{"Title":"Misfires on all cylinders","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possibly the worst movie I have seen in the past five years. Atrocious acting, a weak script and shoddy production values sink a movie that should have been nipped early in its lifespan. Penn and Wright are completely over-the-top (not in a good way), and punch lines to what are supposed to be comic scenes fall flat time and again.  Seriously, don't even see this one on a bet.   "}{"Title":"HORRIBLE!!!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I gave this a one for Travolta's appearance alone, yet he did not show up till the middle of the movie.  Very very very very bad.  The worst movie I have ever rented. "},{"Title":"She IS wonderful","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful film. Crazy, Violent, Funny... just chill out and ENJOY!  "},{"Title":"What was she thinking","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can she just leave her children for some loser who was in jail for 10 years!  the movie would have been a lot better if at the end she didn't abandon her children.  That just ruined the whole movie for me.  It wasted 2 hours of my time.  I love John Travolta, but I wouldn't recommend it even the the biggest fans of John Travolta,  or Sean Penn   "},{"Title":"Dire","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is dire.  The characters are all ghastly, with the exception of the cutesy kids who are cheesier than my unwashed gym kit.  There are some interesting issues asking to be covered by this film, which the writer and director swerved to avoid with alarming regularity.  Here comes an interesting issue - OK let's have someone smash a bottle over someone else's head or have someone pull a gun.  I wasted 90 minutes seeing it and I'm wasting more time now spleening about it.  Save yourself the bother - miss it.   "},{"Title":"Nothing funny about it!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A huge disappointment in Siskel & Ebert's rating! The title does not fit the movie at all.  This movie was far from a comedy; it was serious and disjointed.  I was waiting with expectation for it to get humorous as described but it never did. The script provided little to no motivation for Maureen (Robin Wright) to make the choice she did. The script also failed to explain why Joey(John Travolta) was so enraged he was swearing every other word he spoke.  Too much pointless swearing from all the characters.  If you find watching an innocent-looking little girl swear & drink beer humorous then you'll probably like the movie.When a Man Loves a Woman with Meg Ryan & Andy Garcia, is similar to this movie. The big difference between the two movies is She's So Lovely is a waste of time to watch. "},{"Title":"utterly compelling","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From reading these reviews, one can clearly see this is a film that polarizes viewers. Frankly, at first, I almost dismissed it because of the violence and hopelessness. But the acting in this tragicomedy is so utterly compelling, the pathos so real that I couldn't stop watching, and the spot-on dialogue kept me caught up in the story. The humour was not just icing on the cake, but it infused some credible lightness into this heavy tale. John Travolta's line to his nine-year old daughter, ..shut up and drink your beer! would not have worked in a lesser film, but it was perfectly absurd and hilarious. In the ending, there is neither redemption nor catastrophe, and it feels authentic, because tomorrow is still another day... "},{"Title":"She's So Lovely Rocks!","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen She's So Lovely all the way through, and several times at that. As thesnowleopard clearly states he/she did not watch the entire film and therefore has no right to comment.She's So Lovely has a true independent spirit, great acting and an original story. All of which should be appreciated by any student of film. Sean Penn gives an awesome performance as an incredibly unique character who is at once sweet and frightening made humorous by the same characteristics which are within us all. And the fury offered by John Travolta causes the audience to roll with contagious laughter. I dare not say that everyone will love this film because they certainly will not. What I am saying is that it has many admirable elements which should not be so easily dismissed. Give it a chance and see for yourself. If you do like this film, you may also enjoy Hurlyburly. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Every thing about this film is wonderful, except for the violence and the dark beginning. The performances by Penn, his wife and Travolta are all wonderful. This is actually my favorite Travolta role and this was the first time that he really dug beneath that cool and cocky exterior to show himself as a real actor, displaying a wide range of emotions. But the movie of course is carried primarily by Sean Penn and Robin Wright Penn, playing two messed up lovers who are out of luck in every sense of the word. He loves her madly, while her feelings for him are difficult to understand. She seems to adore him, but then it becomes clear that she also is using him. When she is knocking at the door of the guy who abused her earlier and he starts to get nervous she asks him Aren't you a tough guy? and he replies no. That whole moment was very interesting and I think it said it all.One interesting fact that I wasn't aware of when I watched this film is that it was originally set to be made in the 80's, with the legendary John Cassavetes directing. That made me wonder what kind of beast it could have been and I believe we would get a very different kind of movie. All praise to his son Nick though, for he is also a capable director, yet there can never be another John Cassavetes again.James Gandolfini plays the nasty neighbor of Eddie and Maureen, a sort of a pre-Soprano signification of the creepiness and villain potential he is capable of, which he previously displayed in True Romance. Harry Dean Stanton is delightful as always when he appears in such cameo parts. Although the second part of the film may be a slight let down after the strong first part, this movie is a definite treat for those who are sick of standard Hollywood fare and for the fans of Sean and Robin Penn and Travolta. The strength of the story and the performances is enough for a 10. "},{"Title":"a very different sort of movie.","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHI didn't love it or hate it. I was intrigued definitely and look at the acting! For film buffs who dig the performance driven piece, this is a dream come true. The Penns star as the married couple, Eddie & Maureen and both give performances that are stunning.There's a dark intensity about the movie that can hook one in but there's no denying this is not a pleasant film to watch and for those who like a bit of sweet escapism to their films, they should run like the wind if they put this on, because that isn't what their going to get.For those however, who like their films dark, character driven, edgy, capped off with a bit of despair look no further, it's all here. I happen to like a bit of both of the above mentioned types of movies. In terms of this film, I neither liked it or didn't like it. I appreciated it and was awed by the performances. And the relationship between Eddie & Mo, yeah, it is definitely more realistic then the characters of Pretty Woman to put it mildly!. In fact the EESENSE of the relationship is captured so deeply that it is genuinely surprising as a film. I have not seen that many relationships, both the love and the toxic aspect captured that compellingly.The choice that Mo makes at the end didn't surprise me that much because by then one could see the ties that bind this couple were stronger for Mo, then anything else. There was NOT just love between this couple but need and an almost desperate addiction. At the end, the connection these two had, is captured in that one look between them in the last scene which was done flawlessly and didn't need any dialog. This movie reminded me of Sid & Nancy. It's a painful movie to watch at times but well done, very much so, on the character study and the cinematography and atmosphere were also perfect.But in spite of the positives I wouldn't give it higher then a 7. In fact I almost gave it a 6. This is due mainly to the second part of the film. John Travolta was very good but the way his character suddenly changes from a sensitive hardworking guy to a screechy scowling gun toting bully was baffling. There's also the change of attitude toward the little girl. The whole gun storyline did not strike me as even necessary and I guess I felt, honestly, that the themes explored here-insanity, rape, codependency,child neglect-were way to serious to make into a black comedy which starts happening in the second half of the movie. I haven't seen that many movies this serious go into black comedy territory that unexpectedly and I will admit I didn't like that. There was a lot I didn't like toward the end of the film.Everyone has their own rating system when it comes to movies. For me a 6 is about average or slightly above and is also reserved for those guilty pleasure type movies. A 7 is anywhere from OK to good and an 8 and above are those movies that are really very good to excellent. I'd give this a 7, not because I loved it but for the reasons mentioned above and will freely admit this movie stayed with me after longer then I would have thought it would. 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Second half better, still not pleasant","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is clear from his performance here why Sean Penn eventually won an Oscar. Although I didn't like the character, Penn effectively showed many dimensions of the troubled Eddie Quinn. I thoroughly despised Maureen, and I don't know how to evaluate Robin Wright Penn's performance. Jack wasn't much better, though his circumstances contributed to this, and I believe John Travolta did a good job playing him.Other good performances came from Kelsey Mulrooney as Jack's 9-year-old adopted daughter Jeannie, Harry Dean Stanton as Eddie's best friend Shorty, and Justina Machado as Carmen Rodriguez, who sold tickets at the dance club and was a real breath of fresh air in this depressing movie despite having only a few lines. What I really liked was the music. Some of these may just have been background rather than recorded for other purposes, and some of the background music I liked but didn't pay that much attention to. -Big band jazz with the opening credits, though in my opinion the vocal performance was horrendous.-More good jazz on the way to the dance club.-Latin jazz in the dance club, but I didn't care for the vocalist.-Italian-flavored easy listening in Lorenzo's Restaurant.-Late in the movie, more good jazz as Eddie sat in Shorty's car drinking.-Still more good jazz, but in a style totally out of character for the scene, when Eddie got out of Shorty's car for the second time.-Big band jazz--but with bawdy lyrics--in the closing credits. And there were other songs used that I didn't like as much, including one Motown-type tune that I began to associate with a particularly unpleasant moment in the movie as I heard it during commercial breaks, when we were reminded what we were watching.Some people may enjoy a movie like this. Not me. "}{"Title":"Best acting !","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All the actors went through hell for this movie and it was worth it. Sean Penn is brilliant as Eddie, Robin Wright has the courage and the strength to be Maureen (and she IS Lovely), John Travolta is cool and Harry Dean Stanton steals the show with all his remarks.SHE'S SO LOVELY is a picture for the more attentive audience. It is a sharp portrait of an unconditional love and how to deal with the strongest feelings for each other. Thanks to Robin Wright's over-the-top-performance and Sean Penn's incredible talent to make his character really perceptible you get to see one of the most beautiful love stories ever on the movies. What most people may have a problem with is the unconventional way of showing it. I can only say A great bow to director Nick Cassavates !A movie for generations, a movie to remember, thanks for this one to everyone involved. 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"For those who are searching the meaning of True Love should see this movie.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie can only be appreciated by those who are interested in finding some meaning. The movie has lot of painful moments. However, in the end if you reflect on what you just saw, you will realize the director wanted to show what true love is.The best part about the movie is that the director did not bother to add lines in the script to explain the objective of his movie. He did that because if you don't get it, then it can not be explained to you, so why bother explaining.After watching this movie, you will know the meaning of 'Love'. "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like movies you must see this one. The acting performed by Travolta and Penn is fantastic. Hardly ever have I seen a movie that have touched me like this one. "},{"Title":"Excellent focus on characters","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's So Lovely is an excellent example of a movie that chooses to be character-driven rather than plot-driven. It's a great tribute to John Cassavetes and a fine piece of work by Nick Cassavetes whose Unhook the Stars is equally worthy of praise.Every character in this film is tangible, real, and yes, maybe deeply disturbed. The relationship between Sean Penn and Robin Wright Penn (both of whom give outstanding performances), while sort of pathetic on one level, is deeply touching and hyper-real on another. It's the type of love story that makes you believe in soul mates not because a drippy sloppy sentimentality; but because it's the only explanation for two characters who are so outlandish yet fit together so well. I don't think I've seen a movie couple who deserved each other more since Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?See this film. "},{"Title":"She's So...Phtttpphth....","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sean Penn plays Eddie Quinn, the off-the-handle, borderline psychotic ex-husband of Maureen Quinn (Robin Wright Penn), with whom he winds up re-kindling the ashes of their love (sigh). But when Eddie blows his top and shoots a security officer, he winds up serving time in a mental institution. The three months in his mind translates to about ten years in 'real' time (and 45 grueling minutes in film time); he's released to find that Maureen has divorced him, and re-married a well-off, respectable, nurturing, but equally irritable guy named Joey. It's all pretty clear, right from the start, where this is going, so it's no surprise how the movie ends. The acting ranges from excessive to burlesque to weepy, with the noteworthy exceptions of Harry Dean Stanton as 'Shorty,' Eddie's kooky, reticent side-kick, and Kelsey Mulrooney as Jennie, the precocious daughter that Eddie's never met. There's an interesting shift in palette from the first half of the film--full of bleak, stark contrasts in color--to the second--where flesh tones and suburban hues emerge. If only the pancake-flat story had made the transition quite so easily.  "},{"Title":"terrible script poor movie","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If it weren't for John Travolta or Sean Penn being in the movie, I would rate it a 1 out of 10.  In other movies they were excellent actors, so I can only conclude that the script was to blame.  There were many things I could point to, but worst was that it was hard to lock in on any actor/actress. Just when you were getting to know someone, switcheroo time.  Save your rental money. "},{"Title":"Terrible (**SPOILERS**)","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awful. Or maybe I just didn't get it. I found the acting to be almost unwatchable (and I'm not the type to comment on acting!). The characters didn't appeal to me at all- they all seemed like nuts and I frankly didn't care what happened to any of them. I watched the whole movie (most of it in fast-forward) because I was hoping it would change for the better, but it only got worse. I thought the final scene was completely contrived and sorely lacking in common sense. I don't know about everyone else but I prefer at least a little bit of rational behavior in a movie...0/10 in my book. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and only getting better","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movie masterpiece can definitely be made also without a big budget and a huge length. It only takes a good story, splendid screenplay, couple of terrific actors and that's all. Nick Cassavetes' She's so lovely, one of the greatest films of 1997 is a good proof of it. It's a very modest and simple little drama but nevertheless it's an underrated masterpiece. It contains one of the finest performances from Sean Penn (Eddie) who was awarded in the Cannes film festival and John Travolta (Joey) who shows up exactly in the halfway of the film.Both fit in their roles more than perfectly, it seems like the characters are practically written just for them. Robin Wright is great as Maureen even though I'm unable to feel any sympathy for her. Supporting roles are fantastic too, James Gandolfini as Maureen's sleazy neighbor and especially Harry Dean Stanton as Eddie's buddy Shorty. Second half of the film is even more irresistible than the first. This is a movie that didn't got the appreciation it clearly deserved. Highly entertaining movie and truly a class example of a great filmmaking, excellent dialogue and first-rate acting. "},{"Title":"Lots of talents - wasted!","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nick Cassavetes, Sean Penn, John Travolta, Robin Wright-Penn. Big names=great movie? Wrong! This  film had the potential to be a great Indie- flick, but it was absolutely failed. Why? Director Nick Cassavetes did the mistake to  adapt his father John´s badly written script. Didn´t he read it? It looks like a uninspired mixture of Pulp fiction and One flew over  the cuckoo´s nest. The love story doesn´t work (I didn´t waste any tear), the humour was just  painful (e.g. Penn´s scene at the hairdressers), and the acting bad (especially Travolta´s, it´s  weakest performance ever). I´ve never seen a movie that left me so cold. If you want to see a tragicomedy with lovable, crazy characters better watch The million dollar hotel, Homer and Eddie, Forrest Gump etc.  "},{"Title":"De lovely, de-pendent","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's So Lovely is a serious drama about a man (Penn) and a woman (Penn) who are interminably locked in a symbiotic co-dependent relationship. What is supposed to make the film interesting is that -he- is a whack job and -she- is a loser. Unfortunately, Cassavetes has created a character-driven nonstory with characters who are so far out there they appear only as excuses ginned up for dramatic purposes giving the film a hollow feel...lots of sizzle but no steak. I would toss a kudo at Sean Penn who garnered a best at Cannes for his performance, but one gets the feeling this wasn't much of a stretch for him. Recommended for fans of John Cassavetes, the Penns, or the film Barflys. (B-) "}{"Title":"Only Travolta is So Lovely","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After high expectations for this film, due in part by the bragging of Sean Penn and his wife (Robin Wright-Penn) it was a bitter disappointment.  The first half is slow, badly written and lacking depth.  It is like watching a student film gone terribly wrong.  The only shining light is John Travolta who appears in the second half of the film.  Travolta's mannerisms, one-liners and acting are the only reason to dreadfully watch the first half of the film.  This film really misses the mark. "},{"Title":"Lets watch Sean Penn make faces","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Are we not sick of watching Sean Penn making contorted faces, showing us his inner pain, angst and suffering. Watch this flick if you are ready for more. Have you ever seen a movie you liked by the Cassavides family? OK...here is another......tedious....moronic...uninteresting....just a pure piece of crap. A complete waste of time, unless you live a worthless life and want to use up another 90 minutes before you die. If you look at the box office statistics for this movie you will see that it was a real stinker and rightly so. One other thing....just try to think of one good Gina Rowlands, (Cassivedes wife) film. "},{"Title":"Puh-lease!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the worst.  The acting is super...if you like watching movies about low-life love affairs, set in seedy tenament buildings, and surrounded by n'er-do-well, alcohol-besotted friends.  Constant personal failures, ultra-violence, depressing people living depressing lives - you just want to YELL at the screen, Hey, stupid!  Why do you LIVE like that? Stop drinking, stop taking drugs, get a job!And then the film makes HEROS of these scumbags at the expense of a relatively normal family.  The good guys lose.  In the end, the film tries to make you feel good about the happy-go-lucky housewife that abandons, with ZERO regard, 3 beautiful children.Funny.  The film spends a lot of time developing the children's characters, and you like them.  Then the writer dumps on the kids, dumps on the normal home life, and tries to get you to feel happiness and relief at the reunion of the former drug slut-turned housewife - turned drug slut again.  Hey, it's her life, right?  Go and seek!A segment of society so depraved and wasted is shown to REALLY get it and be able to understand true love & the meaning of life.  But not people who work for a living, and try to be good parents.  Taxpayers. Citizens.I hate Hollywood screenwriters.  Absolutely ANYTHING for a buck.  No scruples whatsoever.I'm not buying it.  The premise tells no tale, illuminates no truth. It's a cheap story about an unbelievable set of events that are meaningless in the big picture.  Why should such bad people win?They should not.  Hokey.  Dumb.  Bad.  Zero stars.Everybody clear on this one?This movie stinks.   STINKS. Great actors (some reservation in that statement concerning Mr. Madonna), but so what?  This is like trying to watch Richard Simmons play Dirty Harry.  LA LA LA!Hey...Travolta was actually GOOD for once.  His Scientology medication must have worn off for a few days.  He and the kids and the good wife were fun. THAT could been a contender.  By the way, did this gobbler get nominated for ANYTHING?  There's a LESSON here....This could have been a GREAT comedy using the middle-class family as the basis of a life story.  It didn't have to be the worst dreck since Panic in Needle Park.Terrible story.  Who BOUGHT this turkey screenplay and put it on the screen? Well, I'm SURE they will be the next big thing, heralding the post-Eisner decline & fall of civilization.This is only slightly less entertaining than next summer's big hit American Pie III - Illegally FUNNY Abortions!I won't even speak the NAME of this film, it is so depressingly BAD.  It should NEVER have been made.  It has all the black humor of a Danny DiVito film - without the laughs.  Really sick.  I'd rather hear Rosanne screetch for 2 hours.  Hell, I'd rather WATCH Screetch for 2 hours.Don't waste your time.  It will be like planning a big evening out at that new trendy restaurant, only to find out the food stinks.  Ultimately dissatisfying - you'll wished you'd stayed home.Avoid!  Avoid!  Avoid!  "},{"Title":"She's So Lovely A Review by Matt Dicker","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" She's So Lovely, starring Sean Penn, Robin Wright Penn, and John Travolta, was a poorly made film.  The screenplay seems to have been written in haste, for the characters actions do not make sense.  There are a few entertaining scenes, all because of young actress Kelsey Mulrooney.  She is the highlight of the film.  The first part of the film looks grainy, because it took place in the past.  This does not come out artsy, it comes out pretentious.  This film should not have been made; at least, not without a serious rewrite. "}]