[{"Title":"Hurrah!  Perfection.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"98 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hard to see why it wasn't a wildly popular mega-hit - I have two theories, one charitable, one not.  The charitable theory is that people were put off by the title.  MY heart certainly sank when I heard it.  I mean, just say it out loud - The Emperor's New Groove - now how could a good movie POSSIBLY have a title like that?Yet now, I rather like the title.  It fits the story; it doesn't care if it's fashionable or not; it's just so pleasingly RIGHT - but in an almost indescribable way you'll have to watch the film to find out.  Maybe it WAS a marketing mistake.  Who cares?  I never took seriously the charge that Disney's artistic decisions were made by its marketing department, anyway.That was the charitable explanation for why it made considerably less, inflation adjusted, than every other one of Disney's animated features from Beauty and the Beast on, and failed to even get nominated for a Best Picture Oscar in a year in which they had difficulty coming up with half-plausible candidates.  The uncharitable explanation is probably closer to the truth.  People are idiots.  This is a classic - but it's also animated - by pencil on paper rather than finger on keyboard - so who will ever notice?Doubt me?  You won't once you've seen it.  Everyone to speak of who did reports that it's very, very funny, and they're right - and trust me, nothing is ever THIS funny unless it's clever and witty as well.  It goes without saying that their character animation is unmatched in its brilliance and ... I've already used the words humour and wit?  Well, I'll use them again.  In addition there's a charming dottiness that a merely hip film could never quite capture.  Art direction is perfectly judged and consistent throughout, with a pleasing absence of because-we-can computer effects.Here's just ONE example of what I'm talking about.  One side of the emperor's palace consists of this HUGE golden face, and we find out in a funny scene (but they're all funny) that all excess water is drained out through the nostrils.  But that's not all we see.  We see characters crawling out of the nostrils, we see someone dangling like a big booger on a rope out of one of the nostrils - one snot gag after another - yet no explicit camerawork ever draws our attention to them.  Not only do the characters deliver their lines perfectly deadpan, the camera delivers its images perfectly deadpan.  It's just perfect.Two more things I should mention.  Unlike Disney's other recent features, it never, not even for a second, feels as though the story has been unduly compressed - and at 78 minutes it's a trifle shorter than most.Also, despite the constant hilarity, it's rather touching.No movie I've seen in the past six months has filled me with such joy.  Well, perhaps there have been a few others, but they were all made long ago. "},{"Title":"Fun with llamas!","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"65 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although my affection for other Disney movies of the 1990s has decidedly waned, my love for The Emperor's New Groove is still as strong as ever. In fact, I'm now beginning to think it's a work of genius. It's clever, unpretentious, fast-paced, and- like Lilo and Stitch- you don't feel that the vision of the film was muddled up by the suits. The characters are not constantly breaking into song, and there is a welcome lack of cloying sentiment. No cutesy talking teacups here! The lightning- fast comic timing, sharp writing and constant loony non sequiturs (i.e. For the last time, we did not order a giant trampoline!) improves upon each viewing, and the voice work is uniformly excellent, from David Spade's hilariously bratty emperor to Patrick Warburton's dim boy-toy Kronk to Eartha Kitt's Yzma (an over-the-top screeching Erte-style villainess with an alleged secret lab who is also scary beyond all reason). You get the impression that everyone involved had lots of fun making this. The art direction, with its whirling cartoon Inca motifs, is simultaneously goofy and gorgeous- and it shows what marvels can be done with nary a pixel in sight. I even love all the local L.A. humor, with even Bob's Big Boy making an appearance. Although I was initially dismayed when I heard that the project, originally entitled, The Kingdom of the the Sun, was to be changed to The Emperor's New Groove, I think in the end the changes were a good thing. Did the world really need yet another bombastic Disney musical?No, I didn't think so either.  "},{"Title":"Boom, baby!","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"66 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove is a rare hilarious Disney movie.It's very different from any other Disney movie so this movie might also be very watchable to you Disney haters out there. The movie pace is incredibly high and the music by John Debney and Sting are a real surprise. The movie really is a non-stop hilarious comedy with some unique humor. Also the style, both visual and story-wise is different from any other previous Disney movie, which in this case is a positive thing.The characters are great. Kuzco and Pacha are a perfect team. Yzma is a remarkable villain and her sidekick Kronk is hilarious. Yep, Laughs are guaranteed in this very hip and hilarious movie!The story really is of no importance and most of it never makes sense but that's also why this movie is both unique and hilarious to watch over and over again.Highly recommendable to everyone!9/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Bring it on.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"51 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is stylistically a break from Disney tradition - it's closer in tone to the Genie in Aladdin or some of their TV shows than most of their movies, making a refreshing change. In fact, you could be forgiven for thinking that this isn't a Disney movie at all... the only talking animal has a good excuse for yapping in the voice of David Spade, the only romantic relationship is that between Pacha and his wife (and even there it's more the sign of a happily married couple), and apart from the Emperor's Theme Song Guy (He's the hippest cat in creation...) - and Sting over the end credits, but we'll forgive that - no one bursts into song. Plus the emphasis is more on Warner Bros-type energetic humour than usual. No wonder it was a disappointment at the box office; not your traditional Disney movie.Then again, The Rescuers Down Under was an underrated pleasure as well.The story isn't particularly different - you've got the ruler who has to change externally before he can change internally (Beauty and the Beast), Kronk, the good-hearted sidekick of the villain (Yzma) who can't bring himself to kill the hero (Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs), and so on - but as is often the case it's not so much what the plot is as how it's handled. Although the movie suffers from Is-that...? syndrome - it's too hard not to see Finch from Just Shoot Me! every time Kuzco speaks (strangely enough, even though Pacha's wife has the voice of Wendie Malick from the same show, I never pictured Nina Van Horn... which isn't the case with Fillmore!, where Miss Malick voices Principal Folsom. Go figure) - the movie's speed, energy and high humour rate make it easy to forgive, with Kuzco and the bad guy's sidekick as standouts. The movie's also a bit more self-reverential than other Disney movies, notably in our hero's narration (plus at one point Yzma and Kronk notice they're leaving a blue trail behind them, which turns out to be the trail they leave on the map to the palace illustrating the race between them and our heroes).The surprising thing is that it even works with character - though the Emperor is enough of a self-absorbed hedonist (to a prospective wife Let me guess - you've got a really great personality) to turn off Paris and Nicky Hilton, he and Pacha have a believable relationship throughout the movie, so that by the end we're rooting for him to get turned back into a human. Too bad Marc Shaiman's score was thrown out (he'd have been a natural, as opposed to John Debney), but no sense whining over what might have been. An adventure, a comedy and a drama all in one, The Emperor's New Groove has everything that was notably absent from DreamWorks' own South American-set cartoon The Road to El Dorado (charm, interest, no Elton John overdose and so on) and is the funniest movie from the House of Mouse since Aladdin. It's easier to forgive them for giving the world Dinosaur in 2000 as well.Why DOES she have that lever, anyway? "},{"Title":"High Praise For This  'Kids' Film","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You've often heard the sales pitch, adults will love it, too! almost always referring to a kids' movie and in particularly, an animated movie for children. Well, in this case I agree. Even as a middle-aged adult, I enjoyed this.The dialog is adult-friendly but at the same time not coarse or crude with no sexual innuendos, no profanity or even a hint of it. Yet, it's hip with some very clever lines.The story is interesting and offers a few unique twists. David Spade does a fabulous job narrating, has a very pleasing voice, one that's fun to hear. I actually do think adults would like this more than children. "},{"Title":"I absolutely love this movie!","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"44 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How great is this? A movie about a talking lama. I absolutely love this movie, from beginning to end. I don't know how many times I have watched this movie, but I am guessing in the over 10 area. This is the only movie that I find funnier dubbed in Norwegian than in the original language. It is absolutely hilarious, I don't care what age you are. Although I think adults understands more of the jokes in the movie, but that doesn't mean that kids won't find it funny. The movie is a story of betrayal, friendship, love and lots and lots of humour. It doesn't seem like I can ever get tired of this movie. Why? Because it is absolutely fantastic! I am 24 years old, so there aren't any age boundaries here. I rate this movie 10/10 "},{"Title":"I'm 23 and I still LOVE this movie","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Disney has done it again with a FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY (how many funnies is that?  4?...not enough) FUNNY FUNNY FUNNY (you get the point) movie.Picture this.  2 friends and I walk into a local movie rental shop and start arguing over the NEW releases.  Horror movie?  No.  Slasher flick?  No.  Drama?  No.  Etc, Etc, Etc.  Finally, as if it were fate, we all walk into the Disney/Children section of the shop.  One suggest Emperors New Grove.  The rest automatically agree... and we weren't disapointed.David Spade is brilliant as the voice of the Emperor in this movie.  His humour was definatly evident throughout the entirity.  Speaking of the humour... it was funny.  Ha, ha.  Ain't I a kidder?  Seriously though, I have to say that this is the funniest Disney movie that I've ever seen... and it's definaly because of the cast... who were brilliant in all their roles.  There was a lot of adult humour in this one though.  Nothing gross or sexually oriented or anything, but just grown up... intelligent... making it a fabulous watch.If you haven't seen this, then I suggest you do... and soon. "},{"Title":"Hilarious but short family treat!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"35 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In all of it's 77 minutes this was still worth renting.  (and buying in my opinion)  Simply the best Disney film in recent memory.  And no reason a 25 year old like me shouldn't see it.  If you like laughing, this will serve a treat that will last for a very long time.  (cute cat....) 10/10 "},{"Title":"Kingdom of the Fun","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"36 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Apparently there was this thing that happened in 1994 called The Disney Renaissance. The Lion King brought back Classic Disney or some such nonsense. The implication is that mega-hits like The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, and Aladdin were not good enough. Nope, it was the Lion King which restored dignity to the studio. Dignity which they then squandered on garbage like Hunchback of Notre Dame and Hercules. On top of this Dreamworks Animation was gearing up to be a serious competitor while Pixar was hogging all of the glory.Such was the success of the Lion King that director Roger Allers was given permission to indulge himself in a vanity piece called Kingdom of the Sun. It was to be an epic, mystical spin on the Prince and the Pauper set in Peru during the time of the Incas as well as a romantic comedy musical with serious weight to the mythology.Honestly, this sounds like the kind of movie that I would have hated. The Disney suits felt the same way, though were even less kind when it came to communicating that opinion to the creative team. The development and production of Kingdom of the Sun dragged on for years with innumerable clashes, arguments, and differences between Allers and Disney. None of the moneymen liked where the film was going. A half-finished version was screened and rejected. Production was shut down. Allers was off the project and Mark Dindal was brought in to replace him. In the process Dinal completely overhauled the movie and changed it into something quite different. And thus Kingdom of the Sun gave birth to The Emperor's New Groove. A serious, mystical epic became an archaic slapstick comedy more in the vein of Looney Tunes than Lion King. And it's all the better for it.Throughout this shambolic development only three people remained constant David Spade as the spoiled emperor Kuzco, Eartha Kitt as the conniving Yzma, and Sting, who would provide the soundtrack. The latter ended up only doing a single song My Funny Friend and Me, but it did get an Academy Award nomination (which it lost to Bob Dylan). Sting's wife Trudi Styler was even commissioned to make a documentary on the production of Kingdom of the Sun and covered every torturous twist during those terrible times. What was supposed to be just an ordinary making-of became a rather notorious stand-alone documentary called The Sweatbox which was such a damning and difficult portrait of the House of Mouse that they have never allowed it to be officially released (and barely acknowledge its existence). Make no mistake, The Emperor's New Groove did not have an easy journey from concept to screen. Far, far from it.When the trailer screened in early 2001 in the UK I was immediately dismissive. I had become tired and jaded of the setting and tone. With The Prince of Egypt and The Road to El Dorado in the recent past I was not in the mood for more of the same. I was loudly vocal about how awful the trailer looked. But then something very odd happened...Kuzco turned into a Llama and it became surreal and hyper. I remember squinting and saying Uh...what IS this? I'd much rather take a chance on an odd curiosity than a self-proclaimed epic.The final story sees Emperor Kuzco betrayed by his assistant Yzma who plots to kill him in revenge for being fired. Her lunkhead servant Kronk (perfectly voiced by Patrick Warburton) mixes up the poison potion and instead transforms Kuzco into a Llama. Discarded into the nearby jungle Kuzco teams up with good-natured peasant Pacha, whom he earlier condemned to homelessness. They make a deal - help Kuzco turn back to human and Pacha can keep his community. Together they fight their way through the wilderness back to the palace with Yzma and Kronk close behind, determined to finish the job.TENG moves so fast it will make your head spin. This movie barely takes a breath, so much so that I don't think that the opening and closing titles even lasted a single second. It's just one wonderfully overblown set-piece followed by another. You'll be grinning so hard your face will be in agony. I can't call it anything other than my absolute favorite Disney animation (Big Hero 6 coming in at a close second) but I'm sort of annoyed that it gets such a bad reputation and that its often forgotten.Released in the US in late 2000 the movie received little fanfare and had a horrible dated marketing campaign that was stuck in the mid- 90s. While most Disney movies are shoved in our face and pretty much demand that we go see them this one seems to end up merely being discovered by growing cult of fans. I guess that makes a unique and controversial movie all the more special. "},{"Title":"Nothing fancy, yet a good film","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Considering that this movie wasn't made to compete with Disney's line-up of Lion King, Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, etc..., it is an excellent movie. Who would've thought that a simple animation could do so much. This is a good movie to watch with friends and family members of all ages. Also, if you want a good night's innocent laugh, this movie is recommended. This is the first good family film I've seen since A Bug's Life. Just a little note on the side can you believe that this movie that absolutely NO romantic plot (one of the first and only that I've seen of Disney animations). "}{"Title":"Criminally Underrated","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is, simply, one of the most underrated movies in cinema history. It is certainly the most underrated Disney 'toon, and I find that impossible to understand; it's bright, colourful, witty and, most importantly, completely hilarious!The story is a kind of demented fairytale spoilt young emperor is accidentally turned into a llama by his bitter advisor and teams up with a local peasant to undo this crime and return him to his human form. What that summary completely fails to convey is the sheer brilliance of this tale; not only is it blessed with simple but great animation, a cracking pace, a witty script, original jokes and quirky asides, but the whole thing seems to be a lot greater than the sum of its parts. The characters are wonderfully drawn and are some of the most memorable in Disney history; Kronk is hilariously naive and simple (Patrick Warburton does a brilliant voice-job here), David Spade is on top form as the cruelly sarcastic Kuzco (Disney's most despicable hero) and Eartha Kitt's Yzma is a gloriously over-the-top riot - a Disney villainess who tries so hard to be bad and scary that she ends up simply looking a fool who can't even impress a squirrel (if you watch the movie, you'll know what I mean).While the awful - and, crucially, unfunny - Shrek wowed the masses and got labelled one of the best comedies ever made, The Emperor's New Groove, despite glowing reviews, only has something of a cult following, and anyone who didn't ignore it upon its release is glad of it. If you're looking for something to make you laugh out loud, join that tiny cult now and give The Emperor's New Groove the chance it deserves to give you an immensely entertaining night in.RATING ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":" Echoes of Chuck Jones madness, sharply barbed one-liners and some intrinsically thought out action sequences highlight this hugely entertaining, hilarious cartoon","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE (2000) *** (Voices of David  Spade, John Goodman, Earth Kitt, Patrick Warburton, WendieMalick, Eli Russell Linnetz, Kellyann Kelso, Robert Bergen, JohnFiedler).  Funny, slapstick-y animated Disney yarn about a spoiledbrat young ruler (voiced to snarky perfection by Spade) whoseauthority is undermined by his ruthless, power-hungry adviser (Kitt,purrrfectly announciating vile thoughts) and her dense, yetwell-meaning henchman (Warburton, in all his scene-stealingglory), when she turns him into a llama and dispatching him into ajungle encroaching village where he is befriended by a kindpeasant (Goodman at his jovial best) who teaches the punk somelife lessons.  Echoes of Chuck Jones madness, sharply barbedone-liners and some intrinsically thought out action sequenceshighlight this hugely entertaining, hilarious cartoon of choicedirection by Mark Dindal and surprisingly nearly song-free (twotracks are written by Sting &#150; one performed by Tom Jones &#150; whooriginally was commissioned to score some dozen tracks whenthe project switched gears from becoming a full-fledged musical). "},{"Title":"A post-modern cartoon masterpiece","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Final Score9.6 (out of 10)When you see a truly great movie- you know it.  You just feel it.  As the final frames come up and the credits start to roll you can just get this visceral invigorating feeling that, without any critique or analysis, that you've just seen something special, maybe even brilliant.  The Emperor's New Groove flipped me out.  It's my pick for the best movie of 2000 and a refreshing change of pace for the Disney folks. But another big achievement is that it's hysterically funny, cool and sophisticated and is still 'G' rated without any of the innuendo and scatological humor the Dreamworks people feel is necessary to get their flicks bumped up to a 'PG' so it will SEEM sophisticated. Kids will like this one, but this is the G-rated movie that teenagers and adults can really laugh at and appreciate. Done with a plot and a style that seems a throwback to the old Loony Toons cartoons, it's fast paced, post-modern, reality bending, weird for the sake of weird humor also calls to mind Monty Python and TV shows like The Simpsons & Family Guy.  That's not to impy it isn't original, in fact it's just as original as those works were. All the while it seems to poke a little fun at itself, which is something you wouldn't normally expect from the proud Disney giant. This is the UNDisney movie.  A break away from annoying sidekicks, melodramatic musical numbers, romantic subplots and preachy morals.  I know tradition says the Beauty and the Beast is the best Disney movie, but looking back, it has the same formula as all the rest.  You can make a much bigger argument that this one is the best if only because it's such a standout.  The plot revolves around a egotistical emperor who is turned into a Llama by an frightening beyond all reason witch who seeks his thrown.  That's it. From this clothesline we are tossed from one wild, almost indescribable sight gag and predicament to the next. Along the way we get oddities like a character talking to himself as the narrator, a guy who speaks squirrel, an anti-hero for a main character and a raging river of death. It builds to a climactic action sequence that is one of the all time funniest, most exciting and imaginative sequences put to animation.  Speaking of, the animation is old fashioned hand drawn with makes a great case for why this style should not go extinct with the rush of computer animation.  The voice performances are perfect.  While I'm not a big fan of his, David Spade is perfectly cast.  John Goodman is given the straight man role for once, but Eartha Kitt is a knockout.  However, Patrick Warburton's Kronc runs away with the movie. His deadpan delivery, jovial laughs and hilarious shoulder angels make him the unlikely star in a movie with no absolutely clear heroes and villains.  But the real star however is Mark Dindel and the writing and directing staff.  Their excellent comic timing and ability to stretch or release gags is to the point where they can tell and age-old joke and find some way to take it to the next level and MAKE it funny.  One of the most interesting things in the already interesting DVD commentary is the part where they express disgust toward the age-old lions, tigers and bears joke.  They say a studio head forced them to put it in but refuse to name names.  This is imaginative talent (something Hollywood sorely needs) on par with the Pixar folk and Disney should let them make more movies like this.  Also, the original score is a dynamo.  But words don't do the justice. A must-see cartoon masterpiece!      "},{"Title":"A hilarious buddy film that just HAPPENS to be animated.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now that Emperor's New Groove has arrived, I will forgive Disney for that bad film (IMO) that was 102 Dalmatians.I thought this is one of Disney's best films in YEARS.For starters, the voice cast is EXCELLENT.  David Spade is sensational as Kuzco, the emperor-turned-llama.  (Kuzco is a rarity for a Disney film  a main character that we're actually NOT supposed to like!)  John Goodman is in Dan Conner mode (his character from TV's Roseanne) as Pacha, the kind-hearted llama herder.  Eartha Kitt is great as Yzma, and Patrick Warbuton steals the show as Kronk, Yzma's dimwitted henchman. Spade and Goodman are wonderful together, and they make a great buddy team.  And that's essentially what the film is  a buddy film.It should be said that there is no groundbreaking animation or Broadway showtunes in this film.  And you know what?  GREAT!!!  Contrary to what some may believe, there is no Golden Rule that says all movies shalt have those two things in order to be entertaining.  The animation is clean, vibrant and colorful; the opening song performed by Tom Jones is very catchy; and the story WORKS.  But that is just what I was expecting from a movie directed by Mark Dindal, who also directed the wonderful, overlooked Cats Don't Dance.  Dindal injects Groove with the same energy level he did Cats, and the results pop off the screen.If you want groundbreaking animation and Broadway tunes, go put Aladdin back in the VCR.  But if you want an entertaining film that will make adults laugh as much as--if not more than--kids, then shake your Groove thing over to see the Emperor. "},{"Title":"Quite simply, Disney's best film. Except maybe the one about the lemmings.","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is an exceedingly funny film. Maybe the funniest film ever made. Unfortunately, it was marketed to children who, quite frankly, don't deserve it.Ignore the front cover. Ignore the funny looks you'll get from the people at the rental place. Ignore the mouse logo.Spinal Tap, Withnail and I or Dr Strangelove are the films I can think of in which the humour is tonally similar to this. Which is maybe why it didn't do so well.I urge you to watch it. And invite me round to watch it again, too. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove was cute film, it was drastically different to most of the previous animated feature films from Disney, being mostly focused in the slapstick comedy, something that gives it a similar feeling to the classic Looney Tunes shorts, which at the same time still has some of the classic Disney magic.The result is something very enjoyable to watch, having likable characters, a funny story and many effective gags.Even when the animation from this film isn't so impressive as in masterpieces such as The Beauty and the Beast or The Lion King, the result is still pretty good, with stylish designs and sceneries, having a different but equally appealing aesthetic than the other movies from the Disney Animated Canon.Definitely a worth-watching experience. Home on the Range tried to be something similar than this, without achieving the same level of quality of this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny and highly original film.","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. After some almost disastrous attempts at direct to video sequels, I was hugely surprised to see for once a wonderfully funny and highly original film. The animation is spot on, with beautiful backgrounds and well-drawn characters that are also likable. They are also very funny, especially Kronk, who looked similar to Gaston in Beauty and the Beast. The music by John Debney and Sting was hip and memorable. Usually in direct to video sequels(which of course this is not) the songs are just awful, and sound like they were improvised in five minutes. A good example is Cinderella 2. The songs here have funny lyrics, are well sung and sound as though the composers took some extreme lengths to make it perfect. The voice talents are exceptional. David Spade's acting ability is somewhat limited but for this type of character, a selfish emperor called Kuzco who is turned into a llama by his adviser, it works wonderfully. John Goodman was very earnest as Pacha, and the villainess Yzma, who I would pick over the really bland Morgana from the Little Mermaid sequel any day, was played to perfection by Eartha Kitt. The script is funny and touching, and while sometimes it isn't as laugh-out-loud funny as some animated films, it has a huge impact on the well told story. I have no real criticism for this movie, other than it is probably too short. Anyway 9/10. Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's last masterpieces","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'll admit, upon seeing the trailer of this film back in the day, I thought it looked awful- especially the style of animation. But I judged a book by its cover.This film is hilarious and one of the last greatest animated films that came from Disney (along with the others in this new generation of computer animation, such as Treasure Planet, Brother Bear, etc.). The comedy is what keeps this film alive, and one of the key parts is the lack of sing along type of songs- which actually is a good formula that keeps the movie flowing.The style of the animation- while not the best in the world- actually reflects the comedic attitude of the film at most. "},{"Title":"Llama's Rule!","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Get ready for some knee-slapping, hilarious fun, because it's The Emperor's New Groove! This movie is awesome! Really, it is. What better animal to do a movie about than a cool, talking llama? I love everything about it. From the theme song, to the old guy who's pushed out of the window, to Kronk, Eesma and other funny things in it. I've seen this movie at least ten times, and enjoyed every minute of it every time. You'll love this movie and will want to see it over and over again, just like I have. Trust me, anyone will like it. Not just kids. I give a big 10 out of 10 stars, So take my word for it and go rent it! "},{"Title":"the best Disney's ever made","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Emperor's New Groove is the best Disney movie I've ever seen. It creativity and humor appeal to all age groups, not just little kids. ENG stars Kuzco, an up-tight and completely self-centered emperor who is perfectly voiced by David Spade. Kuzco is turned into a llama by Yzma, his ancient assistant he recently let go. Yzma's plot was to kill Kuzco and become ruler, but her plan failed miserably when Krock, her right-hand man who has the brain capacity of a flea, gives Kuzco the wrong potion. In his quest to return to human form, he runs into a friendly peasant named Pacha. Pacha and Kuzco start heading back to the castle, where Yzma is getting a little too comfortable in Kuzco's throne. I think every person in the world should see this movie. It's funny, flawlessly voiced and animated, and just a great movie to watch as a family. If I could, I would give Emperor's New Groove 15 out of 10 stars. "}{"Title":"Strikes a good family balance.","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a Disney staple in our home. Spades Kuzco provides the appropriate amount of trademark sarcasm and wit, along with the rest of the characters appeal to make a movie that hasn't gotten old yet. Most of the jokes are funny enough to make an adult laugh, but not too over the top to miss the kids. As was said in the behind the scenes on the DVD, most jokes are only funny the first time they are told, but many of the key scenes in this movie are funny every time ie Waterfall scene, trotting out the ladies, and the diner scene. My impression is that there are many who wished that the Empire of the Sun version were made instead, desiring a more deep and meaningful or artistic movie, but for many, having only seen a few of what appear to be foreboding and dark themed cels, we are glad that it evolved into ENG instead. It is disappointing that Disney feels that it should shun this movie, in word and deed. Considering some of the junk that Disney had put out in the same time frame, the lack of available merchandising or exposure only serves to accent Disney's inexplicable self-directed sense of failure for this film.  "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I've just watched my brand new DVD of The emperor's new groove and, as all the other thousand times I watched it, I loved it. I've always thought (as many other people) that a great children movie is a movie for everybody, and this is the case. This film has every quality to be considered not just a cartoon, but an excellent comedy.This is my favorite Disney movie, mainly because it is so atypical for Disney. First of all, there aren't only stereotypical bad guys and good guys, you can see all degrees of good and bad. Also, you can see that people (or llamas ) ) are able to change. Secondly, there's irony, a characteristic not very common to be depicted in a children movie. There's even a very subtle sexual undertone in some scenes (Yzma changing assistants for younger ones; Yzma lifting her skirt), subtle enough not to disturb children but to amuse grown-ups. Thirdly, there are plenty of details and gags! In this sense, it reminds of old classical movies and series, always with a twist. But the most important thing is absurd I saw this film lots of times and I keep finding out-of-place, out-of-time elements that make the setting unique and funny in itself (that reminded me a lot of Top secret!). You can laugh for hours just by noting these little things.The characters are round and quite complex, as I said before. It is also refreshing to see a movie about friendship, not romantic as many other previous ones. And I love that tough, clumsy, very guy-ish kind of friendship, without many words or gestures of affection. The plot is simple but rich, with a nice message for kids and a good depiction of the process of change.I'd like to add, for English-speaking readers, that I've watched the movie in Spanish too and it's exactly as enjoyable as the original. The Spanish script and voices were very carefully created, and I always appreciated this feature in those Disney movies I saw in both languages.Basically, and mainly, it's a happy movie, and that's why I love seeing it so often because it makes me happy every time. "},{"Title":"One of the most hilarious Disney movies!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New GrooveVoices of David Spade, John Goodman, Wendie Malick, Eartha Kitt and Patrick WarburtonGenre Animation/Family/ComedyRated GThis is one of my most favorite animated Disney movies yet! The jokes were very funny! The movie is about a young emperor named Kuzco (voiced by David Spade) who is the big time ruler of the land and then one day when he catches Yzma (voiced by Eartha Kitt) sitting in his throne he fires her.So now Yzma is wanting to get revenge on Kuzco, along with Yzma's big and funny sidekick, Kronk (Warburton). So Yzma decides to make a poison for Kuzco and then when they give him the poison, she and Kronk find out it was llama potion! So then Kuzco gets turned into a llama and then later meets up with Pacha (John Goodman), who then helps him back to get back to his palace so he can get changed back. But Pacha and Kuzco didn't really see each other closely at first. Meaning they didn't get of on the right foot.So when Yzma finds out Kuzco is still alive, she and her sidekick, Kronk go of to find them. My most favorite part was when Kuzco gets chased by panthers and then Pacha saves him and then they get wrapped on a tree and then Pacha saids Don't worry were safe, and then the tree breaks and then when they land in the water Kuzco saids Don't tell me we are about to go down a big waterfall right? Yep Sharp rocks at the bottom? Most likely Bring it on! The movie has good moral to it. The moral of the story is working together and friendship. This is a movie I would highly recommend! "},{"Title":"The funniest Disney film ever","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove has two qualities that separate it from the rest of the Disney animated pack humor that can actually be enjoyed by someone over the age of five and only one musical number and it's at the beginning. That's the appeal of this film. Most animated Disney films both in the past and now have just too much singing in them. Not everyone loves singing animals so Emperor's is a good movie for those of you who didn't like the squealing songs of Aladdin of The Lion King.The cast is what really makes this movie funny. Great writing coupled with the talents of David Spade, Eartha Kitt, John Goodman, and Patrick Warburton make this movie a laugh riot. Some of the jokes are geared towards adults so mom and dad won't be bored while watching this flick. Bottom Line This is a good movie and one of the funniest ever made by Disney. It's good for all ages.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant brilliant brilliant!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can anyone miss this?! This is simply the best Disney movie ever made. It's a classic example of how a good story is the most essential element of any movie, whether animated or otherwise. All of the characters have been carefully chosen for their vocal abilities and have pulled off their respective roles perfectly. What is notable is that this movie did not rely on computer animation tricks, but instead used old-fashioned Disney animation. Music and songs are kept to a minimum, and mushy, over-the-top sentimentality is nowhere to be seen. It is just a clean, entertaining story packed with visual and auditory jokes that demand a repeated viewing (actually our family has probably watched it upwards of 20 times now, as it is a favorite of our daughter's).Anyone who claims that this is the worst movie made by Disney (or any of the actors associated with it) just did not listen closely enough to what the characters say. It really requires close attention to detail. We find that having the closed captioning on helps a lot.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm 14 and you would think this movie for just be for little kids because its by Disney but its really funny even my parents like it lol and my little brother loves it! it is really funny but not to corny. it a great movie for the family lol. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really love this movie. It keeps you laughing the whole way through. And it did not get the credit it deserved! It's nothing like other Disney movies, its there best yet. I love the voices they fit the characters perfectly. I must of literally watched it 15 times and I still laugh every time!!! Rent it, or Buy it today I did. It's great for the whole family everyone will love it young or old! Boom Baby  "},{"Title":"Disney - tongue in cheek","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Who would have thought the writers at Disney would ever come up with  enough courage to do a whole movie that takes the genre and smashes it over the heads of everybody who expected to see an old-fashioned musical?This film is about as funny as a Douglas Adams novel - it's full of self-irony and you get the suspicion that some of it is a bit mean-spirited, but enjoying it means laughing your belly out and you just have to show it to all your friends. It's stuffed with tongue-in-cheek dialogue (I  L O V E the scene, in which Yzma and Kronk discuss whether to get rid of Kuzco before or after dinner - look for it in the quotes on this site!) and incredibly fast and funny animation with a sense of irreverence that not even Disney's Hercules was ready to deliver. Seems to have been written by some talented teenagers on an overdose of Monty Python, Jim Carrey and Futurama. Thanks of course go to Robin Williams for leading the way with his unforgettable portrayal of a certain blue genie. He should probably be awarded a special Oscar for every new film Disney chunks out in memory of that performance with a great cast like this!And one last thing Kronk definitely is the greatest stupid henchman in recent memory. He's so unknowingly dead-pan, you have to wonder if he's not actually the most mature of the characters on screen. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The best ever!!!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is by far the best representation of the tragic-comic situation of real life change in the individual behaviour due to some divine inducted circumstances.This subtile ideea is presented in a glowie ,cartoon type, light,and makes you laugh every time you watch it.I watched this movie fourteen times and I never seem to get enough of it.Why is that?Because first time I've seen it I identified myself with Kuzco...A great emperor punished to become a lama ,due to his lack of heart and ignorance,and after he had seen the real life,to become once again that emperor,but now a wiser and more careing emperor. It's a great methafore of human condition. "},{"Title":"What a hoot!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My kids watch this movie all the time and I never get tired of it either. It is quirky and funny and a pleasure to watch.  The dry sarcasm of Emperor Kusco never gets old and Kronk (Putty from Seinfeld) is the surprise star in the movie.  This is one of Disney's best! "}{"Title":"This one deserved MUCH more recognition!","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought The Emporer's New Groove was extremely funny and entertaining and it did NOT get the recognition that it deserved!  I did feel that this one didn't have a very deep plot, but it didn't need one.  The fun and humor was enough to keep me interested.  Along with that, the animation did feel a little funky, but it fits just fine with the style of the movie.  Not every good movie has to require deep thought and calculation on the part of the audience.  This one is excellent for just sitting back and laughing for a while without having to think too much.  Make sure you see this one! "},{"Title":"No, he's got a point. HILARIOUS MOVIE!","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  FUNNY FUNNY MOVIE! Great characters, great voices, really random things happen. This movie is just so funny. Moves along really well so you just don't get bored in the least. Not cheesy, no annoying emotional songs, its all good. This is definitely the most funny and enjoyable Disney I've seen and one which I believe most adults will definitely enjoy. And kids will love it too. LOVE THIS MOVIE!  "},{"Title":"I loved this delightful movie.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best cartoon-type movies I have seen.The dialogue is sharp and funny.  There is something about that emperor and his character and the dialogue he uses that in combination make me chuckle. Even though it runs throughout the entire movie, I never got tired of it.And the wicked lady's manservant is hilarious, too.I loved that it is a clean movie; not full of sexual innuendo, for example, as I found Shrek to be.The character development sends a good message to the viewers, especially children. "},{"Title":"Truly superb piece of entertainment!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An amazingly good Disney movie like there has never been before!It doesn't matter your age, this movie will definitely make you laugh. There are so many fine things about this film that I do not know what to start with! Please, do yourself some good and SEE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Funniest Disney Film in YEARS! It's hysterical!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I still can't figure out why Disney didn't market this movie better. The script is fantastic and the performances by Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton as Yzma and her evil henchman are hilarious! I never tire of watching this film; Patti Deutsch (remember her on Match Game?) as the waitress is a knockout!Rent or buy this film! You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"No sappy romance.  No stale jokes.  No touchy.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A radical departure from Disney's standard approach, this movie will appeal to everyone in all age groups.  My 3-year-old daughter loves it, and so do I.  This couldn't be a Disney movie, there are no princesses!  I would pass up all the classics to watch this movie.  I suppose that technically the animation isn't as good as Snow White.  All other aspects of the movie are much better.  I laughed so hard I cried.Get the DVD with all the extras. "},{"Title":"A must see... over and over again!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am rather ashamed to say that, like a lot of excellent movies, I missed this one in theaters.  At the time I thought Disney was cheap, childish hogwash, but I now realize otherwise.  With Disney's recent stunning works such as Dinosaur, Atlantis, and yes, The Emperor's New Groove, I have a new outlook.David Spade is the perfect voice for Kuzco.  Like Kuzco, the man is pompous and arrogant.  In most of his movies he plays a role such as this.  Kuzco is no different.  The character has a mind of his own, and throughout most of the movie the viewer will be surprised and entertained by his comical witticisms and his I'm-So-Much-Better-Than-You wisecracks.We meet Kuzco, King of the World, according to the Theme Song Guy, as he is at the peak of his kingly career.  Just how he loses that career, is transmogrified into a llama, and put at the bottom of the social structure, is hilariously magnificent.  The conflict is ever so funny, and the climax builds to hysterical, uncontrollable laughing.The movie also contains several different subplots, such as Kronk and his two little supernatural friends and Pacha and Kuzco.  The audience is thrown from conflict to conflict, each containing their own hilarious twists.Disney has put together yet another superbly animated film, and dubbed it with a name like no other and enlisted a cast so brilliant that it's hard to find any flaws with this movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoying the same old story.","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How many times has Disney told us a story of someone with a bad personality trait suddenly turning that weakness into a strength?  And the story never gets old.  This movie is highly humorous, with entertainment for adults and children alike.  Finally, a movie I can watch with my kids and enjoy simultaneously.  Now all I need is some kids. "},{"Title":"Solid Disney entry.","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is fun for the kids with a nice message about the evils of selfishness. The story-line and animation is on a par with most of Disney's films. It's very funny, but only if you like David Spade's brand of humor. It's kind of like Just Shoot Me in the jungle. Even so, it's really entertaining and I highly recommend it.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Nuts to the critics and public","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most critics and ordinary moviegoers alike don't know what they're dismissing in The Emperor's New Groove. This movie was top notch Disney and a true modern masterpiece that has more of old Walt's spirit than any of Disney's other so called masterpieces since Aladdin. Only a few critics actually seemed to get it, and even those that praised it still missed the point by actually believing it was all about the comedy. All the rest trivialized it by pointing to a whole bunch of meaningless mistakes. Its emphasis on story rather than tired formula and cliches wasn't seen, and its lack of silly, overblown musical numbers tying up the story was booed, not praised. Its old school animation was mistaken as weak, and its vibrant, original, and colorful characters were written off as unmemorable. None of this could be further from the truth. The Emperor's New Groove was stylish and sassy. It was a breath of fresh air that proved Disney was for once willing to flex their creative muscles and think outside the box. The characters were the most original and most memorable I had ever seen in a Disney movie. Not since the days of Lady and the Tramp had a movie like this come along. The Emperor's New Groove spoke to kids of all ages. It allowed everybody to laugh at it without going over kids' heads. And it spoke to kids without talking down to them, preaching, moralizing, or beating them over the head. The simple message was that selfishness was evil, and the movie brought that across politely through the use of story, without bursting into song. This was a message kids could actually use and learn from. And kudos to Disney for portraying a happy, normal, biologically sound family. No dead parents here, and I know there won't be any squirming kids because this is one of Disney's least violent movies. So kudos to Disney for what this is, a grand animated masterpiece in the tradition of the old school, and for what this isn't, more overstuffed moralizing grandeur following stale formula. And if I were a parent, I for one won't be afraid to let my kid watch this. Anybody else that didn't see this movie's beauty, well that's your opinion, but it's really a shame. I gave this movie a full 10, a score I haven't given an animated movie since Bambi. I would give it an 11 if I could. "}{"Title":"Best Disney in many years!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have been rather unhappy with Disney's offerings since Little Mermaid and Beaty and the Beast, although Lion King was decent too. The others since have left me cold, so luckily my love for animation was satisfied by the Aardman shorts & Chicken Run, the Pixar trilogy (Bug's Life & Toy Stories) amd Antz. But here, out of the blue with no previews in the movie theaters I frequent, comes this wonderful movie!Once again, Disney has used a classic tale, of a powerful but cruel and self centered individual being thrown into a scary situation with one of his lowliest underlings, and coming out a much improved person for the experience (the examples are many, but A Christmas Carol is a good example of the genre.) In this film, the powerful one is the Emperor (Kuzco - voiced by David Spade) of a Mayan/Aztec type rural kingdom. The underling is the peasant (Pacha - voiced by John Goodman) who herds the Emperor's llamas. The scary situation is the Emperor's scheming advisor (Yzma - voiced by Eartha Kitt), an almost Cruela DeVil type withered and scary old crone who fancies herself as vastly more attractive than she is, and her body building / gourmet cooking / dimwitted- yet- strangely- resourceful boy-toy / chair carrier / bodyguard (Kronk - voiced by Patrick Warburton ...don't know him? he does the voice of Buzz Lightyear in the TV show version of the Toy Story spinoffs...same kind of voice as Tim Allen in the same role.) The neat thing about the voice talent is that the characters are made to look pretty much like the actors (Eartha must have a really good sense of humor!)Anyway, it is no spoiler to say that the Emperor gets turned into a llama (she was trying to kill him with a magic potion, to be administered by Kronk, who screws up the dosage hence the odd result) and the advisor takes over the kingdom. She tasks Kronk with taking the llama out into the country and killing it, but he fails her (similar to the huntsman in Snow White, but funny this time.) When she gets word that the llama is on the loose, not dead, she takes matters into her own hands (Snow White again) and sets off in search of the talking critter with Kronk carrying her chair around with her in it...this makes for lots of funny scenes.Ant that is what this film is about (besides the moral-of-the-story aspect). It is simply a great time for all ages. The colorful scenery and nonstop slapstick is good for the kids, while the constant stream of sight gags, topical references, satire and parody delight the adults. This film has a much wittier script than most Disneys, and get this...it's a cartoon, not a musical. The characters do not sing songs at every drop of a hat. Only the Emperor gets an opening song to tell us what a great guy he thinks he is. This characteristic also sets the film apart from other Disneys.I was interested to see that the credits list very little in the way of computer animation. Also, the work seems to have taken place in Disney's tiny animation facility in their park in Florida (seems that another recent one was made entirely there) instead of in California. There is also a Paris Unit listed, so I wonder if the Disneyland-France has a similar animation facility?This film is a delight, and can easily stand multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"The most laughs I've had in years.","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After watching the trailers for months leading up to the Sneak Preview I can tell you that I wasn't looking forward to it with much enthusiasm. After seeing it Saturday I can't wait to view it again!  It was undoubtedly the funniest movie, either live or animated, that I've seen for a long time and believe me, I've seen a lot of movies.  A comment by a young girl to her mother upon exiting the theatre says it all - Mommy, I've never heard you laugh so much. "},{"Title":"A comedy about standing on your own four feet","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ''The Emperor's New Groove'''is not my favorite Disney movie. In fact, it is far from being in the top 5. From Disney, I really prefer the classics(in general) but I cannot deny that this movie has a beautiful message of helping others and look to yourself before judging someone.Kuzco is a young and very arrogant emperor. One day, he is transformed into a lhama by the powerful witch and also his administrator,Yzma, that was very angry because Kuzco fired her. Lost in the woods, Kuzco will need the help of Pacha, an ordinary poor farmer and lhama herder. Before fighting with Yzma ,Kuzco will learn with Pacha true values of life and friendship. "},{"Title":"An underrated Disney classic","Date":"4 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When you think of Disney's animated classics (and some of the ones that are touted as 'classics' but really aren't) this film rarely comes up but I think it's well worth looking out for because in my opinion it's one of the funniest Disney films.Stripping back a lot of the usual Disney conventions like lots of songs and cute fluffy animals that will sell a lot of toys, this film is more about slapstick and verbal comedy which means it appeals to a wider age range than just kids. I know nowadays this is more common place but back in 2000 this was a big deal.It's bright, it's got a lot of charm and some decent vocal performances (though I can't hear John Goodman's voice these days and not think of Sulley from Monsters Inc) so once your kids have tired of Snow White and co I think The Emperor's New Groove would be worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Puts many newcomers to shame","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is truly amazing what stemmed from The Emperor's New Groove, which at one point seemed like a doomed project. Originally titled Emperor in the Sun, the film was going to focus on a selfish emperor who optimistically switched positions with a peasant look-a-like who would later become the target of an evil witch's plan. She was going to summon a dark spirit to block out the sun to prevent her from aging, almost like a retelling of Dorian Gray.The film developed an untold amount of stress for everyone involved. Producer Randy Fullmer was aggravated that production was moving at a snail's pace and was consistently rushing director, at that time, Roger Allers to speed along, offering him no extensions. The project had to be done as fast as possible in order to meet the strict summer 2000 deadline. Out of options, Disney hired the director Mark Dindal, who had worked on the musical Cats Don't Dance, one of the few animated films not to boast the Disney label, and both him and Allers developed very different story lines for the same film, one focusing on comedy (Dindal's) and one heavy drama and morals (Allers).At the end of the day, Fullmer denied Allers an extension and he abandoned the project, leaving all the weight on Dindal's shoulders. The project did not make the summer 2000 deadline, but went on to be released during the wintertime of that same year, something one must applaud considering the treacherous state it was in for so long. What Dindal managed to do to a project that looked to be a lost cause from there on out is truly astonishing, proving that even the dustiest pieces of work can be polished off to look good. The Emperor's New Groove is a delightful film, occupying a concise runtime, unstoppable action scenes, and fierce and interesting characters rarely striking a wrong note.The story focuses on Emperor Kuzco (voiced by David Spade), the selfish, manipulating emperor of the Inca Empire. After firing his adviser, Yzma (Kitt), her and her dim-witted assistant Kronk (Patrick Warburton, who also voices Joe Swanson from Family Guy) concoct a scheme to kill the Emperor by making him drink a poisonous potion. During a staged dinner, the potion gets switched and Kuzco is turned into an unattractive llama. Hidden inside the bag of Pacha (Goodman), one of the Emperor's peasants, the two realize they must work together, despite being on opposite ends of the food chain, to try and get Kuzco his position back.It is pretty clear that the he was a selfish man story has been well-played out. It was just six years after this that the Pixar film Cars modified the formula and injected it with a nostalgic rush to put it to use. The story is moved along by its refusal to provide a heavy-handed moral or become bogged down with complications from such a simplistic story. This is a genial exercise in smooth, involving animated filmmaking, moved along by its action and its instantly lovable characters.Also, there is something nice about returning to the wholesomeness of an animated picture from the early 2000's. Ever since the creation of full length CGI pictures, which all started with Toy Story in 1995, it appears hand drawn animation and claymation have been unfortunately pushed to the side, while the easier way is taken out. I love CGI animated features, especially the ones from Pixar, but really, how much of the candy-coated colors and the overly cheery atmosphere can you healthily stomach? The early 2000's animation is one of the few successful hybrids, perfectly blending the simplicity of animation with the digitized color enhanced textures.This is also an elegant reminder to parents and teens who enjoy nostalgia that 3D is a tainted gimmick. Here, the characters pretty much gleefully jump off the screen as if boundaries have been shredded, and they are so lively even without the dim colors or the extra dimension. This is the kind of animated feature Disney should be striving for, and they would be much closer to their competition at Pixar.The Emperor's New Groove is animated slapstick, and functions inside such a rare formula so well. It is elegantly voice acted, expertly animated, and it is nothing but surprising that a picture that one seemed doomed has now gone on to be such a remarkable picture.Voiced by David Spade, John Goodman, Eartha Kitt, and Patrick Warburton. Directed by Mark Dindal. "},{"Title":"Good for Families","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove is an animated comedy movie from Disney. This one centers on selfish, greedy, bratty and egoistical (Incan) Emperor Kuzco who wants to build a summer paradise on a nice peasant's house. At the same time, he fires his adviser Yzma and her well-built but dimwitted assistant Kronk who devise a plane to kill the emperor. But instead turn him into a llama and must team up with the peasant, who believes that the emperor is becoming a better person. The jokes were mostly breaking the fourth wall, common slapstick and references. (The Fly reference was hilarious). The story is paced out well, entertaining and easy to understand. I recommend this movie to people who like cartoons.***/***** "},{"Title":"Very funny movie!","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Most Disney movies aim for the serious side, however I was quite impressed with the way this movie went. It told the story of a ruler, only from his perspective. He told the story as if he were the innocent one being hurt and attacked by everyone. But it was quite the opposite.His humor and sarcasm as well as the almost seemingly intentionally dumb yet funny bad guys made the movie entertaining to watch. And the ending was pretty good too, watching the almost exaggerated climatic scene unfold.I liked how it was funny and the one who told the story was the bad guy through most of the warning.I rate this 7/10. "},{"Title":"A great flick that will entertain all ages","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a nice break from the somewhat preachy trend Disney has been having. I like the way things like school, family and friends are presented in a way that shows being nice can be more fun than being mean.Along the way, there are jokes at many levels -- like some of the older cartoons -- so the kids will laugh at some, and the adults will smile at each other at the in jokes for grown-ups.Disney has a long history of putting talent into movies that we wouldn't normally expect to work well together, and making it work. I was pleasantly surprised at Spade's adaptability in the role, and glad to see that old darling Eartha Kitt still getting work. (Mrrowww!) "},{"Title":"When Disney is tired of being Disney... you get this","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove may have a weird title, but is honestly the funniest Disney movie out there. There has never been a Disney movie this funny, and the movie is great because it doesn't even feel like a Disney movie. The animation style is much different, and there is a lot of slapstick in here, but it isn't bad slapstick. The villains are funny, the good guys are funny, and even the squirrels... Basically the plot revolves around a very spoiled, arrogant, self-centered emperor that lives somewhere in South America (when was the last time Disney made a movie in South America?) and his evil adviser tries to poison him, but her henchman (krunk) accidentally mixes up the poison bottle with the transform people into Llama potion. This is entirely original. As mentioned this does not feel like a Disney movie. Can you believe that this movie was originally going to be entirely serious, and have no humor? Seriously. The movie was almost cut because they didn't like it when it was serious. Either way this is a very enjoyable Disney movie, which has no romance whatsoever, and has a lot of original jokes. "},{"Title":"Genius wrapped in a goofy-looking box","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove obviously falls into one of two categories for most people I Loved It, or I Hated It. There's a large segment of society that loves the simplicity and innocence of the Disney formula Beautiful visuals, moralistic value-reaffirmation, and escapism. The millions of people that flock to their movies and to their theme parks are craving this type of entertainment.To these people, Emperor's New Groove didn't fit the mold. It was, bluntly, a Looney Tunes/Tom and Jerry/Woody Woodpecker full-length comedy movie dressed up from the outside like a Disney film. The trailers were hacked-up from the movie's previous incarnation as the epic drama Kingdom Of The Sun, so they could be forgiven for not knowing that they would be seeing a 78 minute movie with the same level of entertainment as Wile E. Coyote getting an Anvil dropped on his head, or Daffy Duck being shot until his beak falls off by Elmer Fudd. They left the theaters somewhat justified in their disappointment and dislike of the film.But some of us... those of us that grew up on Television, on Saturday Morning Cartoons, on Fred Flintstone, Yogi Bear, Bugs Bunny, The Road Runner, JabberJaw, The Banana Splits... this was the movie from Disney that we'd all been waiting for. This was FUNNY. Not hmmmm, that was humorous and a good lesson to boot!, but HAW HAW HAW KUZCO GOT A MOUTH FULL OF BEES!!!. Humor for humor's sake. Laughter for laughter's sake. The characters were just that... CHARACTERS. We weren't expected to identify with any of them, we were just expected to laugh at (and with) them.How this movie made it past Disney Corporate in it's final form, I'll never know. I know that Disney had already sunk millions into Kingdom, and wanted to get something, ANYTHING from their investment, and turned to Mark Dindal, who made the criminally underrated Cats Don't Dance. The end result is unlike any other non-Pixar Disney movie ever irreverent, hilarious, engaging. "}{"Title":"I'm 33 and I still loved this movie!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have an extremely eclectic taste in movies and I can't get enough of the interaction between David Spade and John Goodman. The inside jokes are hilarious (I won't actually mention any, but if you watch closely there are dozens), the sight gags are very original, and the plot was so interesting that I had to watch it several times to catch everything.The only thing that was disappointing was the length (and this is a very minor concern all told anyway). I would have liked a good fifteen minutes or so added on, but C'est la vie!I would say that aside from Toy Story and Toy Story 2, this is my favorite feature length cartoon of all time.Anyway, it is a movie that anyone can enjoy, no matter their age and I would recommend it be a part of everyone's collection, even if they don't normally go for cartoons. "},{"Title":"Great Disney Movie","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Disney movies are known for being highly recommended movies for all ages and the original movies(such as Cinderella,The Little Mermaid, Snow White,Aladdin,etc)are enjoyable classics.Unfortunately,Disney has been running out of ideas and fail to recreate the old Disney magic. This movie however,proved me wrong.This movie is about a self-centered,spoiled and seemingly heartless young Emperor named Kuzco.With the snap of his fingers,he can get anything he wants even if it's a summer home.He only worries about himself and his needs and no one's whatsoever.That all might change with Pacha,a generous,thoughtful,and intelligent everyday peasant.He seems like your average peasant with a middle-class family and some farm animals of his own.He and Kuzco have nothing in common and have a bad start(Kuzco demands that Kuzcotopia,his new summerhouse to be built on top of the hill where Pacha and his family live)but they overcome that throughout the story.Yzma,Kuzco's cunning,stubborn and pessimistic adviser was recently fired and she wants revenge.In return,she decides to poison him with a potion with the help of Kronk,her lovable,dim-witted and humorous right-hand man. Unfortunately,he transforms Kuzco into a llama instead and when he tries to get rid of him,Kronk accidentally drops him on Pacha's cart which Pacha brings all the way to his village without knowing that the emperor is actually in a bag on his cart.With Kuzco far from the palace,leaving Yzma to rule the empire and leaving Kuzco and Pacha to triumph over the obstacles to travel to the palace,what will become of the story?Watch it and view good quality comedy with a pinch of drama and be amazed.I believe this movie is a Disney classic.The magic of Disney returned in this enjoyable story.The characters are well-developed and all three dimensional.Kuzco begins as the spoiled brat who can literally get anything that he wants and throughout the story,he learns the value of friendship and generosity.At first when he turns into a llama,the teenage audience want Kuzco to stay as a llama because of his bad attitude yet later in the story,they're rooting for him to transform back into a human.Pacha may not be the best character but there's no one who can hate him.Pacha already has compassion and generosity from his family life and may seem speechless in some scenes but most of that changes when he meets Kuzco.Pacha is also the one who gets him and Kuzco out of sticky situations in the jungle.In most Disney movies,the villains are serious and seemingly boring but this movie changed that Disney law.Yzma was hilarious as an old and ugly woman who is almost as spoiled as Kuzco.She has clever lines and has impatience which is what makes her humorous.However,Kronk deserves most of the credit for the humor.Kronk is the most lovable character in the whole movie.He delivered his humor with enthusiasm.The squirrel scene cracked me up.I'll rate this movie a 7.9/10 for memorable quotes and a deep friendship built. "},{"Title":"Another View...","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While the Emperor's New Groove doesnt feel like the Disney of old, In my opinion it doesn't suffer for the face lift. The fast and funny wit is both entertaining to young and old alike and the casting of the characters shines. While the film may lack in depth it certainly makes up for it in laughs. If you are expecting an old-school musical you may be disappointed with this tongue in cheek romp, however I really enjoyed this film. "},{"Title":"Extremely Refreshing.  Pure easygoing delight.","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great job, Disney! At last, a movie that's not sickeningly cloying, has no irritating song stuff, disgustingly clicheed story, or CG everyone's fed up with. What it does have is a great humour that will keep you bursting with laughter till the end.  Pure easygoing delight.While adults will enjoy absurdist and sarcastic humour, probably the kind you'll find in Alice in Wonderland, kids will have their own share, and it's a generous one. As with Alice, surprisingly these two parts overlap a great deal.  That's what made Alice a huge hit back a century in England and that's what makes The Groove such a great family movie today.8/10 "},{"Title":"Way to Go, Disney!!!","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This latest Disney animation feature was funnier and wittier than what I expected it to be! Thanks to David Spade as the voice of Emperor Kuzco! He once again proved to the world that he is the King of Sarcasm!I won't recommend this movie to kids though, because most of the jokes are more suitable for mature audience. Hey, you don't want your kid ends up like Kuzco, do you?Whether or not your a fan of David Spade's or Disney's, this movie is worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Good family entertainment","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Good clean family fun with some witty jokes for the adults but plenty of action and simple jokes for the kids.  As is usual now, it is a bit short, just under 1 hour 30mins.  However, it is certainly worth a visit with the children, at least you wont be bored as an adult and they will laugh pretty often. "},{"Title":"This movie grooves like no other!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Emperor's New Groove is one of the funniest movies I've seen in some time, which is especially surprising considering it seemed impossible for it to be good given the clumsy concept and horrible title.  Disney scrapped the singing animals for once and just went for outright laughs, and they scored big in this tale of an emperor with an attitude that gets taken down a peg when he gets changed into a llama.Casting Patrick Warburton (Puddy from Seinfeld) as the Cronk, the lackey to Ertha Kitt's Yzma was sheer genius...if it was possible to receive an academy award for voice work in an animated feature, he'd have it locked up.  Though truly all of the voices are perfect in this movie, and it really does add so much to it.  I know that it hasn't been as successful at the box office as some of the other recent Disney films, and that's a shame, because it deserves more recognition.  I wish more movies like this were made.By the way, for those of you who gave it a 1...what a bunch of grouches!  Someone should turn you into llamas! "},{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Disney has a way with animated motion pictures.  No matter what the form, no matter what the subject, no matter what the genre, they still manage to make very good animated movies.  And THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE is no exception.The kids will love it.  The film has characters that are lovable, villains that aren't that scary, and a story that is easy to follow.   Both entertaining and exciting, it has everything the kiddies will love. The teen to 20's crowd will love it, too.  All the wisecracks and zany in-jokes, the fun and adventure will make this one quite a scream for a young audience looking for a good time.I do feel, however, that an older crowd might be put off by it.  Lots of times the jokes come in at very fast paces and are sometimes hard to pick up on at first glance.  The plot also gets choppy in places.  And a lot of the humor is aimed at the younger audience, thought not too young, but the grandparents in the audience might get bored or confused by it.  Parents may find them amusing, but the only people I heard laughing the whole time were the teens to 20's.  You know when you leave the theatre and are still reciting the dialogue and jokes from the movie that you had fun watching it.  And you know the film was good.  And THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE is just that.It was simple, it was smart, it was funny, and above all, it was a good time.    "},{"Title":"Fun for Everyone","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie with my daughters twice.  The second time, over Christmas weekend, I dragged my 50-something father.  When we returned to my parents' house, he called his 40-something sister, urged her to see the movie, and confessed that he nearly cried from laughing so hard.The humor works better if you are familiar with the brands of humor exhibited by David Spade (Kuzco) -- think Tommy Boy or Just Shoot Me -- and Patrick Warburton (Kronk) -- Seinfeld but more conscientious.The Emporer's New Groove is the kind of movie experience that an entire family can enjoy. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is wonderful, for kids *and* adults. I laughed so hard I was crying! I won't give anything away, but I'll give a little synopsis. Basically, there is this emperor, Kuzco,  who thinks that he's the only one on the planet that matters and makes sure that everyone else knows this. David Spade is the voice of Kuzco, and I don't think anyone could have done as good a job as he did. John Goodman plays the humble, helpful Pacha whose house might be destroyed because of Cuzco's plans for an attraction called Kuzcotopia. The events that follow are extremely entertaining; even I, who am known to fall asleep during action films, paid close attention.I encourage everyone to go see this film, it is definitely worth the money.  "}{"Title":"Just wonderful","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am at a conundrum... Do I give this movie a higher rating just because I liked it that much, or do I stick to my guns and hold to my standard rating system.  This movie was such great fun to see. The kids around me were laughing, the adults too.Disney does it again. I haven't had this much fun since .... since...I don't know when.  A wonderful movie, worthy of viewing. Held my attention, had good laughs, fantastic animation.... I think David Spade latched on to his perfect role here. And it was good seeing (well, hearing from, actually) Eartha Kitt again. She's a great villain. Loved her.Wonderful. Just wonderful.  But about my conundrum?... I'll stick to my guns and give it a solid 6. That says a lot from me. Maybe, just maybe this will end The Grinch's rule at the boxoffice.Go see this, you'll be glad you did.  "},{"Title":"I am the wrong audience for this movie","Date":"11 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before seeing it, I wondered why this film wasn't considered part of the Disney Renaissance. It did well with most critics and performed sufficiently at the box office. But after seeing it once, I see why this is officially put in the Post-Renaissance period for Disney, which could be argued as a Second Dark Age for Disney at the same time that Pixar was exploding. The animation is nice if not as appealing as Renaissance films, some of the characters can be expected to be likable or the other way around, and it does feature a subtle lesson against selfishness, which still didn't convince me since this is a movie meant for Playhouse Disney (nowadays Disney Junior). I can commend Disney for not going in the crude humor direction like with The Lion King (or Brother Bear and Home on the Range from what I've heard), but none of the jokes were ones that I, a 15 year old, found funny, not even Yzma's attempt at wit (she's supposed to be one of the more comical Disney villains). I boosted its score for attempting to branch out from just preschoolers to second graders, but I would skip this for how comedy aside, it's simply tedious. "},{"Title":"This movie is really funny, but I think it could have had a few changes.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've always owned this animated comedy on VCR ever since I was in Elementary School, and in those days this would often be one of my movie rewards for Wednesday nights if I behaved well in school and did what I was told to do. I also like to quote this movie out loud often which always makes me laugh, like Hit the road, Bucky! and Is there anything on this menu that is not swimming in gravy?! There's lots of lines that are hilarious, but then others that make me angry like You want to keep me stranded out here FOREVER. and Couldn't see you, why not?! What I liked best about Yzma, this movie's villain, is that not only is she funny and voiced by the late, great, Eartha Kitt, but also she turns into a pretty gray cat during the climactic battle at the Incan palace, that kind of looks like the color of a cat I currently own at my house who is a Russian Blue named Shadow (who is a male cat, BTW). I also like the part where Pacha says Lions, Tigers, Bears and then Yzma says Oh my! in reference to the iconic line from the masterpiece The Wizard of Oz.However, there is something about this comedy that I probably would have liked to see differently, and that's just two elements. The first is that I would have loved this movie a lot if comedian actor Bob Hoskins (Eddie Valiant from Who Framed Roger Rabbit) had voiced Kuzco in this one instead of David Spade, who was not smart by starring in a horrible and lousy film called Grown Ups with Adam Sandler and Kevin James who are terrible actors to me as well.And the other thing wrong here, I'm not a huge fan of the music of the singer Sting from the band The Police (who I actually like as a group band), so while I think the song My Funny Friend and Me is an impressive music idea, I would actually love the song if the well-known pianist and singer Elton John, had wrote that song and sung it instead of Sting (Oh well, what are you going to do?).All in all, though, I would recommend this animated film if you're entertained by most of the cast as I am, or if you're interested in studying about the Incan Empire this takes place during (which is also one of my interests). "},{"Title":"The Emperor's New Film.","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove (2000) Dir Mark Dindal / Voices David Spade, John Goodman, Eartha Kitt, Patrick Warburton, Wendie Malick Hilarious animation suggesting the new groove as personality and perspective delivered from the influence of pride and greed. We meet the selfish Emperor who decides to build a summer home where a peaceful village already exists. A kindhearted peasant travels to the palace in hopes of reasoning with him and convincing him to build elsewhere but he is ignored. Central plot regards a scheme by the Emperor's adviser that has him transformed into a llama. From there the deformed Emperor must rely on the peasant for help. Although the plot is simple, the delivery results in one of the funniest animations ever made. Well directed by Mark Dindal who previously made another animation called Cats Don't Dance. David Spade is hilarious voicing the whiny voice of the Emperor. John Goodman voices the patient peasant. We know where this is headed and that the Emperor will be transformed back and terms will be met peacefully with the peasant. Eartha Kitt voices the cranky plotting adviser, while Patrick Warburton is side-splitting funny as her henchmen Kronk. Other roles are more simplistic or a variety that have been presented in one form or another in other animations. This will dazzle families who will marvel at its new groove. Score 8  / 10 "},{"Title":"Groove","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember back in the early internet days that Emperor's New Groove should originally had been the musical Kingdom of the sun.It would had been interesting to have seen how Kingdom of the Sun would had been.Now this movie is about a spoiled emperor.But, he gets turned into a lama on his Birthday instead of getting a poison.Then the lama and his friends goes out on a journey back to the palace.On the way a lot of fourth wall jokes are shown.In the meanwhile two villains chases them down.Like in a bizarre scene in a caf.But, at least the llama gets back to a man again.The background animation is beautiful.Some of the animation parts are like the good old fashioned ones like a drunk Looney Tunes.Way back then it did not fare so good, but now it is cult.10/10 "},{"Title":"Very fast and funny situational comedy","Date":"14 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Originally this movie was supposed to be released under the name of Kingdom of the Sun, director by Mark Dindal and Roger Allers, the latter being a co-director of The Lion King. It was going to be a more traditional Disney adventure musical. Unfortunately the studio and Allers didn't see eye to eye, and eventually the whole idea was scrubbed and the existing material was turned into a buddy comedy.And as far as saving jobs go, they could have done a lot worse. You can definitely see that they had to cut a lot of corners to get the film out on schedule, but the movie has a lot of style, great sense of humour and very likable characters. It's one of the funniest Disney films I've ever seen - if not THE funniest - and stands out from the rest of the canon.The basic premise is that an Incan emperor named Kuzco gets turned into a llama after he fires his royal adviser, Yzma, who happens to be a sorceress of some talent - aren't they all. And now Kuzco has to get back into his palace in order to turn back into a man. The only problem is that the only man who can help him is also the chief of the village he intends to raze to the ground in order to build a summer home for himself. Not a very complicated plot as far as Disney films go, but it's the comedy that brings people back to this film. And that works beautifully. All four of the main characters have very good voice actors and they all have great chemistry together. The film also takes full advantage of its animated nature, giving us some really imaginative scenarios and gags.The only real problem I have is that the plot is very predictable and that the animation, while working very well in terms of comedic value, does look kind of cheap by Disney standards. Plus, while I enjoy the fact that Kuzco starts out very unorthodox for a Disney lead, his eventual character development is about as clichd as you can get.Still, I do like the film a lot and it's an easy recommendation for anyone that enjoys Disney and for anyone that appreciates light-hearted comedies. "},{"Title":"Is This the Movie to Watch?","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a quick short summary and opinion of The Emperor's Groove. The Emperor's Groove is a story based on a pharaoh who takes granted of all of the stuff he has and he thinks he is the best in the world. Then things start to get fired up, The pharaoh fired his assistant and she needs revenge. The pharaoh's used to be assistant tries to poison the pharaoh but instead she actually turns him into a lama. Then a poor village leader helps the pharaoh, but he is mad at the pharaoh because he is going to destroy the village the guy lives in.In opinion The Emperor's Groove is a well rounded movie and is great to watch as a family. If this movie had a rating of 1 to 5 I would give it a 5, because it is meant for families with children who enjoy watching movies with their parents. There are a lot of funny parts to this movie, there is nothing inappropriate in this movie and is perfect for children. This movie's story is really creative and fun to watch even for me! This movie is nice to watch with family or just yourself. Hope this review helps you chose the next perfect movie for your family. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Family Night!","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emporer's New Groove is a great movie to watch with your kids on a Friday night! It is about an emperor (Kuzco) who is accidentally turned into a llama by his jealous ex-adviser. Kuzco is left out in the wild trapped in a llama's body. As the movie goes on, his only hope to recapture his throne is with the help of one of the head villagers. He encounters many adventures. Kuzco must return to his palace before his adviser and her assistant kill him. This movie is filled with adventure and comedy. Although, Kuzco encounters many hardships, he overcomes them with hardwork, determination, and humbleness. The Emporers's New Groove is an awesome movie to show your young children to teach them important life lesson. I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Emperor's New Groove","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In this epic comedy from Disney, David Spade plays Emperor Kuzco, a spoiled ruler who wants to tear down a village just so he can build a summer home. But two wacky villains played by Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton try to put him out of his misery and accidentally give him a potion that turns him into a llama. Coming across a peasant played by John Goodman, the Emperor goes out on a journey to reclaim his throne and learn the lesson of being selfish. When it comes to doing a buddy-buddy comedy, Disney really nailed this one good. All the jokes are G rated, getting both children and adults laughing hard every time. The animation is solid and it's one of those movies that was a great way for Disney to start the new millennium. "},{"Title":"A fun Disney Film","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of those rare Disney films that isn't a musical but manage to hold up on it's own against other movies from Disney.The Emperor's New Groove is a comedy animation movie that tells the story of Emperor Kuzco (Voiced by David Spade) after he is turned into a llama by Yzma (Voiced by Eartha Kitt) with her henchman Kronk (Voiced by Patrick Warburton) must seek help from Pacha (Voiced by John Goodman). What makes the film different from other films of Disney is the fact the film breaks the fourth wall now that is not something you have seen too many times in their films but for the plot it actually works and makes it more funny to. The animation in this film is very well done and the hand drawn animation is very impressive as they timed each scene just right and the character designs are very good in this film as well as superb backgrounds. Also the humor really works for this film and some of the most creative lines ever written came into this movie; The music in the movie set the tone for the film which helps deserve it very well. The voice acting is excellent, Surprising that David hasn't done many animation films because he did a very good job in this film, John Goodman does a excellent job in this film and help makes his character believable. Eartha's performance was just right for Yzma the main antagonist of the film she really deliver here. Patrick was pretty good as Kronk and he made the character very likable and funny throughout the film. It's a smart choice that they didn't make this into a musical style because it might not had work but nevertheless the film does well on it own. The film has some of the most entertaining scenes ever and will make you laugh. Also the film focus more character development and the relationship with the characters you actually can appreciate them and they make the film work very well. With very good animation, a clever story, and very well done voice acting you can't go wrong. I give The Emperor's New Groove an 8 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A movie full of swinging and falling but also heart","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rating-8/10The Emperor's New Groove is a Disney animated movie about Kuzco the little emperor of a vast land and his journey when some certain characters turn against him and well, turn him into a llama. It's full of heart this movie but also importantly fun too, sure Kuzco and David Spade who voices him can get annoying but it's really the other characters in this movie you have to love. This is one of the best received Disney films of the early 2000's and no wonder why, it's unique and feels fresh amongst the crowd of Disney made animations.The film goes along at a nice pace, not too fast but not too slow and for it's running time of only 78 minutes, it manages to get in everything it needs. Kuzco as mentioned is our main man and his adventure is pretty fun, add in the stupidly funny character of Kronk(Patrick Warburton), the power mad Yzma(Eartha Kitt) and the humblest of them all, peasant Pacha(John Goodman) and you have yourself one hell of a story. It starts and ends very nicely and could possibly get better and better as it goes on, just good fun and not just for the kids either.I loved the design and animated location of this movie, set in the old style kingdoms of Incan times it just bursts with colour and contains beautifully created sets and really can at times make you admire it. I think it was a gamble for Disney to go with what they went with though, luckily the story is interesting because if not, the film would be all show and no actual heart to it, but this movie has both in abundance. I said about Kuzco being kind of annoying and I do find David Spade a kind of, little annoyance in this movie, the only member of the cast I disliked really. Although I say what I say, Spade is still not bad and it would be too mean of me to criticise how he sounds, it's Kuzco himself who is big headed but I do think where he lies best is when he is in scenes with Pacha and John Goodman's booming but also kind of calm voice. You'll come to like certain characters but for me Kronk is by far the highlight, very dumb but hilarious and because of it he provides the majority if not nearly all laughs, a well placed move from Disney.Mark Dindal directs OK and David Reynolds writes at the same level, Dindal works best in the more action packed moments full of running and swinging and the such where as Reynolds only really works well in the funniest of moments and especially with good old Kronk. I felt this movie had a surprising amount of depth to it, even at times powerful emotion, Pacha the kind peasant is a beautifully created character and provides the complete opposite kind of outlook than that of Kuzco, again a well played move from the people behind this but also that this film is more than comedy. I think the Emperors New Groove is a fine movie and one I couldn't recommend more, and that's to adults and children as this movie is not so childish and actually can be funny. Sweet short and a lovely little tale, this is one film I can see many who haven't already seen it liking and maybe who knows, loving it. "},{"Title":"Light hearted Disney fun","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In The Emperor's New Groove, an emperor is turned into a llama by his evil ex administrator and works with a llama herder to get his throne back. Certainly not the most ambitious or sophisticated of animated films, TENG is a light heated buddy comedy which runs on comic gags and energetic jokes. In terms of entertainment level it hits the mark. The animation looks good and visually the film works well, but what makes it work is the humour. The film often resembles an automatic joke dispenser as the inventive, witty and biting gags never stop flowing and the film maintains a very good pace throughout. 90 minutes was definitely the right length for the movie and it manages not to run out of steam. Another fun thing about the film is how it is timeless since it's set in the past but features many modern elements. The script oozes with laughs and is amusingly meta, with the emperor providing some amusing narration throughout the film.There are problems with TENG though. The buddy relationship at the centre of the film is clich, predictable and rushed, while the emperor himself is a pretty unlikable character. There are dips here and there, the consistently zany and funny atmosphere means tension falls by the wayside. Ultimately, this is never more than light entertainment although that isn't ultimately a problem even if it means you're unlikely to remember the film as much as some other Disney movies. With it's entertainingly over the top set pieces and fittingly silly tone, this will entertain many kids and some but not all of the adults. Disney just strip the story down to the comedy and entertainment here and it mostly works. An entertaining movie for the whole family to watch together, TENG hits the comedy notes with skill and is a good time. It's not a lot more than that but it is a jolly good time.7/10 "},{"Title":"Not a Classic But It's Entertaining","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove (2000)*** (out of 4) Emperor Kuzco is an annoying, mean and self-centered jerk who fires the wrong old lady because she turns around with the help of a brain dead assistant and turns the Emperor into a llama. Soon the llama is in the forest with his only help coming from Pacha, a man was told by the Emperor that his home was going to be destroyed for a new resort.If you're coming to this Disney movie expecting one of their classics then you're going to walk away disappointed. Disney has built up such a strong reputation and have delivered so many terrific films that whenever they release just a good one, it's hard for that film to really stand out. That's pretty much what happened to THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE because it's a nice little time-killer but at the same time it's certainly not one of the studios best movies.There are a few issues here but the biggest is that there's just nothing here that really stands out or becomes classics. Everything here is good but nothing is great if you will. I think the weakest aspect is the story itself because it's just a bit too predictable for its own good as you know what's going to end up happening in the end. With that said, the majority of the characters are extremely likable with Pacha (voiced by John Goodman) and Kronk (voiced by Patrick Warburton) really standing out. The evil Yzma makes for a good villain but it's hard to love to hate her because the Emperor himself is so annoying and ugly that you really can't hate or dislike the villain for trying to knock him off.The film, as you'd expect, features some terrific animation and there's no doubt that the music score is a winner too. THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE isn't a masterpiece but as long as you don't go into the film expecting one you should find this to be a decent time-killer. "},{"Title":"Very kid-friendly and pretty good fun, but its a weak entry from Disney","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Often there are those kids movies you love and when you rewatch when you're a grown up you discover a lot more about why you loved them. Shrek has its Lord Faarquad, Toy Story 2 has Buzz's wings ejecting, and The Emperor's New Groove has...well, a llama voiced by David Spade strutting around being David Spade. Maybe this isn't one of those.But it would be unfair to judge a kid's film on its appeal to adults. The story is still fun, there are a smattering of jokes (definitely ones that will appeal to kids - talking animals, slapstick and goofy Kronk being goofy), and is full of colour. The film's highlights include the voice acting of Patrick Warburton and John Goodman (both voice-acting staples) and also Eartha Kitt's villain, who is memorable even though she could easily pass for Cruella de Ville. Towards the end of the film, there are a couple of fourth wall breaks that make for a good chuckle as well.As for flaws, well Kuzco undergoes a remarkable transformation in a remarkably short and convenient amount of time. David Spade is neurotic and I cannot bear him, even just as a voice actor I know he's there. And ultimately, Emperor's New Groove can't help but feel like a shallow Disney effort.Its still an easy, fun watch, but its a more inferior Disney film and you'll get far more enjoyment from watching the superior aforementioned Shrek and Toy Story 2. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's Cleverest and Most Unique Films,","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove is a fantastic movie with a really well written storyline and a terrific voice cast. It is a very smart and unexpected turn from Disney, every time I watch it I just can't believe they ever allowed it be made, it's constant use of breaking the fourth wall and adult innuendos surprise me each time. The use of breaking the fourth wall is definitely my favourite part of the movie and is what makes it so fun and unique, it is mostly done by the main character Kuzco, who questions the films premise constantly and pauses it throughout because he is confused whenever he isn't on the screen, this type of thing can be annoying at times in movies, but it works out perfectly here and I never got annoyed. All the characters in this movie are great and likable in their own way, my favourite is Kronk, every line of dialogue by him is memorable and he had me in stitches most of the time. Very funny, smart and a huge risk from Disney that worked out well, the Emperor's New Groove is very enjoyable and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a film for the whole family to enjoy. After a king is transformed in to a llama by an evil woman looking to take his place on the throne, he must get the help of a friendly village man in order to turn back to normal. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's best (and most underrated) features","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Every Disney movie has funny moments. But not many are funny nonstop. That's where The Emperor's New Groove checks in.This madcap adventure follows the bratty Incan emperor Kuzco (voiced perfectly by David Spade) after he fires his long-time adviser, Yzma (Eartha Kitt's crowning achievement). With the help of her ridiculously stupid henchman Kronk (Patrick Warburton aka David Puddy), Yzma plots to kill Kuzco and take over the kingdom.Meanwhile, kindly peasant Pacha (John Goodman) has learned that Kuzco is about to destroy his village to make room for the royal summer home.Groove is Disney's sassiest, funniest animated feature to date, building upon the foundation laid by the Genie in Aladdin and the overall tone of Hercules to perfect the comic blueprint.This is the only Disney movie I've watched over 20 times. Trust me, it's that good. You won't regret trying this oddball, inventive film out. It breaks the fourth wall and importantly doesn't have any romance or cheesy songs. At only 67 minutes, it's also one of Disney's shortest. But it's quite economical with those minutes.Highly recommended, for all ages! "},{"Title":"Funniest Disney movie that inspired the tone of Guardians of the Galaxy.","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie Emperor's New Groove is very funny. It's clever humor and story somewhat inspired Guardians of the Galaxy. David Spade did a great job voicing Kuzco. Yzma is so funny. The movie is highly quotable and shows a lesson about caring about others. My favorite part is where Yzma turns into a cat with a potion. So very funny. James Gunn must have loved this movie because James Gunn makes funny movies. James Gunn must have used a lot of funny parts inspired from this movie and other movies including Footloose, Star Wars and Raiders of the Lost Ark. James Gunn should like this movie and the message of the movie is similar to Guardians. "},{"Title":"almost Shakespeare","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Haha I have two words for you guys Kronk. He is definitely by far the funniest person in the movie The Emperor's New Groove by Disney. I like how he is voiced by Joe from family guy. It's nice to see Patrick Warburton doing another voice for an animated character because it feels like he NEVER does that. My favorite part is when Kronk is trying to dispose of the body of the supposed recently deceased Kuzco because his boss wants him to (who hasn't been there right guys? ROFL) but he does the stereotypical angel devil shoulder thing. I also like that John Goodman is in it because who doesn't love John Goodman? He's a national treasure (tm). All in all you should watch it because David Spade is in it and honestly guys he needs the work. Maybe if you watch this he will be hired for more things. "},{"Title":"The Characters are Fan-Frickin-Tastic!","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know I said in my Tarzan review that it may be underrated, but I think this film is definitely underrated! I don't hear many people talk about it, and it didn't gross as much money as the earlier movies did. Why? I don't get it! This movie is a gem! You wouldn't expect a movie like this from Disney, but maybe that's part of the reason it's good!ANIMATION I enjoy how it looks here. First of all, this doesn't look like the films we had just seen from Disney a decade ago. Unlike Hercules, though, where the animation didn't look very good, here it contributes to the tone of the movie. The movements are fast, so as to compliment the comedic moments and expressions. I guess my only complaint about the animation is Kronk and Pacha look very much alike. Their clothes help us tell one from the other, but their designs look nearly identical.SONGS/MUSIC The theme song was cool, I guess...Uh, yeah. Next.ROMANCE ...A Disney movie without a romance?! Really? The film even set up a scenario for a romance in the beginning. He's presented young women who he can take as a wife, and the film doesn't move forward with it. We never see it again. Wow, that's rare...CHARACTERS Here we go! These characters make this film! I cannot think of a character I don't like. Pacha isn't as entertaining as the rest, but his kindness and pleasantness are enjoyed in comparison to the other main characters who aren't as kind or pleasant. Kuzco is rude and pompous, but he's the type of rude and pompous that's enjoyable. I like watching him. He's funny and entertaining, but he still has a story arc in which he realizes the error of his ways. Of course we all love Yzma and Kronk! These guys are some awesome villains! I know almost nothing they plan ever works, but you don't really want their plans to work because you have such a good time laughing at them! They are a fantastic duo! They work so well together! Pacha's kids can be a little annoying, but I like them overall, and I enjoy the wife too...Dude, did you hear her snort when Pacha got back home? That was funny!STORY The story is OK, I suppose. When you really analyze it, it's like any other Disney movie or buddy comedy two people who don't like each other have to take this voyage together as a villain is causing chaos; the two learn something about each other, a misunderstanding takes place that drives the two away from each other, they come back together, they stop the villain, and they live awesomely. It's not that special, but, like I said, what really drives it are the characters and the jokes. If it weren't for them, this would easily be a dull movie.CONCLUSION This movie is amazing; I don't think I've seen a Disney movie that was fantastic solely because of the characters. The jokes are hilarious, the animation is impressive, and, again, the characters are fan-frickin-tastic! If you haven't seen it, check it out! You'll love it! God bless you. BOOYIKA! "},{"Title":"Fun movie; really sneaks up on you","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What's really surprising about The Emperor's New Groove is how likable David Spade is. One wrong move and that voice can be abusive to the ear holes. But he works here, and fits in wit some good performances that elevate this movie above its mid-tier Disney material (Eartha Kitt's a good villain, and John Goodman provides all the movie's heart). I dig this flick's sense of humor, and the animation is top-notch (you don't see Incan architecture every day, and the animators do it justice).But it's Patrick Warburton who handily walks away with the entire thing, and it's one of my favorite Warburton performances (outside of The Tick). He's got all the best lines and he's endearing as all hell, making Kronk one of the best Disney characters.7/10 "}{"Title":"Disney's New Groove","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'The Emperor's New Groove' continued an emerging tradition in new millennium Disney, straying further from the Broadway-inspired hit features that characterised the studio's output the decade prior. A satirical cautionary tale, it possibly remains one of the company's most underrated efforts.Having had a turbulent production, it's interesting to see that the 'Emperor' which finally saw the light of day is a witty, almost cruel antithesis to all the positivity associated with the Mouse House. There are several times when the film jars so much with the Disney philosophy that it feels like it doesn't belong in an animated canon of classics including such beloved, whimsical features as 'Snow White' and 'The Lion King'. But this isn't to detract from what is a hilarious, still (somehow) family friendly feature; it's just that it is worth pondering what led to the version of 'The Emperor's New Groove' that saw release at the start of a near ten year period where the studio's successive releases rapidly declined in quality and relevance to the Disney ethos.As hard as it is to believe, John Goodman lent his voice talent to Disney long before he played Sulley in 'Monsters, Inc', which is an excellent reminder of how this film was so quickly, and so easily, forgotten. What's most notable is the satire - the film is saturated with it - would soon be popularised by the likes of 'Shrek' as other animation studios emerged.While a viewing for parental guidance purposes beforehand shouldn't be scoffed at, 'The Emperor's New Groove' is, by large, wholesome family entertainment, just not in the same vein as the Disney you may be familiar with. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove really enjoys me from doing work. So i all did was go to the computer and Emperor's New Groove then me and my dad saw it and i laughed and my dad laughed more. This movie really should make a third called The Emperor's New Groove 3 Pacha's New Groove (thinking). This movie is just so funny and entertaining. I love the actors for example David Spade (Grown Ups),John Goodman (The Big Lebowski) and Eartha Kitt (singer as well). For finding out that was meant to be the best comedy film of 2000 it didn't get any awards. This movie i should really appreciate it's comedy and family slapstick. This movie i rated 10 stars because that is so funny movie.Made by LucaElliot (gsa@nortrail.no) "},{"Title":"The Emperor's New Groove","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Based very very loosely on the Hans Christian Andersen tale (by the title only really, almost), this Disney flick came outta nowhere at the start of the new decade. At first appearances it didn't look or sound too good either truth be told. A weird title, David Spade in a Disney animation? offbeat looking animation and a wacky spoof-like approach, not exactly the stuffy classical Disney you'd expect.So yes this is a bold move away from the traditional cuddly Disney we all know of. The first thing you notice is the lack of musical numbers (thank God!), there are none I do believe, none whatsoever, and its quite refreshing giving more time for fun and story. The other thing that hits you is the change in pace animation and artistic style wise, no more Disney eyes folks. This film has a very vibrant zany blend of styles which sees a bit of old style Disney in characters, countryside and native dwellings, mixed with some cool straight symmetrically geometric shaped artwork for the royal Peruvian temples within the royal city. The visuals are glorious as usual with the Peruvian countryside and jungles looking lush and green with rolling hills, deep valleys and blue waters. On the flip side the royal palaces and temples are adorned with beautiful symmetric carvings in the walls, massive angular sculptures and lots of uniform guards. The palace tends to be more golds reds and yellows at first but when 'Yzma' takes over everything goes purple and blue. I especially liked the neon flurry of purples, pinks and blues down in the laboratory, that was a bizarre inclusion out of the blue (no pun intended).As said I couldn't see satirical smartass David Spade in a Disney animation, not by a long shot, but blow me down he actually does a good job with his whiny voice. He is perfect as the spoilt Emperor 'Kuzco' (word play on Cusco in Peru) and actually fits the llama character even better. All the main voice actors in the main roles are really good actually, my favourite easily being Warburton as 'Kronk', that guys voice is just funny...it just is!, his character is brilliantly matched to him also. Same can be said for Kitt as Yzma who was clearly designed around her. Believe it or not but there are only four main characters in the entire film! yep just four, but you don't even notice it.The film is pretty quick to the chase really, not overly long and not overly complicated, but it is quite original in a way. The action can be crazy and over the top feeling more like a weekend cartoon rather than an uncle Walt flick but its thoroughly enjoyable at every turn. My only quibble would be the fact it feels stretched out quite badly, the plot clearly isn't enough to cover a proper run time and you can tell. The whole film could of ended after about 30mins really, both of the two main characters never really feel as if they're that far from the royal city/palace. Oh and 'Pacha's' sweet adoring family make you wanna gag...but that's about it.Certainly a shocker this one, didn't think it would be any good and yet it turns out to be one of the best Disney adventures I've seen for a long long time. The colourful visuals, quirky unconventional (for Disney) artistic style, brisk pace and amusing llama characterisation by Spade are all winners in my book, plus there isn't too much schmaltz. But boy you better believe by the end Kuzco has learnt his lesson in humility and how to be a nice guy and not just thinking about himself all the time. Yeah there's always a good moral in every Disney flick, can't escape em.8/10 "},{"Title":"Instant classic","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I saw the trailer on the VHS tapes for other Disney movies I was a bit skeptical. Then at the age of 8 it went on TV and I thought of giving it a chance...and that was a great idea. The story itself is nice and easy enough to follow and had a great dose of great Disney comedy (before Disney went complete *beep* with it's terrible sitcoms). The characters are not just characters, they have great personalities even if Kuzco is a bit of a dick in the beginning. The characters are also excellently voiced.This movie became an instant classic to me when I saw it even though it is still one of the shorter Disney movies (77 minutes). If you find this for a decent enough price or in a bargain bin, I recommend you to pick it up. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Disney animated movies","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kuzco is the selfish emperor of the large Incan kingdom. His scheming adviser, Yzma, turns the self-absorbed king into a llama to gain control of his throne and become its new ruler. The transformed Kuzco awakens to find himself banished from his royal city. He must join forces with a villager named Pacha to regain his leadership and find a cure that will turn him back into the man he once was.The Emperor's New Groove is one of my favorite Disney animated movies. It features an all-star voice cast including David Spade, John Goodman, Patrick Warburton, and the late Eartha Kitt. Each one of these actors gives their characters depth and successfully brings them to life. This launched enough audience interest to convince Disney to make a direct- to-DVD sequel and a television show.There's some great humor found in The Emperor's New Groove. Of course, we get David Spade's sarcasm and wit. Patrick Warburton keeps audiences laughing in delight as he plays the no brains - all brawn henchman of Yzma named Kronk. It also helps that the movie isn't a musical. There's some musical numbers, but the character's don't stop dead in their tracks and start bellowing out a song every five minutes like many of the classic Disney films.The Emperor's New Groove is a great tool to help teach children the importance of thinking about how your actions affect others. It also shows how selfishness can cloud your judgment and hurt people. Disney continues to find entertaining ways to tell a tale of morality and be enjoyable at the same time. "},{"Title":"Funny and brisk","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This bright, wildly imaginative, and wicked fast paced animated comedy stands strong. The story is silly, but has so great messages for kids. The voice cast, John Goodman in particular, is great and truly captures the animated performances. The vibrant and colorful pallet is also a great draw here. The Emperor's New Groove is strongly crafted. The music is also nice, featuring an original score and some music by Sting...an interesting collaboration that works. It might have some continuity issues and silly cartoon antics, but this is a fun, exciting, constantly moving film. It is a very funny animated film and is always a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Ever!!","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! Go see it if you have not!!I don't know what people are talking about, saying it has no character, saying that it's not funny, and that the jokes are really lame. (Seriously, do you not have your sense of humour?) Some people are saying that only people under '6' will enjoy it. (HELLO! I am way over 6 and I absolutely adore this movie!) I especially love the Shoulder Angel/Devil guys. (Oh, come off it. YOU come off it! You. You! You. You infinity. Grr...)I really love this movie and I really hope you did too. If not, you are entitled to your own opinion, but I really think you should go to the doctor and get your humour checked. (If you didn't get that joke, you have absolutely NO sense of humour. Which is sad.) "},{"Title":"Is this the most hilarious Disney movie?","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can't believe that this movie is over 10 years old. I remember going to the theater to first watch this movie and I loved it. I may have been very young during that time, but the funny-looking characters and the outrageous scenes that they were in, were enough to keep my 5-year-old self entertained. Now that I'm older, I think that I can better appreciate this movie because now, I can understand the sharp one-liners and jokes. The dialogue in this film is a hoot and a half. It's very witty, really! Adults and children are sure to have fun with this movie.After watching this, I had to check what company produced this film. It's a Walt Disney animation! Who would have thunk! The humor is excellent! Almost every scene will have you either smiling, giggling, chuckling, laughing or just leave you speechless with the hilarity of it all. Just because this is an animated film made for children, I believe that even adults will enjoy this. The humor. It is brilliant. Really.Aside from the mirth that this movie gives, there is a good plot! And this film shows great character development and leaves people with a good moral and a great feeling. But humor is really what dominates this film and makes it what it is. "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperors New Groove is a great family film about an Emperor who has developed some habits along with a very rude personality. It starts of with the Emperor Kuzco voiced by David Spade who invites a simple peasant named Pacha whose voiced by John Goodman into his empire. He then tells Pacha that he must soon move out of his house and make way for Kuzco's new water park. Devastated Pacha soon returns home. Later that night the antagonist of the story Yzma voiced by Earth Kitt, invites Kuzco to dinner as a gesture of no hard feelings for firing her. Their plan however is to poison him, but Kronk voiced by Patrick Warburton grabs the wrong potion changing Kuzco from a human to a llama, and so the adventure begins. This is a great leap from modern day family films in which it chooses a lesser known piece of history dealing with the Mayans and Aztec people. Its a humorous storyline mixed with bits and pieces of action. The cast of characters are great and you also get a feel for them as the plot progresses. Kuzco and Pacha then become the two protagonist as they must put aside their differences and work together to get back to the palace. This teaches children valuable lessons such a team work and friendship and how important they really are. The style and music is great to, The Emperors New Groove really delivers and is a must see for the younger audiences. I give this film a 90% simply because of the originality and the wonderful storyline that this film has. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Disney has made many great animated films like, Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, and The Little Mermaid. But one of there greatest movie's Disney has ever made is, The Emperor's new groove. The story is about a spoiled emperor named Kuzco who get's turned into a llama by his administrator, Yzma. Kuzco has to regain his thrown with the help of a llama Herder named Pacha. What I love about this movie is that every scene is laugh-out loud funny. The movie also has some good voice acting. David Spade does a nice job as Kuzco and Patrick Warburton does a funny job as Kuzco. The movie also has some good animation.Overall, The Emperors New Groove, is a fun animated film to watch and will make you laugh from start to finish.5/5 "}{"Title":"Groovy!","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I always thought this movie slipped under the radar - certainly not normally mentioned in the canon of Disney Greats, like The Little Mermaid, Beauty & The Beast, The Lion King, etc.The Empereror's New Groove is therefore a delightful surprise - beautifully animated, well paced and with a generous dollop of genuinely funny moments. David Spade is terrific as the spoilt, arrogant Kuzco, while Eartha Kitt hams it up nicely as Ysma, the evil aid (kind of like a very thin Ursula, from The Little Mermaid).As other reviewers have mentioned, the humour is appealing to adults, without resorting to crude innuendos.If you've not seen this, you and your kids will love it! "},{"Title":"Not even close to being a Disney classic, but it is still very enjoyable.","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This a nice little film for a family to pull out a a rainy day. It isn't something that will be called an animated classic years from now like The Lion King, but it is entertaining for a whole family. Jokes are all very nice. You'll be chuckling throughout, and you'll blasting out a laugh every once in a while. Characters are very good in the film. Little kids will most likely be doing impersonations of Kronk a lot. The animation is nice also. When it starts out raining it looks pretty good. There is not really any strong emotion to be found in this movie. It is what it is, and what it is is a very enjoyable film that will entertain a family.3 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Fantastic Disney rama-llama-ding-dong.","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Disney movie quite unlike any other traditionally animated Disney movie you've ever seen, I really hope that one day The Emperor's New Groove starts to receive the love it deserves. With a rather strange, yet still strangely beautiful, style and no big musical numbers save one from the theme guy this feels more like a Pixar film mixed with some Loony Tunes which is no bad thing.The story revolves around the selfish Emperor Kuzco (voiced in a wonderfully amusing whiny manner by David Spade), a happy-go-lucky, carefree chap unphased by anything until he is turned into a llama by the adviser he fired (Yzma, voiced by Eartha Kitt). Once he realises the situation he has to enlist the help of Pacha (John Goodman) to get him back to his palace and make things right. Unfortunately, Pacha is one person who is in no hurry to see the emperor return thanks to Kuzco's selfish plans for Pacha's village that will lead to major upset and upheaval.Sounding a bit off the wall? You have no idea. This movie does it all. There are a succession of great verbal and visual gags, a number of lesser characters given moments to shine (including Pacha's family, a chatty squirrel and, of course, Yzma's assistant Kronk who is voiced by the excellent Patrick Warburton) and a constant sense of barely restrained anarchy. The fourth wall is broken, voiceovers are interrupted and even camera moves are criticised when things stray too far from the focus of the proceedings. All in all, it's fantastic fun. Director Mark Dindal proved, with this and Chicken Little, that he has a knack for making animated comedies that can please every audience member, regardless of age, and I hope he gives us even more great entertainment in future.See this if you like Chicken Little, The Incredibles, The Emperor's New Groove 2 Kronk's New Groove. "},{"Title":"Awesome fun!!","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not the biggest Disney fan in the world. I enjoy Disney classics Dumbo, Lady and the Tramp, Cinderella and Snow White. To Live action classics Bedknobs and Broomsticks Mary Poppins. But of their movies in the past 20 years the only ones that come to mind were Beauty and the Beast and Aladdin. I am generally disheartened by all the singing and dancing, sappy romance stories, talking objects, etc. Emperor's New Groove is the exception.I can't believe so many people bag on this movie!! It's fun, fresh and there's maybe 2 musical numbers in the whole thing, and even they're short. David Spade and John Goodman voice the two main roles, a spoiled brat emperor turned Llama, and the good hearted peasant who helps him. Supported by some amazing voice work from Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton, this movie succeeds in being the Disney Anti Disney. Preferring to fill it's running time with tongue in cheek humor, funny gags, and humor to keep both the adults and kiddies amused!!I was pleasantly surprised and highly recommend the watch! A wonderful change in pace from the usual repeat romance and dance numbers. "},{"Title":"I'm pretty sure I heard some singing on the hill next to us","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Boom baby! The Emperor's New Groove, now almost an eight year old classic, still surprises us to this very day.. of almost eight years later. Traditionally animated The Emperor's New Groove, Disney's answer to Brother Bear (which was animated years later).The Emperor Kuzco is turned into a llama, and just in time! He was planning on building his summer home on top of a hill which means that Pacha who already lives there is gone. What are the odds that the two are going to meet, help each other, and become friends, huh? Pacha just happens to be a llama herder. Ouch! And he's going to be the one to turn Kuzco into a Human, no matter what. Even if his house is going to be destroyed because he's just a good guy.Great movie. I enjoyed it. One of Disney's best. A great ending, too! Hilarious to be in fact. Shh, shh. I'm not gonna spoil. "},{"Title":"Boom Baby!","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take A wacky good time for the whole family. By the time the studio neared their heyday (before they start turning real bad), Disney made this hilarious and fast-aced adventure comedy and even took time to parody their own works. THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE is not the best Disney movie, and maybe not even for a long time, but that's alright. It's funny, energetic, colorful and, in some spots, it's actually clever. What more could I ask for? I guess, nothing more. THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE may have not brought out the best Disney can offer, but it still clearly shows their capabilities.One of the best pleasures of GROOVE is the ensemble comedic voice acting. The voice cast, which includes David Spade, Eartha Kitt, Patrick Warburton and John Goodman to list the names at the top-billing, are excellent and never lacking in joy and sharp comedic timing. Their comedic performances are more than enough to sustain adult attention, but not without letting the young 'uns down. If you don't find even one of their hilarious mischief at least amusing then you must have your funny bone ripped out of you body and the pain is excruciating. the entire film may not have been a comedic gold mine, but it comes close to rival any non-animated movie above a G-rating. In fact, I say it might put a few others to shame.Spade lends his outrageous voice talents to the spoiled Emperor Kuzco, who is used to his life of royalty (in Kuzco's term, Everyone is under my command) since birth (in one hilarious scene, Baby Kuzco accidentally beheads his stuffed toy and soon a large number of hands reach out to him, each with a stuffed toy to give away). See, Kuzco wants to destroy a peasant village set upon a scenic hilltop so he can build his summer getaway home (Complete with water slide!). Despite the lead peasant Pacha's (voiced by John Goodman) attempt to halt construction, Kuzco does get everything he wants, right? So he thinks. After being fired by spoiled brat of an emperor, his loyal adviser Yzma (voiced with great presence by Eartha Kitt), which I may describe as a cross between Cruella DeVille and... well, Eartha Kitt, wants to get even with him. While hitting stone head replicas of him doesn't satisfy, Yzma plots instead to poison the emperor. But her plans failed, mainly due to the complete incompetence of her bumbling right-hand man Kronk (the hilarious Patrick Warburton lends his voice). Instead of a dead emperor, they just have one badly turned into a talking llama. Assisted by Pacha, Kuzco (the llama) tries to get back to the palace and change him back to human.True, some jokes falter and the story isn't first-class Disney story-telling, but I wasn't exactly looking for a smart straightforward Disney effort when the first frame appears before my face. The movie had me from the first frame and again, and again, and again later on. One of the main reasons this movie worked for me was that it packs one frame after another with enough juice to make us wait for the other. The movie is one funny moment followed by another, that's both for the young and old audiences. While kids will enjoy the silly humor and energy-packed madness, adults will find the talented voice cast and the smarter humor a real pleasure. Either way, THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE delivers what's coming to you.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not just one of the funniest Disney films, but one of the funniest movies of all time","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Talk about one laugh after another. Few films, particularly family films, in the past few years have come off as funny to me as The Emperor's New Groove. Emperor Kuzco (voiced by David Spade, excellent) is a selfish ruler turned into a llama by a former employee after firing her. That's a funny enough concept on its own, but its simply the over-the-top, ridiculous characters that make this as hilarious as it is. Kuzco's overly selfish nature, such as him scribbling out characters on the screen so we can focus on him, is simply hilarious. Yzma (Eartha Kitt) and her assistant Kronk, simply hysterical as a childlike supporting character that steals every scene he is in, are both great. There are just too many laughs in this film to describe in a review, and not a single one of them deserves to be spoiled here. I'll just tell you to see it now. Your whole family can enjoy it and laugh and laugh. Not quite perfect, because of a few annoying scenes, particularly with Pacha's (John Goodman) kids and a few poor attempts at humor here. Despite that, it's a very, very funny movie. One of Disney's best, and simply one of the most hilarious films I have ever watched.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Great one","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Originally developed as an epic called Kingdom of the Sun, The Emperor's New Groove lost scale and most of Sting's song score (some of which can be heard on the soundtrack) on its way to the screen. The end result is the lightest Disney film in many a moon, a joyous romp akin to Aladdin in its quotient of laughs for kids and adults. The original story centers on the spoiled teenage emperor Kuzco (David Spade), who enjoys getting the best of his Aztecan subjects. When he fires Yzma (Eartha Kitt), his evil sorceress, she seeks revenge and turns Kuzco into a llama with the help of her hunk of the month, a Link named Kronk (Patrick Warburton). Alone in the jungle, the talking llama is befriended by Pacha (John Goodman), who has just been told to vacate his pastoral home by the human Kuzco. What's an ego to do? That's pretty much the story and the characters--simple, direct, fun--a Disney film on a diet. For any fan of the acidic humor of Spade, this is essential viewing. As narrator of his tale, Kuzco uses a sarcastic tone to keep the story jumping with plenty of fun asides (he even stops the film at one point to make sure you know the story is about him). Even better is character actor Warburton (Elaine's stuck-up boyfriend on Seinfeld), who steals every scene as the dim-witted, but oh-so-likable Kronk. There's even a delicious Tom Jones number that starts the film off with a bang. "},{"Title":"the most funnies't film of Disney","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" How many i love this great film? Well, if I had to describe the brilliant of this movie it would be I would be doing it until the next year. I believe that the entire movie is a continuous gag.His characters are so simple and fun, especially Kronk ,and the fact that Kuzco is turned into a speaker yama is really funny, i love this concept for a movie,I think what I don't like about the movie is that this is quite small in duration, which is otherwise a brilliant animated production by Disney.I think the production with which I laughed more in the years that I have watching Disney movies "},{"Title":"A Win for the Whole Family","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think it's hard to review a kids movie because, ultimately, it's the opinion of the reviewer (adult) that is expressed.I have three children and whenever we pull out our movie library for them to choose from, this one is ALWAYS among their top five choices. It never ceases to hold their attention. My kids still, after all this time, laugh out loud (and for good reason). The writing is great and they are never talked down to once.The emperor (Kuzko) is spoiled and self-centered. Through the course of the movie he learns some great lessons about friendship, honesty, and doing the right thing and is ultimately transformed.Yes, there are some adult themes. Murder, for example. Unlike The Lion King where this is handled rather in-your-face and darkly, the makers of this movie glide over this deftly and with a lot of humor. After all, Elmer Fudd was trying to kill Bugs Bunny, right? It is very much in this style and tradition, from dialogue to animation to music.As for me, I love this movie. The children in the movie (Pacha's children) aren't victims as they are in many Disney films; they're not stupid, defenseless or in some kind of peril. They are smart, funny, and resourceful. Kuzko and Pacha are great together, but it is Yzma and Kronk that steal the show. I submit to you that these may be the funniest Disney villains of all time.Another thing I like, that is out of character for Disney, is that this movie isn't trying to sell my children a Kuzko doll. There is very little marketing value to this movie; it's simply left to stand on its own, seemingly produced for no other purpose than to entertain.Why only 9 stars out of 10? The movie closes w/a song performed by Sting (My Funny Friend and Me). The song is fine, but could not be farther out of context with the movie if they had chosen to play the Oscar Meyer wiener song. I'm at a complete loss as to why, after this fast-paced fun movie, they would want to transport the viewer immediately to an elevator or highbrow coffee shop. Kind of strange. "}{"Title":"Disney's are showing some groove","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove is an unusual Disney feature, but that's the refreshing thing about it. Originally (for those who didn't knew) it was planned to be a epic drama, with Roger Allers (Lion King) as the director. That were one of the reasons that I looked forward too The emperor's new Groove, who was originally called Kingdom of the sun. But then the project took another direction, with it's understandable in some ways (and it's a looong story, trust me). If they made the right decision is another discussion for now, but when you see The Emperor's New Groove, you can't be disappointed.This film is more bizarre than you expect from Disney. It's not a typical Disney feature like for example Cinderella and Tarzan, but it still is a fresh and enjoyable cartoon. It has more irony and sarcasm and it's nice to see a Disney cartoon that is pure comedy. While the plot is simple, the script is well-written and hilarious. The score from John Debney is most of the time boisterous, but it actually fits the tone of the movie.The characters are likable/hate-able (here comes something that could be considered as a spoiler) Kuzco and Yzma are both the same kind; self-pity, but still funny. Kronk is one of the funniest characters in the film, the same with the squirrel and Pacha's kids. Pacha's wife is very cute and charming. While Pacha himself is not so funny like the rest of the cast, he's a nice and gentle character that is likable. SPOILERS over. Besides, the voice actors are doing a great job!The animation it self looks more than a Warner Bros cartoon than the regular Disney-style, but it fits the movie. The Emperor's New Groove is a Disney-feature that you can safely watch many times without getting easily sick of it. Groove on! He he. "},{"Title":"A nice time-passer worth your time","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, it's a fact that not every Disney full-length cartoon can be as magical and transcendent as BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, BAMBI or LITTLE MERMAID. So because some other full-length Disney films such as LILO AND STITCH and THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE are a bit of a let-down isn't a bad thing nor does it mean they are bad films--it's just that these other films are so perfect that you can't help but make comparisons. Fortunately, the intended audience for this film (kids) don't usually make this comparison and I was just happy that the movie didn't make the history teacher within me scream like it did when I saw POCAHONTAS! The movie is about a selfish Incan leader. While anachronisms and historical inaccuracies might have been a problem, Disney wisely made the time period very vague and it's pure fantasy. Sure, witches like the one played by Eartha Kitt did not exist in ancient Peru, but it was obvious to everyone watching that this was not meant to be a history lesson--just silly fun with a decent central message. Just sit back and enjoy this cute little time-passer. "},{"Title":"Finally! Disney embraces the concept of fun","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm in that minority that doesn't really enjoy Disney films. I personally think Disney is a dying studio. Its time has long since passed, and now it should make room for other companies. What does it say about Disney when they paid a massive cash settlement to Pixar, a studio renowned for their excellent work, just to get them to stay with them? Disney knows its days are numbered, and are forced to persuade Pixar, their only real source of income, to remain even though Pixar has the creative strength to flex its muscles and stand on its own two feet.Also I think Disney films have grown too sombre and lifeless, and must resort to false sentimentality to provide easy answers. So it was refreshing to come across a film like The Emperor's New Groove. A film that is sufficiently knowing, bouncy, and overall, just plain fun. Its no classic. Disney have produced some good films in the past like Snow White and Beauty and the Beast. And TENG is not on their level. But it is tremendously entertaining. Not to mention imaginative. As well as the fact its got the snappiest music since The Jungle Book.The Emperor's New Groove's storyline is basic, but surprisingly gets a lot of mileage out of its central conceit. Emperor Kuzco (David Spade) is an extremely shallow leader. He even has his own theme song! He thinks nothing of firing his advisers at the drop of a hat. Or bulldozing other people's properties to make way for swimming pools.His chief adviser Yzma (voiced superbly by Eartha Kitt) is one of these plotting opportunists who want to grab power for themselves (they crop up frequently in Disney films!). When Kuzco gets rid of her because she's too old for his tastes, she hatches a plan with her lackey Kronk to poison him. But a mix up in potions leads to Kuzco being turned into a llama. Forced to fend for himself in the jungle, and with the aid of a gentle llama herder Pacha (John Goodman), Kuzco must return to the castle and find the potion that will turn him back into a human, while avoiding Yzma's attempts to finish him off once and for all.TENG is certainly not an ambitious film. There are no world domination schemes or enchanted princesses and heart wrenching love stories. Everything about the film is simply played for knockabout laughs. And what's wrong with that? David Spade plays Kuzco likably. Throwing out dry insults and wry observations, he even injects some sympathy for his situation as well. The animation is not on the par of Aladdin or The Lion King. In fact there is something almost deliberately 2D to the way the film looks. Almost like a throwback to classic animation. But not earlier Disney efforts. More like the animated shorts of Warner Bros/Looney Tunes cartoons.That may be the reason why I like the film so much. I'm a huge fan of Chuck Jones cartoons. Their eye-popping visual lunacy made for great fun rides. And the same type of energy suffuses The Emperor's New Groove. There are set-pieces that wouldn't have looked out of place in a Road Runner cartoon. There's an hilarious scene when Kuzco and Pacha are wedged back to back between a cliff, and climb up with their feet while being menaced by crocodiles, scorpions and bats all at the same time.A great deal of imagination has gone into the comedy. There's a wonderful slapstick lunacy to it all at times. Even screwball comedy. I love the scene when Kuzco and Yzma are both in an Aztec diner. They both enter and exit the kitchen almost instantaneously, missing each other by seconds. It reminded me of a classic episode of Frasier, called The Innkeepers which had a similar situation in a restaurant.There are even moments of meta-fiction, and breaking down the fourth wall. Kuzco sometimes stops the film when he becomes concerned the action is shifting from him. Or when Kronk deconstructs a chase sequence with diagrams, concerning how Yzma caught up to Kuzco somehow. Even though it makes no logical sense. Deliriously screwball humour, like Kuzco the narrator arguing with Kuzco the character. And a manic number of transformations as Kuzco tries out different potions to get back to normal.The cast really is excellent and gives the film a lot of life. As well as Spade, John Goodman invests a great deal of likability into Pacha's character. Eartha Kitt is superb. A nice change that the villain of the piece is not unspeakably evil. Just vain and witty instead. She plays the part of the bitch well. And her comeuppance is wonderful! Patrick Wharbuton's a scene stealer as Kronk. I love his crises of conscience, where his good and bad sides argue with each other. The only complaint with his character was he should have ended up as a chef now that Yzma's out of the picture. Instead he becomes a boy scout leader. A chef would have been more in character.But overall, The Emperor's New Groove is great fun. I really laughed out loud several times throughout. And that's what animation is all about. It even manages to be thoughtful at times without hammering its message home like most Disney films. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Seriously Amazing!","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I laughed non-stop through the whole movie. The cast is perfect and I love the story. 110% entertaining, and by far the best Disney movie ever made. My all-time favorite parts are with Kronk and Yzma, because they are so hilarious! I love how Kronk is just kind of that Uh...duh kind of guy and Yzma's always like What's wrong with you? It's so hilarious. And David Spade was amazing! I can totally see him being this character, and John Goodman...what can I say? He's definitely a Pacha. Seriously, if you haven't seen this movie yet, you *have* to because it will make you feel so happy and you'll laugh through the entire thing like I did. You're probably thinking Yeah, right. But it's true! If you don't laugh at least 10 times during this movie, then you have no sense of humor what-so-ever. Just watch it and get ready for the most amazing comedy in the whole entire universe!!! "},{"Title":"It's not groundbreaking or fantastic animation like Pixar, but it more than gets the job done","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What film is one part insane, one part extremely fast-paced, and overall a movie that breaks down the fourth wall so many times you are almost involved in the film itself? Well, there are multiple answers, but if there is one film that fits this description, it's The Emperor's New Groove. With stellar voice work, pacing that is faster than most films within the past decade, and also containing a dose of silliness that just doesn't happen in enough films, this Disney animated flick stands as the best amongst the animated Disney films (excluding Pixar) within the past three decades and easily the most underrated. While we see Stitch everywhere, the furious campaign behind Chicken Little, and the attempt to make a worldwide smash out of Dinosaur, Disney seemed to have little support towards this little flick. Nonetheless, this is the little film that could; as it defied lower-budgeted animation, defied a song listing, and delivered some of the funniest moments and one-liners in animated history. It also managed to destroy the long-running Seinfeld curse, as it made Patrick Warburton a solidified voice-acting star. Most amazing, David Spade was actually quite funny without the assistance of Chris Farley. The Emperor's New Groove follows a bratty prince by the name of Kuzco (David Spade) that lives without a care in the world as everyone caters to his every whim without question. When he fires his adviser though, things get interesting as Yzma (Eartha Kitt) and her dumb yet reliable assistant Kronk attempt to kill him, only to instead turn him into a llama. After the mishap, Kuzko needs to actually rely on someone other than himself (Pancha, voiced by John Goodman) to regain his position at the throne and stop Yzma. Easier said than done, as Kuzco must change his ways in order to succeed. Lilo and Stitch is not the black sheep of Disney films like advertised, its this one. With only one song, lack of detailed animation, total rundown of the fourth wall, and also a defiance of a plot without its holes, The Emperor's New Groove relies on quick, witty humor and its lively animation to keep the kids and adults entertained. To add to that, this is the first Disney film in ages to contain some true character development, as we see Kuzco slowly rise from a selfish brat into a likable character as he spends more time becoming a llama. Partly written and directed by Mark Dindal, his fast-paced animation and action techniques were perfected here after the underrated flop Cats Don't Dance years before. The voice acting is what carries this film from decent to beyond superb. From the zany and quick-witted David Spade, to the veteran John Goodman, to the funny and lively talents of Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton, those four ran the film with excellent one-liners, funny moments, and a chemistry that is very rare amongst animated films. Easily some of the best voice work in any animated film, as long as one of the four was at the screen talking, the laughs would just continue rolling in. We even have the late veteran John Fiedler lending his voice in a hysterical cameo. Easily quotable movie, and that is always a plus. One can say that this has a sort of Frat Pack comedic-like quality to it, as it doesn't rely on a deep story with morals, but instead on humorous situations and quirky lines to convince the viewer to watch again and again. Bottom Line Among the best non-Pixar animated films within the past two decades, Emperor's New Groove is a fresh new look at the way Disney films are made. No longer do we have a romance story, no longer do we have a Disney princess in distress, we have a great cast of lovable characters in an environment that even gets the viewers involved. With a zany plot, clever one-liners, a lot of visual humor and a running time that never actually drags, there is really nothing really wrong with this movie. David Spade's last funny movie, the destruction of the Senfeld curse, and also the revival of Eartha Kitt's career can be found here. Watch it, no matter how old you are and what kinds of films you enjoy. Anyone that doesn't get a kick out of this one just doesn't have a sense of humor. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Emporer changed to llama, wants to change back to human.","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a very good for families. This movie is fun for all ages, and would be acceptable for anyone to watch. I enjoyed this movie very much, and will watch it throughout my lifetime. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys a good, funny movie. Anyone who likes funny movies needs to watch this movie, and its acceptable for all audiences.If I could recommend this movie to anyone, I would not. I would actally recommend this movie to everyone who is anyone.This movie is one of a kind, except for the sequel, so I guess its really two of a kind.This movie just plain rocks. "},{"Title":"Very good - This one will survive","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As the 46 year old father of three, I just love this movie. Not only are the voice talents just right in this one, but the SCRIPT is clever! By that I don't mean that the *premise* is clever (which it nevertheless is), but the script writing, the turn of a phrase. . . shoot, the USE of a phrase here and there, it's really funny. I chalk this up to allowing the characters to BE characters instead of caricatures of characters.The actors and actresses timing is *perfect* and even when the whole thing gets silly (which it does, in a good way), the characterizations hold-up.As I write this, years after the movie's release, my kids and I can (and do) still occasionally find reasons to quote some of the lines.This is one of those go-to movies when everyone's bored and you just need something fun to watch. It doesn't get ultra-sappy, it won't make you laugh until you cry, nobody has to fall in love with anyone and nobody has to die a horrible, unjust death. There isn't even a tragic death we sing about. So it's funny,clever, moves-along pretty well, has a villain who is . . . more believable than they were meant to be I'm afraid. . . has clever dialogue and is well-voice-acted.Kids like it and adults like it. EVEN some teenagers like it. (try that with most animated fair) And for the old guys like me, I get to listen to Tom Jones (entertaining theme) and Sting to boot (the soundtrack has some good stuff on it, not necessarily from the movie).If you won't *listen* and pay attention, then forget everything I've written; but buy or rent it for those you love who will. I'd say it's suitable for everyone. "},{"Title":"One of the few Disney films anyone can enjoy.","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What makes this film so great is that I didn't even see it until I was 15 years old, and yet it instantly became one of my favourite Disney movies of all time. It's not a musical like most Disney cartoons before it, which makes it much easier to take in (since you don't have to worry about those cringe moments that happen so often in other Disney musicals). The writing was great, but what really made it better than great was the voice acting. I can full-heartedly say that this movie had the best voice cast I've ever seen come out of Disney. Eartha Kitt, John Goodman, David Spade, and (my personal favourite character in the film) Patrick Warburton all created terrific characters. The animation was very original - a style I hadn't seen yet in a Disney cartoon. The plot as a whole was probably the weakest part of the film, but its simplicity is part of what makes everything else that's so great about the movie stand out. Watching it over and over again, I keep finding new lines of dialogue that I'm happy to quote (especially from Kronk, who, as I said, was my favourite character). What makes the movie truly great, however, is that it never stops being entertaining. There are only a couple very brief Disney moments - by which I mean those moments that attempt to evoke some serious emotion - but they're short enough to avoid requiring the viewer to cringe, and still manage to entertain thanks to what usually ends up being a cleverly-written line at the end of it. This is one of only two Disney-made movies that have earned my 10/10, and it earned it because it never ceased to entertain me. "},{"Title":"One of The Funniest Disney Films Ever","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove could've really soared back when it hit theaters in 2000. Disney was shattered by how Fantasia/2000 performed and not pleased with the critical reception Dinosaur received (being one of their worst films).Throughout the 90s, the Disney films were a return to form, but they also pandered to children, something Walt Disney was against. Dinosaur was pandering at its worst, but The Emperor's New Groove is a breath of fresh air compared to the 90s Disney films. Most of the 90s Disney films are great, but this film is near-perfect.The Emperor's New Groove is a funny, joyous adventure that doesn't try to be anything it's not. It went through a lot in its early stages, and it finally turned out to be step away from the big Disney musicals. The film has an odd plot, which is why it succeeds. The film had the chance to score with audiences, if it weren't for the poor marketing. It could've soared past $100 million domestically, but it didn't. It could've convinced Disney to go in a different direction.Thankfully, The Emperor's New Groove never gets old. The character animation is fabulous, and the film functions more like a feature-length cartoon than a film. It has a Warner Bros. style, but that's not a bad thing. The characters are all likable and hilarious to boot. The humor is witty and it's almost devoid of pop culture jokes that somewhat littered the previous Disney films. (DreamWorks is good at doing that now, but they got that from the 90s Disney films) Kuzco and Pacha are a great duo, and the relationship between them is actually developed and not contrived in any way. Yzma is an outrageous villain that recalls the crazier female Disney villains like Cruella De Vil and Madam Medusa. Her sidekick Kronk, has a heart and just can't be a villain, which makes him all the more funny. The Emperor's New Groove's visual style is unpretentious and great, as it has a more loose film from the other Disney films. Take the jungles for example. The trees have odd shapes, unlike the realistic trees in Tarzan. Some of the animals in the film have a unique style, like a pack of jaguars that give chase to Kuzco early on in the film. It's all great.A 9.8 out of 10. A near-flawless Disney film. "},{"Title":"Terrific comedy!","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove is a bit different to what Disney had accustomed us so far; well, to tell it is a lot different to that, in fact, it could be said that this animated film is closer to the crazy and brilliant minds of Tex Avery and Chuck Jones than to the classic Disney animated features. Long gone are the musical numbers and the fairy tales, gone are the beautiful heroines and the malevolent villains; this little film is a breath of fresh air that takes Disney to the unexplored terrain of satire, parody and irreverent comedy. And the trip is well worth.The movie is about the young and arrogant Kuzco (David Spade), the Emperor of an Incan nation who enjoys his life of pleasure and comfort without caring too much for his people. Until one night, his second in command, Yzma (Eartha Kitt) betrays him and tries to poison him. Fortunately, the formula only converts Kuzco into a talking llama, however, with him in that form Yzma is able to usurp the power and gets rid of Kuzco. Now, the young Emperor will have to learn to live in a world harsher than what he knew and try to recover his throne.Well, while the plot outline sounds like another one of Disney's dramatic epic adventures, this movie has indeed a new groove. History says, that the film was actually going to go that way but director Mark Dindal and writers Chris Williams and David Reynolds took the story in a completely new direction, making a feature unlike any of the rest of Disney's classics. The film is packed with a very clever sense of humor that can be understood in many levels; it is not only mere slapstick, it goes beyond and as written above, has more in common with the Warner Bros. animations of Chuck Jones' days. The characters are perfectly well-designed and are definitely the soul of the film.However, the departure in content does not mean that the rest has changed. Despite all the apparent irreverence, the movie is suitable for kids and the morals and the message are still there, it's just that the package is now more entertaining than before. The animation technique still has Disney's top notch quality and the beautiful Inca-inspired designs give the film a fresh new look. The tone and mood of the story allows the film to explore many things that Disney had never tried and overall is a new modernization to their style.The cast is amazing and responsible of most of the success of the film. David Spade is brilliant as Kuzco and his domain of the character is total. It's hard to imagine someone else doing the voice. John Goodman plays Pacha, the only man who believes the talking llama is actually Kuzco, and his performance is very good. However, Eartha Kitt as Yzma and Patrick Warburton as her sidekick Kronk steal the show. If Spade and Goodman are brilliant then Kitt and Warburton are simply perfect.The film is definitely among the funniest films ever done by Disney and it is almost flawless. Even when it uses some pop culture references the film doesn't feel dated or silly thanks to the very subtle way that kind of humor is used. Still, the movie has been attacked for deviating from the classic Disney film and while the criticism has some good points (the film's simplicity for example), it still is a memorable and effective film that delivers lots of laughs and pure entertainment.The Emperor's New Groove may not be a landmark of animation such as Beauty and the Beast, but personally I think it represents a breath of fresh air for Disney and one of the most funny animated films ever done. While it is understandable that not everyone will catch the film's humor, this personal favorite is a very recommended film. 9/10 "}{"Title":"The funniest Disney film every made","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperors New Groove is quite frankly one of the most quirky animated movie you can find, it should have been a hit but failed to make good at the box office.the jokes are beyond classic and when watching this film you should expect the unexpected, it's pretty obvious that it's done by the same makers of Cats Cant Dance due to it's animation style but if it's not then i've made a huge error.you'll probably never see a movie like the emperors new groove again, i one day hope to prove myself wrong by writing such a movie which will be difficult because these sort of movies tend to suck all the good ideas out of the world and put them into one surefire hit, so it'll be a difficult task to even get close to this level of hilarity. "},{"Title":"Another Creative Disney Movie","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was so creative. A bossy mean spirited emperor who turns in a llama. A gullible peasant who helps the emperor out. Why did he continue to help the emperor out even though he was so mean to him? A mean wicked assistant who gets fired by the emperor before she turns him into a llama. And the mean wicked assistant's gullible sidekick. If the gullible sidekick had any backbone, imagine what direction this movie would have gone in. Let's not forget about the gullible peasant's wife and hyperactive children. And the annoying squirrel was added to make the movie more crazy. I think it was so cool when the wicked assistant turned into a kitty cat near the end of the movie. Eartha Kitt? Purple Kitty Cat? Isn't that ironic? "},{"Title":"One of Disney's greatest... and most underrated.","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first came in touch by chance. It was laying around my aunt's house and in my boredom I started watching it. By looking at th box I wasn't very amused (it was a story about a llama, how good could that be...) After the first 10 minutes of the movie I was laughing so hard that all my family joined me shocked by my reaction to a kid's movie. Well it isn't a kid's movie. It has a very fine and mature sense of humor in its dialog, some of which most children won't be able to grasp, yet for teens and adults its hilarious. Spade's ironic voice just fits perfectly in the roll. I first watched it when I was 16, know I am 20 and I still crack up ever time I watch that movie. If really want to see one of Disney's funniest, wittiest, cleverest and most underrated movies of all times, then here is your chance. "},{"Title":"New Groove's is Spade's only good film","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" David Spade is awesome. He provided the perfect funny voice of the Emperor. Ihave seen a clips of Spade's show, Just Shoot Me, and I found it very unfunny.In this film, however, Spade portray's the Emeror perfectly. No one else could have done that voice.John Goodman did a great job as Pacha. Like Spade, no one could have done that role so well.This film is full of laughs. Anyone with even a small sense of humor should have this film in their homes. The DVD is perfect, and I am very glad that it's finally available.My Score 10/10. "},{"Title":"Disney's Quirkiest Film to Date","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Think of Disney, what spring to mind. Sentimentality. All Dancing. All Singing. Talking Animals and Happily Ever After. Disreguard all those if you walk past Emperor's New Groove in the local Video store.Disney has gone completely against the grain in the funniest, quirkiest animated film I've seen.The story is about an egotistical Emperor (Kuzco) who's life turns upside down when his evil ex-assistant (Yzma) plots to kill him and take over his empire. Nothing is that simple of course, cue, the hilarious and frantic beginning, middle and end of a non stop roller-coaster ride. On this ride is also Pacha, a kind-hearted peasant who gets caught up in the misunderstanding.This is a film the entire family will enjoy due to the humour being more Simpsons like than the traditional Disney giggles.With a film that includes Smart-ass kiddies, twisted Squirrels and a docile yet lovable henchman, this film pushes all the buttons without having a sick bucket love story thrown in.And with 'Kronks New Groove' due out this December, I'll be the first in line to get a copy. "},{"Title":"Disney on Drugs","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is more like something from Warner Brothers than Disney. An emperor in Mesoamerica is dethroned and turned into a llama...as often happened in Mesoamerica....with the help of a good hearted villager he gets his throne back, turns into a human again and learns to be a good person.OK, so that sounds very Disney, but instead of witty dialogue, ENG relies a lot of slapstick, pratfalls and RoadRunneresque escapades. Many times the animation borders on the psychedelic, while returning again to the standard Disney cartoon world.I watched this when I was sick as my cure for most of my friends is to cook them a nice vegetable soup and bring them a Disney cartoon. The very next day I was feeling very good, so it works. "},{"Title":"Best Disney film since The Lion King.","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Emperor Kuzco (David Spade) is a selfless, mean ruler who is accidentally turned in to a llama by his ex-administrator, Yzma who was trying to kill him for firing her. With the help of Pacha (John Goodman), they find their way back to the palace to turn him self back to normal and retake his throne, finding a friendship on the way.Disney's animated films had been dull and unexciting until this film. Not since The Lion King, had I enjoyed a Disney film so much. The Emperors New Groove was the funniest Disney film I had ever seen. David Spade was funnier with John Goodman than he ever was with Chris Farley and Patrick Warburton was laugh-out-loud hilarious. As ridiculous as the plot seems, the story flowed really well and didn't seem in any way like crappy children's film but still carried every component needed for kids to enjoy. Overall, this is a great family film, proving that it doesn't have to be made by Pixar to be a great animated film.I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"'Emperor's New Groove' a goofy, breezy slapstick cartoon that's easily the funniest Disney movie to date","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Emperor's New Groove Emperor Kuzco(voiced by David Spade) is a swinging, cocky Emperor who makes the mistake of firing his suspicious adviser, Ezma(voiced by Eartha Kitt) after she tries to run the country behind his back. With the help of her dim-witted right-hand man, Kronk(Patrick Warburton) and her secret lab, Ezma plans to kill Kuzco backfire as he is turned into a llama.So Ezma sends Kronk to finish the job, but he loses Kuzco in a crowd, but he doesn't tell Ezma, so she thinks shes dead. Now with the help of a gentle, supportive llama herder and father, Pacha(John Goodman), they embark on a journey to get Kuzco back to the Palace, while Ezma and Kronk go on a journey to find Kuzco and kill him...The Emperor's New Groove may not be the most memorable Disney movie, but it's certainly the funniest.I don't think I've laughed so hard at the movie theatre in a long time. The plot of the film is an excuse to string together clever one-liners, goofy slapstick and sprightly chase sequences, and in this type of film, that's OK. Sreenwriter David Reynolds knows how to write a film that anyone from the ages 3-53 can enjoy. The actors fit their voices exceptionally well in this film, as in most Disney Movies.3 from 4 "},{"Title":"Squeakin' hilarious (yeah, that's the best I can do)","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is actually quite rare for a Disney animation to be hilarious. It is even more rare that such a film should be hilarious even with the sound turned off. The animation here, though, proves an extremely welcome exception.Another part of the film's appeal is its constant gimmickry with its narrative. The action is often interrupted by the narrator for various reasons, and the film has little respect for logic (which might annoy but doesn't - far from it). The mere fact that they have used voice-over is refreshing, but that they have used it in a refreshing way is that even more.I did not know that Spade played the titular character, so I cringed immediately when I heard his voice, for I don't regard him quite as highly as some do. However, my fears proved pointless as he proved himself well-cast with his well-suited voice. Goodman is always dependable, whether it be voicing or not, and the rest are equally fine. Nonetheless, Warburton is a gem, the gem here, I dare say, and given the right role, can do miracles. Hell, he doesn't even need good material to make me laugh, but here he is perfectly cast as Kronk.The screen-writer David Reynolds seems to have some TV sketch comedy to his credit, and it shows - in a positive way. The script is energetic, witty, very silly and full of hilarious dialogue, random moments and clever reuse of its earlier elements. Also, the film's relative brevity is a pro, not a con. Concise, constant hilarity.I am very, very pleased with the fact that they changed the initial nature of the film. If they hadn't turned this into a comedy, said (very broad) genre wouldn't have seen one of its funniest representatives I have ever had the pleasure of viewing. It looks like I am going to have to buy this one. Did I already say it's hilarious? (Oh look, how clever of me - and how inarticulate.)---December 8, 2005I recently saw this for the second time and found it a bit less hilarious, although I still agree with much of the above. In particular I thought the emperor should've been slightly different and that Spade shouldn't have been cast after all. I would have found the character more satisfying had his dialogue not been so laden with this rather annoying teenage lingo, that is, had he not been one to eagerly use this rather annoying teenage lingo. Yes, he's supposed to be an irritating (muffin), but he could've been a more intelligent, more bored, more cynical, irritating (muffin). Imagine, say, the late George Sanders uttering his lines...Well, I ain't the filmmaker here. Despite the ever-visible Disney boundaries the whole is still a good one, which can't be said about, say, the above comment. I mean look at the bloody summary. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Animated Comedies of All Time...SERIOUSLY.","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If it hasn't already happened, I anticipate it will The Emperor's New Groove will become a cult hit. It's spectacularly funny. Why so? Jeez, take your pick David Spade, Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton do unbelievable voice jobs. And the animators have out done themselves with the gags that just keep coming. So many of them in fact that even if you've seen it once or twice, look closely. You'll see more like the NO LLAMAS sign as Kuzco and Pacha exit the restaurant. An absolute classic that is right up there with the BEST of the old Warner Brothers set. Those expecting uplifting Disney fare ala The Lion King will be sorely disappointed. All others will get a very unexpected and welcome surprise.  "}{"Title":"not your typical Disney fare","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And that is a GOOD thing. Disney used to make good animated features when I was younger (e.g. Aladdin, Lion King, etc), movies that managed to toe the line between overly sentimental smarmy and utterly mindless fart jokes, all the while throwing in a catchy (if frequently annoying) musical number or ten; nowadays they make pretty well unmitigated garbage. From about the time they made Pocahontas on... ugh, it all got so preachy, lost the ability to make the adults suffering through the movie laugh at a few choice 'older' jokes secreted in - sorry, I'm blathering.Anyway, Emperor's New Groove is a fantastically funny movie. Seriously, the only thing I can think of is that someone storyboarded this out as your average Disney tripe (as you can see shades of formula in it), but then the actual writers and animators busted out a bottle of JD and rewrote it before passing out on the tables. David Spade usually just annoys me, as he usually (almost unfailingly, really) plays a total jerk with no redeeming qualities, but here he plays a self-centered young emperor who actually *gasp* learns a thing or two and grows up a bit in the course of the movie, all without soapbox lecturing or moral-spouting song-and-dance numbers. John Goodman lends a nice turn as the loyal (if gullible) yet stern peasant who helps the emperor because it's the right thing to do. Meanwhile, Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton steal the show with wonderful and ludicrous lines, situations, plots - you name it.This movie is so full of rapid fire jokes and quick visual gags that you almost have to watch it several times to catch everything, and even then it's a great movie to relax and let loose a few laughs. I know I bought the DVD, and have watched it many times since. Trust me, this is your best bet for an animated movie out of the States, at least as far as the past few decades are concerned.Who's in my chair..?Ooh, ooh, I know! I know! Yzma's in your chair!  "},{"Title":"A Disney feature that is just funny ... so VERY funny.","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In The Emperor's New Groove, Disney has finally managed to succeed in making a kids' movie that is just as much fun for a viewer of any other age group. The Emperor's New Groove is just plain funny, with just a bit of a moral and emotional undertone, but whenever this comes to the surface, it is quickly quenched by a sidesplitting oneliner.Disney's recent animated films have been syrupy sweet, drop-dead boring love stories, but this time 'round, we get a much better film that instead utilizes the concept of friendship instead of love. Ripping to shreds a long-enduring Disney tradition, The Emperor's New Groove sports an almost song-less soundtrack by Sting, and the couple of songs that made the cut are entertaining. Otherwise, it just embarrasses me to hear a song come out of nowhere.The Emperor's New Groove is a refreshingly funny change. The human Kuzco even looks like David Spade, and acts a lot like Spade's whiny character in Just Shoot Me. Maybe there's still hope for Disney.  "},{"Title":"Modern Disney with a big pinch of Hilarity.","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Its sad to think that the new wave of animation attracting the movie-going public has been coming from animators that prefer to use the computer generated modelling for their films (Shrek, Monsters Inc. etc..)  These films are by no means bad, but personally, the more old-fashioned style of animation created on the drawing boards seems to hit a sweeter chord than those that have been brought about using 3D models and backrounds (though Finding Nemo and Toy Story are brilliant too, I must admit). Perhaps its the feeling that these films are more reminiscent to the way things were before the digital age, or perhaps its the fact that the drawings for the 2D movies give it that extra cartoony feel without the concept of realism and hence, can simply be enjoyed to the max as a .... cartoon.What The Emperor's New Groove does so well where possibly others have failed is that it does not take itself seriously, not because it lacks realism, but due to the actual script and storyboard itself. There aren't many drama moments that try to make the audience weep and when it does happen, the makers have opted to add a quick punch line or a quick extra animation short that makes you laugh out once again. Some may argue that this gives the movie less substance but this in fact is a refreshing change to the tried and tested formula of the happy-to-sad-then-happy-again rollercoaster many other animation films have become famous for.I for one am extremely pleased with this Disney release and however you want to look at it, The Emperor's New Groove is a great success and should be viewed by everyone simply for the - very many - comedic moments it has to offer. Brilliant.Rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"Hilarious gem of a movie!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, when I was eighteen and first saw this movie with my high school friends and fellow movie theater coworkers, we were all laughing so hard we feared that we would get kicked out and we worked there. This movie is a very funny, cute movie with great gags that funny because they're witty or visually amusing, not gross or stupid. It's a great kids' movie and an awesome movie that adults can watch too without being bored senseless.There's an awesome cast, Yzma and Kronk are often funnier than Spade and Goodman, but the chemistry of these characters, the animation, and the jokes are wonderfully witty and original. The squirrel by itself could make this movie. I recommend it to anyone who is tired of watching the average Disney cartoon with less than the best adult-included humor. This movie is funny for all and a sweet movie too.  "},{"Title":"Fun, and becoming a classic","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What makes this fun animated romp stand out is the humor. That may sound redundant, but it's one of the funniest animated films ever. The comedy is just top drawer. The evil protagonist is a hilarious Phyllis Diller type, with a hunky brainless boy toy, and the duo are hysterical. The supremely vain and uncaring emperor Cuzco is wonderful, personifying the phrase let them eat cake. John Goodman is a great everyman in Pacha, the simple villager who is a tool of forces way beyond his comprehension, and while the assumption that someone like Cuzco could have been de-Grinchified by an adventure like this is a real stretch, it finally doesn't matter. The movie is so much fun that you just go with it, like a roller coaster. My complaint is that everyone speaks as though they are from 20th century Los Angeles. Nowhere do we get the impression that these are people from another time and place. If it weren't for the costumes, we would have no idea when or where it is. Turn your back and listen to the dialogue without watching the screen, and see very dramatically what I mean. I know, it's just a movie!!, but this sort of thing matters whether we want to admit it or not.  "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time, it's Shrek a year earlier.","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is your anti-Disney film produced by Disney itself. In 1997 Disney tried to release a comedic animated film, Hercules turned out to be a disaster, it wasn't your typical Disney movie, it was WORSE than a typical Disney movie. In 2001, DreamWorks released what is considered to be the anti-Disney animated film, Shrek was an hilarious irreverent take on the animated genre as known back then. But in 2000, there was an animated film that was probably the most underrated animated film of all time, The Emperor's New Groove is more original than Shrek as it doesn't venture into the typical story book setting. It goes into ancient South America, it's about an arrogant, nasty, horrible Aztec Emperor Kuzko (David Spade) who wants to build a beach resort on top of a hill occupied by a lama herder named Paca (John Goodman) and his entire family. Kuzco offers him the opportunity to find a new place to live before he knocks down his house. All during this time, one of his advisers (Eartha Kitt) secretly plots to kill him so she can take his throne. When her assistant grabs the wrong potion, it turns Kuzco into a Lama. Now Kuzco must convince the angry Paca to help him turn back into a human and gain back his throne. The Emperor's New Groove spoofs Disney films in each and every way. David Spade plays what he does best, an arrogant, whiny jerk. John Goodman plays a great side kick. And Eartha Kitt, if she had a mustache would be twirly it, as she plays one of the best stereotype villains of all time. This film is filled with hilarious popculture references, and funny gags, it manages to make adults laugh just as loud with their kids with out resorting to use dirty humor (ala Shrek) It's a great movie for the entire family and good treat for people who like to see Disney get spoofed!8/10 If you like the Shrek movies, The Emperor's New Groove will tickle your fancy, just remember Groove did it first.  "},{"Title":"Disneys Funniest Movie Ever!!!!!!!!","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a Classic into Disney ranks of funny and cool movies...its almost like it wa smade just for adults to consider it so good. David Spade uses his acid and ironic humor almost the whole movie and with funny people around him to do a great film what else can go wrong. I dont need to tell you what is about cause you have read it all along other places so ill just have to say that i had fun watching it and i even own it cause its a hell of a maovie. i truly recommend it to everyone...ah....and kids too. I need to at least add a line or two to make this comment go through so ill say this This movie is fun even for die hard Horror fans like me because you get great laughts in it and the voice inpersonations are great, the guy from Seinfeid does Kronk...This stupid guard that will make you cry of laughter...its a great movie..a must own on DVD. "},{"Title":"Underrated master piece","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is honestly one of the best animated movies of all time, and might as well admit that I gave it a 10 - i.e. way above the 7.3 average it currently ranks at.I have seen it multiple times on DVD, and loved it every time. The animation style is not typical Disney (perhaps closest to the boring Pocahonta), but it suits the Aztec-theme. The pace and the humour is tremendous and the characters are hilarious, especially the self centred Emperor Kuzco and the evil Yzma's sidekick, Kronk.Kids may enjoy it because of the tempo and the action scenes, but I would say that this is a movie aimed at adults, with several absolutely perfect scenes such as the one at the no-llama diner, the grand finale and not least the tied to the log scenePacha Uh oh.Kuzco Don't tell me We're about to go over a huge waterfall.Pacha Yep.Kuzco Sharp rocks at the bottom?Pacha Most likely.Kuzco Bring it on.It does not come much better than this. "},{"Title":"Creative casting makes this work","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Emperor Kusko is inconvenienced when his advisor turns him into a llama, and he needs a villager and his family to help him return to power.  It'd be easier for the villager if the emperor weren't planning to raze the village to make room for a summer home.I don't know what David Spade is like in real life, but voicing the character of Kusko seems to flow very naturally for him.  There's good chemistry between him and John Goodman (Pacha), though at points neither seems terribly involved emotionally.  Whoever thought of casting Eartha Kitt as Yzma was inspired...her voice is absolutely perfect for the evil chemist.  Patrick Warburton also deserves a mention as Yzma's minion, Kronk, one of the most lovable bad guys I've seen in a while.  I liked this movie; perhaps not Disney's best, but I thought it was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Played Strictly for Laughs, and It Works","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is a treat to watch a movie that does not take itself at all seriously and works. In The Emperor's New Groove, Disney goes for laughs pretty much on every frame and achieves its goal. This is a fast paced and funny film with a unique animation style and lots and lots of laughs.David Spade pays Kuzco, a bratty spoiled Emperor who thinks he is beloved, but is hated by just about everyone. John Goodman co-stars as Pacha, the lovable peasant who discovers that the Emperor is plotting to destroy his home to build a summer Villa. Kzco is being plotted against by Izma (Eartha Kitt is a bit of genius casting) and her dim-witted sidekick Gronk, whose attempt to poison him turns the Emperor into a Llama.From there, the movie is a buddy adventure as the unlikely pair of Pacha and Kuzco try to find there way back to the palace and restore Kuzco to the throne.The laughs abound. In the movie's best scene, the four leads are all in a restaurant ordering lunch and going unnoticed to eachother. It displays perfect comic timing, and even a very subtle tribute to Five Easy Pieces.The best thing about this movie is the voice-over work of Patrick Warburton as Gronk. As the loyal and dense side-kick, he plays that standard Disney role of the villain with a conscience, this time, quite literally. Gronk wants to be a servant and a chef, but we also find out he can dance, clean and speak fluent squirrel.This is not Disney's most artistic accomplishment, nor its greatest feat of creativity. But it is a thoroughly entertaining, funny, light-hearted film. ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"Funny and involving, yet the film lacks a strong plot.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE (2000)THE GOOD--This film is bursting with energy. The vibrant colours and huge over-the-top scale are seriously entertaining. There are some exhilarating sequences in this film as it makes the most of its settings.--The humour in The Emperor's New Groove is quite often hysterically funny. The simplest of jokes are made into fits of laughter thanks to great voice work and some cool animated facial expressions. I particularly loved the character of Cronk, he was hilarious with his fondness of skipping and his mystery theme music.--The Emperor's New Groove is somewhat unique as it has a whole new kind of approach to its audience. I loved how it took Disney clichs so often used and made fun of them, in places it kind of felt like a spoof of past Disney movies. The directness to the audience (Kuzco often addresses the viewers) was also a nice touch, and helped me get involved in the film.--The movie has a number of catchy tunes, many performed by theme song guy Tom Jones. The score was also very cool.THE BAD--After the movie gets going, there isn't a whole lot of plot. We're basically just watching lots of (albeit, fun) exaggerated chase sequences and repetitive character conflicts, only to amount to the way overused bad-main-character-learns-life-lessons moral.--Sometimes you can tell that the animation has been put more to use for huge scale shots instead of the little things, leaving some annoying small details such as mouth movements going with the voice-over.RATING7/10 - It lacks a strong plot and originality with its story, but The Emperor's New Groove remains a very funny and involving adventure from Disney.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDAladdin (8/10) The Lion King (8/10) Lost & Found (3/10) Monsters, Inc. (9/10) Mulan (6/10) "},{"Title":"by all logical reasoning, it doesn't make sense...","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The premise of The Emperor's New Groove sounds bizarre, stupid, and definitely not funny. However, between well-crafted characters and many many great lines, this movie ends up being far better than it deserves to be. There are so many absurdly hilarious moments that it is one of my favorite Disney movies. It may not rise to the classic level such as films like Aladdin (the best disney movie ever), Beauty and the Beast, or even Mulan, but it is a very funny flick that is worth seeing. 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best Disney film in ages...","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So, what was I expecting when I first went to see this? Well, at the time, I was an eleven-year-old girl, going out to see the latest Disney, with my family, then, the occasion was more important than the film. Now, (sadly), the film, is a lot more important than the occasion to me, which is why I am writing this, although I have to say, when I sat down to watch it with my dad earlier, we enjoyed laughing together )Not only does this film, have a VERY well-written script, a great plot, some great characters (Kronk is THE best!!!), good animation and a great moral message, it has that original Disney atmosphere, which I don't think we have seen in a film since Pocahontas.Don't watch this if you are looking for a deep-and-meaningful, challenging, intelligent film (well duh, this is Disney!), but if you are looking for a warm, touching film, which will have you chuckling all the way through, its a complete must-see!The only thing I have left to say about the film is, 'Bless you, for coming out in public'!  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think that Disney really hit a gold mine with this movie!  With a great cast of characters they all compliment each other to make this a well flowing, hilarious film.  I laugh at every part of this film every time I watch it.  Even though my younger sisters watch this cartoon constantly I still find it funnier than they do.  I especially love when Kronk says his famous line, Oh, Riiiigghhhht.All in all this a great movie.  10 stars out of 10! "},{"Title":"A lot of fun","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  The laughs kept coming, and it did not take itself seriously; a problem that many animated movies are starting to have. In particular the really irritating and crass Ice Age.I thought the voices were great, in particular David Spade and Patrick Warburton, but then I really like their TV and film work anyway.I would recommend this movie for adults and kiddies alike and I gave it a solid 8 out of 10.  Not even the less cheesey than expected ending ruined it for me. "},{"Title":"Groovin' to this one ...","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well done, Disney! This movie provides a constant and consistent laughing stock for both children and adults ... it provides that nice level of humor from which anyone can laugh, and laugh together ...8.5/10First, the very small category of the Bad News ...1. This movie has really only one flaw; it would have been nice to see some level of tradition that Disney is so famous for. Most, if not all, of their animated movies come from some passed-down story from other cultures and/or generations ... but that's about it!And now, the Good News ...1. Hysterical ...2. Very well cast ... David Spade's whiny, annoying voice provides a perfect air to the sniveling part of the Emperor, Kusko. Furthermore, John Goodman's voice as the gentle and assertive Padja acts as a perfect set up for their future squabbling. And, we must NOT forget the perfect Eartha Kitt as the voice for Ezma ... absolutely hilarious, as she portrays the evil old woman (which, of course, she is not, but has a good voice for ... )3. Ok, I HAVE to put Patrick Warburton in a separate category because this movie earns about three points JUST from the character of Kronk. A crazed companion who cooks (and burns) his spinach puffs, while at the same time destroying Ezma's attempt at overtaking the castle ... it's just hilarious... and the devil and the angel? They epitomize the constant struggle of, well, stupid people ...4. What else? I mean, I can only include so much ... I guess I'll finish with the hilarious changing of the animals at the end ... this is not really a spoiler because you have to see the movie to know what I'm talking about... but it's just hilarious ...Would I recommend this movie? MOST definitely ... spend the money, and if you're willing to trust me, buy the movie ... you WILL watch it more than once, and laugh every time ... and look for hidden jokes in the movie (for example, watch the flower pot next to Ezma when she tries to poison Kuzko)...Easily an 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"For kids, parents, singles of any age, Funny, Funny, Funny","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Having a couple of young boys, I've seen almost every Disney cartoon there is.  Emporers is, by far, the funniest. Casting is outstanding, David Spade as Kuzko, John Goodman as Pacha (Kuzko's cohert), Puddy from Seinfeld as Kronk (the henchman) and Ertha Kitt as Yzma, the Villian Lady Scary beyond all Reason.This movie is so well written that I found myself laughing out loud reading the above reviews remembering the parts in the movie.Kronk Patrick Puddy Warburton, is probably the most entertaining of the bunch.  He is Yzma's (Ertha Kitt) henchman, but doesn't really seem to realize that he's being a bad guy.  His deadpan delivery is nothing short of brilliant. That'll WorkDavid Spade is spot on as the Main character, an overly full of himself Emporer loving, himself, and himself as much as himself.  This is typical, albeit clean, David No Touchy Spade humor.Goodmans part as Pacha was just fine, as the unobtrusive, Nice Guy straightman for Kuzko.The story is a non factor, don't let the beginning Tom Jones Musical thing make you turn it off, after that there are no more musical numbers, just laughs.You'll likely need to watch this a few times to catch everything, as you may laugh through the next funny part. On a scale of 1-10 this is a 10! "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best animations I've ever seen. It really stands a chance in comparison with Shrek and Monsters Inc. although this one is a disney movie. I started quite sceptical but within a few minutes i smiled and i kept that smile all the way through the movie. It's a nice movie to watch in company either and it isn't childish at all. I just love it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'll be totally honest with you. The previews for this movie did nothing for me. I just figured it was another movie in the continuing decay of the Disney masterminds, so I never took my kids to see it, nor did I plan to ever own this movie. Last week, I saw the DVD on sale and thought, What the heck! I might as well give more money to the Disney Corporation.I'm so glad I did.Groove is definitely not your parents' Disney film, and that can be a good thing. I laughed out loud so many times at this movie (the first time a Disney film has made me guffaw since Alladin). David Spade is perfect as Kuzco. Former Catwoman Eartha Kitt plays the villain in a beautiful way, and her sidekick, Kronk, played by Patrick Puddy Warburton, is my favorite character in the movie. His Devil & Angel conversations are hilarious.My daughters have now watched this movie about 56 times in the past week (NOT an exaggerated number) and I still giggle uncontrollably when I hear him humming his own theme music. (See the movie and that last sentence will make sense.)Groove is not the typical classic that you expect from Disney, but it is worth owning, and keeps you laughing throughout. "},{"Title":"not so new but worth the groove","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  On the first viewing of this movie, I was disappointed with the film, especially when compared to films such as The Lion King.However, after video release, I gave it a second chance and found the groove.  The one liners are great in this movie and I find myself laughing through repeat viewing.  The visuals are stunning and as a lover of old school animation, it's a joy to enjoy a non-computer animated film.My favorite character is Kronk, voiced by Patrick Warburton.  His bits with his shoulder devil and angel are the best moments of the movie.TENG is nothing new from Disney and may not be a masterpiece, but it's fun family viewing and if you relax, you'll find the groove. "}{"Title":"Comes close to Monty Python - You'll be laughing 'til the Llamas come home...","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When Disney started touting this movie, my first reaction was Weird. The previews didn't do it justice. I don't think Disney quite knew how to market this crazy rollercoaster laughter trip. We finally had an afternoon free to see it as a family at the dollar movies. To my surprize we all enjoyed it, and were laughing out loud at this great off-beat comedy we weren't expecting. Fabulous performances by Eartha Kitt (Yzma) and Patrick Warburton (Kronk). She's the best Disney Villain since Cruella, but silly rather than sinister. And Patrick's performance as Kronk is priceless. So after watching it again a couple of times on DVD I realized that the comedy is so rich and clever, it reaches the wit-level of the classic Monty Python (but without any of the crudeness). So many great lines. The most memorable part that had me in stitches? When Yzma and Kronk follow Kuzko and Pacha's map trial. Great visual humour. Has to be seen - classic stuff! Well done Disney for breaking the ice and pushing the envelope. I think the fresh approach and stupendous success of Pixar's masterpiece Toy Story really woke them up. (Note how there are no main characters singing in this one either. Would have been unthinkable for a Disney animated feature a decade ago.) "},{"Title":"Damn Funny","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lot of people glazed over this movie when it first came out. It really caters for a wider audience than the usual disney tale, and the brilliant cynicism of david spade combined with the genuine, down-to-earth nature of john goodman creates a fantastic story filled with hillarityThe story may seem stupid, but its the funniest disney animation i have ever seenrent it, BUY IT! i did! "},{"Title":"If you can't laugh at this, your funny bone is broken!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest feature-length cartoons done in the past 10 years!   The pace of the writing is a laugh-a-minute (which may be lost on some viewers, especially the young ones), and the cast pulls these gags off perfectly.Spade and Goodman make a great comedic tandem, as do Kitt and Warburton as the bad guys.  Right down to the minor characters, such as the wife and kids, Bucky the squirrel, and even the diner waitress, the humor flows like a fountain.I could go on and on but, without a doubt, this is one where you and your kids can sit down together and be genuinely entertained from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Out and Out Hysteria!","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow! That's all I can think of saying! The cast is so perfectly fit that you see the characters yet you can see the people who do the voices having the same things happening. The sarcasm is great. Definatly a movie for all ages.Spade's sarcastic remarks, voice changes, attitude and sounds fit the emperor so well, you can't picture anyone else doing the part.Malick, Kitt and Warburton just fit so well, playing off of Spade and each other.Way to go, Disney. You  couldn't do any better! This coming from a 26 year old!10/10!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The funniest dialogue ever heard in Disney's animations. Only Mulan might come close but not quite. Technically speaking, nothing astonishing. The drawings of this modern productions are not comparable to most classics (especially The Dalmatians and Snowhite). Some characterizations are truly well done (the dull guy), some others very stereotyped (the witch). The only real bad is the first few minutes thanks to the very avoidable music sequence in full 70's style Disco Fever but it's just that. After this your mouth will just twist again for laughters and no more disapprovement. Highly recommended for every age. "},{"Title":"Disney does Looney Tunes","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This cartoon is so unlike the Disney oeuvre. (That's the only fifty cent word I'll use. Promise.) Rather than being sweet, it is often cruel. Rather than sedate, it is slapstick. Even the animation style itself is exaggerated to un-Disney proportions. It finally hit me on the fifth viewing (hey, I got kids) that what this really is, is a Chuck Jones Looney Tunes cartoon from the fifties with a bigger budget and a brighter pallette.Don't expect Bambi. More like Bambi vs. Godzilla. "},{"Title":"an opinion","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very good example of cartoons that are made for grown-ups, not for the children. You have to see it, you'll find there that every line is taken from our day-to-day life. You'll love it.You'll find yourself walking on the street, with your friends, and quoting all the time from Kuzco's or Yzma's lines ) "},{"Title":"Kronk Steals The Movie","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For someone who does not enjoy watching animated films, I must say that I enjoyed The Emperor's New Groove immensley. It was extremely entertaining and really funny. Most of the of best humor in the film comes from the henchmen Kronk (voiced by Patrick Warburton). I don't know if it's possible, but the character of Kronk absolutely steals the movie in every single scene he is in. This is a very good rental, that not kids will find entertaining but so will adults.  "},{"Title":"Post - Modern Disney","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another clever attempt at adult entertainment from the post - modernist Disneys. I really wish Eisner should ok more stuff like this. This has the same amount of nods and winks towards the adult audience as Aladdin and Hercules (both movies who really were directly geared towards the more mature market) but this one has David Spade instead of Robin Williams, making it probably a tad more edgy. Plenty of in-jokes, references to previous Disney stuff and loads of clever oneliners makes this the second best of the modern Disney movies after Aladdin. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Renting this movie, I had my doubts (MANY doubts) about Disney's animated feature The Emperor's New Groove. And as I watched kids tugging their parents' arms -- parents whose attitudes seemed not too detache","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another Disney movie, another cartoon... just how good was this going to be? While I enjoyed The Lion King, Beauty and the Beast, and Aladdin, the idea of a completely made-up story starring a hit-or-miss David Spade didn't appeal too much to me. But as it turns out -- and MUCH to my delight -- I think I may have found, if nothing else, one of the single funniest movies out there -- no joke! Read ahead, and I'll explain the method to my madness. Emperor Kuzco (Spade) is a spoiled-rotten, overgrown brat of a dictator who has everything he could ever want and everyone at his beck and call. But there are those bent on thwarting his lap-o'-luxury lifestyle -- in particular, Yzma and her no-brain-all-brawn servant, Kronk. Yzma and Kronk conspire to poison Kuzco and take over the empire, but their plan slightly backfires when the diluted poison merely changes Kuzco into a llama (not exactly dead, but then I don't know how being a llama feels). Kuzco is thrown out of the city, befriends a not-too-trusting peasant named Pacha (John Goodman) -- himself a victim of the former Emperor Kuzco's plans for a summer house (complete with waterslide) where Pacha's home stands -- and with a little help, attempts to change himself back into human form and regain his throne. New Groove, I'm convinced, is only a Disney movie in name. It comes off, more times than not, like an extended episode of the WB's Animaniacs -- but this is a good thing. Spade, drenched with sarcasm, delivers an oft-times hysterical performance; Kitt should have done this voice-over gig a long, long time ago in a role that I doubt few could have fulfilled as perfectly as she did; Goodman is much more subdued as Pacha, but it makes for a nice balance with Spade; even Wendie Malick as Pacha's wife, Chicha, gets into the fun with a few zingers herself. But... the real star here, in a part absolutely tailor-made for him, is Warburton. In a role that could have been just another henchman, Warburton transforms Kronk into the ultimate object of clueless likeability (a la David Puddy -- Elaine's on-again-off-again boyfriend on Seinfeld). Some of the funniest scenes -- and I was practically doubled-over at times -- are Kronk's arguments with his alter egos, the classic angel/devil shoulder buddies. Warburton puts a whole new spin on the act. And this is not a plug for Disney, but please do make the effort to see this movie. While it probably won't go down as a classic, it's sure to tickle even the most hard to find funny bones. Oh... and did I mention that the kids will have a lot of fun, too? "}{"Title":"Disney perfection","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is Disney's adult best. Worth watching a number of times, many of the hilarious one-liners can be missed while delighting in the playful, enjoyable animation. A worthwhile movie for children and grown-ups, alike. "},{"Title":"Disney is back in the saddle.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Finally, Disney has reverted back to madcap mayhem and saved us from the frustratingly boring love songs by performers whose best days passed 20 years ago (or, in some cases never arrived) inherent in so many Disney cartoons of recent memory.  The sharp, angular animation, the hilarious writing and voice talents, the clever references, and the editing and direction make this movie an unappreciated gem.  Hopefully, in time, more people will come to appreciate this as cartoon film-making of the highest caliber.  There was no obvious selling out by dragging dopey, we-wrote-this-song-to-capture-an-overrated-Academy-Award-for-Best-Song pabulum to be force-fed upon an audience that just wants to see the old Disney magic doing what it does best.  This movie strikes the fine balance of appealing to people of all ages without sacrificing the quality of the writing and dialogue - not an easy task.  Seeing this movie has instilled a sense of faith in me that Disney CAN still deliver the goods without relying on selling soundtracks.  While David Spade (as Kuzco) and John Goodman (as Pacha) deliver hilarious and warming performances, Patrick Warburton (as Kronk) and Eartha Kitt (as Yzma) are two of the most enjoyable villains in Disney's pantheon of characters.  Kronk is probably the most lovable henchman Disney has ever produced.  The supporting voices are top-notch (especially Wendie Malick as ChiCha) and bring out a well-rounded characterization void of caricature. "},{"Title":"A superb but sadly underestimated comedy; slapstick animation at it's best","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A superb but sadly underestimated comedy; slapstick animation at it's best. Certainly one of the funniest endings in cartoon history. Eartha Kitt is wonderful as the old bat who tries to ruin the splendidly spoilt Emperor/llama. Plenty of excellent incidental jokes to watch out for. Go rent it! "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, I would not normally have watched this movie, but I won it in some stupid contest, and decided to give it a try. Boy, was I suprised.In doing away with the cuteness and message so often found in Disney movies, the creators of The Emperor's New Groove have made a truly funny and fast-paced little flick, which is fondly reminiscent of the Looney Tunes cartoons of days long past. I'd say it's not so good as Shrek (which of course has superior technology), but it comes pretty close, and that's without having to resort to spoofing others.A pleasant and very likeable movie. *** out of **** stars  "},{"Title":"A worthy addition to the Disney lineup","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In this day of computer animation, fine though it may be, Disney bucks the trend to produce another hand-animated feature. And the results are wonderful! Stylistically animated, the results are nowhere near as lush as the Little Mermaid, but seem to suit the film perfectly. Kudos to the cast for wonderful voice-acting. Spade and Warburton shine, and John Goodman is fine in the role of straight-man Pacha. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sit back, relax and laugh! Just a great movie! Ok, the story is a bit thin, but who cares? The humor is superb! I've seen it 5 times now, and I think it's still a great movie! David Spade's voice is perfect for the Emperor, John Goodman is perfect for the peasant. Just see this movie! "},{"Title":"and the verdict... hysterical!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ok, I know that everyone likes it, and I know that it was funny. The other reviews complain about the plot not making sense, I want to remind them that first- this is a disney film, and second- it is a animated cartoon for children! I thought that the movie made great sense. I also thought that every character was well developed and played. I haven't seen a great disney like this in a long time "},{"Title":"Finally, Comedy!","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a performance! This movie honestly couldn't have gotten any better! The plot is a bit lacking, but the gags more than made up for it! Kronk has got to be the best character Disney has ever come out with! Two enthusiastic thumbs up! "},{"Title":"This Film is fun to watch. I Never saw a more ignorant and selfish film-hero whos still funny like emperor Cusco.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This Film is fun to watch. It makes no difference who the spot is on, you can laugh about every character of this film. I Never saw a more ignorant and selfish film-hero whos still funny like emperor Cusco. In fact every character is funny, even the evil Yzma, because everything is highly exaggerated. Just by thinking about the movie makes me smile. It has a very smooth atmosphere, no ups and downs, but a constant level of humor.What else can I say? Excellent voices, good music, a highlight in my video-archive!  "},{"Title":"Boom Baby!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was skeptical of this movie for a long time before seeing it. I found it interesting how Disney came out with a movie starring an ancient mesoamerican society at the same time that Dreamworks was scoring big with The Road to El Dorado which is about the Aztecs. I also found it interesting how the animation style was not typical Disney, but matched closer the style used by Dreamworks. Very interesting. Full-length animated movie politics aside, however, I loved the movie. It was really nothing like the Road to El Dorado. I can't really think of a reason why Disney used the Incas as the characters in their movie (except that Dreamworks had used Aztecs) other than they needed an almost omnipotent emperor, and they thought they could use an Incan one.  I found this movie one of the funniest and most enjoyable I've ever seen. The dialogue was excellent, and the humor so much quicker and better than is par for Disney, that it had me in stitches. The cleverness was amazing and doesn't disappoint. An all around terrific movie. "}{"Title":"A laugh feast from start to finish.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's refreshing to see a Disney film that is funny, wacky and doesn't take itself seriously at ALL. I bought the dvd at the same time as Shrek and I have to say I laugh way much more than Shrek. The humour is over the top, the voice actors suits the characters perfectly, animation and the story(theme) is good. Great viewing when I'm feeling moody. Just thinking about it makes me smile. "},{"Title":"Makes little sense, but is hilarious.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am going to make this short. This is a ridiculous movie. The plot is bizarre and so are the characters and there are, of course, obvious 20th century elements, but if you ignore all that or just except it you will have a lot of fun. This movie is just filled with jokes and sight gags and unlike most animated movies it doesn't slow down much at all and the tone of the movie stays very light throughout. The movie never gets unpleasant or bogged down with drama that has ruined other animated features. This movie is hilarious, light and short and if you can't enjoy it you've got a problem.This movie probably deserves a 6 or 7, but I give it an 8 because it is so funny and enjoyable and it has the added quality that you feel better after you watch it than you did before.  "},{"Title":"best Disney movie ever!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is the grooviest full-length animation movie ever! totally new story, beautiful artwork, not too much music numbers(these songs are usually very irritating) and even the voices suit the characters perfect!! I've never seen anything as groovy movie as Disney's the emperor's new groove. this is really very beautiful to watch and very comfortable to hear. there's no doubt Disney has surpassed itself!! "},{"Title":"no important plot but funniest movie lately","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't like the rest of disney movies... it is very funny thought but doesn't seem to have a real important plot... the movie is more about being funny and enjoyable than worrying about the plot.. and it succeeds and is worth buying and watching... I'm not a child but i very much enjoyed this movie.. It's a must for the cartoon section. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one the funniest movies I've seen. I borrowed this after I had seen some clips which I thought looked a little funny. But I did not expect to be laughing all the way throughout. I'm not a big fan of Disney cartoons, usually thinking they are a little boring, but this one put all that to a shame. And during the jump rope scene (I think I rewinded that 4 times) and that little scene with the trampoline I laughed so hard I got tears in my eyes! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I usually hate Disney movies with their sappy storylines, politically correct characters, revisionist history, and ridiculous songs.  So, it was with hesitation that my wife and I watched ENG.  I can honestly say this is the funniest, most cleverly written Disney movie I've ever seen.I found the simple animation refreshing in comparison with other recent more polished Disney movies.  The actors selected for the voice work were perfect - especially Patrick Warburton (Puddy) as Kronk.  He steals the show.  The story, although simple, is laugh-out-loud funny.  And as an added bonus, there are none of those typical Disney songs that make me ill.If the normal Disney movie is just too much for you to handle for the reasons I mentioned above, give this one a try. "},{"Title":"No beauty lies within message here, just 90 minutes of hysterical chaos.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, all those heartfelt Disney flicks are great, where it's the be yourself or the beauty lies within message, Disney always seems to have that important message for the kids. And yeah, if you dig enough you can find a good message in the Emperor New Groove. But I don't like Emperors New Groove for it's message or breathtaking animation, I like it because it's one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. It's one of those movies you will constantly quote to your friends, and find yourself saying Bad Llama and No touchie.Everything about the movie is so funny, David Spade's Kuzco, Eartha Kitt's Ezma and more histerical of all, Patrick Warburton's Kronk (he is so funny, Puddy had to be the most underrated character on Seinfeld). The timing is great, and everything is just so funny. This is the best carefree clean humor movie I can think of. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and clever Disney fun for all ages","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is one to watch, whether you are 8 or 80 you are sure to find this film amusing, it doesn't even take itself seriously. As usual the Disney animation is of the highest quality and the script is brilliantly clever and witty. The combination of the great animation and talented actors make the comic timing perfect, and there are jokes which can be understood on many different levels. The premise of this film is quirkily individual if nothing else, i mean, how many films do you know that have a llama as a main character?!. The sound track is limited, but Tom Jones gives the movie its catchy theme. I recommend you buy this film because it stands out from the crowd of the bog standard Disney animation, it's definately at least one to rent, hey whatever, go to the shops and pretend you are buying it for your kids, it's a classic! "},{"Title":"A smartypants Emperor gets turned into a llama.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If this was a live action film, with actors you see in the movie, how could Disney turn somebody into a llama? Well, I guess it's a good thing that this is an animated movie. That got an Academy Award Nomination for Best Orignial Song - My Funny Friend and Me; Sting, David Hartley. With it should have gotten an Academy Award Nomination for Best Scary Villain. As the movie opens, an emperor named Kuzco (David Spade) presents his plan to village leader named Pacha (John Goodman), in which Kuzco will tear town Pacha's village, for his own summer palace. And he will tear down Pacha's home for is swimming pool. But when he catchs his advisor Yzma (Eartha Kitt) doing his job, he fires her.Pacha is too embarrassed about having to move, that he lies to his wife (Wendie Malick), he says He couldn't see me. Which we know is a lie, because Kuzco did see him. While Yzma plants revenge on her ex-boss. And with the help of her right hand man named Kronk (Patrick Warburton), she plans on poison Kuzco. But do to a labeling error, he instead gets turned into a llama.Yzma orders Kronk do finish the job. But instead, Kuzco ends up on the back of Pacha's cart. But when Pacha gets home and finds Kuzco in his cart in a bag, he orders him to build his summer home somewhere elese, if Kuzco wants his help on back to the palace. This movie also has Tom Jones as Theme Song Guy.                           "},{"Title":"Disney's tongue in cheek in spades....","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is straight outta 'Hercules' and 'Aladdin', but just without the underpinnings which made the Bloo Genie such a smash in '92. It's closer to 'Hercules', a kinda Looney Toons romp without much attention being paid to trad. Disney stuff like songs, cutie animal sidekicks, etc. Nothing particularily dramatic here-the llama/Spade character heads back to his city with a Little John type guy to try and get his throne back from Evil Witchwoman Eartha Kitt. Things like Spade breaking into the narration, characters cutting to the chase, the whole extended romp through the Jungle, or in the canyons or the restaurant episode-are quite funny. You don't necessarily remember much after watching it; and there's nothing more to be learned from this any than you would from an old Tex Avery Droopy short.  Have a good time and don't sweat the details that much.*** outta ****, maybe rated a wee bit too high, but what the heck, it's alotta fun and worth the time. "}{"Title":"Nothing fancy, yet a good film","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Considering that this movie wasn't made to compete with Disney's line-up of Lion King, Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, etc..., it is an excellent movie. Who would've thought that a simple animation could do so much. This is a good movie to watch with friends and family members of all ages. Also, if you want a good night's innocent laugh, this movie is recommended. This is the first good family film I've seen since A Bug's Life. Just a little note on the side can you believe that this movie that absolutely NO romantic plot (one of the first and only that I've seen of Disney animations). "},{"Title":"fun, fast, witty, utterly hillarious","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this was a great movie, much better than shrek.  one of the best parts was that it wasn't a musical like we've grown to expect from disney.  it had a very fast pace so that you didn't get bored. which was nice. david spade is hilarious and the character in the movie fits him. all around and excellent movie, it's too bad shrek is in the top 250 and this movie isn't "},{"Title":"Groovey!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is probably the funniest of all the recent Disney animated movies. Original jokes are simply bursting out of every odd second, and the entire movies sure provides a great enjoyment. There are, though, a couple of issues which have become chronic in recent animated movies, especially Disney's- although the animation is getting better and better, the quality of   the drawings is becoming simply awful. Did they ever see a llama? Did they ever see a human?!? - why center the movie on pre-school kids and then fill it with jokes they cannot possibly understand?So, if you don't mind quirky drawings, you're over 14 and want to see a really great comedy, this is the movie for you. If you don't.. well, you probably haven't read this at all, anyway-) "},{"Title":"A marvellous comedy for all ages.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE (2000) Rating 9/10Everything works so stunningly and effectively in The Emperor's New Groove, a fantastical, brilliantly hilarious Disney movie that is the best picture to come out of the studio in a long time. It has all the ingredients to become a Disney classic - cool story, star-studded voicing and all the jokes you could want out of any genre. The script puts the characters in impossible situations which bravo cleverness, and although the film relies a little too much on Pacha and Kuzco (the two main characters) falling through things to make us laugh, it works, doesn't it? Patrick Warburton does an utterly amazing voicing job with the innocent, strong, angel guided Kronk, while David Spade puts terrific effort into the character of Kuzco. Spade fits Kuzco's sarcasm and cynical attitude extremely well. The film has great visual value too. The scene where Kronk is about to drop Kuzco down a seemingly small drop we zoom out and see how really big it is. This film is not afraid to go to new heights in comedy for Disney and that is how it succeeds. Sarcastically funny and fast-paced with its wit, The Emperor's New Groove is well worth your money at the cinema. After you see it you'll probably want to wait in the queue for the next time to come around and go and see this movie again. That really says it all! "},{"Title":"A terrific (and, yes, groovy) surprise","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is the first Disney animated film in WAY too long whose characters have just that; animation.  Really, when was the last time you watched a Disney movie and thought to yourself, they must have had a lot of fun drawing all of this?This is just a great cartoon.  No more and no less.  And thank goodness for that!  I'll stop here because I don't want to spoil anything, but make sure you don't miss it.  Pick it up the next time you want something a little offbeat for the family.I have to admit, though, I'm curious as to what Empire of the Sun (Groove's previous life - it's a LONG story) would have been like. "},{"Title":"More wit, less songs","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A funny and well done entertainment.  Witty dialogue and hilarious scenes. I particularly liked the diner sequence.  David Spade is excellent as the egocentric emperor.  Unlike most Disney animated features, it has only one song, a welcome relief.   "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw this one on the plane (which, by its inescapability, could make a bad movie seem worse, and a good one transcendant), and loved it.  It is funny, the way a cartoon should be, in the Chuck Jones style.  Witty, fast-paced, and with a heart.  See it with your buddies, young or old. "},{"Title":"Not your standard Disney","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've got to give Disney credit for ENG, it managed to have a lot of fun, tell a decent story and keep someone as jaded on kids films as I am watching. After suffering through tons of kiddie films, it's nice to find a few that you let the kids watch without having to run to another room so you don't have to hear the endless drivel. ENG has humor on a number of levels, from slapstick for the kids to poking fun at cartoon logic and even a few jokes that made me laugh out loud. The moral won't leave you with a sugar coating on your tongue, the characters had some actual depth and while the art was very atypical for Disney, I enjoyed the look and feel of it. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This is the best Disney has to offer","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first I looked at the preview's in the theatre and I said to myself that it does not look that great and I have no real interest in seeing it boy was I regretful when I waited and saw it in on video.  The movie  is about a stuck up, self-centered young brat named Kuzco(Played by David Spade) who is turned into a lama by his fired Advisor Izma(Ertha Kint sorry for the mispelling of the name) Well from there you will just have to see the film..  This movie is a non stop laugh fest with some of the funniest character since The Little Mermaid.  John Goodman who voices Pacha is so good that he lifts the movie I mean the chemistry between Goodman and Spade is unforgettable ,but I have to say that Cronk  (played by Patrick Wartburn)is so funny I mean there is not one scene in the movie that his Cronk is in that I don't sit there a laugh out loud that's how good Cronks character is.  My other favorite character is Izma as a cat it just so funny to sit there and watch this little fur ball trying to beat up Kuzco as a lama and Pacha.  This movie is the best that Disney has to offer and get's better eveytime I watch.  This is first rate I applaud everyone.Grade 10/10  Just one more note Stings songs in the movie are first rate and fit the movie to a T. "},{"Title":"Funniest Disney's Movie Ever Made","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is super funny.. I LOVED it soooooooooooo much. Its worth every second!!!!!!! at first, i didn't really expect that it would be this hilarious but after i had watched it, i was totally wrong! This movie is truly worth seeing. I've never seen any funnier animated film before. This one is the best, my fave so far! I suggest that everyone see it!! You'll never be disappointed at this movie if you love to laugh ) Spade did an awesome job here in this movie. His voice is another reason why this movie should be checked out. It really suits this character! and the funniest thing here is the Lama's lines .... Totally funny!!!!!!!!!!!!! the story line is great too! I* I give this movie *10/10* !!!!! New Groove Rox!!!!!!!!!  "}{"Title":"Brilliantly, consistently hilarious throughout!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very funny all the way through, full of clever gags, lines, and action sequences.  The animation is not particularly spectacular, though the character animation is quite funny, but the script and performances are fantastic.  With the exception of John Goodman as the straight-man peasant Pasha, all of the leads are comically brilliant.  There are so many really funny things in this film that I laugh out loud every few minutes every time I watch it.  It's free enough of objectionable material to be suitable for the kids to watch over and over, but it's parents that will really love it. Kudos to Disney on a very well made flick! "},{"Title":"A fresh breath of difference","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most of Disney's animated films of late have been so formulaic as to make me sick.  They contain the obligatory song segments, a couple of comic relief characters, the same style, similar plot devices, and usually one featured song in the middle of it all that plays in toto while some animated music video plays across the screen.  Toy Story was a departure from this formula (and it was great) and The Emperor's New Groove is different too.  The humor is of a different ilk than previous Disney films, that I would characterize as slightly bizzare.  And partly for this reason I really enjoyed this movie.  I liked the characters Pacha, voiced by John Goodman, and Kronk, who though he plays on the team of the villain is very likeable.  I usually watch these movies for the benefit of children but it is nice when I can enjoy one as much as they do.   "},{"Title":"what has happened to Disney's movies!?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE EMPEROR'S NEW GROOVE was a big hit-and-miss to me. At only 77 minutes, it was too long. Perhaps if the story had had a quicker pace and funnier jokes, it would have seemed to go by quicker. As it is, it had only one or two really good jokes about every ten or fifteen minutes, and the space in-between them just seemed to drag and drag. I found myself laughing the most during the climax, when Yzma (expertly-voiced by Eartha Kitt) is turned into a cat and attempts to steal the potion that will turn Kuzco back into a human, and only occasionally throughout the rest of the film. The characters were well-cast (particularly Kitt, John Goodman, Patrick Warburton, and Wendie Malick), but David Spade got rather annoying after awhile. There were also (thankfully) no songs, with the exception being the opening sequence, featuring a funny little character that sings the opening song, voiced by Tom Jones.I wish Disney could back to making the kind of animated movies they used to do, like THE RESCUERS DOWN UNDER (still my favorite animated Disney movie), ROBIN HOOD, LITTLE MERMAID, and the other classics. Heck, even BEAUTY AND THE BEAST was better than this one. (MULAN and A BUG'S LIFE are the only recent animated Disney films I liked.) Maybe the film would have been better had the studio stuck with the original story (and partially already produced film), which from what I understand was a more serious film. Little kids will like the comical situations, but probably won't have the attention span to sit through the whole thing, while adults will like some of the jokes and feel the movie has already been on two hours by the time it gets thirty minutes in. "},{"Title":"proves u don't need dirty humor 2 make a good comedy","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this was hilarious and it may have saved kiddie films as we know it; spade is awesome as usual; a film for all ages and i literally do mean ALL ages; if u manage not to laugh at this movie u probably don't have a soul "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of Disneys best new animated films! David Spade does a wonderful job portraying the selfish Kuzco. John Goodman also does a great job.But I would have to say the funnist character in this movie had to be Cronk. His jokes were hilarious and I was laughing my butt off!This movie is a must see! "},{"Title":"Eartha Kitt ROCKS!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A simply delightful movie--we watched it 20 times over a weekend on video, and simply enjoyed each viewing.  Eartha Kitt deserves some kind of award for her talents--she truly makes the film.Look for the cactus that turns into a llama at the attempted poisoning--just shows the Disney folks are earning their pay. "},{"Title":"Hilarious IF you like Spade.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved it.  Every second of it.  I wanted to sneak this review in mostly as a warning.  If you hate David Spade, don't bother watching this movie.  If you cannot fathom a Disney cartoon that doesn't break into song at least once per scene, skip it.  And finally, if you are too sophisticated to love a movie based purely on silly humor, NEVER SEE THIS FILM.  Otherwise, you might as well buy it, because you'll watch it repeatedly as I have.  "},{"Title":"A new direction for Disney","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Lately, Disney movies have been on a downward path. Personally, I've found the vast majority enjoyable (with the glaring exception of Pocahontas), but there is still a marked decrease in quality between, say, Beauty and the Beast and Tarzan. You could see the movies falling into the same old rut over and over and over again. However, Emperor's New Groove changed all that. Instead of a contrived love story, there's a buddy comedy featuring the hilarious duo of David Spade and John Goodman. Instead of sappy morals (particularly the sappy morals of being yourself and of finding inner beauty), we get hilarious one-liners and laugh-out-loud situations. And instead of the cute comic sidekick, we get doe-eyed characters (particularly the children and the squirrel) with a significant bite. Needless to say, this one had me in stitches. One part of Emperor as well as the new Disney trend in general that somewhat saddens me, though, is the move away from the musical format. I know I'm somewhat part of a minority, but I've always loved the songs from Disney movies, even if they do seem intrusive. (Actually, I never thought of them as intrusive, really, but I know many people think that.) Disney hasn't put out an honest to goodness musical in quite a while. Although I do agree that not all Disney movies should be musicals, I also hope that they decide not to abandon the format entirely. Disney movies have recently been pretty much the only place for musicals on the big screen, so I would hope that they would continue to give us the great musical moments we've come to expect. But enough of my editorial. Emperor's New Groove is one of my favorite Disney movies ever and has surpassed Aladdin as the funniest Disney movie in my mind. So sit back, relax, and forget anything else Disney's ever done. This, I hope, is a sample of the future.  "},{"Title":"Disney knows their stuff !!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i LOVED this movie !!! it was so funny , David Spade was a good choice for the voice of the Emperor, i watched it twice within a few hours , once at home and the second time at a friends place and i just laughed and laughed it was so hilarious.. everyone did a good job.. great animation, good story line.. when i saw it at the theatre i couldnt wait for it to come out on video and as soon as it did i bought and it is worth every penny .. its great for all ages, Patrick Warburton as Kronk was crazy , second to the Emperor, Kronk was the funniest.. he was so dumb it was pathetic and i mean that in a nice way !! i just loved it so much.. Pacha And the Kosko were just the perfect team and it was nice to see a friendship develop between them.. i cant say enough about this movie.. its perfect for a pick me up if your kind of feeling down.. there are a few sad parts.. but as ususal there is the happy ending... it was so cute .. i just Loved it !!!  "},{"Title":"Disney's most hillarious movie!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being a teenager, I didn't think The Emperor's New Groove looked like a great movie. It looked cute, but I didn't think I would have really loved it. I was soooo wrong! The Emperor's New Groove is the funniest Disney movie I have ever seen. Every time I watch it I burst out laughing at some of David Spade's and Eartha Kitt's lines. Other Disney movies seem to be made for only children, but the Emperor's New Groove will make people of all ages laugh and love the movie. SEE IT NOW! 10/10 "}{"Title":"Boom Baby!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow, I must say that I normally don't get a thing out of Disney pictures. Usually they are so bent on message that they don't entertain. Not there is anything wrong with that in, and of, itself but I don't care much for their type of film.  With The Emperor's New Groove, however, I never felt beat over the head with a message or anything near heavy.  It was entertaining simply to be entertaining.  I laughed and laughed, mainly at David Spade and Patrick Warburton but the others in the cast had their moments too.  10 out of 10 from this reviewer who normally gravitates to art films.  Good going guys. It's rare that a movie can keep me laughing as much as this one did. "},{"Title":"great and funny","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is a great movie. the chemestry between david spade and john goodman's characters are great. reminds me of spade and chris farley zinging each other thru out this film. david spade plays the character he's best at. whiney, spoiled little runt. john goodman plays a good natured peasant that's trying to get spade back to the castle. eartha kitt plays the villian and she is the best. she's evil like most disney villians but she's got some very good lines and has a humorous side that disney should add into their villians. overall a great movie to rent and worth buying.  "},{"Title":"Fun Fun Fun!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you have not seen Emperor's New Groove, I have to recommend it. But, before you watch it, let me give you some advice... 1) Do not look for any profound, groundbreaking animation. 2) Do not expect a complicated story with plenty of plot twists. 3) Prepare yourself for a lot of laughs.This is a funny movie. From beginning to end, I just kept enjoying it. My kids loved it too. It was very refreshing to see Disney move away from some of its old establishments in film. Here, the lead character is a jerk. His plans are cruel, and his transformation into a llama seems justified.David Spade, John Goodman, and Eartha Kitt provided excellent voice performances. (Please forgive me for thinking that Eartha Kitt died years ago!)The price of Disney videos is not that bad. Go ahead and buy this one. You will want to see it again. "},{"Title":"A really pleasant surprise from Disney","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Having reluctantly been dragged along to see this, it was one of those rare occasions as an adult when I was glad I had been. This is a real surprise from Disney - not the usual twee nonsense, but an intelligent movie that is also fun. I thought there was even a bit of satire in there - now how long is it since there's been satire in a Disney movie. What about the kid? Well, my son enjoyed it, I think, - there is just enough action and razamatazz to keep the kids entertained - but this is really one for you long-suffering adults. If you have the chance, do try it! Honest, it's a real eye-opener. PS. I realise that after what I've said, this film will of course fade to obscurity. Does anyone out there care anymore about intelligent movies, especially animated ones? I doubt it. "},{"Title":"Aladdin's successor?","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, so every modern Disney animated film is about being oneself (based on the understanding that oneself is actually quite a nice person really). So take that as a given.Funny. Very silly, very funny. General slapstick and obvious impossibilities abound. As many have pointed out already, it's reminiscent of Warner Bros. (Bugs Bunny et al.), but also of the more stupid Rocky and Bullwinkle or Dangermouse variety.Disney moral overtones are kept to a minimum, which is refreshing in itself. And they managed to avoid the slew of schmaltzy songs usually destined for the Academy Awards. Now if they can only avoid The Emperor's New Groove 2, I'll be very happy. "},{"Title":"Funniest Disney film, since Hercules!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My budding hatred of Disney has been cut short with this film. Ever since they had started putting out home video movie sequels (All of which suck)I have begun to lose respect for Disney (with the exception of the Toy Story movies, and It's a Bugs Life, but that was Pixar really, not Disney). Well, it all stops here, with The Emperor's New Groove, a film which is so full of different gags, both kids and parents will be laughing till they can't breathe. To compare the style to Toy Story, but it's actually cell animation (remember cell animation?) which makes it a lot brighter, more vivid, and more detailed. It runs more like an old Looney Toon (those catoons that were on Nickelodeon before the PC police ripped them of and replaced them with Rugrats reruns). Even the voice of David Spade can't turn people away from this movie. Just take my word and go see it, if you don't find it funny, well, I feel really sorry for you "},{"Title":"So angry that it's underrated","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit, that when I saw previews for this, it looked liek a dreck. Then I finally rented the movie out of curiosity, I was so empressed and had laughed myself silly. This was so superb, and the voice talent was awesome. All the characters had great lines, and I loved it when ever Krunk would 'consult' his conscience. The voice talents were great, and Eartha Kitt suprised me with her awesome job. Sadly, this movie is underratted. Peace, gotta fly. love this movie "},{"Title":"BOOM-BABY!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a true Disney masterpiece.  While I enjoyed Disney's usual animated formula which is basically cartoon musicals; this move is a refreshing change of pace.  Dave Spade is perfect as the Emporer. And all John Goodman and Ertha Kitt are great in their roles; Patrick Warrburton absolutely steals the show as Kronk the more loveable than evil henchman. I rate this ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A lot of fun","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From all the previews I saw of this movie (and there were MANY) I could see it would be funny. Before I even saw it, I was laughing and using the emperor's catch phrase Nooo touch-y!When I finally got to see it, I was glad that there were a lot more funny lines than just what you see in the previews. Not much time passes between each laugh and David Spade's sarcasm is brilliant. If you know his past roles on SNL and other movies, it makes it that much funnier.Kids and adults will laugh and enjoy this movie. It is quick paced and best of all there are not a ton of really lame songs like in most Disney Movies. There are also no really sappy parts or any goody-goody characters. This is a refreshing break from the average Disney film. "},{"Title":"A dry, clever, wacky groove.  Recommended.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had heard that Disney was trying something a bit different with this picture, and knew from Kuzco's Bring it on. waterfall line in the preview that I'd probably like this form of different.  This is the first Disney pic in awhile that doesn't really take itself seriously at all, and it flourishes as a result.There's a plot, but it's not such a big deal as in most Disney fare.  Jerkish emperor receives his comeuppance and learns a lesson, yada-yada.  The fun's more in the telling, as given here.  The change of heart doesn't come so terribly quickly as to be disconcerting, and feels somewhat earned through the chaos that ensues.  And chaos it is...through a rollercoaster ride of sight gags, verbal wordplay, conventional satire and a semi-talking squirrel.David Spade lends a biting sarcasm to Kuzco that is rare for hero-types in cartoons, and Patrick Warburton really steals the show with his understated and underneuroned Kronk.  I came to be waiting for every dry aside out of Kronk's mouth, he's so hilarious.  Such a lovely eulogy.I don't understand why some have said this is boring, as it's a pretty snappy ride.  I do understand why some haven't laughed so much-you need a pretty quick and warped mind to catch some of their throwaway lines, which are really some of the funniest.  Kids will like the sight gags, but will miss much of the verbal humor.  Take it out for a spin, you may be pleasantly surprised.  Just, don't diss Kronk's spinach puffs.  He's a little sensitive about that, you know. "}{"Title":"One of Disney's best so far!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Left me speechless. The timing between hilarious slapstick and moments to catch breath is flawless. The dialogues reach from silly (in a funny way) to extremely sarcastic satire.  One of the few Disney - heroes who isn't a shining knight but from day one a person to hate!  New fresh directorial ideas.  Great score by John Debney. All in all one of my favourite Disney-pictures of all times (so far)! "},{"Title":"Disney's New Groove? I Hope So!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While Disney's feature films are, with a few exceptions, masterpieces, very few of them provoke genuine laughter. The Lion King has a few chuckles in it, and Robin Williams' Genie in Aladdin is nothing short of hilarious, but something always seems held back. Not here. Perhaps Disney is learning a few lessons from the witty and wonderful folks at Pixar.Everything is here sight gags, clever dialogue, slapstick, screwball, satire, and lots more. Even when the movie resorts to clicheed plot devices, they are actually pointed out so we can all laugh at them. This movie is something special.Even the animation is brilliant. Stylish, bright and bombastic, the style reminds one of the similarly flashy but painfully unfunny Hercules. There are some obvious caricatures involved, and the effect is wonderful, blurring the line between fantasy and reality.The voice cast is wonderful. David Spade joins the long line of entertainers who have had little relevant voice-acting experience, and yet excel, even though few of their other projects are kid-friendly. Others include Eddie Murphy, Demi Moore and Jerry Orbach. John Goodman plays it straight, even heart-felt at times, but still retains a genial charm and never seems too mushy or rigid to be funny. Together, Spade and Goodman have marvelous chemistry and have their personal touches to add to the funny scenes and yet can handle the more dramatic scenes with dignity. This is fine work. Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton are likewise hilarious. Kronk is just one in a long line of Disney lunks and yet is one of the few that every member of the audience goes home liking. John Fiedler, a Disney veteran, shows that he still has what it takes, even at 75.Stereotypes are thrown out the window. (So is an old man, but that's another story.) Kuzko is obviously an orphan who has no intention of taking his responsibilities seriously, and for the longest time seems beyond redemption. Only at the end, do we feel he deserves his happiness and his surrogate family. This is a poor little rich boy who doesn't realize it through his self-delusion and immaturity until very late in the movie. Kuzko is not given a pretty girl to pursue and win the hand of. Such corny plot devices have no place here. A further nice touch is that it would be too easy to make Pacha a single father, but his whole family is not only included but empowered.Little touches mark the loving care placed into the project. The scene where a broken-hearted Kuzko is forced to eat grass like the other llamas reminds us of the Prodigal Son (which, of course, he is). The scene in which Yzma and Kronk attempt to fly across a ravine owes more than just a nod to Chuck Jones.After the appalling Dinosaur, Disney pulled this out of their storage room and surprised and delighted us all. Let us hope that they use this flavour in the future, and remember what animation is truly all about. Not to be pretentious, but to be enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Unexpected Disney fare, but an unexpected delight.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  These comments are based on a viewing of the DVD version of this film.Simply put, this is Disney, but it isn't the Disney we are accustomed to.  David Spade is notorious for his sarcasm and snide comments, and they abound in this film.  The storyline here is darker than previous Disney animated films.  One of the special features on the DVD is a deleted scene in which Pacha's village is destroyed, and while it is shown in its unfinished form, it is obvious why it wasn't included.  It is a very dark, violent, and foreboding scene, and it brings new light to the film, especially when watched after viewing the movie in its entirety.  Simply put, this isn't your typical children's movie, and it seems to be aimed at a more mature audience.The story revolves around Emperor Kuzco, an egotistical ruler with a heavy hand, who is turned into a llama by his nemesis Yzma and her faithful sidekick, Kronk.  Kuzco is ends up on Pacha's cart, and is transported back to his village, and various hijinks occur as Pacha tries to help Kuzco return to his palace, and ultimately regain his human form.In my humble opinion, Kronk steals the show here.  Spade & John Goodman do a good job as Emperor Kuzco and Pacha respectively, but Kronk, while something of an idiot, brings comedic moments to this film which are necessary.  Watch his facial expression on the way to the secret lab, and keep an eye on him during the jump-rope scene at Pacha's hut later on in the movie.  Simply put, it's hilarious.  Patrick Warburton's flat delivery of lines for this character adds dimension (surprisingly) to the typical idiot character which appears in almost all Disney films.Rumor has it that this film was originally a lot different, a lot darker, until Disney stepped in and took over.  A viewing of the deleted scene gives some insight into what the film may have been like had it not been changed.  I've always been amazed by the fact that Disney can make films geared at kids, but which also appeal to adults. However, more recently, and unfortunately, Disney has used its reputation for having excellent story lines and creating films which teach lessons to enter into the direct-to-video market, thus taking advantage of children and their parents, and disappointing Disney fans who would rather see films which are good enough for theatrical release. Even though these particular films are released by Disney, they are just like any other direct-to-video film.  They should be avoided, and aren't anything to write home about.While not as good as Tarzan or The Lion King,   The Emperor's New Groove is a pretty good way to keep the kiddies quiet on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon, and the adults might get something out of it as well.Note  The DVD version contains, among other goodies, a neat little animated game, a multiple choice Q&A which you can play with the children after they watch the movie.  To keep them extra quiet, tell them to watch close because they are going to be tested!  )My Rating  7/10 "},{"Title":"To Sum Up In A Word Zany.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't overly enthused by the previews for this film, but I tend to enjoy a good animated film, so I was still going to give this one a chance.  What I WASN'T counting on is the fact that I would be laughing out loud in the theaters on a constant basis, and even more when I got the movie on DVD.Emperor's New Groove is kind of light on story.  There's no epic feel to it and the situations are silly.  But I think that's what makes the film.  It's incredibly fast-paced with a great sense of comedic timing (reaction humor is one of the funniest forms of comedy out there, in my opinion), witty one-liners, and complete unpredictability make it stand out from the other Disney films.  It makes fun of itself, speaks directly to the audience at time, and when it throws logic out the window, it doesn't hold back on pointing it out.  Disney's never done (not to my immediate recollection, anyway) a buddy flick before, and the fact that it doesn't pull any stops on the comedy makes it really enjoyable.  And to it's true appeal, Yzma and Kronk are by far some of the most entertaining villains that Disney has done in a LONG time.  Finally, bad guys with real personality.  And for those who fear a song-filled Disney movie, ENG only has one song at the beginning.  Everything else is WAY out there.The 2-Disc DVD is worth the money.  Tons of stuff on the animated process.  Disney Home Video has come a long way in doing their films right.  I wish the earlier ones had been treated this well.I haven't laughed this hard at a Disney movie since the original Aladdin. "},{"Title":"the best movie EVER!!!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie sooooooooooo much. I definitely recommend it to everyone and anyone, because everyone would enjoy it. It's hilarious! I just love everything about it, i can't begin to describe. )  It's definitely one of my favourite movies of all time "},{"Title":"Definitely a David Spade!!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   Any fan of David Spade will love The Emperor's New Groove.  The movie poster in itself is a collectible, and the film is absolutely hysterical.  It's filled with dry humor, sarcasm, and vanity as well as semi-touching sincerity and cuteness.  My brother and I were the only people in the theater not attached to a seven-year-old, but we definitely appreciated the movie, and I can't wait for it to come out on Tuesday.  David Spade, in true fashion, makes no attempt to disguise his voice, and you know it's him from the first line uttered.  The role of Kuzco is perfect for him.  His humor dominates the movie, making it one of those Disney greats that appeals to both adults and kids, like Toy Story.  Awesome, hilarious, entertaining, well-paced movie. "},{"Title":"Nicely surprised...","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove sees Disney take a very large step away from the tired Hollywood-musical formula.  Upon hearing this I was quite eager to see what the studio had up their sleeves, and I'm happy to report that I was pleasantly surprised.  This film is an all-out comedy and it doesn't fail to provide.  There were some moments that didn't draw much of a giggle and it was somewhat slow to start off with, but by the film's climax the laughs are coming pretty hard and fast.Also breaking with tradition, there is nothing ground-breaking or state-of-the-art with the animation.  That's not to say that the animation is bad!  It's the standard Disney work, beautiful and subtle, just no CG eye-candy trying to make up for a lack-lustre story.The background music fits in well but there are no show-stopping musical scenes.  A welcome change.  The tunes are nothing memorable which isn't necessarily a bad thing either.  As for the characters, Yzma and Kronk in my opinion, steal the show!  There are some hilarious scenes between these two.  I loved Yzma right from the start, and Kronk really does grow on you.  I'm not a big fan of David Spade (or his sitcom Just Shoot Me) and to be honest I walked in feeling a little skeptical about him, but he did a really good job in the role of Kuzco.  Thumbs up to John Goodman as Pacha as well.I can really only sum this film up as different.  But different in a very good way.  The Emperor's New Groove is not about the fancy-schmancy animation or the music or the big-name voice actors.  It's about the story, and a good one at that.  After Tarzan I was beginning to think that Disney had really lost the plot for good but it seems as though they could be back on track, breaking some new ground as well.  As with all Disney animated flicks, this is one aimed at the kiddies but it seems as though the humor has matured just a bit (seems like the current trend), so young people and adults are bound to get a few laughs.  Well worth the admission price, definitely worth a rental.   "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't really planning on seeing this movie- the title kind of turned me off to the whole thing.  However, the movie I had gone to see wasn't playing at the time I thought it was, so I thought what the heck.  Turns out- it was a more worth my money than any movie I've seen in ages.  It was absolutely hilarious, I recomend it to everyone.  You won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Excellent slapstick - for adults !","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I doubt that many children will understand all the humor of this story. As an adult, one can keep laughing during the whole movie. Its really a wellmade, humorous, funny artpiece.Fortunately there is the name 'Disney' to help it, so it had a chance in cinema. I would give respect to any other company which would have made this movie, but only Disney has the name to be successful with movies like this in cinema, as it seems - and even in the case of Disney not always, as the failure of the unbelievable masterpiece 'Toy Story 2' has proved.Well, this is Disney at its best, very good family entertainment for both children and adults, also plus some moral - a really good movie, worth your time !  "},{"Title":"Very groovy indeed.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's be honest Disney has never really challenged the cliche horizon. Since Aladdin we even haven't been treated to non-digital brilliance anymore. Well, it seems with the competition (read Dreamworks) leering around the corner Disney is upping the ante. David Spade shows his ultimate performance like Williams once did for that cooky blue genie. As the arrogant, sarcastic lama he steals the show and the fact that ancient Peru is merely used as canvas without depth for once is not a hindrance. The humor is simply too brilliant. Definitely for adults as for kids, this one. Even for people, who would steer away from Disney. "}{"Title":"A comedy, yes, but also a young man's odyssey","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is not like other Disney animated classics.  Where's the romance, for one thing?  The falling in love at first sight, the instant standard love song?  In this film, friendship is the emphasized relationship.  It's a buddy flick.The film takes place around the time of the Incan empire, but don't expect historical accuracy.  This film is to Incan history what The Flintstones is to prehistory.The films is more irreverent and quirky than any of its Disney predecessors.  Still, I took seriously the odyssey of Kuzco, the emperor-turned-llama.  This handsome young man is arrogant and selfish, yet one doesn't hate him.  One senses deep down he has the potential to be a good person if he can just get over his spoiled upbringing.  It may take the trial of turning into a beast, a la Disney's Beauty and the Beast, to get him to take a good look at himself.  But will he learn?  This film kept me guessing.  On the one hand, it would be a shame is he learned nothing from his trials.  But on the other hand--this is a quirky and irreverent film, if you remember.  Perhaps the filmmakers would consider it the ultimate joke if after all he'd been through, Kuzco learned nothing.  See it for yourself to find which road Kuzco chooses. "},{"Title":"Is he hip or what?","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove might be the best Disney movie in years. Although not promoted as one of their major christmas motion pictures, it clearly has everything a good animated movie needs and more. It features non of the typical Disney elements (i.e. 'soft' humor, lots of singing, cute and funny supporting figures etc.) but instead gives us great puns, a lot of self-irony and a plotline that keeps the raised forefinger of moral a bit in the background. Both the style of drawing and the humor reminded me more of recent cartoons like '2 Stupid Dogs' or 'The Simpsons', the gags hit straight in the face and the characters are so exaggerated that they are simply cool. I recommend this film to anyone, great and small, who likes funny movies with intelligent humor.  "},{"Title":"Disney as Looney Tunes - Loved it!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is quite simply the most entertaining Disney movie in recent memory (Fantasia 2000 notwithstanding).  The deadpan humor of Spade, Goodman and company delivered in... well, spades.Patrick Warburton basically stole the show, however, as the goofy and less-than-threatening henchman Kronk.Highly recommend this insta-classic from Team Mouse.  Check it out.8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disney's much needed New Groove!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  New Groove was the best Disney movie I've seen since the Lion King, yet lacked everything that The Lion King had!  The Lion King had all the makings of the stereotypical Disney Animated feature, music, characters bursting into song every 10 minutes, lessons to be learned, insanely evil villains who inevitably are killed at the end by the tragic hero, Love interests, wacky side kicks to add in a little humour along with the drama, and shiney eye candy animation. Yet, along with all this, Lion King had the love put into it that made it the wonderful movie that it was.  All the Disneys after it had all the components but the Love!Not that New Groove didn't have some of the qualities aforementioned, it had music (But not sung by the characters), it had a lesson to be learned, and it had eye candy animation (But who says that's a bad thing if the heart is in the right place?)... everything else had a groove of it's own. Disney certainly got a  New Groove going when they came up with this movie!  It's unlike any other Disney I've seen. It was a laugh a minute for me.  I must have missed every other joke in it because I was laughing so hard at the joke before it!  David Spade was absolutely hilarious!Though it's plot was thin and predictable, the movie still possessed the charm and lovable characters that we've not seen in a long time.  It rings of The Great Mouse Detective, with it's charming and lovable characters and alot of slap stick comedy to leave you laughing, not sobbing (Lion King, remeber Mufasa's death?)!I am very surprised to see how many people didn't like this movie as much as I did.  I feel that Disney's New Groove is promising for future animated features, and I hope to see more movies like this in the future.Oh, and if you're wondering WHY it was called New Groove and there's not much singing in it... well, it's because the Emperor's Old Groove was that of his selfish and spoiled self, and after he met Pacha... well, it changed it Groove.  (There's also that whole... Llama thing.) "},{"Title":"The Best in Years","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie in years.  I am not talking about just Disney movies, in general, this movie is all out hilarious.  Patrick Warburton steals every scene he's in as Kronk, the incompetent sidekick.  This movie had me in stitches from the very opening all the way to the end.  Unlike most comedies nowadays, this one is appropriate for the entire family. Disney has returned to their old form with this one.  While it lacks the musical prowess of such Disney heavyweights like Aladdin and The Lion King the writing in it is top notch, and the actors do a splendid job at portraying these incredibly funny characters.  This is one you can bring the kids to if you want, but it's just as enjoyable by yourself, or even on a date.  Everyone will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Disney, Warner Brothers-Style","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a Disney fan.  I admire the sheer artistry of their work, the way each of their animated features is a technical marvel, but they lack soul and unpredictability.  Lately, Disney's films seem more like two-hour commercials for toys and CD soundtracks and McDonalds merchandise and Saturday morning spin-offs.But not this.  I walked into The Emperor's New Groove expecting the typical Disney corporate product, and came out reminded of the classic Warner Brothers Looney Tunes.  It's like the Disney screenwriters and animators have been saving up all their attitude and screwball gags from the last couple of features and put them all in here, one comic-anarchy joyride.  Only one song (delightfully sung by Tom Jones), no adorable animal sidekicks, just wit and humor.  Sure, the plot is thin, and it doesn't have the same visual polish as Beauty and the Beast or The Lion King, but you get swept along so quickly you hardly notice.The vocal casting here is perfect.  A little David Spade goes a long way for me, but here he's perfect as the self-absorbed Kuzco.  John Goodman is his usual Everyman self as Pacha, and Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton are fantastic as the villains Izma and Kruk.  By the time it was all over, I wouldn't have minded spending another hour or two with these characters, delightful and unique as they were.I'd like to think The Emperor's New Groove marks a new direction for Disney in the 21st Century, but I doubt it.  From what I understand, Groove is something of a throwaway, created out of a half-completed traditional animated feature and given a life of its own.  Instead I think this will stand as a monument to the energy and wit Disney could have if they stepped outside their deeply-carved niche (read rut) and tried a new groove of their own.  Groove will forever stand apart, much like Fantasia sixty years ago; a unique stepchild unlike anything Disney has done before and is unlikely to do again. "},{"Title":"Odd yet hilarious.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The rhythm of The Emperors New Groove is different than any of the previous offerings from Disney.  From the opening number with a small, afroed Tom Jones to David Spades breaking the fourth wall (speaking directly to the audience), this film seems to try and break or lampoon every animation tradition.  In true Disney fashion, it will entertain both adults and children.   "},{"Title":"Great comedy and thoroughly entertaining","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoy most of Disney's movies, but this one in particular has so much character.  David Spade's character voice for the Emperor is excellent and could be the main reason why I enjoyed this movie so much.  Anyone who enjoyed David Spade on Saturday Night Live, or Just Shoot Me should definately see this film.Very fun spirited and is definately a different formula than normal disney films.  The characters didn't feel the need to break out in a song every few minutes.  Not that the music in other disney's films is bad, but it sometimes can be overdone.I highly recommend this movie and am looking forward to owning it on video when it is released. "},{"Title":"Amazing Disney Movie!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for this, I thought it would be a bad Disney Movie just like the rest of them are. I went to see it with my friend anyway and I was wrong. The Emperor's new groove is one of the best Disney Movies in years. It was full of comedy. My favourite character was the stupid sidekick to the evil woman, Kronk. A must see!  "},{"Title":"Not just an average Disney effort, but something more","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went in with my two children expecting a modestly funny Disney effort. I was pleasantly surprised. The plot was pretty straightforward, but the humor was a great mix of slapstick, sly references, puns and sarcastic laughs. A nice message for kids in this age of affluenza about how being self-centered is not the way to go through life. All in all a great family film.  "}{"Title":"Sillier and slighter than usual, but fun","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sillier and slighter than your usual Disney animated fare.. this effort has a cocky young Emperor (voiced by the smarmy David Spade) getting turned into a llama by his devious advisor (voiced by the entertaining Eartha Kitt). Not much depth here but it won't bore you and it's light fun for the kids when not much of that is out right now. GRADE B "},{"Title":"The Emperor's New Groove delivers","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is one of the best throw-it-all-away-and-enjoy-it movies I've ever seen. It is in your face, it is funny, it is deadpan, and the animation is that same gorgeous Disney animation that we have always known and loved.In a nutshell, spoiled brat Emperor Kuzco breaks the news over the head of selfless, caring Pacha that he is destroying his village to make way for Kuzcotopia, his ultimate summer getaway. His plans are put on halt when his ex-advisor, Yzma, and her assistant Kronk, plot to kill him with poison over dinner but turn him into a llama instead. Kronk has the llama in the bag, with plans to kill him outside of palace grounds, but then trips over a cat and the bag ends up riding out of town on Pacha's cart. Once he is discovered, Pacha and Kuzco the llama are stuck in a four-day journey together back to the palace to turn him back.Everything about this movie is great. The humor is so dry, and so realistic. (Scenes to look for The dialogue between Kuzco and Yzma in the dining room once Kronk runs out, realizing his spinach puffs are burning; The dialogue between Kuzco and Pacha the morning after the first night they spent in the wilderness.) The animation is also fabulous. (Scenes to look for The opening, narrated by David Spade, with the big-eyed pitiful llama slopping around the rain and mud that makes you actually feel bad for him; The zoom-out scene when Kronk has just dropped the bagged Kuzco the llama into a river and, on an impulse, caught him again to keep him from dropping down a waterfall which must fall for eternity.)I also enjoyed the voices that were cast in this movie. All the roles seemed tailor-made for them. David Spade, of whom I am a big fan, was spectacular with a lot of lines, even scenes, that could have fallen flat without his deadpan, right-on voice. John Goodman's resonant voice was the perfect fit for humble, sweet Pacha. Eartha Kitt, with her spitty, articulate, scratchy voice, brought the character of Yzma to life. And I enjoyed Patrick Warburton as the clueless, dumb yet entirely endearing Kronk to no end. In fact, Kronk and ChiCha (Pacha's wife, voiced by Wendie Malick), were my two favorite characters. (Scenes to look for Any time Kronk is cooking to see him in action; for a glimpse of ChiCha's personality pay attention to Pacha's homecoming.)And this movie was surprisingly funny. To kids AND adults, and everyone in between (which is where I fall). In fact, many of the adults in the theatre were laughing harder than the children. (My favorite joke in the movie? The recurring Okay, why does she even HAVE that lever? is great, especially the second time, when the llama emerges with the crocodile gnawing on him.)I liked this movie so much that I saw it twice. (The second time was an accident; Cast Away had no empty seats, but this movie was my next in line to go for.)I can't think of any criticism for this movie. Oh yes, and I also enjoyed Sting's music very much -- I am a big fan, but even if I wasn't, the songs are catchy. This movie is very well done, and very, very entertaining. After all, it's not really meant to give you something to think about; it's meant to entertain, and The Emperor's New Groove certainly delivers. "},{"Title":"Funnier and better than I expected","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was tricked into taking two nine-year olds and a seven year old to this movie.  However, I laughed out loud many times.  It wasn't quite worth the $29 I spent on snacks, but that's another posting.Most of the time we laughed together but occasionally I would guffaw at something completely lost on them while they would scream with hilarity at something I thought was dumb.Great family movie. "},{"Title":"Just for fun","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is an amusing (and almost unrecognizable) take off on SNOW WHITE with Kuzco as Snow White, Yzma as the evil witch, and Pacha as all 7 dwarfs rolled into one big lug. The film is lots of zany fun for adults and kids without a terminal case of cutsies and the instant songfest soundtrack.It's good to see that the Disney company can make a savy, fun movie that combines expressionistic art with traditional Disney imagery. The movie is lightweight and a lot more fun than many recent Disney offerings. "},{"Title":"A grudgingly enjoyable experience","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I gotta say upfront that I despise Disney. Oh, not the Disney of my childhood (20-25 years ago), which brought me fascinating, sometimes cutting edge animation movies such as Jungle Book. No, I mean Michael Eisner's Disney, the soulless marketing machine that has leeched away its creativity in its quest to boost the stock price.So my wife and I attended New Groove reluctantly, and only because it was the sole movie at the 24-theatre multiplex that was on at the right time and wasn't sold out. I rated it a 6, and have no problem stating that New Groove is the most original movie from Disney since, perhaps, pre-Little Mermaid days.Good things Voices (David Spade was perfectly whiney, the guy who played Puddy on Seinfeld was great as the oaf assistant, and Eartha Kitt was a purrrrrfectly evil villian), NO INSIPID SONGS, no cutesy sidekick characters for alleged comic relief, and maybe best of all, NEW GROUND was broken. For once we watched a movie headed into who knows what direction (of sure, the overall plot was predictable, but the details were interesting), and we saw things that were oddly inexplicable but endearing (this emperor like to dance, hence The Groove).Bad things The inexplicable but endearing stuff was never fully utilized (what, no raves at the palace?), the movie dragged at times during the llama emperor's journey, and, ultimately, you didn't really care about any of these characters. You just wanted to have fun.So a grudging tip of the hat to Disney. Judging from the lack of commercial and marketing support you guys don't know exactly how to present New Groove, and maybe that is why it is your best animated film in a decade. "},{"Title":"I am very confused!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie itself was okay.  But I still don't know why it was called the Emperor's New Groove.  That sounds to me like there should be singing and dancing like in the Disney Tradition.  There isn't.  The movie is okay, don't get me wrong.  But it kinda runs long.  You wait for music and its not there.  I would definitely recommend it for the kids to see because the trek into the woods is definitely funny.  But, don't look for any big musical numbers. "},{"Title":"Disney does a full-length Warner Bros. cartoon","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen all year.  Not a Disney musical at all.  The only songs are the opening and closing credits (by Tom Jones and Sting, respectively).  Instead, it's the animated tale of redemption.Now, it's a silly movie.  The humor is hardly highbrow.  A lot of it relies upon the snideness of David Spade's persona, but I like that sort of thing and I laughed all the way through it.And with Eartha Kitt in this, it becomes that much better.  She makes the perfect villain (and with a small nod to her past as Catwoman from the old TV Batman series).The jokes come fast and furious with the jabs and barbs hitting everyone, including the movie, itself.  Dare I say it?  Yes, I do.  Disney has finally figured out that spark of zaniness that has always been a hallmark of Warner Brothers cartoons.  I've always felt that Warner Brothers knew how to make a short while Disney knew how to make a full-length and never the twain shall meet.  And that was because silliness is hard to maintain for very long while condensing sweetness down to such a short time makes it cloying. Well, Disney has figured out the former.If you can't handle silly, if you're looking for real meaning, if you can't appreciate sheer ridiculousness simply for its own sake, then you'll hate this movie.If you appreciate following the joke where it leads, if you can go with the gag without worrying that it doesn't make logical sense, if you like the sidetracks better than the main path, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Very good film and family entertainment","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed it very much and so did my two girls Seven and ten years old. Very witty and endearing. I loved Spades voice. PERFECT. The characters were all engaging and very funny. The movie kept the adults entertained as well as the kids. LOVED IT. "},{"Title":"Funny, but still had it's slow parts.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   I went there expecting a few jokes, mostly written for 5 year-olds. I was wrong!  I found my friend and I (14 years old, and 13 years old) were laughing louder then the 8 year-olds; sometimes being the few people only laughing.  So, this movie isn't just for kids I believe some adults will enjoy it, also.Their were a few slow parts.  But, it wasn't too long before they brought you back to a joke, luckily!  The one thing, I disliked was that they gave away a few jokes in the trailer, that would have been a lot funnier if they were left in the context.  Since there was only a few given away, it didn't have a large impact on the movie. Also, I must say, it was perfectly cast!I highly recommend seeing it; no matter what age. It is hilarious!  Even though, their is those few slow parts, it's nothing that should keep you from seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"Bring it on.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was so -- much -- FUN!  I haven't laughed so hard in ages.  I love Disney movies but I'm not a blind Mousemaniac; the songs are often cloying and the formula is starting to make me ill.  This, however, broke the mold and was a real treat!  Funny, colorful, funny, entertaining, did I mention funny?  Oh my.  And here I was all braced to be annoyed to distraction by David Spade...instead, I found him perfectly cast, as were Goodman, Kitt, and Warburton (who will make an AWESOME Tick next year if he can pull off this character type live!).Beware the grooooove!  And make sure you drag someone to see this movie before it goes out of theaters! .-=K=-. "}{"Title":"More fun for adults than kids","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not that the children won't love it, but much, if not most, of the humor is going to go right over their heads.  The movie has a less Disney feel to it, as if halfway through production Disney didn't like how it was going and told them to just finish what they had.  No big musical numbers, no state-of-the-art animation techniques, some of the backgrounds almost look as if they were using the roughs, and many scenes are left out . . . but that was probably the best part of the film.Between all the out-of-character takes, bordering-on-spoof humor, and fill-in-the-blanks missing scenes (one of which even plays an integral part of the plot) it works very well on two levels.  You might even want to catch a late showing by yourself and leave the kids at home. "},{"Title":"Mazel Tov","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It looks like Disney finally gave up the pretentious tone of their last films. The circle of life might indeed sound a bit over the top. This time, despite a slightly moralising theme, the crazy plot is nothing more than a great pretext for wacky situations. Unlike the last films where all the sets were almost screaming look how artsy this is! look how great our stuff is! look at what I can do! here, some great looking sets are present with a discretion that goes to their honour. When Pacha leaves the palace at the beginning of the film and walks back to his village, his route is delightful to the eye, without annoying violins ruining it by desperately trying to point it out.Disney also seems to have given up the song every seven minutes policy. There's only one song in the film, and that's quite enough. More would brake the groove. The voices are excellent. David Spade has the fake crying and whining that makes him so delightfully annoying in Just Shoot Me. And Patrick Warburton has his serious and brainless tone of voice in the most inappropriate moments. (He left without paying his check.) This is just to name a couple.Much like Scream, or Austin Powers, in a completely different theme though, the film makes fun of itself. The characters don't expect us to believe the absurd Hollywood-like coincidences of their adventure, and seem to be quite aware of the fact they're only characters of a film. And, in any case, how serious can a Jewish New York diner in the middle of a pre-Columbian South American jungle be? Especially when the waitress expresses her happiness with a blas Mazel Tov? How come, in the end of every action film, the bad guys so often seem to get in the way of the good guys in the most unlikely of ways? Who cares? seems to be the general attitude of The Emperor's New Groove.The four main characters follow a seemingly endless series of misadventures, all more unlikely and more hilarious than the other. They spoof other films and parody a lot of situations. There are no tasteless jokes, as there were in The Lion King. They play with stereotypes and attitudes. They achieve a lot by not taking themselves too seriously.That's just the kind of humour I like. I couldn't stop laughing. I saw it twice in a row.And why does Ysma have that lever anyway? "},{"Title":"Hands down, the best family movie this year!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove Disney (not counting their Touchstone division) produces two kinds of movies live family oriented films like 102 Dalmations (although the quality is generally better) and animated musicals a la Tarzan or Aladdin.  Their most recent offering, though patterned on the latter, lacks the trademark songs and forays into morality, opting instead for an old fashioned cartoon.  A gutsy move indeed.Kuzco is a self centered spoiled brat, but when you're the 18 year old ruler of a South American country, that's not a stretch.  When Kuzco fires Yzma, his trusted advisor and her behemoth helper Kronk, they decide to do away with him.  Although they bungle the attempt on his life, they do succeed in turning him into a Llama.  More troubling than being turned into a beast of burden is Kuzco's knowledge that he is at the mercy of the very peasant whose land he was about to appropriate for a summer home.  Who ever said life is easy?One of the qualities that I enjoyed most about Iron Giant was that the characters didn't keep breaking out into song - it's not that I don't enjoy musicals, but they can grow tiresome.  I didn't know what to expect from this movie mainly because I knew they had changed the content several times, probably fearing a repeat of Road to El Dorado's bad box office. Radically altering the course of a film midstream generally leads to problems (does anyone remember Supernova?), and at the very least, I doubt Sting will ever offer to score another Disney film after they scrapped the bulk of his songs.  Fortunately this break with the Disney convention works.Although I'm not a huge David Spade fan, the combination of his skewed sarcastic humor and excellent animation is exactly what the emperor-turned- Llama calls for, making Kuzco a character we like, in spite of the fact that he is a shameless cad.  On the other end of the spectrum is Pacha, voiced by Jon Goodman, the kind and caring peasant who is willing to help Kuzco although it may be to his detriment.  Yzma, Kuzco's scheming right hand woman, is brought to life by Eartha Kitt's raspy voice and spot on animation (before you even hear her voice you know who the actor is), and is positively scary, but in a nice way.  Finally,  Kronk (Puddy from Seinfeld who incidentally will be starring in a live-action version of The Tick on FOX) the sidekick wanna-be, is hilarious as the double-digit-IQ-walking-slab-of-muscle more concerned with cooking than killing.The combination of the sixties style animation, solid characters and slapstick style result in a movie that is pure, simple and unmitigated fun. Go!  "},{"Title":"This movie was extremely funny.","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was one of the funniest movies that I've ever seen. This is pretty impressive, considering it's a Disney Movie.  It's the funniest Disney movie since Toy Story.  Disney also did a great job casting the movie, as well.  David Spade was great. "},{"Title":"Lots of fun!  Great kids movie.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My kids enjoyed this film (as did I) a lot.  It is simple and clean, with a good message about what happens when you are selfish.  We laughed out loud so many times.  At the end, the audience applauded.  This is one we will want to see again, and own on DVD. "},{"Title":"A new direction for Disney?","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to snatch a couple of tickets to a sneak preview to this movie in Toronto on December 11. Actually, snatching might be a little too strong a word--although I *did* take the time to go to the cinema and buy advance tickets, the theatre was not even half full.Too bad for those who missed it, I guess, because The Emperor's New Groove is a pretty good film. In my opinion, it marks a stark departure from previous Disney movies, not only because of its release date, but also because of its style, which includes only two very low-key songs and is a continuous sequence of sketches that might have well been taken out of Saturday Night Live (of the old type, of course).The lack of a significant budget and clear direction--which shows not only in the quality of the art (still splendid and yet a little lower than one would expect from a Disney movie), but also in the fact that the script seems to have gone through a lot of change--make me wonder if this represents a new direction in which Disney movies are going a sort of experiment that moves away significantly from the classic Disney pieces, which--it seems to me--have followed the same routing all the way up from Snow White.Hopefully, this movie will demonstrate that it is possible to hold an audience captive with an animated movie even if it's not a musical and be successful enough for Disney to continue on this path with more experiments! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Much like my fellow reviewer, I had the distinct pleasure of seeing this movie in a joint sneak-preview,and I must say that it was fantastic! As far as I can see, the only people who will take offense at this movie are hardcore, old-fashioned Disneyphiles who are unwilling to accept that times are changing. It's the the new millennium, people! Walt's successors should very well include David Spade in the hallowed tradition of an annual animated masterpiece! (Save The Three Callbaeros, of course).In addition, the movie dragged very little (if not any at all) and captured my rapt attention from beginning to end. The animation was lively (while not revolutionary), the voice casting was impeccable, and most importantly... the comedy WORKED! Spade was neither too cloying nor too repressed, which produced some genuinely hilarious moments within the film. Aside from that - though - the real star was Patrick Warbuton as evil second banana Kronk, who's understated stupidity counteracted Yzma's (a wonderfull y throaty Eartha Kitt) menacing bite with unusual flair.To end this wordy review, I can only sum up my satisfaction with a single, succinct sentenceSee this movie!Hopefully, you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"One of Disney's most hilarious...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just attended a sneak preview of this film, and was very surprised at how good it was, especially considering it is being released during the winter instead of the summer (as most of the great Disney animated movies are). I laughed most of the way through, and only wished it was longer.The crowd that I saw it with also seemed to enjoy the movie very much and clapped afterward.  As was mentioned in the other user's comments, adults will likely enjoy this film as much as children.  I enjoyed the humor very much, and a lot of it seemed to be targeted at adults.  David Spade was excellent as the Emperor, and the other voices were great as well.I think this is one of the better recent Disney movies, as both kids and parents will enjoy it together.  Hopefully word-of-mouth gets out that this is worth seeing.  I think it will be very successful, especially since many families have already seen The Grinch and will be looking for a new family movie to watch over the holidays.I give this a 9 out of 10 (the only thing keeping it from getting a 10 was the lack of a true memorable song).  Check this one out if you get a chance.  I'll probably go and see it again, as it is worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"One of the best feel good comedies of the year","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Disney's The Emperor's New Groove is one of those family films that anyone can walk in, see it, and feel good afterwards.  Mainly because it's funny, and mostly entertaining.  Story follows a spoiled emperor (David Spade vocals and gives some great charm to the character) who gets his life twisted around when a revenging advisor (Eartha Kitt voices) turns him into a lama (though by accident).  Then the fun begins.  Like The Road to El Dorado (another animated feel good comedy from this years batch), this is a family animated/comedy that isn't in perfection, but it doesn't matter much when it's this enjoyable.  Good natured songs by Sting give this film a boost.  A- "},{"Title":"Disney Knows how to Groove!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was lucky enough to attend a preview screening in London at the weekend. It gave me the feeling The Emperor's New Groove will be one of the most understated Disney movies released in recent years. Of course, I'm saying this before the film's US opening and before the hype train pulls into Britain in February. I only hope that it gets what it deserves A lot of credit.The story of a spoilt Emperor who is turned into a Lama by his scheming adviser is the stuff that Disney movies are made of. But this is not a philosophical  or moral piece with moments of comedy. This is a roller-coaster of laughs that I haven't seen since the likes of Aladdin. The animation is sharp and colourful. Definitely up to scratch.When the movie's over, as the kiddies munch into their Emperor's New Groove Happy Meal with wind up Lama, Mum and Dad will feel like they've got their money's worth. There is so much in this for adults. David Spade and John Goodman prove once again that Disney producers have an ear for voice talent. They make a great comedy duo.  The fact that their lines were probably recorded weeks apart shows how good these performers (and editors) are. With so many one-liners and quips, I wonder how many were improvised.  I'm sure a lot of it will go over younger children's heads, but the eye candy will keep them entertained. So many sight gags are involved, this does need a second viewing.It's great to see a Disney movie so tongue in cheek! Very refreshing, very enjoyable. A modern classic! Go see!  "}{"Title":"Here's what I think on Kusco's and Pacha's relationship","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, a lot of people have gotten into fights saying Kusco is gay and lots of disgusting jokes on the movie. People, get a life, its just a kid movie, it wont include any gay people. Pacha and Kusco are just friends. Like real friends. And there is nothing wrong with two MEN showing friendship. How many of you don't show a sign of friendship with a friend? Thought so. And then this is Kusco's probably first friend EVER. So its special for him. Then when I see the movie (especially the ending) Kusco probably sees Pacha as the father he never had and Pacha's family as HIS family. Kusco COULD pass for Pacha's young adult son. So, yeah, this is what I think on this, Its really cute the whole family hug thing. "},{"Title":"Llama Llama Llama...","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a Great movie!  The voices fit the characters and their resemblance to the actors is a nice touch. Just went out to buy the DVD and its worth the price! I give this movie an 8.5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Good fun, a throwback to Roadrunner and Wylie Coyote type of animated physical comedy.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The most irritating thing about watching The Emperor's New Groove on CBS is that they showed a 78-minute film in 2 hours, which means for every 8 to 10 minutes of movie, they interrupted with 5 minutes of commercials, so I could not get into the rhythm, or the groove, of this movie.Spoiled, self-centered brat of a King (David Spade) is turned into a Llama as his assistant (Eartha Kitt) tries to kill him. He is accidentally found by a peasant (John Goodman) who helps him get back to his castle, avoiding cliffs, waterfalls, scorpions, bats, leopards, canyons, but they never get even a scratch, just like Roadrunner and Wylie Coyote. During his journey back, he develops a sensitivity he didn't have before, and after he finds the potion to become a man again, he is destined to become a good king, with a New Groove.The scenes are very inventive, the dialog very witty, and I found myself laughing spontaneously often. Spade and Goodman were especially a good comic team. But my favorite character was Kronk, the not-too-smart giant of a bad guy who acted like a little kid every chance he got. Tom Jones, the singer, provides some of the background music.However, this is not really a movie for small children. Several times the characters say they want to kill and at least once use the word hate to express an ill feeling.  Small children do not need unnecessary exposure to that.  Overall I rate it 7 of 10 for good entertainment fluff.  Maybe a 6 would be better. Not as good as recent animated movies like Tarzan, A Bug's Life, Prince of Egypt, and the two Toy Story films. "},{"Title":"A Disney movie overblown with silly comedy.","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is Disney's 40th full-length animated feature, a story about the cold-hearted Emperor Kuzco who wants to destroy a quiet village in order to built his summer home. After he fires his administrator, Yzma, she uses her magic to turn him into a llama, rendering him powerless so she could rule the kingdom in his place. He needs the help of llama herder Pacha to regain his throne, who is the one with the village he plans to destroy.This movie is soaked with slapstick comedy and modern-day clichs, from the hip-sounding Kuzco to Pacha's typical Hollywood-acting family, and from David Spade's narration to Kronk's (Yzma's sidekick) big oaf personality. Everywhere you turn, there are gags, modern-day dialog and more humor, which can be distracting in a movie that is supposedly set in ancient times. The plot is simple with few twists and turns, as it mostly concentrates on Pacha trying to help Kuzco get back his throne, with Yzma and Kronk in pursuit. But, I have to say that the film did crack me up a few times, especially during the scenes with the hilarious Yzma. The animation is also very colorful and vibrant.Overall, it's a very silly movie with overblown jokes, limited character development and plot substance.Grade D "},{"Title":"Quite sad how rushed it was.","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The production of this movie is disheartening to say the least, and if you want to know why watch The Sweatbox. This movie is 78 minutes and has 9 writers. (I'd say the average is 4 to 5 writers.) You can see just how much was cut and recut and changed and removed from what the original story was. But that's a little thing to care about. This movie is fresh, daring, and at times brilliant. (Map lines, I'm looking at you.)I've heard that some people hate the voice casting, but I couldn't love it more. What other movie could have Walter from The Big Lebowkski and Piglet together in the same scene? David Spade was perfectly snarky and egocentric for Kuzco, Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton played off each other marvelously, and even the small roles like the two kids were great. The movie is refreshingly adventurous with its fourth wall breaks and self-referencing. (I think that's because the writers ran out of ideas.)If this was a bit longer and better polished, it would be one of my favorite Disney movies. "},{"Title":"Mildly amusing Disney but lacking inspiration, originality and innovation","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kuzco (David Space), is a spoilt and heartless 18-year old ruler of the Inca Empire, who is planning to build himself a giant holiday home. He summons Pacha (John Goodman) to tell him that he, his family, and the rest of the village must make way for his lavish plans and find somewhere else to live. Kuzco also fires Yzma (Eartha Kitt), his adviser, and in her fury she plans to poison him and ruling in his absence. Yzma's dim-witted but lovable henchman Kronk (Patrick Warburton) gives Kuzco the wrong poison, and instead turns him into a llama. She trusts Kronk to finish the job, but he doesn't have the heart to let Kuzco die and eventually loses him amongst the villagers. Stranded in the jungle with his new llama body, he entrusts Pacha to protect him and return him to his palace, without having any intentions of changing his holiday home plans.After a hugely troubled production (the title was originally Kingdom in the Sun and the plot involved a peasant look-a-like and a llama herder love-interest), The Emperor's New Groove arrived in 2000 to enjoy slim box-office success, something that Disney would have to get used to. The decision to swap the old-fashioned love story and moral preachings for a more silly and modern buddy-movie was a wise one, and film benefits especially from the work of Patrick Warburton, the man with possibly the best voice in comedy (he also does the voice of paraplegic Joe in Family Guy). Yet the tale is still an overly-familiar one, with the enlightenment of an ignorant rich kid amongst mixing with the lower- classes failing to find anything original to say.The character of Kuzco is especially loathsome, but where usually the actor/voice artist would be talented enough to make the character endearing, in the hands of David Space, an actor of such a startling lack of talent, is annoying, and remains annoying throughout. There were times where I felt like shouting at Pacha to just kick him off a cliff. I found the whole experience quite charmless, and in an age of high- definition CGI animation, it is nice to see Disney take a traditional approach. Yet where their early films such as Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937) and Bambi (1942) were drawn with expert beauty and love, Groove just looks lazy and heartless. It's not a total failure, the film is sporadically funny with the aforementioned Kronk getting most of the laughs, and Earth Kitt does some fine work as the twisted Yzma. But it's no wonder Disney would buy Pixar, as judging from this they were lacking from anything resembling inspiration or innovation.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Why do we even have that lever?","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I cannot stand typical Disney movies, and even if they could overcome their lazy, tiresome formulas, there would still be those insufferable stereotypes (Fat people are funny. Skinny people are treacherous. Attractive caucasoid people are virtuous. Ethnic or ugly people are villainous) which Disney distastefully falls back on over and over. The sentimental and schlocky Lion King which allowed them to tell a story about Africa without depicting a single black person was a massive cop-out. First animated black leading man character, Disney? Any time now (...would still be forty years too late)!It's too sarcastic? Take your impressionable and precious little treasures to some other lifeless movie then. But I'll take dozens of movies like this wild card from Disney before I'd ever sit through one of their safe, wholesome family clunkers again.It is so blessedly free of the Disney formula; no trio of wise-cracking sidekicks, no crappy song about longing for more, no villain (as such) who needs to be defeated in the last 5 minutes. No princess! There's (in other words) no decisions made by the same committee that choked the life out of their last ten movies. If you want that, just rent any other Disney movie. Kronk is a hoot, as is Eartha Kitt. The movie could use a better second act, but really that's a minor complaint after the endlessly schmaltzy, rotten sentiment of Pochahontas, Notre Dame, Hercules, Tarzan... all of which were simply crap. "},{"Title":"I feel a grooove comin' on here.....","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the holiday season, 2000, Disney released a very different animated feature called The Emperor's New Groove.What's so different about it? The many new things that we now remember about movies and stuff- Pull the lever, Kronk!!!!! WRONG LEVER !!!!!- The fun of riding a roller coaster down underground!!!!!- What you say when you do something cool Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh!!!!!Plus many more!!!!!I like this film; it's a very good story with very good animation; it is very family safe; never a dull moment here!!!!!The Emperor's New Groove is the film to watch if you are in a bad mood. If you're not in a bad mood, then go ahead and see it!!!!! It'll be good for the mind, the body, the soul, and, oh yeah, the groove!!!!!10/10 "},{"Title":"I feel a grooove comin' on here.....","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the holiday season, 2000, Disney released a very different animated feature called The Emperor's New Groove.What's so different about it? The many new things that we now remember about movies and stuff- Pull the lever, Kronk!!!!! WRONG LEVER !!!!!- The fun of riding a roller coaster down underground!!!!!- What you say when you do something cool Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh!!!!!Plus many more!!!!!I like this film; it's a very good story with very good animation; it is very family safe; never a dull moment here!!!!!The Emperor's New Groove is the film to watch if you are in a bad mood. If you're not in a bad mood, then go ahead and see it!!!!! It'll be good for the mind, the body, the soul, and, oh yeah, the groove!!!!!10/10 "},{"Title":"I feel a grooove comin' on here.....","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the holiday season, 2000, Disney released a very different animated feature called The Emperor's New Groove.What's so different about it? The many new things that we now remember about movies and stuff- Pull the lever, Kronk!!!!! WRONG LEVER !!!!!- The fun of riding a roller coaster down underground!!!!!- What you say when you do something cool Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh!!!!!Plus many more!!!!!I like this film; it's a very good story with very good animation; it is very family safe; never a dull moment here!!!!!The Emperor's New Groove is the film to watch if you are in a bad mood. If you're not in a bad mood, then go ahead and see it!!!!! It'll be good for the mind, the body, the soul, and, oh yeah, the groove!!!!!10/10 "}{"Title":"A selfish Aztec king is turned into a llama before his 18th birthday and, with the help of some friends, tries to get back his kingdom","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is simply the best movie Disney has ever made. It so different than all of their other stuff. It doesn't have singing, the characters are great, and the jokes are some of the best I've ever seen in any animated movie. I only wish there was more of the movie to see. You have to love Kronks clueless good nature and Kuzco's egotistical personality. Love it. If you think this is just a movie for kids, give it a chance. If you don't like the plot, you'll definitely at least laugh. I had to convince my friends to go see it, and they were upset at first, but we found ourselves laughing hysterical in the rather empty theater. A Great movie that simply never had a chance. "},{"Title":"beyond funny","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Emperor's New Groove has to be one of my favourite films. I am not a child, and I am not obsessed with Disney. Maybe The Groove isn't entirely conventional, but it's without the usual princess and the pauper theme of falling madly in love. It's not a credible film really, but it is funny, and the characters are comic genius! It is wacky, and is the type of film which you can really quote from. I love it, and I'm glad to see others do too. If you haven't seen it then rent it immediately! I love Kronk, the dim sidekick of Yzma, and I especially love his shoulder angel and shoulder devil. This film does have slapstick humour, but it pokes fun at everything and everyone, without going too far. "},{"Title":"wholesome Disney fun, but inferior to its predecessors","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SPOILERSEver since Toy Story was released in 1995, it has always been foreseeable that Disney would one day abandon it's traditional routes in favour of fully computer generated animation. In 2003 this seemed increasingly likely with Brother Bear being put forward as possibly Disney's final traditional feature. Truthfully, this feels like a good thing. With modern animation being pointed more towards the whole family, with jokes for adults as well as children, things have moved a long way since Walt made Snow White in 1937.As history was written, so Disney began it's slow decent towards it's conclusion. Whilst The Lion King is sometimes regarded as the finest 2D film Disney ever made, after Toy Story a year later, the trail has dried up really. So much so that with the worthy exception of Hercules (1997) it seemed that Disney would never produce a decent film again. With 2000's The Emperor's New Groove this theory was supported by yet another mediocre effort.With the voices of David Spade, John Goodman and Eartha Kitt, this story tells of Emperor Kuzco, betrayed by fired adviser Yzma, who is transformed into a Llama and stuck in a jungle with a peasant called Pacha. Teaming up, the two work together as they attempt to fix the Emperor's physical predicament.In recent times, companies like Dreamworks and Pixar have revolutionised entertainment. As a partner with Pixar, Disney's finest works in recent years have included jokes for the entire family. Films like Finding Nemo (2004) have entertained children and parents alike. Whilst these style of films have received better budgets and better writers, 2D films like this one have suffered. Directed almost entirely at children, the films are admittedly fun, but they are hideously inferior compared to some of the true classics. In effect, the magic is just lacking. Disney's finest films are often those which inspire ice shows or have popularity of such a degree that men dress up in suits of the characters years later. Films like The Lion King where the story has been relocated to the theatre and everyone identifies some of the characters. that just doesn't ever appear plausible for films like this one.All in all, The Emperor's New Groove is not a bad film. It's your regular, funny Disney film, but it just doesn't really click. It lacks characters like Timon & Pumba (Lion King), Hercules (Hercules) and even Genie (Aladdin). The Emperor is fun, but he's far from perfect. Perhaps it's finally time Disney lie down this type of animation down and let it drift into history. "},{"Title":"Some of Spade's best work.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My whole family LOVES this movie!David Spade and John Goodman's characters were hilarious. The whole production was excellent Disney fare; highly entertaining and, of course, containing the typical Disney lesson. This one teaches you not to be too big for your breeches, that the world does NOT revolve around that Center of the Universe that is YOU, and that not everyone you think are your friends can be trusted.Emperor Kuzco has been spoiled since birth. Having been raised to be Emperor, his every whim was immediately granted, causing him to become a spoiled rotten, greedy little tyrant around whom the universe revolves.In his aggravated state over his regent dealing with the kingdom anytime his back is turned, he forgets (or perhaps has yet to learn) that not everyone is going to bow to his every whim. He fires Yzma (his regent), and in his self-absorbed state of mind, does not stop to consider that there may be repercussions. Ah, but there are.Yzma has her assistant Kronk (Richard Warburton of Scream 3) poison and KILL Kuzco, but instead, he goofs and turns the petty little schmuck into a llama. The rest of the movie deals with Kuzco learning his lessons and trying to find his way back home to the palace. Not an easy feat when he's never been in the jungles of his kingdom, in his life.After treating the whiny peasant Pacha like a red-headed step-child, he actually expects his help. Pacha, being a warm-hearted person, reluctantly gives it, but not without conditions. Conditions Kuzco breaks and breaks and breaks, of course, because he's still a SCHMUCK!This Disney production is quite amusing mainly because David Spade is such a complete and total @ss and he definitely gets what's coming to him. Nice to see that happen sometimes. You know? NO ONE likes a person who is THAT uncaring of others' feelings. Good movie, great story, decent animation and a lovely ending. The only thing I did not like about this movie was the animation. Disney's quality has gone down considerably in the last few years. They pay little or no attention to detail anymore. I hate that. For me, the visuals and the background details, can make a huge difference, and Disney doesn't seem to care much about that anymore.This should go straight into the Disney Classics collection.It gets an 8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Yay! I'm a llama again - oh, wait...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is the absolute best Disney movie to come out of the last ten years. One of my favorite things about this movie was the way that it felt like a really old Warner Brothers cartoon. Some of the cases in point are when Yzma is trying to come up with ways to kill off Kuzco. Kronk's conscience is also thoroughly enjoyable, as Kronk himself. Look at him, with his little sissy stringy thing...Aaah... How shall I do it? Oh, I know... I'll turn him into a flea. A harmless, little flea. And then, I'll put that flea in a box. And then I'll put that box inside of another box. And then I'll mail that box to myself. And when it arrives, (laughs) I'll smash it with a hammer! It's brilliant, brilliant! Brilliant, I tell you! Genius, I say! The animation style is really unusual for Disney too - reminescent of, dare I say, the Flintstones. There are a lot of sharp angles in the characters. Kuzco as the llama is not a perfectly drawn llama, more of a whimsical charicature of a llama. Which goes along with the whole tongue in cheek feel of the movie. I was turned into a cow. Can I go home?  All right, you're excused. Anyone else? No, we're good.There are so many memorable scenes in this movie I can't even begin to tell you anymore of them. Just do yourself a favor and watch this hysterical movie alone, with your kids, whatever. But just watch it. I promise you that you will not be sorry!  "},{"Title":"See it. Go see it now. NOW!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Absolutely unequivocably the funniest thing ever to have come out of Disney ever ever ever, and this is coming from someone who finds the whole Um, like yeah, y'know, like totally culture to be repulsively odious.This film is absolutely packed with laughs from almost the very beginning to the very end, Disney are being so much braver with what they do, dropping the realism of the normal films leading to some beautiful surreal humour, like the whole Kuzco How did you get here first????? Yzma *shrugs* bit. And Krunk has to be one of the best characters ever, especially if you include his shoulder angels too.One thing... I wasn't actually so fond of the Pacho character, although he was voiced well he was a bit... I don't know, just at some points he seemed to deviate from his character.Anyway, absolutely stunning film, wonderfully smooth animation, and plenty of new and original things for Disney culminating in not only one of the funniest Disneys, but quite possibly one of the funniest films ever. I only wish the Mingin' poster hadn't put me off seeing it in the cinema. Ugh... mingin'... "},{"Title":"Pretty funny","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is another Disney movie with a pretty cool twist. At least it's not prince-saves-princess sort of thing. The voices are really cool, as is most of the story line. I think the coolest person is Kronk - he's so funny and silly and the movie wouldn't be worth seeing if he wasn't in it. The jokes are for older people but the characters are for youngsters - it's pretty much a movie for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Funniest and most creative movie I have ever seen!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor's New Groove is all of funny, creative, touching, interesting, and a good family film.  Every minute that you spend watching this you will burst out laughing.  I have seen this movie like 10 times or so and I laugh every time because the lines are so funny.  Emperor Kuzco, the snotty and spoiled emperor is so funny.  He acts as any spoiled person would with the way he talks.  The animation is remarkable too.  I really think that this is a great movie that people of any age will like.  Whether your 6 or 60, you'll laugh at least 10 times guaranteed. If you buy the DVD, all of the special features are great too.  This movie really finds a way to make you laugh.  Although the plot may be a little silly in some spots, it is still a great movie.  All of the people that have seen this movie know what I mean.Patcha, the poor peasant that is one of the main characters acts just like someone trying to deal with someone like Kuzco.  Yzma the wicked person that is trying to kill Kuzco is so funny.  Even though she is supposed to be this really bad and evil killer, she still acts like a regular old lady in some parts and creates some of the laughs in this movie.  So if all of this stuff that I am telling you sounds interesting and fun to watch, go see (or in this case, rent) The Emperor's New Groove! "},{"Title":"Funniest Disney Animated Movie Ever","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am not a fan of Disney. I hate movies in which the characters sing at every opportunity, which, coincidently, is just about the only thing that Disney produces. The Emperor's New Groove suspends, however temporarily, this annoying characteristic of Disney animated films. Only one such song occurs in this entire movie, and it works surprisingly well with the flow and rhythm of the film. The movie's background music contrasts with the happy-go-lucky, artificial-sounding music of most Disney films. It is an excellent blend of swing and soft jazz. The movie itself is hilarious. It is filled to the brim with humor that is often intellectually-stimulating and irrelevant. Yzma's thick-headed henchman, Kronk, is the best part of the entire thing, recalling the weird and sometimes baffling funniness that existed in the old animated series, The Tick. 4 out of 5  "},{"Title":"The vocal cast makes this movie an A+","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What would The Emperor's New Groove be without David Spade, John Goodman, Eartha Kitt and Patrick Warburton? Not much of a movie. This is probably the best vocal ensemble a Disney animated movie has seen in a long time. They bring the movie to a level rarely achieved with their expert vocal talents. Spade makes these noises that become perfect for the llama Kuzco. Goodman is solid (when is he ever not solid?). Kitt makes her voice downright nasty, perfect for her character. But perhaps the unsung hero of this movie is Warburton as Kronk. Everything the guy says is hysterical, making him easily one of my favorite Disney characters. Other great things about the movie include the animation, done in a angular style that looks really sharp. Also, its not stuffed full of random moments of song. And saving the best for last, there are moments where the movie is not even taking itself seriously that contribute to its humor. All said and done, this is an excellent piece of Disney animation. "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Usually when you see animated film in your own language - in this case finnish - it sounds awful. 'Cause it changes the whole film. But in this case - Emperor's new groove - it hasn't even crossed my mind to even watch the english version (I just bought dvd), cause finnish version is amazing!! Actors have done excellent work in this disney-film. "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was highly under-rated, as it is the best movie ever. Most older children think that they are above this movie, but once they see it they realize that it is a lot better than expected. Kuzco the Emperor turned Llama is hysterical. He is so sarcastic that it will blow your mind.  "},{"Title":"At least something to enjoy","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The emperor's new groove is a fast paced screwball comedy a little in the style of Aladdin, though not as good. The animation is superb and the backgrounds are colorful. This time, the movie isn't spoiled by the recently ubiquitous computer animation.For me, The emperor's new groove was just unpretentious fun with marvelous visuals and as such it is by far better digestible than classic tales turned into happy-ended child amusement (I am thinking of the awful Tarzan here). "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not going to go into to much detail as to why I love this movie so much because most of it has already been said so eloquently by others already.  I will reiterate however, that is movie is hilarious and way underrated.  I LOVE Eartha Kitt (brilliance) and Patrick Warburton as Yzma and Kronk, and David Spade is hilarious in this movie as well (the spinach puffs dinner scene and the diner scene, could they  have been more hilarious?)  John Goodman is excellent.  In fact the entire voice cast is excellent.  The humour is silly, kooky, absurd fun.  I'm SO glad it wasn't an over moralizing musical.  This one was meant just for lighthearted laugh out loud entertainment, and it works.I own the single disc DVD and plan on purchasing the 2 disc DVD tomorrow!Seems like all the people who *don't* like it feel that way simply because they don't like David Spade, so they take it out on the whole movie, but then, he's the main character so it's gonna make it hard anyway, (it also helps if you like Bugs Bunny and Daffy duck cartoons)They are missing out....Beware the grooooove!!!!!!     "},{"Title":"If you loved Aladdin then this is a must-see!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious!!!This film was made as much for adults as it was for kids.  With heaps of crude jokes and hilarious site-gags, without the usual sappy songs that accompany a Disney cartoon, The Emperor's New Groove immediately became one of my favourite kids films.While the animated style leads you to believe that this is a children's movie, your reasoning is quickly corrected with the initial introduction to the self-obsessed Emperor.  It is Kronk, however, the idiotic assistant to the evil Yzma who steals the show with his spinach-puffs, theme song and chats with squeaky the squirrel.If you loved Aladdin then this a must-see! "},{"Title":"Moral of Humility","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has an important message to it. It shows what can happen to people who forget the important characteristic of humility. Those who puff themselves up will eventually be deflated in some form or another. It is a good movie for kids and adults to watch because both can learn from it. Kuzco underwent a transformation for the better when Pacho was his friend despite Kuzco's arrogance, and was still there for him when Kuzco hit bottom. So in a way, it also has an important message regarding friendship as well. "},{"Title":"Monty Python Meets Walt Disney","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The recent spate of animated films from Disney, beginning with `The Little Mermaid', have become the modern-day versions of the Hollywood musical. These Disney films, while sweet, are more or less formulaic in nature - they feature a plucky young hero (usually a heroine), a love interest, a wacky sidekick, and a good half-dozen or so schmaltzy songs from the likes of Elton John or Phil Collins.  While there's nothing wrong to this - `Beauty and the Beast' is a phenomenal film, as is `The Lion King' and `Aladdin' - it is a formula, nonetheless, and as such it leads to certain expectations when watching an animated Disney feature.`The Emperor's New Groove' lives up to none of these expectations.  As it turns out, this is a very, very good thing.  Despite lacking the traditional Disney film structure, `The Emperor's New Groove' is equal parts zany, silly, funny, clever, funny, and witty.  (Did I mention funny?) Apparently, while trying to channel the spirit of Walt Disney for `The Emperor's New Groove', director Mark Dindal and his animation team accidentally channeled the spirit of Tex Avery instead.  The film has a wonderfully absurd sensibility to it, where instead of watering down a simple story to entertain small children, it remains razor sharp, appealing on one level to kids . . . and on a totally different level to adults.  `The Emperor's New Groove', in its own way, is a homage to all those great Warner Brothers of yore created by Michael Maltese and Chuck Jones - as bizarre as it may seem, the classic `Rabbit Season! Duck Season!' cartoon would not be out of place in a film like this.  (Also, there is a squirrel in this film that seems to have literally wandered in from a Droopy Dog cartoon; it certainly possesses the wicked self-awareness of a Tex Avery character).Eschewing the idea that a hero must be likable, `The Emperor's New Groove' focuses, quite naturally, on the Emperor Kuzco (voiced by David Spade), the supreme ruler over a long-ago kingdom (presumably part of the Incan Empire, although that's never clearly stated).  Kuzco, who, much like Spade himself, is sarcasm incarnate, succeeds in annoying two important characters in the first few minutes of the film.  The first is the peasant Pacha (voiced by John Goodman), who is informed by Kuzco that his family's small house is to be demolished so that a pleasure palace called `Kuzcotopia' call be built in its place.  The second is Kuzco's treacherous advisor/sorceress Yzma (voiced by Eartha Kitt), who is pleasantly informed by Kuzco that the kingdom is `downsizing' and that her services are no longer needed.   Pacha takes his bad news with stoic, humble grace; but the evil Yzma decides that in order to save her job and become de facto ruler of the kingdom, she must kill Kuzco.  This being a Disney cartoon, she fails miserably in her assassination attempt, but does manage to magically transform Kuzco into a talking llama.  Kuzco the llama, still sarcastic but no longer omnipotent, finds himself cast out into the wilderness of his kingdom . . . and through a strange series of events, suddenly finds himself relying on the kindhearted, humble Pacha for help.The story's simple, but that's okay, since it's merely an excuse to string together a veritable calvacade of jokes, ranging from broad slapstick to rapier-sharp verbal wit.  The film never overtly tries to tug at the heartstrings of the audience - instead, it usually goes for the quick wisecrack or the funny sight gag, and if a few heartstrings are pulled in the process, well, that's just fine. The Emperor's New Groove is almost Disney with an attitude, except the attitude is hip, not smug.The jokes - and the film - are amazingly funny, and a large part of this success should be credited to the characters, and to the talented actors who voice them.  By far, the best character in the film is Yzma's dimwitted henchman Kronk (voiced by Patrick Warburton), an affable thug who simply seems too stupid to be evil.  In his first few scenes, Kronk starts out as the typical Disney muscle-bound villain - thickheaded and prone to violence - but the villainy of Kronk slowly fades away as the film progresses, revealing a bizarrely hilarious character with Monty Python sensibilities. Kronk still dutifully follows the wicked Yzma's orders - to a point - but often performs such orders after setting his own priorities in order, such as baking spinach cheese balls or playing double dutch with kids.  It's loopy, but it works, and Kronk really is the lynchpin to this film's humor. John Goodman is also good as Pacha - he lends the film a certain amount of dignity, which is sorely needed, since the Emperor Kuzco isn't exactly a heroic figure.  He also gives the film a subtler layer of humor, as he quietly delivers some funny lines that can go unnoticed if you aren't paying strict attention to the film.  Eartha Kitt is absolutely delicious as the sorceress Yzma.  He plays her part as the ultimate spoiled diva; her character is a tightly wound emotional wreck, reacting to everything in such a sheer over-the-top fashion that it's pure comedy genius.  Ironically, the weakest character may be the Emperor himself - as Kuzco, David Spade and his acid wit are very funny at times, but the character remains abrasive for far too long.  He's almost too much to take at times, especially for kids - and face it; kids will be watching this film.  Toning Spade down a notch or two might have helped to smooth out the film and to make it better overall.Smart, hip, and daring to push the Disney envelope, `The Emperor's New Groove' is an outstanding film.  Adults will love it.  Kids might not get all the jokes, but they'll love it too - after all, `The Emperor's New Groove' is really just part of a zany cartoon tradition that kids have loved for a long, long time.  Just think of Bugs Bunny instead of Mickey Mouse as you put the tape in your VCR, and you and your family should be just fine. It's a very well done film.  Grade A- "},{"Title":"It's all about Spade!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Am I alone in thinking Disney's Tarzan was boring?Am I alone in thinking that, actually, all animated Disney films were sub-par since The Lion King?Did I think that the future of Disney was Pixar, and not the animation department? Oh, yes. I did. Guilty.This is Disney's proof that they can still make an amazingly good movie. I am very surprised, though. I understand that the studio has two animation teams, which work on different Disney projects. One of them is far more powerful than the other, with more resources. If that is true, then Disney should promote the team that created Emperor, because, even tough it looks very cheaply made (when compared to Disney's high standards) it is a very entertaining, very good, very groovy film.It's all about Spade, actually. Reprising his role in Tommy Boy, we see the acidic, sarcastic character. He likes to torture everyone around him. He finds in Pacha his Tommy (if you haven't seen that film, it is highly recommended), a guy who is noble, likeable and sweet (as a matter of fact, both films are very similar, being road trips in some sort of sense). He, as you might expect, subjects his partner to all kinds of humiliations, until he learns his moral lesson. Pretty simple stuff, but it is handled with heavy doses of humor everywhere. This film succeeds because everything is funny, lighthearted and uncomplicated. Forget Tarzan's luscious scenery, or Hunchback's feeble attempts at humour launched at a mostly depressing scenario. This film is fast, furious and lighthearted. And musical interludes are kept to a minimum, and when used they are very effective. Yes!I loved it. I can only hope Atlantis will be as good as this one. A solid 9 (had it been animated by the heavy honchos of Disney, the result would have been different... surely for the worst). "},{"Title":"Most fun I've had with Disney in a while!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I happen to be of the not uncommon opinion that, with the exception of Tarzan and Mulan, Disney's been kinda slumming lately.  See Dinosaur (which I saw back when it was called The Land Before Time), Hunchback, Pocahontas, etc...  But not with this...I. Love. This. Movie.  I went to see it on impulse after my final exam of the fall semester and it was the greatest thing, I had a blast.  Dragged all my friends the very next day to see it and when I got back home for break I made every one there go see it. This is almost more fun than should be legal for $5 a pop.  All the vocal talents are wonderfully cast, especially Eartha Kitt and David Spade...and the trailer does this film little justice, because it's so much more than what they claim it to be.  A great comedy, a great buddy film, and certainly not just for the kids.  My friends and I walked around quoting this one to each other for MONTHS )  It's a good time, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Breath of fresh air","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  All I can say is I avoided this film because I am so tired of the same Disney formula. I was more than pleasantly surprised when I finally viewed it.  I went with my boyfriend and his 4 year old son. It may have been above the 4 year old's head, but the point is it was clean and he watched it. I am not quite sure why everyone thinks that every Disney film or film that's geared toward kids has to be solely for children. Let's face it kids stop to stare at commercials.  Everything is new and somewhat confusing to them. It's part of growing up learning to puzzle these things out. Kids need things that are suitable for them true, but adults need things that they can be entertained by and occupy their child as well. Anyone who has kids or are around them know that you will spend a lot of time watching the same Disney movie or cartoon over and over and over and over.  Kids don't get bored with it because it's all new to them. So giving The Emperor's New Groove a poor rating based on the fact that your 4 year old didn't get every joke is inane, asinine, absurd..etc.      I gave this movie a 10 based on the fact that I was highly entertained. Critics need to try rating something based on what it is rather than what it isn't. Movies should either entertain, provoke thought, elicit an emotional response, be awe inspiring, or in some way advance movie making be it through technical machinations or plot devices etc. *see Citizen Kane*.  There are few films that have been successful in executing most of that criteria.      Will you laugh and giggle while watching this?...Yes...quite a bit. David Spade, John Goodman, Eartha Kitt, and Seinfeld's Puddy do a wonderful job. If you haven't this yet please do. If you loved Alladin you will appreciate this film. 10/10  "}{"Title":"The Funniest Disney Animated Classic ever made.....BY FAR","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The funniest Disney movie ever made....by far.Animation isn't as good as Tarzan or Lion King, but the whole story and humor make up for it. It's LEGITIMATELY funny, not little kid/disney funny. But make no mistake, this movie is for all ages. Spade and the guy from Seinfeld do great voice work.  ..And to top it all off, there are no lame musical numbers, no one spontaneously breaks out into song, no overly-sappy Disney Moral lesson.It's the most underrated movie released this year and probably one of the funniest (IMO of course). You didn't hear much about it but it was good. I have no idea why Disney didn't promote this as much as their other annual animation movies.In Conclusion--Great Flick. I'm pre-ordering the DVD right now. "},{"Title":"Where was the music?","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is exactly what a Disney animated film would be like if  there were no songs, no sweeping musical numbers. It felt a little empty, like something was missing. There were definitely some funny moments, however, just not enough to cover up the lack of plot. "},{"Title":"10! 10! 10!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WOW!! This has got to be the BEST so far. I LOVED it ... from the opening dance scene (He was RIVER-DANCING!! LOL!) I knew this was a winner. Oh, this movie was so good! David Spade was dead on perfect for this role--- but the best part of the movie was Konk (or some name like that) as the goofball assistant (boy-toy) of the villainess. (Eartha Kitt!!) If you haven't seen this movie... GO NOW!! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable, extremely funny film","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting a few laughs from The Emperor's New Groove, and I received much more than that.  This was a very enjoyable, extremely funny film.  The voices used for the characters could not be any better.  The story line is cute and the humor in the film really keeps you interested.  I highly recommend this film.  It is a joy for children and adults alike.   "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of the year!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Seriously, folks, this movie was funny! It was most definitely the funniest movie I've seen all year. Funnier, even, than road trip or scary movie. Most people hear disney and cringe. No way would they want to see another horrible animated movie along the lines of pocahontas and the hunchback. Disney hasn't made a good film since the lion king, some people think. Not true! This movie was totally different than any other disney movie. It had a lot of sight gags, combined with enough intelligent jokes to make the perfect combination for kids and adults alike. I think the adults might even enjoy it more than the kids, because they will understand all the jokes. I saw it twice it was so funny. There were so many good lines in that movie, I can't even remember them all. David Spade was perfectly cast, as was everyone else in that film. It almost reminded me of a monty python movie, only in cartoon form. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Nearly Perfect Film!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Perfect cast, pacing, music, animation, humor.  I left the theatre filled with the joy of having witnessed the most ridiculous Disney movie ever made which happens to work flawlessly.  Minimal cheese, tons of laughs.  I could become a David Spade fan yet. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of this film.  Great movie, but, it still doesn't match the greatness of the old Disney movies, plus Aladdin, Lion King,  Little Mermaid or specially Beauty & The Beast.  Disney has lost it's  edge a little, but still seems to dish out good movies. "},{"Title":"The Emperor's New Groove","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For a Walt Disney Pictures film, this is much more hipper, groovy and fun than many others. David Spade voices and narrates as Emperor Kuzco, he is the selfish young emperor who has everything he wants. He plans to build a new summer pool on a village hilltop where peasant Pacha (John Goodman) lives. Yzma (Eartha Kitt), the villain turns Kuzco into a llama and, eventually, both him and Pacha are lost in the wilderness. They travel towards the palace, and Pacha thinks that within four days Kuzco will change his mind about the pool on his hilltop. Meanwhile Yzma is searching with her dopey sidekick Kronk (Patrick Warburton) for Kuzco when she finds out he is not dead. With a really good Oscar and Golden Globe nominated song by Sting, My Funny Friend and Me, and Sir Tom Jones singing as Kuzco's Theme Song Guy, this is great fun for all the family. Very good! "},{"Title":"This is a joke...right?","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The previews warned me to keep away, this is going to be 100% NOT Disney. You cant possibly get me to believe that the people who made this film had fun doing it, they went through hell...the whole story went through hell. Why? I guess cause they wanted to do a Disney film set in Latin America and they didn't want to count Saludos Amigos or Three CabellerosSo it's funny to hear how positive the creators made working on the film sounds. Oh this originally started out as a serious more Disney like musical called 'Kingdom of the Sun' but we scratched that. Of course this was the beginning of the original stories era. In a way it's a good thing that they didn't do Kingdom of the Sun (cuz I tire of the Prince and the Pauper adaptations done by Disney) but I'm sure they couldve come up with a better Latin American story that wouldve worked for Disney.What people, especially critics, fail to understand is that Disney films in the past have worked so well because there is an even balance of comedy, story, and drama. TENG was too much comedy and hardly the rest. Indeed they did Chuck Jones humor but let's be logical...why in the world would a Disney film want to pay tribute to one of its biggest animated rivals? In the future, shall we expect a Don Bluth tribute despite that fact that he walked out and kicked Disney in the butt when he made several animated hits in the 1980s?So my point here is that there was no way you could consider this a Disney movie, while I considered this the marking point the beginning of Disney's downfall which continues today. It's a very small cast but I supposed that they are all that's needed to get the job done. I don't like animated buddy comedies for some reason (Toy Story and Monsters Inc was good) I think that what made the buddy comedy idea fail for this was Pacha. God, he was so annoying! I think more audiences would relate more with Kuzco, a self centered person who has an odd way of showing his softer side. Well if I ever really really consider buying the DVD (which I doubt) then I would definitely have to check out the making of junk just so I can see the sweat hidden behind the creators smiling faces. All in all I would put this film in the lower half of the pack because this just doesn't contemplate what made a Disney film a Disney film. Had it been made during Walt's time it would have more merit but not with my generation.  "},{"Title":"If this is supposed to be a kids' movie, Disney struck out.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  All in all, not a bad movie...as long as you're not younger than 12! Movie is decently written and moves along quickly, but the dialogue was WAY over my 5-yr-old's head.  Disney does this once in a while, so we weren't surprised.  But how about coming up with a good animated film that appeals to the WHOLE family...? "}{"Title":"Like Cheap Whiskey","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Groove was passably funny when I saw it, but I have a hard time remembering the good parts while the obnoxious emperor who really seemed to have learned nothing, despite the final, tacked-on, happy ending, sticks like the memory of fingernails on a chalkboard.Had I reviewed it the first night, I would have given it a 6. Today, I gave it a four. Next month, I expect it will be worse. "},{"Title":"Not good enough for Disney","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me say first that I am a Disney fan. No doubt about that. I own most of his Classics on DVD. But this one simply is not good enough for a Disney movie.  The story is far too thin for a movie, the humor is not as good as we normally see from Disney, there is no really bad villain. The music is good, however. That is one positive point. While watching this movie I wondered more and more why Disney made it at all and after that why he decided to release it. It would better have stayed on the shelves, for later revision or for eventual placement into the dustbin. Recently I read that the script had been re-written several times and that most of the movie was re-made because Disney was not happy with it. So what what we see now is the second or third trial, that for one reason or another was released.  The main problem with this movie is -as said- that there simply is no strong story line. It is a collection of events, some of which are funny but most not funny at all. Nowadays Disney makes two or three movies a year, whereas in the past he made one in every two or three years. Maybe that is the main problem. The show must go on and on, with more and more output. So see it, if you are a Disney fan, but don't buy it. Luckily Disney can do better, as recent movies like Tarzan and Atlantis show! "},{"Title":"Not Disney's best.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While I certainly enjoyed `Emperor's New Groove' there was something lacking&#133;  This was not one of Disney's best.I loved John Goodman, Patrick Warburton and Wendie Malick's character voices &#150; and they fit the animated roles perfectly &#150; but for some reason the two most important voices Kuzco/Kuzco Llama (David Spade) and Yzma (Eartha Kitt) just didn't work&#133; In fact, they became irritating long before the hour and 18 minutes of this film was over.There is a lot to like in this film &#150; though it does seem, at times, to be leftover footage from `The Road to El Dorado.'The colours are challenging, the character animation is blocky and the sound track is not what I expected; Sting doesn't really get a song until the final credits &#150; long after the audience has left the theater.I was really hoping for more and I didn't get it.I like `The Road to El Dorado' and while `Emperor's New Groove' is definitely in that vein, Disney just isn't doing what it does best &#150; entertain.  "},{"Title":"Action and weak characters","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a fan of Disney's and I do not think this one is a major picture. Emperor Kuzco switches from selfish disdain to a more friendly position in a wink. Pacha is a dull peasant standing for morals as the perfect American father (and quite henpecked too). Yzma is ugly but not so powerful a villain. Thinking that Disney's are for under 12, I can't see the point for children in watching a picture where good and evil are so weakly depicted. Anyway the storyline is stronger for everything coming to action. But it's an usual trap to focus on action and hang loose on characterization. Perhaps children only deserve a bundle of good images with rhythmic action and that's it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but just strange.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Emperor has a certain groove, and since he's a spoiled brat, be careful if you throw it off. Pacha is a hard working good family man, and when he finds out that the Emperor is going to build his utopia on his homeland (the foundation particularly on Pacha 's house) he leaves torn to tell his family the bad news. But the Emperor 's plans are put on hold once a newly fired advisor plans on ending his life. The advisor 's plan does not go exactly the way it's supposed to once our Emperor turns into a llama. Being sent to Pacha 's village by accident, our llama and buddy must find a way to get along and hopefully someone 's mind will change about a utopia replacing a village.For under an hour and a half, some people might feel ripped off about the short time of the movie compared to the thick bucks people shell out and that's only one reason why I gave THE EMPEROR a small rating. The fact that the animation seems to dominate more than the overall picture and background is probably the next. The animation, because it seems to have a life of its own, doesn't really appeal to some. One thing that does appeal is the humor. And there is enough of it to enjoy. I would definitely say if you love Disney with all your heart, you will enjoy it, but anyone not familiar probably will not. "},{"Title":"Worst animated Disney feature since A bug's Life","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was strangely enough not too impressed by Disney's hit A Bug's Life and I must honestly say I preferred watching AntZ by DreamWorks. With this film Disney has his new &#145;rock bottom' for me, after such great animated flicks as Tarzan, Toy Story 2 and Dinosaur. Of course I do not mean rock bottom in a Mission of Mars kind of way. I just mean to say that this film shows that there are certain Disney movies that seem to be inferior to the rest. Like A Bug's Life, this is one of the few animated theatrical releases by Disney in the years since Aladdin, that doesn't breathe fun and excitement. I think that is mainly, because one has to try very hard liking the main character and because the story is not too good (emotion, action, comedy or romantic wise) as were all the other Disney animated features. I mean Hercules was not as epic as I wished but Pain & Panic surely made up for that, but in this film I just missed that kind of characters. This does not mean though, that The Emperor's New Groove stunk. It was just not Disney GOOD.7 out of 10 (actually between 6,5 and 7 (like 6,75) but I can't really make up my mind) "},{"Title":"One of Disney's worst, or at least the least ambitious.","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Note to Eisner I, for one, would have liked to have seen a more ambitious animated feature about Incas.  Instead, you give us. . . David Spade?I'm still not sure how you can call this movie a version of The Emperor's New Clothes.  But of course, you wouldn't have the guts to do a true version of that story--some mother somewhere would complain about its immorality and its indecency, and you'd be the laughing stock of the animation world.Wait a minute.  You are already.  (End note).Begin review One of my biggest problems with this movie is that I can't stand David Spade.  Dana Carvey, a little, but Spade is just so grating to me in everything he does SNL, Just Shoot Me, his movies with Chris Farley.  His delivery is always obvious, usually slapping us over the head with them as if he was wielding a giant tuna.  Here, he's even more obnoxious and flat as a bratty Emperor (where's the royal family?) who wants to build a swimming pool on top of a peasant's (John Goodman) hill but ends up being turned into a llama by a conniving advisor.  Yeah.  A swimming pool on top of a hill in south America hundreds of years ago and a conniving, skull-faced advisor (think Jafar or Skar, only a woman).Spoiler Spade/Emperor also narrates the story throughout most of the movie, but the narration turns out to be bogus when the llama-fied Emperor suddenly tells the narrator that we (the audience) know what the real story was--the understatement of the millennium, I assure you, since Spade's one-note (over-the-top) narration is obvious before you even see his character as a human.  So all that annoying jibber-jabber turned out to be necessary for that one joke in which the character breaks character to talk to the narrator, who is apparently not the real Emperor or he would've known what the other Emperor was already thinking . . . oh, forget it.  It's a little funny simply because it's not expected, but it's not really original--I think Woody Allen did it a few times, and I know stuff like that happened in Looney Tunes on a regular basis.That's another problem.  The movie seems like an extended Looney Tune, something even Warner Brothers had trouble doing.  Simply put, there are more (and better) jokes in just about any one of the better Bugs Bunny shorts (e.g. What's Opera Doc?, Rabbit of Seville) than there is in Emperor's New Groove.  In fact, the only jokes I laughed out loud with were the repeated shoulder angel scenes and the reaction the villain and the Emperor have to Cronk talking to his shoulders (but even that was merely a one-step-farther parody of an over-used Looney Tunes gag).This is an annoying change in direction that I hope Disney will not continue--Disney has been far too interested in comedy lately instead of character and story.  Even the old Disney shorts (such as the Sorcerer's Apprentice piece from Fantasia) usually had a certain character depth that Warner Bros. cartoons often lacked (they relied on neat sight gags and movie parodies).Worst of all, the animation is only so-so.  There is absolutely no depth to the world they have created--no interesting camera angles or neat little touches like animals or insects or shafts of light or anything.  The backgrounds are just there, instead of the characters reacting to the backgrounds as if they're in that world (for examples of location depth, take a look at My Neighbor Totoro, Princess Mononoke, or Bambi).  If I remember right, only a few scenes even shaded the characters according to the background (i.e. darker in forests or in buildings, much brighter when in the sun, spots of light that come in between leaves, etc.).  The characters are animated very smoothly, but occasionally suffer from the previously mentioned Looney Tunes syndrome.Eisner, I've made this plea before please making important chases/ decisions/growth spurts/training sequences into quick-cut musical montages.  There is nothing that takes me out of a movie quicker, and there's no excuse for doing so in animation.Seriously, man, this is sillier than Oliver and Company. "},{"Title":"No Touchie, NOOOOOOOO touchie.. The best Disney movie ever","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is absolutely the best disney movie ever. I don't know how they got David spade to do a Disney movie, but he definately made it good. If it wasn't for him it would still be good, but not as good as it is with him. This movie has hilarious jokes, and it's not just for kids. I would recommend it to everyone.-PLOT- Greedy self centered emperor Kuzco(David Spade) gets turned into a Llama by his evil advisor Yzma(Eartha Kitt). Now in order to get back to his royal throne, he must work together with Pacha(John Goodman) who lives in the town he was about to destroy to turn into his own summer getaway(complete with water slides!!) SEE THIS MOVIE-PERIOD. "},{"Title":"Cliche-ridden Nonsense","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a big disappointment.  From the choice of David Spade as the starring voice to the cliche-ridden, anachronistic dialogue, I found myself groaning at every turn and was grateful when the final credits rolled. Some have likened the film to Aladdin, but I saw very little resemblance between these two movies.I have to say up front that I can't stand David Spade, so the movie got off to a very bad start for me.  His narration in a whiny voice didn't interest me in his character, and I found myself wishing that Yzma and Kronk would succeed in finishing him off--not the kind of ending one wants for a children's movie.  Spade's failure was reinforced by the worst screenplay I've seen in a very long time.  Tired cliches stood in for good dialogue, modern-day speech and expressions simply have no place in a movie set during the Inca heyday in South America, and the sight gags were nothing more than recycled vaudeville routines that work well in live-action, but fall flat here.While I was glad that Disney got away from the usual song-and-dance routine as well as the stupid comic-relief characters that are stock features of its animated films, I wouldn't recommend the direction that 'New Groove' took. The storyline had great promise, and the voices of John Goodman and Eartha Kitt worked very well, but David Spade and the writing team combined to ruin a good idea.  Disney wanted to make a slap-stick comedy, but I fear all the studio really succeeded in doing was making itself a laughing-stock. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's WORST movies in years","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This confusing mish-mash of a movie is a real chore to sit through.  The characters are dull, the plot is pointless, the animation is sub-par, and the music feels like it was slashed to ribbons.  You thought Tarzan was dull?  You ain't seen nothing yet.The basic story involves a selfish amoral emperor (David Spade) who is turned into a llama.  The movie is a bit of a quest picture as the emperor tries to get himself restored to human form.At the end of the picture we have a selfish amoral emperor who has, as far as I can tell, done *nothing* worth being restored.  There's certainly no moral lesson here, or at least not a good one.There are a few good jokes, though most of these are well over the average child's head.  The voice talents are good, as both Spade and Goodman deliver their dialog in a believable, in character manner.  Eartha Kitt is quite good as the evil Sorceress Yzma.  In fact, the voice talent, I think, is better than most Disney films of recent memory (with the exception of the Toy Story movies, quite possibly the best).  This is not enough to save a movie that I found to be predictable, silly, overblown, and, in the end, empty.  Somewhat like eating a snow cone.  There's some flavor, but no body.My 3 year old son likes it, but then again he's three. "}{"Title":"Cotton Candy","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Amusing little piece of fluff.  Kronk (Yzma's beefcake boyfriend), voiced by Patrick Warburton, was the best part of the movie.  This film could have been a great deal more than it was, but it was just a faint, tinny echo of great what-if films, like It's a Wonderful Life.  It seems better suited to be a fill-in Saturday morning cartoon, than a feature film. "},{"Title":"Tries too hard to be 'hip'","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Disney's Emperor's New Groove, is an atempt to throw slapstic and Tex Avery, Ren Stimpy-ish humour in a Disney formula.  In the end it just comes off as being totaly lame.The animation is fine, it's a typical Disney story, but it's atempts to generate laughs will only work on someone under the age of maybe 6.  The film is not entertaining and comes across as Disney trying to be 'hip' and 'with it' like the crazy ingenious animation of other studios.  Nice try..  get original.Didn't work guys... ecspecially when you pick an annoying David Spade that doesn't help either.Rating 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not up to Disney's standard","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is difficult for me to believe that the same company, Disney, could have produced both the Emperor's New Groove and the Lion King.  How can the ho hum animation of E.N.G. compare to the breath-taking visual experience of the Lion King or the Little Mermaid?  It saddens me to see that Disney chooses to churn out mediocre pap when I know they are capable of much, much more.  What happened to the magic in the Magic Kingdom? "},{"Title":"Horrible movie.","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so typical of the unbelievably bad taste that adult film makers suppose to be children's movies.  I realize that all film makers are adults, but there is a certain class that have a horrible frame of reference for what they think is cute or clever or whatever.  This story is about a wretched character who really doesn't change that much in what is supposed to be his life changing crises.  He is immoral at the beginning and immoral at the end.  The jokes are crude and unfunny.  The characterizations are racial at best.  Greed and stupidity can be the only reasons for making movies like this. "},{"Title":"Disney lost it.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's face it people, Disney completely lost it on this one. The movie was very poorly written. The contemporary atmosphere in a historical setting was too much of a rip-off of any time travel film. Some of it's jokes were so lame I could barf. Then the writers took two shots at gay people. It's people like that I can't stand at all. And this was a family film, so they were trying to preach hate to children. May I ask why? Just because they have a different sexuality than the writers? Think about it sometime. Anywho, the animation wasn't too good either. Disney is supposed to have a reputation for constantly changing the art of animation, yet they have to use the techniques used in the Scooby-Doo shows back in the 80's. "},{"Title":"Dissapointing to say the least","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A halfhearted effort in every sense of the word.  The simplified animation, smarmy campiness, and attempts to appear relevant fall completely flat in this Disney animated feature.  This tired tale of enlightenment might be excusable if there was anything fresh or entertaining along the way.  The art is quite different from typical Disney fare, probably due to an accelerated production schedule.  In any case it's a step down in that department as well.   Perhaps young children, at least those who enjoy any and all cartoons, will find something of value here.   Everyone else steer clear. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Disney's worst since Hunchback","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Boring, dull and annoying. People have said that movie is non-stop laughs, chuckles and guffaws. Well, all we can say is that they must have seen the humor un-cut version, then, 'cause we didn't even feel like smiling until one part about 3/4 the way through the movie! And even then, it was only a brief chortle. This movie tries hard to be like a Warner Brothers cartoon and fails. It's a cartoonish series of bad slapstick and anachronistic on-liners that seemingly builds upon the previous dud time-warped Hercules (which looks like a classic compared to this).Disney should stick to what it does best and leave the faddish stuff to companies with less of a reputation to lose. 1 out of 10 (for that brief scene with Yzma being whacked like a pinata) "}]