[{"Title":"gripping, absurdist view of Shakespeare","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"109 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  In recent years, a new fashion has sprung up among filmmakers who have attempted to bring Shakespeare's works to the screen.  No longer content to keep the plays bound to the historical eras in which they are set, many an adapter has chosen to transport the plots and dialogue virtually intact to either a completely modern setting or a strange never-never land that combines elements of the past with elements of the present.  In just the last few years, we have seen this done with `Romeo and Juliet,' `Richard the Third' (albeit this one made it only as far as the 1940's) and even Kenneth Branagh's `Hamlet,' which, although also not exactly contemporary in setting, did at least move that familiar story ahead in time several centuries.  Now comes `Titus,' a film based on one of Shakespeare's earliest, bloodiest and least well known plays, `Titus Andronicus,' and, in many ways, this film is the most bizarrely conceived of the four, since it creates a world in which - amidst the architectural splendors of ancient columned buildings - Roman warriors, dressed in traditional armor and wielding unsheathed swords, battle for power in a land disconcertingly filled with motorcycles and automobiles, pool tables and Pepsi cans, punk hair cuts and telephone poles, video games and loud speakers.  The effect of all this modernization may be unsettling and off-putting to the Shakespearean purist, yet, in the case of all four of these films, the directorial judgment has paid off handsomely.  Not only does this technique revive some of the freshness of these overly familiar works, but these strange, otherworldly settings actually render more poetic the heightened unreality of Shakespeare's dialogue.  Plus, in all honesty, Shakespeare's plays are themselves riddled with so many examples of historical anachronisms that the `crime' of modernization seems a piddling one at best.Those unfamiliar with `Titus Andronicus' may well be caught off guard by the ferocious intensity of this Shakespearean work.   Moralists who decry the rampant display of unrestrained violence in contemporary culture and look longingly back to a time when art and entertainment were supposedly free of this particular blight may well be shocked and appalled to see Shakespeare's utter relishment in gruesomeness and gore here.  In this shocking tale of betrayal, vengeance and rampant brutality, heads, tongues and limbs are lopped off with stunning regularity and it is a measure of Julie Taymor's skill as a director and her grasp of the shocking nature of the material that, even in this day and age when we have become so inured and jaded in the area of screen violence, we are truly shaken by the work's cruelty and ugliness.  Yet, Taymor occasionally injects scenes of daring black comedy into the proceedings, as when Titus and his brother carry away the heads of his sons contained in glass jars while his own daughter, who has had her own hands chopped off in a vicious rape, carries Titus' own dismembered hand in her teeth!  There are even meat pies made out of two of Titus's enemies to be served up as dinner for their unwitting mother.   Thus, even though we can never take our eyes off the screen, this is often a very difficult film to watch.`Titus' is filled with elements of character, plot and theme that Shakespeare would enlarge upon in later works.  It includes a father betrayed by his progeny (`King Lear'), a Moorish general (`Othello'), a struggle for political power (`Julius Caesar' among others) and - a theme that runs through virtually all Shakespeare's tragedies - the need for revenge to maintain filial or familial honor.  Anthony Hopkins is superb as Titus, capturing the many internal contradictions that plague this man who, though a beloved national hero and military conqueror, finds himself too weary to accept the popular acclamation to make him emperor - a decision he will live to rue when his refusal ends up placing the power directly into the hands of a rival who makes it his ambition to bring ghastly ruin upon Titus' family.  Titus is also a man who can, without a twinge of conscience, kill a son he feels has betrayed him and disembowel a captive despite the pleas of his desperate mother, yet, at the same time, show mercy to the latter's family, humbly refuse the power offered him, and break down in heartbroken despair at the executions of his sons and the sight of his own beloved daughter left tongueless and handless by those very same people he has seen fit to spare.  Jessica Lange, as the mother of the captive Titus cruelly dismembers, seethes with subtle, pent-up anger as she plots her revenge against Titus and his family.Visually, this widescreen film is a stunner.  Taymor matches the starkness of the drama with a concomitant visual design, often grouping her characters in studied compositions set in bold relief against an expansive, dominating sky.   At times, the surrealist imagery mirrors Fellini at his most flamboyant.The fact that this is one of Shakespeare's earliest works is evident in the undisciplined plotting and the emphasis on sensationalism at the expense of the powerful themes that would be developed more fully in those later plays with which we are all familiar.  At the end of the story, for instance, many of the characters seem to walk right into their deaths in ways that defy credibility.  We sense that Shakespeare may not yet have developed the playwright's gift for bringing all his elements together to create a satisfying resolution.  Thus, it is the raw energy of the novice - the obvious glee with which this young writer attacks his new medium - that Taymor, in her wildly absurdist style, taps into most strongly.  `Titus' may definitely not be for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach, but the purely modern way in which the original play is presented in this particular film version surely underlines the timelessness that is Shakespeare.  "},{"Title":"A timeless retelling","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"79 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus.  Where to begin?  Oh yes, at the beginning.  William Shakespeare wrote Titus Andronicus early in his career.  VERY early in his career, and such is apparent.  On stage, this script as a play must be awful. Character motivations are not explained, there are holes in the action, a character leaves the country and then comes back, seemingly only to set up the climax. There is little explanation of action, and it is less poetic than some of his masterworks (Midsummer, Hamlet, Lear).  And yet, Julie Taymor, renowned for her fantastical vision of The Lion King on Broadway, chose this, possibly Shakespeare's most problematic play, to be her introduction to film.This adaptation is wonderful.  Why?  Because it fills all the holes of the initial play.  She adds scenes without dialogue, she makes the setting timeless and symbolic, and removes it from the realm of reality, wherein the play never worked to begin with.  She tranforms a difficult play about revenge into much, much more.  It is now a feast for the eyes, a commentary on revenge, power, theatre, film, and villiany.To be fair, I am not giving Shakespeare enough credit.  The play he wrote has many marvelous aspects, mainly the Aaron - possibly Shakespeare's greatest villian.  He is unrelenting.  And in the film, he is wonderfully acted.  Titus is a good character too, and Anthony Hopkins acts him well enough.It would be easy for a Shakespeare purist to say eww, what was that, but I would call this retelling a gem.  It is moody, gritty, passionate, clever, awe-inspiring, and true to the theme of the original script.  It has only added to Shakespeare's words.  Is it perfect?  No.  It does make you stretch yourself, the ending is a head-scratcher, but this will be my favorite Shakespeare adaptation for a long time to come.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful adaptation","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"65 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This film demonstrates how a stage director can combine the unique atmosphere of theater with the stark realism--and fantastic effects-- of film and make a beautiful, moving masterpiece. The words are Shakespeare, the staging is fabulous, the costumes and sets are remarkable and memorable. Jessica Lange and Anthony Hopkins and Alan Cummings radiate. Seeing Titus leaves one exhausted and exhilarated, believing one has seen true, gifted, timeless film making.Titus is one of Shakespeare's little-known, earlier works, and it is a violent, disturbing tragedy. The producer and director took incredible risks to bring this remarkable experience to you. I know you will be moved.  "},{"Title":"Possibly the most faithfully recreated Shakespeare play ever","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"45 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Taken from the Shakespeare play 'Titus Andronicus', A very dark humored and brutal work originally, Julie Taymor isolates and drives upon the very force that brought William Shakespeare to his immortal success Shock your audience.A Roman General(Titus) after loosing many of his sons as soldiers in battle returns to a war-hungry Rome days after the death of Julius Ceasar. You're introduced to the story as the two sons of the Emperor petition to succeed their Father. Superficially this story is an all-out-tragedy. Underneath, however, it's a causticly ironic tale to see a man forge the tools of his own suffering through his own arrogant and selfish misdoings, then to eventually find shame and humility.This movie is so packed with metaphor most viewers find it intimidating. It's an amazingly seamless telling of a story using time-specific visual references to outline the characters and events. i.e. the nazi-esque motorcade, biker costumes appear similar to the Italian fascist movement, evident paranoia. While the rival motorcade appears symbolic of John Kennedy and symbiotic trust.The costume design is fabulous, obvious 1960's Glam/GlamRock design influences carefully illustrate the vanity and narcissism of Roman culture at the time using flashy wool-lined synthetics. I openly covet the cape Titus wears. Shakespeare took particular pleasure mocking a society with conveniently and easily deniable Gods, such that the Gods themselves treat their fates as tragic playthings.And I digress... my main point is Shakespeare built his fame on being what has always been considered taboo and edgy sex, violence, death and profanity. Julie Taymor having not missed a beat with the visuals, which are terrible and powerful at times, only seek to punctuate tragedy, much unlike its 1999 counterpart 'Titus Andronicus' which focused more on hate and revenge making for very unreasonable 1 dimensional characters.My advice Watch this movie more than once. Every time I do I glean more from it. Tony Hopkins and Alan Cumming both give some of the best performances of their careers, Moreover one of the best directed films ever IMHO. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare's play brought to a beautiful and other - worldly stage.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"49 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is something that I just cannot seem to express. First There is a love for the artistic sense of the movie. Does that outdo William Shakespeare's wonderful scripts? Perhaps (?).It is one of my favourite things. To sit down and watch a movie, that wants to express so much more through the characters and their surroundings, than simply what they have to say through word and expression. When they themselves are an expression. For me, it feels like a `perfectionist's movie'. I get the sense that every person's face was chosen for their look and how it could help the character's personality that they are meant to portray. While still taking into consideration the competence of the actor or actress.Every scene is constructed meticulously. Of course, I cannot envy quite so completely, the full out patience and exacting eye that it took to look at the creative genius of each idea. For every room, each building, each camera angle of the few rundown humble city sidewalks, made to contrast the elegance of the royalty, or to add to it's persona. These things are created like any other movie must create its sets. But for me it seems that they may have found the perfect camera angle to film whichever character's scene it was.Perhaps I delve too deeply into these things, like some attempt at creating meaning for an accidental painting, but I cannot say that this was an accident. Nor should it be compared to one.The director, Julie Taymor, found perfection in this movie. Although the idea of bringing a Shakespearean play up to date, is definitely not unheard of, this was still a first for me. The artistic beauty of it, was in finding the plot come to life on a surreal and ambiguous stage. Set in no time and no space. We are first presented with an unwatched child, reeking havoc on a cluttered kitchen table, covered in toys and particular action-figures that we will later realize, slightly resemble a portion of our soon-to-be-introduced cast. An explosion abruptly interrupts the child, and a man comes inside, smudged dirty and looking like something that reminded me of a `troglodyte' from the French film `The Delicatessen'.  He bundles the young boy into his arms, and takes him down an unrealistically long flight of stairs, into an expansive old Roman coliseum, where our play then begins. You are left pondering the happenings of the film, and I myself thought at one point, that perhaps the entire thing was happening inside of this child's head.Whatever the case, it was brilliantly done. The unthought-of effect, is perhaps merely the setting of the stage bringing us from our world, to another. So that we might witness the story completely, out of ourselves.I will say nothing of the plot. Accept simply, that it is far more gruesome than what you would general expect of William Shakespeare's plays. The gore was somewhat unexpected , and my love for the movie would falter here, if not for the shockingly horrific scenes maintaining that perfect form throughout, that I was so drawn to. I could enjoy both the visually stimulating scenes, and the stimulating script, as completely separate things. Put together they held me in an even more profound state of wonder and. celebration, for sight and sound.An absolutely fantastic movie. Very well done. Well envisioned and well realized, well filmed, well acted. yes, very well done. Quite artful.  "},{"Title":"Simple excellence","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  No spoilers here.This is a Shakespeare play, and this one is no comedy, I must say. Shakespeare liked the Rome background, and exploited it quite, though with some anachronysms, and, in this one, a victorious general, Titus, returns to Rome amidst the succession dispute following the death of the Caesar. Soon he will be entangled in a vicious plot.Yes, Titus is the early, sensational, Shakespeare play, but, it displays to us what can be most dreadful in human nature. A story of vengeance like I've never seen, I felt myself tossed to the pits of utter filth when I first read it. It's violent, violent, violent and simple, yet, not cheesy. It's a kind of violence that you wouldn't ever see in action-packed movies with bullets afly.The movie can hold you to your seat if you have watched other Shakespeare play based movies previously, for it is intense. The background and costumes are not genuine Rome, they were modified to something that resembles the movie Dune, but nothing is ridiculously anachronic, like I thought of that DiCaprio Romeo & Juliet, which made me leave the seat in the very beginning (the Sword scene). This movie Titus doesn't try to be historical or actual, it's more surreal-like, with original, abridged, text. The violence is quite explicit, so have your stomach ready.Alas, the acting is great! Totally recommended, this story is the Centaurs' Feast! Our journey shall be a very long and ominous journey, but you shall part on it with me. "},{"Title":"One of the best Shakespeare adaptations i have seen. Actors are comfortable in the material. **** (out of four)","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  TITUS / (1999) **** (out of four)By Blake French	 Titus Andronicus proves Shakespeare had a dirty, violent mind. The original tragedy, one of Shakespeare's lesser known, plays like a 90's slasher film, with enough blood, guts, decapitations, amputations, murders, and missing limbs for several modern day horror romps. When director Julie Taymor adapted the play to the screen, she proved what a brave, gutsy filmmaker we have working here. It's like watching an on-screen play, with all the guts and glory of Shakespeare; the script does not even feel as if it was rewritten for the screen, but left for a modern dramatization of theater. Her film Titus, starring veteran actors Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lang, is one of the most bizarre updates of William Shakespeare's work I can remember-and that is a very good thing. 	Anthony Hopkins plays general Titus Andronicus, at the heart of the story, who, as the movie opens, returns from conquering the Goths. Ignoring the motives of his mother, Tamora (Lang), and her two lasting sons, Chiron (Jonathan Rhys-Meyers), and Demetrius (Matthew Rhys), Titus ceremoniously sacrifices one of the apprehended enemies and supports the scandalous Saturninus (Alan Cumming) who is soon to be emperor. 	Saturninus chooses Titus' daughter, Lavinia (Laura Fraser), to be his wife, despite the fact that she has already been plighted to Saturninus own brother (James Frain). The young couple flee after hearing the decision, causing Titus to murder one of his own disputing sons. Saturninus then chooses Tamora as his new bridal choice. What follows is a series of memorable events that begin as a simple revenge scheme against Titus and his daughter, led by Tamora and her sons, and her secret lover, the sadistic Moor Aaron (Harry Lennix). From that point on, Titus rebels against his alliances and joins his family, including younger brother Lucius (Colm Feore), in a battle against his enemies to seek ever so sweet revenge. Unlike the modern update of Romeo & Juliet in 1996, the actors in Titus feel very comfortable with the Shakespearean language. They all do an exceptionally convincing job bringing the beautiful language to life inside their artistic characters. Anthony Hopkins is right at home here, delivering a challenging, particularly involving, and gripping performance. Alan Cumming is perfectly cast as a sleazy slime ball. Jessica Lang takes advantage of capturing such a juicy, extravagant character and is not afraid to overact when necessary. 	It is the tone, however, and the atmosphere, that makes the production so captivating. Some scenes feel as if we are in some zany, demented comedy of bleak proportions, often seized by the engaging, although unusual, sound track. In one scene, we feel uncomfortable with the sight of several young men listening to heavy rock music and playing video games in a Shakespearean movie. It is also continuously unique and entertaining. There is an absolutely stunning sequence in an orgy, and the throat slitting, cannibalistic finale seems like something Hannibal Lector would concoct.Titus is a very strange, peculiar picture, often disturbing and cringe-inducing. It is not a movie for everyone. Although the film is made in a way in which I think most intelligent audiences could at least somewhat understand, it is also extremely graphic in its violence and sexual content; it is R-rated and intended for mature audiences only. Titus will captivate forbearing fans of its unique genre, but disgust those looking for passionate and a happy ending. I found myself reluctant at first, but once I gave myself over to the characters, story, and motives, I was simply enthralled by the dazzling filmmaking here.  Titus is one of the year's best films.   "},{"Title":"Madness","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus Andronicus is the strangest of Shakespeare's tragedies and the tragedy which most underlines the modern day observation that his tragedies are often comic and his comedies fairly tragic. Particularly the final chain murder has always made me laugh in the theatrical renditions and this one is definitely up to par. As for the rest of the movie, it is a mix of beautiful images, wonderful acting, rotten acting and failed attempts to surrealize an already surreal play. Anthony Hopkins is almost perfect as Titus, Colm Feore pretty good as his righteous brother and Jessica Lange intolerable as Tamora, while most of the rest range from mildly indifferent to pretty okay. As for Aaron in the shape of Harry Lennix he is actually quite convincing albeit not quite in the same league as Kenneth Brannagh who did the all time finest Shakespeare mischievery playing Iago in Othello. But Brannagh as a Moor would be downright laughable - so a compromise well turned out.The modernisation of Shakespeare is in my opinion an impossibility. Some of his plays have a plot which makes a good basis for a modern production, but Shakespeare's absolute forté is his language and his linguistic jokes and acting in old English requires settings true to the play. That said, I think some of the scenes worked better in this surrealistic environment than they would have - scenes like Titus assembling his men for the shot at the Gods, or the messenger returning his sons' heads in a theater truck. That was novel.As for the overall feel of this movie, only one word suffices Madness.- Thomas Nielsen "},{"Title":"What Shakespeare is bad Shakespeare?","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"37 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. Shakespeare is the only profound person I've ever come across and this movie did him justice.If you like Shakespeare and aren't hung up on the need of Shakespeare plays / movies to use English accents, then watch this movie. Brilliant acting, brilliant production. This isn't the typical low budget Shakespeare movie that hurts the eyes. It's an unsettling movie which is good because it's an unsettling play. The movie did a good job of expressing the feeling that is hidden within the text.Anthony Hopkins is an amazing actor, backed up by other actors who are almost as impressive. "},{"Title":"Titus Maximus","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" First time I saw this film was in Nepal. In a hotel in Kathmandu. It was filmed inside the cinema; the picture was corny, the sound was phony, and the show was cheap...-)However it left me in such a state of exaltation that I had a hard time leaving the hotel back room. And I was not to be found withing myself for hours thereafter.Not that it is necessary, but I had already read Shakespeare's first play (titus andronicus) from which this film hath been made. However, I never liked the story, never found its beauty. T'was about Rome and a Roman war hero returning home to find politics going awry; also, it is Shakespeare's most brutal play. But it never got to me. No beauty, only random killing; I liked his later works much better.Until I saw this film!Directed by a very able woman, Julie Taymor, the pictures are intense in colours and framing, and the acting is equally intense (Jessica Lange and Anthony Hopkins against each other). Furthermore the film is BEAUTIFUL while projecting the malice of a - in many ways - vanquished father.At one point Lavinia, the daughter, stands in a ...... No - Better you see it for yourself! There is so much horror, yet so much beauty in this film that you would never believe it came from Hollywood.Hair rising from the back of my neck while walking from my seat.Lumps of saliva unable to be swallowed.And adrenalin still surging through my mind for days thereafter although I was placed in beautiful landscapes.I bought this film as soon as I got home from Nepal. Right away..!I rate this film 10+. And I would do so 4 times again, if I was able to. It's a must-see for those not yet dulled by the hollywoodification of common film standards. Especially if you fancy horrific beauty.Gilbert Ipp, DenMarque "}{"Title":"Freakishly beautiful and the best villains in Shakespeare","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The production in this movie is wonderful - particularly if you're able to accept the strange cross-genre world the movie is set in. Much like the world of Tim Burton's Batman was sort of the 40s and sort of the future, this takes modern day and mixes it with touches from ancient Rome, to make a weird fantasy realm where anything can happen. A DARK fantasy realm.This serves a couple of really good purposes - first, some of the touches are inherently humorous, thus lightening a play which could be called the Texas Chainsaw Massacre of Shakespeare. Far more importantly, however, is the visual cues which it gives a modern audience.The average person, even someone fairly versed in Shakespeare like myself, sees two guys walk into the Roman senate, dressed in togas, and orating, and there is NOT A SINGLE visual cue to tell me who these guys are. I don't know toga styles! On the other hand if one of them (Bassianus) is progressing to the senate, chilling in the back of his convertible, wearing a leather jacket, addressing his followers with a bullhorn, and his brother Saturninus is encased in a full-on pope-mobile with a leather greatcoat and a greased-down forelock - that tells me something about these guys!!!OK, the plot - nearly everybody dies. I would call this a spoiler, but anyone who knows that (a) this is Shakespeare and (b) this is considered a tragedy, then knows that - by definition - nearly everybody dies. The cool thing is the plots and counter-plots as the various characters try to take down, take out, or take on the others. The basic premise is, however, that Titus Andronicus is a great general who has just returned from war with captives, including defeated Queen Tamora, her three sons, and her servant Aaron (ooh, is he evil!!). Despite the queen's desperate pleas for mercy, Titus sacrifices Tamora's oldest son to the gods, as a thank you for victory, and thus starts the chain of back and forth murdering which goes on for the rest of the film.Two things which will probably be of interest to no one but myself, but I have to express are the theme of the play/film and Titus' fatal flaw.First, in screenplay classes you work hard to get theme - some concept which is not necessarily brought out in the plot, but is supposed to be woven throughout your movie and generally never is, or is something really simplistic and obvious. However, the theme of Titus is actually exquisitely done, and was in the original play, which makes me wonder quite why people generally regard it as a throw-away piece among Shakespeare's works. The theme I see is what we do for our children, which seems an odd one for such a bloody play, but it is the killing of Tamora's son which sets off the maelstrom. When her sons attack and mutilate Titus' daughter Lavinia, he gets his revenge, and then does for Lavinia the greatest, most honorable thing he can - kills her. The two sons of the recently deceased emperor, the aforementioned Bassianus and Saturninus, have no father to look out for them, and he didn't name a successor before his death, which is what leads them astray, and finally, Aaron, despite being a self-proclaimed villain (and who tricks Titus into cutting off his OWN FREAKING HAND - now THAT'S a villain!), kills whoever he has to in order to protect his own progeny.Now for the fatal flaw - again, a fascinating concept which struck me like a ton of bricks when I got it. (For those how don't know, each of Shakespeare's tragic heroes is fatally flawed in some way, and when I was in high school our teacher made us always write essays on these, which is why I look in the first place - Hamlet's, for instance, is indecision, while Macbeth's is being wife-whipped.) Titus's fascinating flaw is Tradition. Every decision he makes, until he goes mad (or pretends to), is entirely dictated by tradition, and every decision is a bad one. He is offered the job of emperor and turns it down, then selects Saturninus to take the job - on the grounds that he is the dead emperor's eldest son, despite the fact that he is obviously going to be a petty despot. Then, when Saturninus asks for Titus' daughter in marriage, Titus agrees, even though she's already betrothed to (and in love with) the younger son, and when her brothers rescue her so she can run off with her true love? Titus kills one of his own sons - executing him as a traitor.Time after time, tradition and the right thing to do is Titus' downfall. By the end of the story, he deliberately turns his own flaw back on himself by asking Saturninus what should happen to a woman who has been dishonored and damaged - should she be killed, as set forth in historical precedent? When the emperor flippantly agrees, Titus kills his own daughter, right there at the dinner table. To her, it is a mercy, but to everyone else, it's a real eye-opener!!!OK, enough ranting. THIS time... "},{"Title":"pretentious garbage","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Titus last night.  I figured a Shakespeare movie starring Anthony Hopkins - hey, it can't be all bad.Oh boy was I wrong.Like Leo Dicaprio's Romeo & Juliet, the movie retained the original Shakespeare dialog but was set in a modern time.  Well, kind of.  It was a cross between ancient rome and the 1940's, with some more modern items thrown in here & there.  Some people were dressed like roman legions fighting with swords, others wearing 40's style clothes & riding 40's style motorcycles, etc.When I first realized this, I told myself to keep an open mind, that maybe they'll do something interesting with it.  Although my usual thoughts on that whole subject are that, dammit, movies based on Shakespeare plays should be set when & where the play was set - don't dumb everything down so that the public can relate.  Or, even worse, for the sake of ArtWell, they didn't do anything interesting with it.  The anachronistic setting nonsense only added to the gargantuan suckage of this movie.  But that wasn't the precise reason why the movie sucked - It sucked because it was pretentious, unwatchable wannabe-artistic crap.  (Containing, of course, the requisite amount of homoerotic overtones for pretentious, unwatchable wannabe-artistic crap.  As if you couldn't guess that.)I can just see the idiots behind this whole thing  - Ooh, we'll mix up the ancient Roman setting with modern elements!  That will SHOCK everyone! People won't know what to do!  What Artists we are!  And we'll make everything ultra-graphic!  That will SHOCK everyone!  People won't know what to do!  What Artists we are!  And we'll make everyone seem gay!  That will SHOCK everyone!  People won't know what to do!  What Artists we are!  And we'll use insultingly obvious symbolism -  because that's what Artists do! Aren't we clever to do that in a Shakespeare movie!  What Artists we are! The rabble out there will hate this movie because we're so avant-garde! People won't know what to do!  Hooray for us!  Take that, Mister Establishment!Damn what a piece of crap.  I want my money back.  "},{"Title":"Here's hoping this is Julie Taymor's last work.","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe her stock theatrical gimmicks work on the stage - let's give her the benefit of the doubt - but she doesn't have the foggiest idea how to make a movie.Not that I think this nonsense would work on stage.  Titus Andronicus is CLEARLY set in Ancient Rome - would it be TOO MUCH TO ASK to have a production that respects this fact?  I'm sick of leather jackets and motorcycles and arcade games and all the other paraphernalia from The Compendium of Tiresome Postmodern Clichés - for once I'd like to see a creative rendition of the era in which the action is supposed to take place, and DOES take place, whatever efforts the director may make to suggest otherwise.  In what kind of simple-minded fashion does Taymor expect us to think?  Look, a microphone.  Why, that's a modern invention!  I guess this means Shakespeare IS a relevant kind of dude, after all!  Please, don't tell me modern audiences are so stupid.Making it all the more embarrassing is the film's clumsy use of music.  Whenever twentieth-century artefacts make a surprise appearance, Taymor asks her poor captive composer Elliot Goldenthal to underline the point with a saxophone riff.  Wow, a saxophone!  That's almost only a hundred years old - I guess Shakespeare IS a relevant kind of dude, after all.Taymor's affectations undermine an already weak story in too many ways to count. Take the scene where Titus is begging the tribunes to spare his sons' lives.  Do we have any sense that it matters?  No, because the whole production is so dadaist, and we have so little sense of what can and can't happen in this universe, that none of it seems real - it would be in keeping with the rest of the production for his sons to spring back to life after being executed, so why worry about them?  Or take the scene at the Goth's camp outside Rome, which takes place in a quarry with high tension power lines running overhead.  Yes, Julie, very Brechtian, but if you'd remove your theoretically-tinted spectacles for just a second, you'd realise that it just looks clumsy.  Power lines almost always look clumsy.  In this case they not only make it impossible to think of these Aryan extras as being an army of Goths, they make it impossible to think of them as being an army at all.  What is Lucius planning to do, follow the pylons?  In any case, the last thing this scene needs is the visual suggestion that the army has just passed Rome's power plant (without disabling it), and will shortly come across the arterial highway.It's bad enough for Taymor to assemble such ludicrous costumes, sets and locations; it's unforgivable for her to think that all she need do is assemble them, without giving any thought to how they'd look on film.  It's tragic, really.  Taymor's many lame ideas are ALL visual - none of them have to do with story or character or theme - yet because she was concerned with what things look like in the flesh, not how they would end up looking on film, even these are half-lost.  You'll struggle to find one arresting image in the entire two-and-a-half hours.  And the acting and music fall just as flat as the images do.  It's Shakespeare's, rather than Taymor's, fault that the language also falls flat; but she knew this was Shakespeare's weakest play, so she knew what she was letting herself in for.  Even so Shakespeare's poetry is all the film has to recommend itself.  If, in the last half hour, the film picks up just a little from the aimless drizzle it was at first, Shakespeare alone can take credit.Show me someone who praises Titus, and I'll show you someone whose critical judgment is clouded.  The film is so dismal and flabby that one is surprised to discover it's even in focus (that is, when it IS in focus).  For two hours Taymor does nothing but wave her avant-garde credentials in our faces, and of course, the world is full of people intellectually insecure enough to accept them. "},{"Title":"Mama Vision needs Rhythm","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  What a bang this starts with! Once again, someone with vision and ambition takes on Shakespeare. This first-time filmmaker takes on Shakespeare's first play, possibly a wise choice because the richer the play, the harder to translate to film. That is, the less poetry (mind's eye richness) the more room for eye's eye richness.Titus is very early and shows at least an immature dramatist and even less so poet. Probably, his actor buddies drove much of the action, and the purpose was either to out gross or parodize Marlowe. The play is unpopular not because it is violent, but because it is clumsy. All the promising parts reappear in much better form in later works. (T S Eliot one of the stupidest and most uninspiring plays ever written.)What's goodOne of Taymor's apparent goals is to build on and reference the film work of others. I'm not sufficiently knowledgable to get all the film allusions, but the most incidental brushes seem artificial. More solidly, three films form the visual background -- all are Shakespeare films. The basic structure is from Stoppard's Rosencrantz where the whole Shakespeare play is a vision. The framing with the kid, captured by the clown is part of that. Also, in the middle, the clown reappears with a junior version of Dreyfuss' carriage to deliver heads and hand. (What did Taymor tell that redhead girl to get such an attitude?). Stoppard's layers of viewing are amplified here with layers of anachronism, which I must say are more effective.A second major root is Welles' Othello, which is primarily an architectural film. This is also. Watch it once just looking at the environments, (The baby's cage at the end is a copy of Welles' central device.) Very smart, including some clever false perspectives. The third influence is clearly Greenaway's Prospero's Books, which she must have studied for her own contemporaneous Tempest film. Lots of painterly framing and references. (No numbers though.)What's badHopkins just doesn't have what it takes, and it is no wonder he swore to retire after this. I think the problem is that he is a screen actor, a face actor. He doesn't create an internal character, but a sequence of mannerisms. He has not studied acting and does not appear to be deeply introspective about the art. He just emotes and has developed the ability to appear emotionally vacant. None of that is valuable here, and one can imagine his crisis when he discovers this. (Lange is just the opposite, constantly monitoring, aware, internal.)Taymor has problems with pacing. Another filmmaker might create rewards in their laconic sections. Here, they are just slow uninspired periods because she is considers the script inviolable.Taymor's grounding in the popular theater works against her in a commitment to story-telling. Drama is not story; even an apprentice Shakespeare knew this. She is tied too much to showing us everything. A little less worrying about making sense would give the images room to breath and increase the dramatic possibilities.She understands film architecture, and framing of shots. But she has no sense of moving the camera. On a third watching, you begin to feel constrained by perspective, and see a real flaw here. Where are we the audience? Scorcese doesn't know much, but he knows this, how to make the audience dance -- I assume it is something you have or don't.These last three points speak to a lack of style in editing. The first part until Titus allows his son to be buried are easy bam bam bam. That's when the underlying rhythm of the thing should have emerged. She's got vision, but no rhythm.Sum Broken but worthwhile. Even the flaws are fascinating. Hope she learns. Hope she continues.  "},{"Title":"No Horror, Just Decor","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Julie Taymor is a designer, not a director. She lavishes all her creative energy on scenery, props, costumes and other inanimate objects. She can treat human beings as stage-dressing (the lock-step soldiers, the orgiastic revellers), but she cannot cast them properly or convince them to give good performances. Anthony Hopkins murmurs, rants and snarls without once achieving significant emotion; Jessica Lange and Harry Lennix can barely speak, let alone fill their roles; Colm Feore (Canada's idea of a major classical actor) does nothing with his apostrophe to Lavinia; and Alan Cumming is not convincing as a heterosexual. In brief, Taymor's film is a characteristic specimen of postmodern Shakespeare heavy on production design, but dramatically and histrionically mediocre. One cannot do justice to Shakespeare through imagery alone, a truth that postmodern auteurs seem unable to grasp. And Titus, of all plays, is about flesh and blood, the very elements that leave Taymor at a loss. "},{"Title":"Missing the Point","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The ideas that Julie has might to some executives seem very radical, and the play itself might be indigestible, when in the same moment they can do Armageddon 2, 3, 4 and 5 and blow all kinds of stuff up, and kill countless numbers of people! Yet chop off one hand, you rape one girl in a poetically powerful way where it actually hits - oh, no, sorry we don't do that kind of stuff. And we're certainly not going to you millions of dollars to do it. -Colm Feore, Marcus Andronicus, TitusShakespeare's tragedy Titus Andronicus is basically a formula for violence, in order for Shakespeare to gain popularity over his contemporaries. It also uses the overflow of violence to draw some pointed conclusions about the elegance and civilized society of ancient Rome. But never mind that, it's just needlessly violent...right? Of course it's violent - and Titus became perhaps his most popular play. But to criticize this film for being nothing but violent is to miss the point, and run the risk of hypocrisy. Feore was right in his little diatribe which I included above.How many people were killed in Independence Day? Armageddon, anyone? Kill Bill? Kill Bill VOLUME TWO? Pulp Fiction? Batman? Hero? Spiderman? Catwoman? Just about any other Tarantino film? Gladiator? Die Hard? Terminator? Jurassic Park? Just about any big-budget film made since Gone With the Wind? There is needless violence in just about EVERY MOVIE MADE these days. And forget about television. The American Medical Association recently published a report claiming that children in the United States, living in a home with cable television or a VCR, typically witness around 32,000 murders and 40,000 attempted murders by the time they reach the age of 18.How many of those deaths actually made us feel the desperateness and terror that would actually result from a violent death, of either someone we love or someone we just met moments before? How many of those films had a message that could not have been achieved without all the blood? For all the above films, the deaths involved were there to invigorate us because we've grown accustomed to watching violence, and our version of the Coloseum is now the action film genre. We think seeing someone torn in half by two dinosaurs (which were cloned from age-old DNA in order for all of to enjoy the violence as if there weren't enough instruments of violence still living) is really fun. We don't want to be repulsed by murder, which of course we ought to be, but we find it entertaining nonetheless. That's a little sick if you ask me, and THAT is the point of Julie Taymor's film version of Titus.Titus was directed by Julie Taymor, a brilliant stage director (and for whom this film is her first) worlds away from James Cameron, and about as far removed from Hollywood as you can get. Taymor is renowned for her stage direction, and based this film in part on her recent off-Broadway production of Titus Andronicus. She also directed and designed the costumes for a musical you may have heard of, called the Lion King, for which she she was awarded several Tony awards. So her unique and self-consciously absurd visual style, combining modern and ancient design elements in order to suggest that violence has been one of man's favorite past times throughout the ages, really shouldn't be that surprising.But it is that style which points to the fact that this is not a typical Hollywood film. A typical Hollywood film would be a romantic comedy or a drama about drug abuse and sex. Producers have to take major risks on these films, because most people don't know that Shakespeare can be riveting, or even fun. It isn't better or more worthwhile than any other type of cinema, but it does happen to be one of the underdogs.Taymor directed this picture with the obscenity of today's culture of violence firmly in mind. Why did the film begin with a deranged, yet oh-so-normal eight year old boy playing with menacing action figures, watching television and killing and destroying everything in sight? Seems out of place, right? Except his appetite for violence creates ratings for television producers which perpetuate the whole phenomenon. So in an abstract way, he conjured up the violence - which then becomes Titus, and he's made an active participant for the remainder of the story. Perhaps if someone had taken Arnold Schwarzenegger into the Roman colloseum after he finished making T2 he would've felt a little differently about his actions, too.In other words, it's all fun and games until somebody gets hurt.PS - As for the ridiculous notion that Shakespeare reads better than it sounds, any ounce of credibility left in the angry critique of Titus which inspired this message was pretty much wholly obliterated by that comment. I suppose we have been force-fed infantile dialogue with more expletives than adjectives for too long, and have now decided to hate and reject screenplays that appear to be smarter than we are. Or smarter than we have been led to think we are...shouldn't we welcome the challenge of deciphering more mature language? "},{"Title":"Best movie I have seen in years.","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Absolutely excellent!!! I don't remember this movie in the theaters, and only saw a preview of it on a rented CD. It looked interesting. I could not find it in the video stores and a friend of mine got it from netflicks for me.The combination of modern times and mid evil at first was a little strange but then it grew on you. Anthony Hopkins was really superb as Titus.I never thought there was a dull moment in the film. It was a long movie and kept my interests throughout.Shakespeare was one of those authors in school that no one cared about but was mandatory reading. (BORING!) The film was not boring but captivating!!! The director and of course all the actors really deserve a thumbs up.I really must say that TITUS is one of the best films that I have ever seen. I am sorry that I did not see it when it first debuted.Hopefully more like it will be made in the future. "},{"Title":"a good rendering of a really bad script","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" A few things struck me about the Titus film.I am a Shakespearean actor/director, and being quite familiar with Shakespeare's Titus text, I was prepared for the worst, because Shakespeare's script is just plain terrible. Considering where the director was starting from, I felt she did a superb job. It is not for all tastes, pardon the expression, but as a director who has watched other directors turn the good Shakespeare scripts into really bad productions, I was very pleasantly surprised to see this woman turn chicken sh*t into chicken salad -- bad script into pretty good movie. She gets extra points just for having the guts to try something so crazy. The visuals, especially the opening, were superb. The editing of the script was well done too -- I know from experience how hard it is to trim down one of Shakespeare's 3-4-hour scripts into a quick, coherent story. I thought Hopkins' spoofing of Hannibal Lecter at the end was fun, and it is an improvement over the classical work he did when he was younger.For those of you undecided about Lange, here's a tidbit to remember -- in her most striking scene, in the beginning when she must deal with the death of her sons, she jumped into the shoot that day with no warning. They had planned to shoot something else that day, but technical difficulties forced a change of plan, so the production team asked her -- hey, want to take a crack at that mega-mother scene and see how it goes? --with glorious results. And I think her experience with Shakespeare was practically nil at that point. I've seen a lot of actors do a lot worse with a lot more experience and preparation time. "},{"Title":"Wrenching and powerful","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't going to comment on Titus, particularly, but I thought in case someone who wasn't a film theory and/or Shakespeare maven wanted to know about it, I'd leave a somewhat normal review, for this completely abnormal film.First, I was interested in seeing this because of 1. Anthony Hopkins and 2. I'd read that this play is regularly rated as Shakespeare's worst by contemporary reviewers, but was also by far his most popular play in his own lifetime. I would be interested to know how many of the reviewers who gush over this play, also hold their noses up at modern slasher films (or would fall all over themselves, explaining how Titus is something much more meaningful.) I do agree with those that said (let's see if I can do it in less than 5000 words though) this lacks Shakespeare's more subtle plotting and language in his better known plays, but the raw power and intensity of the story in Titus is also very compelling. And it is quite cool, in AH's final scene, when he starts out as Remains Of The Day Sir Anthony at the beginning of the scene (serving dinner no less), and ends the scene as Hannibal Lecter Hopkins. Hannibal Lecter on crack, even. Booyah.Re Jessica Lange, she's never been to my taste, so me not being impressed is probably just me. And Alan Cumming is always such a delightful freak of nature. I'm more than half convinced he's an alien life form. He very wisely chooses roles that suit an alien freak perfectly. "},{"Title":"A gorgeous and horrific masterpiece.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" A work of art containing visions of beauty, terror, lust, hatred, and pure madness. The cast is wonderfully capable to perform this complex play at an understandable and gasp enjoyable level. Not your high school Shakespeare. Told through the eyes of a young boy snatched from his reality (which is apparently being bombed) into Rome... set in no particular time nor dimension. The way the director ties him into the story is... I know this sounds cheesy... inspiring. Anthony Hopkins is absolutely magnificent. I have nothing else to say about his performance other than HOLY SMOKES! The eerily beautiful way Lavinia is portrayed is something I will not forget for a while. Even with her tongue gouged out and her hands cut off, Laura Fraser remains glorious. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone. It has everything, I swear. Shakespeare would be proud to see one of his not-so-great plays turned into such a great film. "}{"Title":"Taymor - A Genius of Our Time? I Like to Think So","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" So often have we heard critics speak of a movie as visually stunning, but in the case of Titus, truer words were never spoken! A big fan of Shakespeare, I rented this movie not too long ago, expecting an average--if not mediocre--adaptation of the play. Within the first ten minutes, I stood vastly corrected! Just watching the opening credits was enough to make my jaw drop! Generally, I find it hard to watch a movie completely through, but Titus was a very fun film to watch. I never felt compelled to look away. Taymor directs the film like a ballet everything seems so perfectly (and meticulously) choreographed.When I heard that Taymor used modern technologies in the story (arcade games, pool tables, Pepsi Cola, etc.) I was a little leery of watching, but she blended it all together so well. Perhaps that is why it is so appealing to me. I mean, when films are set FAR in the past, they can become somewhat boring to many viewers. But by blending modern-day conveniences with Shakespeare's immortal words, Taymor created a wonderful film.All of the actors made their parts seem tailor-made for them. And the part of Aaron, the moor was beautifully portrayed. He was so despicable, yet fun to watch and listen to.All together, Titus will make a great viewing experience, even if one doesn't like Shakespeare. It will literally have you dumbfounded by the time the last name rolls on the credits. "},{"Title":"I'm totally conflicted about this movie...","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The first thing that popped into my mind as I watched this film was that it reminded me a good deal of the 1987 movie Aria. The subject of that movie was of course completely different to the one here, but the artistic adaptations were in some ways very similar.The reason that I'm so conflicted about this movie is that it is visually stunning but it's also a bit of a train-wreck with most of the movie being inspired by (or stolen from) Aria, The Wall, The Silence of the Lambs, The Cook, the Thief, his Wife and her Lover, A Clockwork Orange and a whole host of other movies. I couldn't shake the question who's the kid and why is here there?. Yes yes...he's the observer giving image to text...but the vehicle just did not work for me. Sorry about that.I remember a review of Joel Schumacher's 1997 Batman & Robin, with the reviewer referring to the movie as being 'a gay Fantasia' - which was true and very, very funny. I wish the reviewer had saved that little gem for a couple of years and applied it to THIS film instead. I do not mean that as an insult or slight to anyone in my community (yes, I am a 'family' member too), but at times the overbearing swish of the Emperor and the Queen's sons were too much to take for ME and that's REALLY saying something! Consider the scene near the end of Act I - the one with Alan Cumming in the background, at the bottom of the stairs, sipping and sipping and sipping a glass of seemingly endless wine (how many times did they shoot that scene???)...his over-accentuation of flamboyance, constantly rocking back and forth and flipping his hair back distracted me from every word of the dialogue. You're IN THE BACKGROUND NOW...be still and let the other actors draw the attention...very bad direction there if you ask me. I think I might have actually been offended by the constant uber gay-ness of some of the characters...I have no explanation for that...it just bothered me. Something for my next therapy session I'm sure.Lastly, the juxtaposition of time periods EVERYWHERE with characters flashing in and out of different wardrobes every 5 milliseconds was too over the top...gave me a headache actually. Just a tiny bit of continuity here or there would really have given the film some foundation.All the negativity aside, I can't give it less than a 5. Anthony Hopkins was BRILLIANT here and he was so despite finding the creative process not only difficult but so heinous as to nearly end his career! Harry Lennix was deliciously evil and I did enjoy seeing his cum-uppance. Jessica Lange was a PERFECT Tamora. Last, but not least, Colm Feore was a tour de force. Colm caught my eye a long time ago when he played 'Legion' in Stephen King's Storm of the Century and he almost saved that wretched film Chronicles of Riddick. He's a vastly under-utilized talent and I look forward to any other projects he and Anthony Hopkins work on together. They're just wonderful actors that really compliment each other.I recommend this as leisurely viewing for couples with time on their hands. There's a LOT to talk about here. The duration, complexity and content could possibly put a damper on any kind of group setting though and this one is NOT for the kids - so keep your children safe and don't lose any friends - watch something else instead. "},{"Title":"Strong lead performances, not much else","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Inexplicably, the director tries to spice up Shakespeare's bloodiest play. The film jumps from one time period to another, often confusing or distracting from the narrative. Anthony Hopkins is restrained but rather good as the wronged general (with serious echoes of his role in Hannibal around the end), Alan Cumming is scene stealing in his role (very similiar to the J. Phoenix role in Gladiator), Lange is miscast, but excellent as Queen of the Goths. But Taymor's eye for spectacle undermines the story. Chronological distractions aside, there are badly done dream sequences, Lange's overacting simian twins, a child that keeps popping up although he's five hundred years in the future.SPOILER !!!!A Knight and Two Oscar winners are performing a play where a murderess eats her two rapist/murderer sons in a pie in front of a newly mutilated general and his maimed daughter. It doesn't need to be 'jazzed up.' "},{"Title":"Hot blood and cold style","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  'Titus'  The cold style of revenge as primitive therapy for all the unquiet spirits of a cruel age.  The ritual purging, or exorcism, of horror, grief, and rage.  The inevitable meeting, in this Arena of Cruelty, of sadistic cynicism - represented by the Moor - with malicious seductiveness - represented by the Goth Queen - has for its equally inevitable issue the Child of Darkness and of Blood  This child is Man, of course, surviving alone in a damaged Universe, and about to be penetrated by the first shafts of daylight's painful disillusionment.  But life that lacks an illusionistic carapace is far too tender to exist, as this drama relentlessly exposes.     For the ritual, stylized, excess, of what is presented to us as the nightmare obsession of a psychologically damaged child, will conduct us through the dream-like anaesthesia of self-defensive shock - just the degree of brutalization that enables our humanity to survive the hallucinatory trauma of being in a mad world.     No accident (surely) that the film's visual experience is grounded in the ancient Roman ruins of the former Yugoslavia's dismembered body-politic; nor that it is also grounded in the terminally Roman decadence of Mussolini's operatically-gesturing Fascist fantasies, but as those already overblown fantasies were subsequently replayed in the sinister parodies thereof provided in Antonioni's, or in Fellini's work.     The disembodied phantoms who finally appear to have been silently attending to all that (seemingly) has passed before our own eyes, in the insistent image of the Stadium of Death, which is the Arena of Taymore's Shakespeare-mediated Senecan spectacle, are themselves - like their representative, Lavinia, - mute witnesses to the scenes relentlessly paraded before us in that Circus of Horror, which signifies nothing less than the very Orbit that circumscribes this World of Suffering.     Having discovered so much contemporary - that is to say, eternal, - sense in the ancient spectacle of Senecan tragedy - the smallest symbolic details of the poetic language of which are brilliantly transferred into the film's visual imagery, and consistently re-worked in the retro-modern, comic-book pastiche of the Savagery that was Ancient Rome - , Julie Taymor achieves the unnervingly sublime poetry of excess and horror better than perhaps any creative intelligence since Thomas Lovell Beddoes, or Ken Russell - even proving a match for old Seneca himself.     Indeed, thanks to this film, at last a modern audience can understand the disturbing Senecan vision. The ostensibly wooden characters of this grand-guignol type of tragedy provide that reductio-ad-absurdum of human beings who are abruptly shorn of all that signifies their humanity  Lavinia's truncated gestures are eked out in wooden trimmings, her hands a puppet's dumb-show, her tongue a stick scratching in the dirt's dusty eloquence like an epigraphy of some ancient grievance, long since past remedy.     Sick humour comes as the final parodic relief  Titus has a splendid jest with Death, indulging to the full the satisfying conceit of making the murderous mother of such murdering and murdered offspring of her womb the grave of these her own children.  Thus all partake of the ultimate communion with Death.     Such sinister hospitality provides the totally negative resolution of the tragedy - at least, as Shakespeare wrote it, having opened this dark Senecan vein, - for it brings no saving reconciliation whatever, but only the savagely cathartic perversion and total annhilation of all that was human.     That is why we recognise nothing living or human in such a completely unreal spectacle.     That is why we are forced to recognise ourselves for the surreal spectacle to which we have been reduced by our insane history.     This is how the outraged sensibility is healed  By madness - by a term in Hell.  Such nightmares are the pain of the mind as it tries to heal itself.     This process of purgative disillusion is what Taymor is about, here.  The ending is another birth - in terms of personal symbolism, a re-birth.  And this is, very particularly, a female artist's determined resistance to the general mayhem of a largely male-dominated world  Incomprehensibly far beyond all the destructive logic of the unending abuse of nature, She continues to entrust her innocent flesh and blood to another incalculable day.     This remarkably profound and intelligent film is also graced by astonishing technical finesse in every department, from costumes to cinematography.       Next to 'Titus', the splendidly macho 'Gladiator' seems like just another Hollywood action movie (which of course it is).  "},{"Title":"After a second viewing, it's clear that this is a masterpiece soaring to a level of excellence reached by only a few legendary movies.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Tonight, I saw Titus a second time. Although I rated it 10 after my first viewing, I'd rate it 20 after seeing it a second time. I remarked after seeing it the first time that its acting was very competent. This second time, not paying so much attention to plot, I could see that the acting of ALL the actors and actresses was superb, worthy of all sorts of Oscars--perhaps even a sweep, maybe for music, too. This movie is heads and shoulders above almost all other movies.During the first viewing, my impressions were on-the-fly reactions to plot, anticipation and surprise. With attention to plot out of the way, what I continuously noticed the second time was the extraordinary quality of everything in the movie.Concerns about violence in the movie are overblown and overstated. The violence was mild compared to most action movies. Instead of violence, emphasis was instead on murderous intent, upon the passions of the men and women for revenge, and not upon the blood, itself.I believed I understood the movie after my first viewing, which was that it was a morality play taught to a 21st century boy dragged back into time to witness up close this Shakespearean play. Now, after a second viewing, I'm not so sure I understand the ending. I'll probably have to see it a third time and listen more closely to the dialog.This is a highest-quality movie. You won't be bored, ever. It deserves multiple viewings. It's visually rich--and that's an understatement--in the best Felini style. The acting performances will always entrance the audience. I had much higher opinions of all the other actors besides the two or three most important ones, this second time around.This is more than a good movie. It's a masterpiece on a par with a handful of legendary movies. If you want a high-quality video (when it finally comes out), this is one that will entertain everyone on many different levels. But if you can, see it in the theater!I'd now agree that the director of this movie is a genius, just the hype says. This is a director to watch for in the future, like Felini.Again, don't worry about the violence. It's really low key compared with modern action movies. What makes it so much more riveting are the passionate performances of the actors and the focus on the intention of unrepentant revenge and viewing of some purely evil-minded people. I personally would highly recommend this movie for young-teen audiences, too, as a morality play with a message. This is high-school-class material that teachers should think about showing to kids and talking about it later.Don't miss the first minute of the movie, or you won't have a chance of understanding this movie adaption! "},{"Title":"Poor Shakespeare! He's rolling in his grave!","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I love Shakespeare's plays. I hated this film. I found it static, boring, and lacking any sort of substance. The characters, including the main characters, were very one-dimensional. The film was poorly structured, tediously drawn out, and confusing.Taymor's attempt at placing her cast in multiple time periods was distracting. The film opens with a child playing in a mid-twentieth century inspired kitchen. When I watched this film, I thought I was watching the wrong one at first because of this particular scene. Throughout the film, scenes would spontaneously jump from one time period to the other. I will say this motorcycles, cars, techno music, and twentieth century weapons do not belong in an adaptation of Shakespeare's work. Characters should not be wearing Roman fashions one moment, and looks ripped off of Christian Dior's New Look of the postwar era the next. It comes off as nonsensical garbage. The content, albeit using the original dialogue, is a mishmash of sex, obnoxious violence, and serves as a poor attempt at creating a psychological thriller. The film only proves to be another failure at modernizing Ancient Roman society, and Shakespeare himself. I viewed the interview with Taymor regarding the film's production, and believe that she views this film as an artistic masterpiece. This is a shame. There is no artistry in this movie. This movie is only an insult to history and to Shakespeare. How pitiful. "},{"Title":"Shocking!!!!","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I first saw Titus when it came out in 1999, and I thought it was fantastic, although it was so horrific that it was difficult to sit through. I recently watched it again on DVD, and found it to be even better. And now I didn't find it hard to sit through; instead, I was thoroughly absorbed, and on several occasions crying freely with empathy for Lavinia and Titus. This is surely the greatest film version of a Shakespeare tragedy ever created. Words from Hamlet reverberate in my mind when I attempt to describe Taymor's Titus. It's a work about the thousand shocks that flesh is heir to. It does such bitter business as the day quakes to look on. It drowns the stage in tears and amazes indeed the very faculty of eyes and ears. This is the kind of drama that Shakespeare lived for.The film is a directorial work which follows Shakespeare's greatest Roman melodrama to the very top of its bent, and demonstrates that, although it is grotesque and crammed with horrors, it still works as tasteful, meaningful and supremely moving theater. What a pity that it wasn't a commercial success; I'll bet that posterity's evaluation of this film will improve enormously in the years to come. Its genius require recognition! 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Titus the Caterer","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus is Julie Traynor's adaption of one of Shakespeare's bloodier works, Titus Andronicus. It's set in a surreal land where ancient idiom is mixed with modern dress and customs. It's not normally a form I like because I prefer my Shakespeare traditional. However in the case of Titus Andronicus though the setting is that of ancient Rome, the characters and plot incidents are an amalgamation of several stories out of Rome, so there is no real history for it to compete with. It's not like doing Julius Caesar in this kind of setting. Titus Andronicus is a Roman general whose legions can make or break the next emperor. Rather than claim the crown himself he says give it to the eldest son of the last emperor Saturninus. He soon wishes he hadn't been that magnanimous.The other strand of the plot involves Titus in insisting a blood sacrifice be made to the Roman Gods of the eldest son of the captured Queen of Goths Tamora. She begs and pleads for her kid's life, but to no avail. After that she starts planning revenge and she's got two other sons and a Moorish man toy named Aaron to both help her out and pour gasoline on her fires for revenge.Watching Titus Andronicus I thought of Hamlet which also about what turns out to be a bloody quest for vengeance where nearly every principal character winds up dead in the end. But in Hamlet's case the deaths were by sword except in the case of the father of Hamlet, already dead by poison. This one is a whole matter.And how singularly appropriate that the man who won an Academy Award for playing Hannibal the Cannibal plays Titus Andronicus. We've got rape, mutilation, throat cutting, decapitation, being buried alive, and finally what the play is most noted for, the serving of up of a tasty meat pie with the flesh of two of the characters.Anthony Hopkins of course is the caterer and he's magnificent in the title role. He goes almost as mad as Hannibal the Cannibal in Titus. From a man who generously gave a crown away, to a blood crazed animal, Hopkins deterioration in character is truly something to behold.He's matched every step of the way by Jessica Lange as Tamora. Lady MacBeth has nothing on this woman, she makes Lady MacBeth look like Mary Poppins. Lange brings some real passion to this part, in some ways it's a more substantial role than the title character. I would venture to say it is one of the best roles for a woman that the Bard ever wrote.Titus Andronicus is one of Shakespeare's lesser known plays. Quite frankly it's too bloody for most tastes. I doubt it will ever make a high school English syllabus. But it's a fascinating tale of revenge, just taking hold of people until that's all they live for. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable film","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" So I will be honest about my intentions of typing out this comment. The truth of the matter is that when I clicked on this movie, I was appalled at the latest review. I do believe it has been a while since I read such ignorance, and I feel that the movie deserves a far better shake than this. First of all, nobody, anywhere, ever, with any intelligence, considers Titus Andronicus as the worst Shakespeare play ever. I have taken many classes on the works of Shakespeare and this play stands out along side Hamlet and A Midsummer Night's Dreams as being on of his most popular works. I have met dozens of professors, actors, and theatre directors that absolutely love this play. If the other review is buried by the time this gets posted, bear with me, somebody made the comment that no one likes this play. That in itself is an absolutely ignorant statement based upon some extremely limited experience. Hollywood adapted this for the same reason they constantly adapt Hamlet, Midsummer, Romeo & Juliet, so on and so forth because it is an amazing play. To say that it is all murder, rape, cannibalism is simply absurd and a sign of either a lack of education, a desire for stupidity or perhaps both. The theorist Peter Brook once made a comment, that at the time I questioned, that if you find a problem with Shakespeare, it is often a problem with you. I thought this was peculiar when I read it, but from reading the review that was posted, I see what he means. To reduce this work to such banalities (not the movie but the play in general in this case) is enormously short sighted and narrow minded to say the least. Now that I am done with my rant, on to the adaptation. It's long if you have a short attention span as many people of my generation do. Not judging, just saying that if you like Armageddon, you probably won't like this. Beyond this, it is a very creative adaptation, visually captivating and the acting was great. Anthony Hopkins was incredible and the man who played the moor was absolutely amazing. The conclusion was well done and Alan Cummings as usual has a terrific performance. If a person says this is the worst adaptation of Shakespeare ever, they obviously have not seen Lurman's Romeo and Juliet.Sweet Jesus it was like watching the cast of Saved by the Bell recite poetry and very poorly. I mention it because Shakespeare is hard to do and the acting is demanding and the actors have to understand very clearly who their character is and why they are talking. Here in Titus it is very well done. Compared to DeCaprio and Danes, the actors here are brilliant. Anyway, enough of my rant. If you are patient and have any manner of intellect, give it a try, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Truly Memorable Screen Adaptation of Shakespeare's First and Bloodiest Tragedy","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus is an unforgettable and timeless work of a a very talented director. It is a stylish, visually stunning, energetic and truly memorable adaptation of the bloodiest parade of horrors which the first tragedy of the young Shakespeare is. More of the horror show than powerful and poetic later Bard's tragedies, Titus Andronicus offers betrayal, murders, tortures, rape, and cannibalism for which Julie Taymor's vision was just perfect in transferring this blood fest to the screen. If it is not enough, the movie has one of the greatest performances in Shakespeare's tragedies I've seen and it is Harry J. Lennix as Aaron. Never have I seen an actor who was able to combine both, noble Othello and the embodiment of evil, Iago in one character so convincingly with such power. Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, Alan Cumming, and Colin Feore all give terrific performances. "}{"Title":"spend your money and your time elsewhere","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This film just doesn't work. Not because of eclectic mixture of Shakespeare and  innovative direction, but simply because Ms. Taymor doesn't understand the medium she is working with. Awkward camera movements, distracting angles, serious pacing problems to name just a few, make this film a very difficult one to watch. It looks like too many theater directors think that cinema is merely a way to save their stage work or, in this case to broaden the audience. For hardcore Shakespeare fans only. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare must be smiling in his grave","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"     All these people whining that Julie Taymor has 'distorted the text' by presenting a Roman story in modern dress should prepare themselves for some shocking news Shakespeare did the same thing. A drawing exists from the 1590s of a production of 'Titus'. It is the only surviving contemporary illustration of a scene from Shakespeare. And what does it show? It shows Titus wearing a toga, Tamora wearing a medieval dress and a medieval crown, and two guards wearing Elizabethan soldiers' outfits. Now try reading 'Julius Caesar'. There you'll find a character who describes how he plucked open Caesar's doublet. In the same play, you'll find characters who wear hats and cloaks - in Ancient Rome! And this isn't some weird pecadillo of Shakespeare's. This blurring of historical eras is a quality of Renaissance literature, art and drama across the board .Those who decry the excesses of 'postmodern' directors should wake up. The 'traditional', 'accurate' productions of Shakespeare were invented by the Victorian theatre, not the Elizabethans. And this po-faced Victorian literalism has been stifling Shakespeare's plays ever since. Elizabethan dramatists were not pedantic history majors, fussing over historical accuracy. They knew that the stories they enacted were ALIVE, and that the events they depicted were just as much a part of their own culture as that of Ancient Rome. And they knew that by mixing the past and the present they would KEEP those stories ALIVE by refusing to allow their audiences to view the stories as an ancient tale from a vanished past. That's what Julie Taymor is doing in this film. She isn't 'accidentally' muddling up Imperial Rome, Mussolini's fascism, and the adrenalin-craving violence of modern youth culture. She is rubbing your noses in the fact that they are the SAME, and that we cannot complacently brush off 'Titus Andronicus' as cheap senationalism divorced from reality. Because it isn't. You don't believe me? Try reading an Amnesty International report. Or try watching the news one day.Yes, the film has its faults. But don't criticise its eclectic postmodernism. Shakespeare would have had no problem with it, because Taymor's vision is derived from the very theatrical practices that Shakespeare was steeped in. It's the dry-as-dust Victorian literalism hankered after by some of the reviews below that would have offended Shakespeare.More films like this, please! "},{"Title":"Dreadfully Pretentious","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymor's lack of a cohesive directorial vision is the problem this film cannot overcome. This film, which hopefully will be Miss Taymor's last, is a pretentious hodgepodge of cinematic cliches served up amidst a mishmash of visual styles and settings, that not even the fine performances of Mr. Hopkins and, especially, Miss Lange can save. It's 3 agonizing hours of embarrassment as you are forced to witness the catastrophe of this classic becoming tragically hip. This is Julie Taymor's  Showgirls - not bad enough to be good, just plain bad. Don't believe the positive reviews. Don't waste your time or money. Dreadful.    "},{"Title":"Marvellously Shocking!","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Having just read Titus Andronicus for the first time I was eager to take a look at the 1999 film version. I found it an uplifting experience, because though the film was quite different to my own visualization of the story, it was a perfectly consistent modern take that both respected the language and construction of the original play and provided an exciting, personal interpretation &#x96;respectful of Shakespeare but true to itself. In fact, I rate it as among the best screen versions of Shakespeare's work. Perhaps because it also succeeds in balancing on a line that is purely theatrical on one side and purely cinematic on the other &#x96;so that though I often feel I am watching a film of a stage production, I never feel constrained by this, for the film is genuinely and richly cinematic. I am also extremely glad that a certain amount of restraint was shown in the direction &#x96;it could so easily have been totally overloaded with effects, forced gimmicks and gore, but here the visuals &#x96;and impressive they are&#x96; never overpower the language and the interaction between the characters.The performances are of a high level throughout, and the actors are all comfortable with the language, which is a relief because so many other modern versions of Shakespeare suffer from an inconsistent mixing of acting styles that distract us momentarily from the story. Here there is no attempt to slur the dialogue to make it seem real &#x96;it succeeds because it retains its metre and theatricality. I think Anthony Hopkins' performance is interestingly low-key and playful &#x96;the character itself is a difficult one to fully sympathize with&#x96; but Hopkins takes us down many different paths. He is both former hard general, ambitious and later grieving father, warm grandfather figure, madman, avenger &#x96;a complex character indeed. And again, the restraint in his performance says more than any rant. I also particularly like the pairing of him with Colm Feore as his brother. Alan Cumming gives a very memorable performance as the emperor &#x96;I found this character difficult to fully get hold of when I read the play, but the boldness and audacity shown by Cumming makes him very clear &#x96;and again it's never over- the-top as it so easily could be.I think it does help to know at least something of the play before seeing the film as there is no real explanation of exactly who is who to begin with and this may cause some confusion &#x96; the unravelling of characters and their relationships is equally challenging in the opening of the play, so the fault (if it can be called that) lies with Shakespeare. The whole first act is a bit of a mess &#x96;perhaps intentionally&#x96; and though we are able to work out who is who and what their relationship is to the next person, it does demand a bit of extra concentration at the beginning of the film that could perhaps have benefited from some form of narration or on- screen signing. This is, however, my only complaint &#x96;otherwise I found the film marvellous; utterly shocking, of course, but marvellously shocking! "},{"Title":"break the dead lock","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" the modern version of TA simplifies the story from the declining of an absurd world to the downfall of a Roman general, hence fundamentally subverting the tragic significance. The transformation lies in the introduction of a modern perspective. Titus begins with a boy wearing a paper veil resembling the Klan, eating at a table, while playing a collection of toy soldiers including both Roman warriors and modern troops. He is frightened by a bomb blast, rescued, and whisked away to Ancient Rome. With the boy assuming the character of young Lucius, the film is constantly directed through his angle, from his first surprise at the Terracotta Army, his excitement in welcoming the election, to his witty response after killing the fly (originally done by Marcus). Furthermore, the film ends with him carrying Aaron's child, leaving the coliseum, and walking toward sunrise. Here the film inserts a comparison between the tragic massacre in Titus and the boy's slaughter of toys with milk, cake, and tomato sauce at the very beginning. His final left echoes his sudden arrival, closes the Pandora Box of this anachronistic structure, and actually pushes the timeless violence away into a finished fantasy. Once again, the director voices over Shakespeare by symbolizing the modern boy as a tentative hope for the future. Inevitably, it defuses brutal violence and beastly humanity that are so intensified in the play. However, one should notice Lucius' succeeding and restoring order are as temporary as Lavinia's writing in the sad. Shakespeare left Aaron with no repenting I am no baby&#x85; Ten thousand worse than ever et I did / Would I perform if I might have my will (V.iii.184-87) and he casted way Tamora's corpse with No funeral rite, nor man in mourning weed, / No mournful bell shall ring her burial. (V.iii.194-96) Rome is in deadly silence. Salvation comes where. The text embodies a more profound understanding of the historical setting behind TA tragedy, where the civilized Rome is under the irresistible process of declining, and eventually overrun by the barbarian northerners, the Germanic. Hence, the modern concern upon love and peace within the twentieth century re-evaluation context fundamentally lessens the ultimate desperation and disorder presented by this specific ancient moment, and is likely to be both extravagant and ironic. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare is truly a master of words","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" He is, actually. And this film, in part, made me realize it. You may hate this flick for its use of modern inventions along with the old but I find it to be more original than if they had tried to make it all look ancient. Watch Gladiator if you want to be amazed by fake size. That the director has previously made theater productions is very clear - the movie has many elements of theater in it, for example, many times during the movie, the actors turn toward the audience and speaks to us directly. Anyways, I found this movie to be amazing BECAUSE of the way it was made and the actors involved. A very good cast indeed. This movie is very serious but it is also very funny and if one was to give a younger audience an introduction to Shakespeare through a film, this might be the one. It certainly tops DiCaprio's Romeo & Juliet and Gibson's Hamlet even though the latter was very good too. "},{"Title":"Worth the time","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Director Julie Taymor has added another film to the list of modern renditions of Shakespeare's plays. 'Titus is a true horror story whose terror is graphically portrayed on the screen in a way difficult to imitate on stage. Other reviewers have been put off by Taymor's collage of visuals, which seem to lack consistent direction or theme. We start with Young Lucius (Osheen Jones) in a modern house playing with war toys and suddenly interrupted by violent explosions outside, when Titus (Anthony Hopkins) rushes in to save him and transports him to a place that is an odd mixture of old world Roman architecture, mixed ancient and modern dress, and an assortment of ancient and modern machines and weapons. The boy, prominent in the opening minutes, observes for a time and disappears again, surfacing considerably later as part of Titus' entourage. 'Titus is not one of Shakespeare's best known plays, and I confess I was unfamiliar with it until seeing this production. Perhaps if I had another standard of comparison, I would be as negative as some of the reviewers. But despite the hodgepodge, maybe even because of it, I enjoyed this production.The visuals kept attention constant and the Shakespearean language, which I often find difficult to fully absorb in the beginning, soon became second nature as I was wrapped up in the story.Anthony Hopkins in particular does stellar performance as the seemingly half-mad general Titus Andronicus, who spars with the emperor even as he vainly attempts to placate him. The message is clear when good attempts to compromise with evil, evil will win out and the good will suffer. For me, this film was definitely worth the time. "},{"Title":"Surreal and Breathtaking","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  It's so rare that a movie is so unique, beautiful, and powerful.Julie Taymor has filmed Shakespeare's bloodiest and most violent play as an astonishing, surreal delight. Mixing time periods, costuming, and bizarre imagery, Titus is wholly absorbing, beautiful to behold, and absolutely disturbing at times. To say much more would be to risk spoiling it, but add to it an excellent cast, and it's a movie worthy of any serious collection.Not that it's for everyone. Titus is violent and graphic, with disturbing themes. It's also highly surreal and operates on many levels some may find it difficult to grasp. But if you've a taste and appreciation for the unusual, it's very worth seeing, or buying.  "},{"Title":"A visual feast","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I am usually a fan of movies with great plots, great characters, dry humor, irony - basically more a fan of good engaging stories than movies. I usually don't care much about special effects, costumes, cinematography and such. But this movie, I suppose because of Julie Taymor, just blew me away visually. And I watched it on a 17-inch computer screen - I can't imagine how great it was in the theater. The color contrasts, backgrounds, costumes and makeup were just entrancing. I thoroughly enjoyed the plot as well, strange and disgusting as it may be. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Make it Stop","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  A very, very, very long movie.Everything seems borrowed from other Shakespeare film adaptations. Sadly, the biggest thing this film lacks is passion. True, the subject matter is brutal, but dark tones, art direction, & Elizabethan dialogue do not alone a great film make.It failed to generate any spark, and I had trouble caring about any of the characters. Pretentious is the word that comes to mind.Lange does a good job, but she actually doesn't have much screen time. And the Rhys brothers are just obnoxious, yelling & screaming every line.Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream was released in the same time frame, and though it may not have been the greatest film to grace the silver screen, at least it wasn't weighed down by the snooty self-important baggage of this production.Even the group orgy is a letdown. If you need to see something of that nature, I'm sure Caligula will give you your fix... at least there's no pretense disguising what that film is...So, so, so long. And very heavy. Like dragging rocks to the pyramids. 2 & 3/4 hrs. Good luck. See it if you must. "}{"Title":"A dizzying film that deserves multiple viewings","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, I missed Titus during it's theatrical run, but was lucky enough to catch it on IFC one night. I'm quite clueless when it comes to Shakespeare, and mistakenly believed it would be a slow, tedious film with a lot of Where art thous?. I could not have been more mistaken! The language can be difficult - not only to an untrained ear, but the art direction and visuals are so jaw-dropping and overwhelming that they can distract a viewer during his/her first viewing.For those of you who didn't get it, but admit to enjoying the overall look of the film, it's worth a second watch imo. The storyline is bloody, and definitely adult in nature. The performances, particularly those of RADA and National Theatre alumnus Sir Anthony Hopkins and theatre vet Alan Cumming, are wonderful. Jessica Lange is stunning as the Queen of the Goths as well.As others have accurately mentioned, this is Shakespeare doing horror. The story does have a moral to it however, and the final scenes pay off. Julie Taymor (Broadway's The Lion King, Frida) has a truly unique vision as a director, and will be one to watch in the future imo. "},{"Title":"Hot blood and cold style.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  'Titus'  The cold style of revenge as primitive therapy for all the unquiet spirits of a cruel age.  The ritual purging, or exorcism, of horror, grief, and rage.  The inevitable meeting, in this Arena of Cruelty, of sadistic cynicism - represented by the Moor - with malicious seductiveness - represented by the Goth Queen - has for its equally inevitable issue the Child of Darkness and of Blood  This child is Man, of course, surviving alone in a damaged Universe, and about to be penetrated by the first shafts of daylight's painful disillusionment.  But life that lacks an illusionistic carapace is far too tender to exist, as this drama relentlessly exposes.     For the ritual, stylized, excess, of what is presented to us as the nightmare obsession of a psychologically damaged child, will conduct us through the dream-like anaesthesia of self-defensive shock - just the degree of brutalization that enables our humanity to survive the hallucinatory trauma of being in a mad world.     No accident (surely) that the film's visual experience is grounded in the ancient Roman ruins of the former Yugoslavia's dismembered body-politic; nor that it is also grounded in the terminally Roman decadence of Mussolini's operatically-gesturing Fascist fantasies, but as those already overblown fantasies were subsequently replayed in the sinister parodies thereof provided in Antonioni's, or in Fellini's work.     The disembodied phantoms who finally appear to have been silently attending to all that (seemingly) has passed before our own eyes, in the insistent image of the Stadium of Death, which is the Arena of Taymore's Shakespeare-mediated Senecan spectacle, are themselves - like their representative, Lavinia, - mute witnesses to the scenes relentlessly paraded before us in that Circus of Horror, which signifies nothing less than the very Orbit that circumscribes this World of Suffering.     Having discovered so much contemporary - that is to say, eternal, - sense in the ancient spectacle of Senecan tragedy - the smallest symbolic details of the poetic language of which are brilliantly transferred into the film's visual imagery, and consistently re-worked in the retro-modern, comic-book pastiche of the Savagery that was Ancient Rome - , Julie Taymor achieves the unnervingly sublime poetry of excess and horror better than perhaps any creative intelligence since Thomas Lovell Beddoes, or Ken Russell - even proving a match for old Seneca himself.     Indeed, thanks to this film, at last a modern audience can understand the disturbing Senecan vision. The ostensibly wooden characters of this grand-guignol type of tragedy provide that reductio-ad-absurdum of human beings who are abruptly shorn of all that signifies their humanity  Lavinia's truncated gestures are eked out in wooden trimmings, her hands a puppet's dumb-show, her tongue a stick scratching in the dirt's dusty eloquence like an epigraphy of some ancient grievance, long since past remedy.     Sick humour comes as the final parodic relief  Titus has a splendid jest with Death, indulging to the full the satisfying conceit of making the murderous mother of such murdering and murdered offspring of her womb the grave of these her own children.  Thus all partake of the ultimate communion with Death.     Such sinister hospitality provides the totally negative resolution of the tragedy - at least, as Shakespeare wrote it, having opened this dark Senecan vein, - for it brings no saving reconciliation whatever, but only the savagely cathartic perversion and total annhilation of all that was human.     That is why we recognise nothing living or human in such a completely unreal spectacle.     That is why we are forced to recognise ourselves for the surreal spectacle to which we have been reduced by our insane history.     This is how the outraged sensibility is healed  By madness - by a term in Hell.  Such nightmares are the pain of the mind as it tries to heal itself.     This process of purgative disillusion is what Taymor is about, here.  The ending is another birth - in terms of personal symbolism, a re-birth.  And this is, very particularly, a female artist's determined resistance to the general mayhem of a largely male-dominated world  Incomprehensibly far beyond all the destructive logic of the unending abuse of nature, She continues to entrust her innocent flesh and blood to another incalculable day.     This remarkably profound and intelligent film is also graced by astonishing technical finesse in every department, from costumes to cinematography.       Next to 'Titus', the splendidly macho 'Gladiator' seems like just another Hollywood action movie (which of course it is).  "},{"Title":"The strangest movie ever... yet I've ordered it on DVD","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"    I love this rendition. It's so bold and breathtaking - and the elemental mixture is pure genius. Now, I know many people don't like this film, and that's a given... it's not for everyone. Sometimes the greatest movies are hated by the majority of the public. I, for one, think the cast helped to make this an enchanting film. Anthony Hopkins, a god among actors, Jessica Lange, Alan Cumming, one of my favorites, Laura Fraser, Matthew Rhys, who, for some strange reason I grew very attatched to, Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, Harry Lennix, and those who go unmentioned, did an outstanding job. I'm a big Shakespeare fan and I beleive this is a great portrayl.  "},{"Title":"Very enthusiastic about stylized excess","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus Andronicus is Shakespeare's much maligned play, and not without some justification.  But in the hands of an artist such as Ms. Taymor, something quite new emerges.  Where once was a potboiler of its time, now comes a witty and daring satire of our time.  Her filmed images are beautiful and full of horror  much like the world we find ourselves in.  She respects the text for what it contains and dwells little on its shortcomings.  The performances are first rate.  I was especially enthralled by Jessica Lange now ripe enough in age to bring daring decadence while maintaining her rich beauty.  Alan Cumming was made for the role of Emperor.  Hopkins chews scenery while never losing sight of the grim reality of a man in total pain. If you think Shakespeare stuffy and unapproachable, start here  it is the headlines of our time. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare on crack","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  As my opening remarks states; this frenetic and wildly imaginative film can be best described as Shakespeare on crack. Julie Taymor's vividly anachronistic adaptation of the Bard's Titus Andronicus, may be the most jarring three hours of your life! And yes folks - it is not for the squeamish.Anthony Hopkins plays the title character; a ruthless Roman general who, after winning a lengthy battle; brutally slays his enemy's son. his enemy is played by Jessica Lange, with the right balance of Mona Lisa charm and iciness. She vows eternal revenge and for awhile attains it with the help of the evil emperor Saturninis (played to the hilt by Alan Cumming). An ambiguous moor (played by Harry Lennix) vows revenge on both, and it's pretty clear that none have any morals whatsoever.The most fascinating aspect of this film is its fluctuation of time and space. Set one minute in Ancient Rome and then the next minute, in modern times (complete with cars, video games, poolhalls and parties with live jazz bands playing), Ms. Taymor (whose credit is the Broadway production of The Lion King) enjoys throwing the audience for a loop -and a loopdy-loop! I was reminded of Richard Loncraine's Richard III with Ian McKellan and Annette Bening as well as Baz Luhrmann's Romeo & Juliet with each bringing a very contemporary flavor to the scenery.SPOILER WARNINGWithout giving too much away, the last act gives us an almost parodic nod to the Hopkins' Oscar winning role of Hannibal Lecter. This scene is guaranteed to make you squirm, but it's worth it!  "},{"Title":"Opinion of a sixteen year old movie geek","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion the movie, Titus, is a god. The visuals are fabulous and I especially love it because I can show it to my culturally challenged friends and they can understand what's happening. I got it on DVD and saw the detail put into the making of the movie and all the preparation was not ill spent.The acting was beyond fabulous. Anthony Hopkins is my god, everything I have seen him in, he has never ceased to amaze me. He becomes his character and he WAS Titus Andronicus. And Johnathon Rhys Meyers and Michael Rhys were sexy and awesome. It could just be me, but I love psychotic men, yum. Alan Cummings put in a spectacular performance and was also very beautiful with the exception of the butt scene, but he regretted it, I love Alan.The visual effects were amazing, the beauty in some of the creepiest scenes made it alot easier to handle, then again, some scenes that wouldn't have been so creepy, definately were ,thanks to those penny arcade scenes. All in all, the movie is a god.  "},{"Title":"Top Ten Strangest Movies Ever Listed","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  As you can read here many go on and on about the modernization of a Shakespeare play. It is a dark, dark movie and I don't mean the cinematography. Truly evil deeds are done by and against every major character. In the end I saw a bit of Hannibal Lecter emerge, and maybe that's why Hopkins played the part, because he is so good at being unashamedly twisted. But for most of the movie he is a victim. This movie has sometimes stunning, sometimes disturbing imagery, but in the end you can see why many consider this to be a weak play. It is just so relentlessly nasty, you just get sick of it. "},{"Title":"Hopkins is intense.","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  One of Anthony Hopkins greatest screen performances.  He is funny, murderous and mad in turn.  Most of all, he is passionate. As much as Hopkins has tried to shake Shakespeare by moving to California, he was born to it. Unfortunately, it is emotionally demanding and he has said that this will most likely be his last performance of Shakespeare.The supporting cast is good also, particularly the actor who plays Aaron. The casting of the sons of Andronicus was very good.  Lucius looks like a young Titus.  Some of the montage sequences were a little too stylized, but the story is good enough to propel you through them.  Hopkins is amazing in this movie, but Shakespeare is the star of it.  "},{"Title":"A Good Movie, But Thank Shakespeare For That","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Whether or not Titus Andronicus was Shakespeare's first play, it is still captivating. Sure, it may not be as brilliant as his later plays (and make no mistake about it - it is not), but it is still a fine story and it is well written. This is something that this movie does show. It is a very entertaining film, and it is a lot of fun to watch. While it starts off a bit slow, it quickly manages to pick up steam and stays watchable throughout. The acting is pretty excellent - the people in this movie obviously have a very strong grip on Shakespeare and show it.Thankfully, the storyline here in Titus stays extremely close to the original story. However, I have a real problem with the whole A Julie Taymor Film bit. Put simply, she really did her part to damage the story. While the movie is beautiful visually, why is there such an odd mishmash of new and old? Now, I have absolutely no problem with placing a Shakespeare play in different periods of time, but Titus really stumbles with its mixture. I dont know why there is a mishmash of different time periods (there are cars and chariots mixed together throughout), but it does not work. It's actually quite jarring - it's impossible to fully immerse oneself in a movie which jumps back and forth in setting so much. The mix of old and new just doesn't work right - it never feels whole or solid, it always feels shaky and unsure - as if Taymor and the crew didn't know what anachronisms to work in where.This is the biggest flaw in the movie, but its hardly the only one. There also seems to be a great deal of pretention involved, as there are quite a bit of self-indulgent camera tricks or sequences which seem to serve no purpose other than for Taymor showing herself what an imagination she has. Yea, a lot of the staging is very good, and the movie does flow pretty well, but there is too much... extra stuff going on. And it seems to get worse as the movie goes on - guns enter the film near the end. Still, the shaky direction and pretentiousness of the film does not hurt the story, primarily because it is so entertaining. Sure, Titus is a film with some serious flaws, but it's also a film with a very good story and one that is, ultimately, worth watching. But don't thank Taymor for this - it's all Shakespeare's doing.  "},{"Title":"Titus the show","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Based on Shakespeare's 'Titus Andronicus', Titus is a film about loyalty and resentment, justice and politics in the Roman Empire. The filmmaker, Julie Taymor, offers a very personal vision of the play as a synthesis of different times Roman ruins and (Roman-like) modern buildings as settings, hybrid costumes, modern special effects and old-fashioned theatrical gadgets. This is, undeniably, the major achievement of the film and a good reason for watching it. Unfortunately, the result is not satisfactory. It appears artificial in parts and, therefore, distracting and dispensable, and sometimes it is done in a childish and shallow manner (to stress the distinction between the goodies and the baddies, for example, as if the plot was not enough). The film would have certainly benefited from a more restrained lecture of Shakespeare's astonishing drama. "}{"Title":"one of the most volatile, gripping, films i have ever seen.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  the one thing that would have made this film a 10 would be if they included a libretto with it. i only understood half of the dialog. hopkins was masterful. the screenplay was magnificent. the period flashbacks made the film most captivating. "},{"Title":"Know the story before you try to watch it","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The opening of this film had me convinced that I was about to view the most fantastic film I'd ever taken the time to sit through. Between the soundtrack and the visuals I was spellbound.  The visuals have so very much be praised for, originality, flair, shock value, beauty, however not knowing anything about this original Shakesperean play I found myself in a constant state of frustration trying to piece together what was happening.  My only clues came from the stream of abstract visuals.  I received no help what so ever from the dialogue.  I should have known better.  It's Shakespear.Enough said.  If you have had no contact with this play before, the extraordinary images may hold you all the way through to the end.  I didn't make it. If you are interested in taking a look, I would highly recommend you at least investigate the storyline first. "},{"Title":"Varied motivations lead to evil and suffering. Beautiful.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film.  Tradition & duty; hedonism; strong bonds of love & loyalty; an aesthetic of cruelty - they all lead to enthusiastic evildoing and extreme suffering.  Just a few impressions to add to others' commentsThe Rhys boys demonstrate how animalistic wildness can lead to the most shocking evil, even as their naivete is contrasted with Harry Lennix's intense, scheming evil. (The scheming itself is all pretty lame though.)  Laura Fraser is heartbreaking.Alan Cumming's emperor was interesting he is established as a bad guy, but then he almost regains sympathy by concentrating on decadence and remaining oblivious to all the scheming.I was impressed at the various connections of love and loyalty between even the most evil of the characters.  This is too often lacking in modern stories.Most amazing, even with all the outrageous tragicomic behavior, the film manages to end on a note of both gravity and hope.  I'm undecided about how well the young Lucius thing worked overall, but it was worth it for the ending. "},{"Title":"Vital,Ecclectic and Engrossing.","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymor has proved herself to be a brilliant and innovative stage director and with Titus proves the same for film. Her adaptation of Shakespeare's bloodiest and lesser tragedy,Titus Andronicus has pushed Shakespearean film to another level. The film Is not without its flaws,Tamora's sons playing video games was a bit much but over all the world Taymor creates engulfs us from start to finish. It is a world which seems to have been pieced together after an apocolypse. As if society had been rebuilt from remaining books about Rome,1940s Gemany and 1990s society. As performances go Harry Lennix as AAron,the Moor who carries on with Queen Tamora, Alan Cumming as Emperor Saturinus and Jessica Lange as the evil Queen herself get best of show honors. Cumming has just the right amount of Madness,effeminecy and charm to make his half mad king engaging without crossing into hammyness. Lennix as Aaron is pure evil.he is not a humorous villian as is Iago but a dangerous,unrepentant scourge.And Lange,what can one say? Lady Macbeth has nothing on this lady! Angus McFayden offer solid support as Lucius, he has proved to be one of today's most versatile actors, always different and always choosing material that will stretch his range, He succeeds once again.  And then there is Hopkins as Titus. For most of the film He is brilliant,showing us Titus' cruelty,his compassion and his craftiness. However,there are times that he appears to be winking at the camera,not inappropriate for a story such as this,but inappropriate if no one else in the cast is doing it. Over all a very vital,important and creative addition to Shakesperean film. "},{"Title":"dazzling to the eye, morbid and at times silly...","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  From the stupendous opening sequence with almost mechanical roman soldiers marching to the hilariously gross finale TITUS had me hooked... Say what you will on this being Shakespere's least liked play, but by god did it make one hell of a movie! Everyone involved did a wonderful job, and special thanks for Miss.Taymor to bring this great film to life! I have nothing but praise for this film, not a boring moment in it's entirety.This story about the revenge, deciets and wickedness' of Titus and the Goth Queen Tamora will entertain the PIT, the audience forcefed recycled action epics and melodramas with familiar tones and happy endings.A great film! See it in the theatre if you can...  "},{"Title":"This movie was a visual feast of such splendor not often seen on film.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  You can definitely tell that Julie Taymor has a background in theater, because every moment of screen time is filled with rich colors and textures. She takes every advantage she can with the camera and the new dimensions it allows her to bring to the story.  I would have liked to see her Broadway production of this play because it would be an interesting study to compare the two.  The acting and adaptation was first-rate, but I think the real talent in this production came through Taymor's outstanding and fully realized vision of Shakespeare's darkest play. "},{"Title":"Excessive visuals and frightening gore do not overshadow the excellent performances","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus  When the acclaimed general Titus Andronicus returns from another successful campaign he brings a cadre of slaves -which includes the defeated queen of the Goths and her sons- the ruling council offers him the title of emperor.  He declines the honor, preferring to live out his days in quiet solitude. Titus' decision has dire consequences for both he and his family, for circumstances allow the vengeful queen the opportunity to ascend the thrown.  Only then does he learn he come to appreciate the true meaning of the adage hell hath no fury like a woman scornedsic.I am not a squeamish person - I can sit through pretty much anything- but this film had me squirming like a worm on a heated hook.  Based on one of Shakespeare's first efforts it makes Macbeth and Hamlet look like sitcoms- the play is rife with murder, beheadings, evisceration, cannibalism, and revenge sweet revenge.   That alone would be enough for me to recommend this film, but it doesn't end there.Unlike earlier Shakespeare adaptations like Baz Lurhman's Romeo and Juliet, or Gil Junger's The Ten Things I Hate About You that take place in the here and now, this film is a walking talking anachronism that flits between the past and the present.  Set amidst the decadence of 1930's fascist Italy, and the glory of the Roman Empire, it juxtaposes classical Roman stylings with post-modern architecture and dress.  Furthermore, it combines elements of the classic Hollywood epic with the bombastic visuals of a 90's music video, and boasts sweeping vistas and grandiose sets that scream excess.  The acting is pretty good too.   Hopkins is great as the stoic leader reduced to an emotionally distraught outcast - his agony is palpable but not overwrought. Jessica Lange's Tamora - the revenge obsessed matriarch determined to destroy Titus and his clan - slips into her role almost too well.  Every word she speaks drips venom and belies her obsession. Harry J. Lennix however is by far the standout - as Aaron,  Tamora's  instrument of destruction he embodies pure evil.  The master puppeteer of the play, he states that his only regret is  If one good deed in all my life I did, I do repent it from my very soul.   Now that is commitment.This movie is not perfect - some of the visuals (especially during Titus' bouts with insanity) are overblown, Allan Cumming is horribly miscast as Saturninus and the runtime is over three hours.  But if you are a Shakespeare or film buff don't miss it. "},{"Title":"The work of a young playwright","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus is very much the work of a young writer. It is excessive and longs to shock the establishment. If Shakespeare was working in Hollywood this would be the script he wrote for Roger Corman. Julie Taymor brings an interesting visual flair to the proceedings but the elements that worked on stage don't translate well to the screen. The acting is first rate especially Harry Lennix as the evil Aaron and Laura Fraser as Lavinia. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare is great despite 20th century nonsense","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  William Shakespeare does not disappoint.  This adaptation of Titus Andronicus lets Hopkins and Lange shine as Titus and the evil queen of the Goths.  In large part, this movie is thrilling and captures the saga of Titus well, with dramatic  cinamatography and emotionally moving sequences.   However, the director has also interjected bizarre dream-like sequences and 20th century imagery which are confusing and distracting.  None-the-less, this is a stunning movie, a tale of astounding tragedy, Roman excess, honor and revenge.  With Hopkins and Lange, you will not regret seeing this "},{"Title":"Shakspeare  for the age of The Matrix!","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This lastest film incarnation of Shakespeare's play is a visually stylistic melange of anachronistic historical juxtapositions of timeless themes of violent human passions; revenge, lust,euthanasia, ambition, loyalty,infanticide,racism,and vendetta.The film exploits the classic scenic grandeur of modern day Rome and it's surrounding countryside, and mixes it with Fellini-like sets that recall Satryricon.They create a surreal and jazzy backdrop for the Bard's plot and lines, making the telling as fresh as modern day headlines.The performances are engrossing and seemingly effortless even when over the top.It brings Shakespeare into the age of The Matrix with sleek flowing leather costumes and freeze frame effects. The violent flashback sequences recall Ken Russell's Lair of the White Worm.Let's give it hands.... in praise!  "}{"Title":"bloody, violent, and ... yes, funny","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I love Titus. True, it is long and uneven, the first half is much faster than the second half but it is very worthwhile. Julie Taymor brings a very beautifully stunning adaptation of Shakespeare's worst play. I am not a fan of feature movies that are done in a theatrical way. I couldn't stand Edward II. But I just love the beginning with the choreographed troops. It is fresh and original. The performances are very good. Anthony Hopkins does Hannibal Lecter all over again, and it works. Jessica Lange is back from the depths of Hush when she was, how should I put this in a nice way almost as horrible as Uma Thurman in Batman and Robin. This is the Jessica Lange of Rob Roy. Wonderful and over-the-top.Finally, I love the ending. Certainly is not as compelling as the Scream's ending, but it is very outrageous. Utterly disgusting and funny. I couldn't stop laughing when Titus told them they had eaten Tamora's sons.An amazing achievement. 9/10    "},{"Title":"Shakespeare was the David Lynch of his day","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is a wonderful, nasty film. I cannot get the image of Lavinia standing in the dead forest out of my mind. Titus is partly camp, part spectacle, and part empassioned revenge story. Titus soars when it's thoroughly evil, and only ebbs slightly in the middle when it seems that the miseries will not end for poor Titus. Although Anthony Hopkins does another turn as 'Hannibal Lecter', there are three really good performances by Jessica Lange, Lennix, and the detestable (as his character) Alan Cummings. Boy I really wanted to kick his ass.  "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Filled with impressive sets, striking cinematogrpahy and an elaborate costume design, Julie  Taymor's adaptation of Titus needs to be seen in all of its glory.  Strong imagery comes  together with strong performances to make a striking film.  Titus returns to Rome with Tamora,  her three sons, and Aaron the Moor as prisoners.  Titus kills Tamora's eldest son and thus sets  off a chain of events that lead to revenge most delicious.  There's murder, treachery,  deceitfulness and everything you'd expect from a Shakespeare play.  What I liked about this  adaptation was the visual style that was employed.  Taymor draws upon Kenneth Branagh's own  adaptations of Shakespeare's work and borrows some ideas from Fellini and creates a Rome that  is neither rooted in the past, nor is it to far into the future.  The world of Titus seems to exist  in another dimension all its own.  Past, present and future collide and the result is a film that is  definetly not the Shakespeare you read while in school.  Eliot Goldenthal's score soars, punches  and tickles you and is in perfect harmony with the images on the screen.  Do not be frightened  about the running time, nor should you bypass this film just because of the name Shakespeare.   You will be missing a great film that has great performances, a good story and some very  original ideas about how to stage a Shakespeare play for the screen.             "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining and extravagant Shakespeare interpretations on film","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Though William Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus is full of gratuitous and grisly violence, most scholars believe that its images of dismemberment are metaphorical in nature. This does not prevent some critics from dumping on Titus as a second-rate play and questioning Shakespeare's Quentin Tarantino moment. Titus Andronicus seems anything but second rate, however, in the skilled hands of director Julie Taymor whose 1999 film Titus is one of the most entertaining and extravagant Shakespeare interpretations on film. Anthony Hopkins is terrific as the head of the excellent ensemble cast that provides some depth to the thin characters and Taymor is able to extract humor from the grim proceedings while providing dazzling imagery and an adrenaline rush.A special mention should also be given to Harry Lennix as Tamora's servant Aaron, one of the few black characters in Shakespeare. Aaron is a complex character, both diabolical and attractive for his fierce love of his child. Irreligious and rebellious, he is the model for the motif of the outsider and the precursor of Shylock, Malvolio, and Othello.Though Titus is generally believed to have been written in 1593 (it was published anonymously in 1594), Ben Jonson's comment in 1614 that the play has held the stage for twenty-five or thirty years (dismissed as an exaggeration) might bring the date of composition closer to the period of 1584-1589. Since Titus, like Macbeth, was doubtless influenced by the barbarous Wars of Religion during the late 16th century, there is speculation that an earlier version might have been written around 1576 at the time of the war between the Spanish Catholics and the Dutch Protestants known as the Spanish Fury with Saturninus representing Philip of Spain and Livonia representing the rape of Antwerp.Titus deals with themes that run throughout the canon the problem of succession &#150; who has the rightful claim to rule, revenge, and the idea of banishment (exile) and return, and the play is reminiscent of King Lear in its obsession with insanity induced by loss. Expressing his alienation through the figures of the fool, the bastard, and the king without a crown, Shakespeare's heroes are demonic, men who live on the edge, appearing at times like a monster in the guise of Caliban, Bottom, and Edgar and other times like Prospero, a philosopher king. Caliban is his base ambition, but Prospero is his higher self.Though proximity to the center of power drives Titus close to madness and the play seems to be saying that madness is the only escape from suffering, the ending brings a restoration of moral sanity and hopes for an era of peace. Oxfordians note that the severed hand metaphor may indicate that the author was severed from his writings but the text still bears the hand of their creator. In the phrase of author Charles Beauclerk, Divorced from his works and cut off from the wellspring of his creativity, his unconscious inundates the plays and his emotional pain overwhelms the text. Taymor meshes three time periods in the film ancient Rome, fascism in the 1930's and the modern era. The plot, which is completely fictional, is set in the late Roman Imperial era as the Empire attempts to hold off barbarian Gothic invaders. As Titus opens, a modern day energetic young boy (Osheen Jones) has decided to smash up his kitchen while playing with action figures. He is then seized by a clown and dragged into the world of fifth century Rome where he takes on the role of Titus' grandson. Similar to Romeo and Juliet in its theme of conflict between families, the play begins with competing authorities as both Saturninus (Alan Cumming) and Bassanius (James Frain) both claim the throne. A robotic procession of soldiers in ancient Rome is led by aging General Titus Andronicus (Anthony Hopkins) who is returning to Rome after a victorious battle against the Goths.Andronicus brings with him prisoners Queen Tamora (Jessica Lange), Aaron (Harry Lennix) and her sons Chiron (Jonathan Rhys Myers) and Demetrius (Matthew Rhys). Titus is offered the crown vacated by the death of Caesar but refuses it, designating instead the flamboyant Saturninus as Emperor. When Tamora's eldest son Alarbus is murdered by Andronicus as a human sacrifice to the gods, she is able to use the weak-willed Saturnine as her vehicle for revenge, crying O cruel, irreligious piety.When Titus' daughter Lavinia (Laura Fraser), the wife chosen by Saturnine, is abducted by Bassianus, Saturnine chooses Tamora as his wife, setting off a bloody sequence of events that include mutilation, rape and murder, and an orgy of death in which a mother eats her son's remains baked in a pie, mirroring Book VI of Ovid's Metamorphosis. That this could be entertaining is a tribute to Taymor's audacity and, of course, the obsessive brilliance of Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"A grab bag of haphazard excess.","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus is not a film to forget.  It continues to irritate days later.  Was it; A black comedy inside a feigned drama?  An aesthetically lavish epic derivative of a Peter Greenaway film? A visual display of mixed metaphors? All of these and much less.It is difficult to watch great talent wasted.  Especially actors like Hopkins and Lange who are directed into unintentional laugh-out loud moments. Many of these moments resulted from such a literal adaptation of Shakespeare, that at times the audience didn't know if Taymor was kidding or not.  Some laughed while others sat in stunned silence.There were good performances from such actors as James Frain, Harry J. Lennix and Laura Fraser.  And then there were performances like Jonathan Rhys-Meyers', which were at best irritating.Finally, taken on their own, the sets were remarkable and at times amazing. They became the foil for this badly-spiced dish. "},{"Title":"Exercise your eyes beforehand... you will be rolling them plenty!","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  As this film entered it's third hour, after I had been stifling my groans and rolling my eyes every few minutes at this incredibly overwrought and clueless adaptation, a character says the line O heavens, can you hear a good man groan and not lament or compassion him? YES, HOW CAN YOU!!!! I wanted to shout.Taymor's version of Titus Andronicus is 3% Inspired, 70% Banal, and 27% Outright Stupid. There is so many horrible things about it I can only hit the highlights here.It's not a good play to begin with. I read in the New York Times that Taymor wants to help reverse the play's bad reputation with this film. I can assure you that any person who sees this film will never, ever read the play or want to see another production of it. I read the play in preparation for the film, and found that a lot of the structure and imagery of the play were revealed in watching a performance of it, but sadly THIS version strays so far off into music video land and pure silliness that those qualities do not outweigh the burden of having to sit through it.The film begins quite promisingly in one respect and quite horribly in another. The good part is these Roman soldiers marching in time--the noise, the music... it's all very exciting and makes you eager to see the rest of the movie. There are several exciting visual elements to this film, and for the first half I was thinking Okay, so there are some very uneven parts, but the visual excitement will carry through them. Well, as the film begins coasting into its third hour you begin to resent Taymor's induilgences, especially as the visual elements have less and less to do with telling the story (or telling the story in an interesting way). Witness the first sight of the raped Lavinia and Titus' dream bath. We'll get to those later.The bad part about this film's opening is this little prologue in which the World's Most Precious and Annoying Kid is playing violent games with soldiers (This gets filed under the Shakespeare's Relevance to Modern Society department). Suddenly he's transported back to ancient Rome, where we hope he will soon disappear. He doesn't. He keeps hanging around, posing and preening insufferably as only a long-haired child actor named Osheen can. One has to question Taymor's personal aesthetic that she thinks darling little Osheen is just the sweetest little boy (more on THAT later), but let me tell you, Osheen here is well on his way to becoming the Jar-Jar Binks of Shakespearean film. And if you despise the overly precious and canned thoughtful tone of NPR, give this film a wide berth, because that is EXACTLY where it's coming from.The film alternates between ancient Rome and Fascist Germany (See Shakespeare's Relevance to Modern Society) in a way that is...BANAL. But at leat the film has the sense to equate jazz music with the height of evil.The film often flies off into surrealistic flights of fancy which sometimes work (Titus and Tamora's face-off before a wall of flames) and OFTEN don't. For example here follow some spoilers, but as has been observed, the play has been around for 400 years when Lavina is first found after being raped and mutilated, she's found doing a little mystical Alanis Morrissette dance on a stump in the middle of a field. Why? Because it would look cool. Later, there's even a line about how Titus' brother found her darting about in a clearing, trying to hide herself... No, she was doing a mystical dance on a stump in the middle of a field! And then there's Lavina's banal visions of tigers as she writes the names of her rapists (tigers=&#4;predators... get it?). This is of course after her filthy and pointless near-fellation of an extremely phallic staff. And Tamora's two sons? They are inceassantly cavorting around screaming at the top of their lungs and acting as though they are the Red Hot Chili Peppers in a music video. This adds NOTHING to the story and wastes YOUR time... which begins to annoy as you are basically wasting three hours of your life here. There's more, and you might hope that some of it makes sense or adds to the telling-- but much of it is simply stupid. Yes, STUPID.For instance, at one point Tamora comes in disguise to Titus, who we see here drawing with his own blood in a bathtub. Tamora assumes Titus is crazy, but he's not. It's important for the audience to know that, but here we are explicitly led to believe that he IS crazy because he's having strange visions (overlapping images of himself) and hearing voices (Tamora...who IS literally outside, but is presented here as a vision). Then he goes outside, sees the real Tamora, and lo, he's NOT crazy. Maybe Taymor does this stuff just to keep the viewer's interest, but it becomes more and more inspid and pointless as the film wears interminably on.Okay then, at the climax, at THE most tense and emotional moment in the story, when Titus is just about to get his revenge, what do we get? Another music-video segment, complete with heavy metal music, which effectively kills any tension or interest which may have inadvertently built up. The film ends with the world's most unbearably pretentious walk into a sunrise (The dawn of a new day! Rebirth! Renewal!). Then, you puke.This film made me hate Taymor as a PERSON. I already had my reservations, based on that disgusting American Express ad she did in which she basically says that the reason she's so creative is that she has an American Express card, but her precious and preening aesthetic (see NPR note here) is just unpleasant, and she seems more interested in her Really Cool Visuals than she is in telling a story. It's not that she doesn't have ideas, it's that she has BANAL ideas.If you want to see this film, because it's Shakespeare, or because it's Julie Taymor, or because of Anthony Hopkins or Jessica Lange, I would really think twice. You can also leave after the first two hours and not miss much of anything (provided you've read the play). There's always video... and there's always OTHER movies. I would suggest that Taymor not direct another film in the future. "},{"Title":"High Class Torture Porn","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Before there was Saw, Hostel, and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, there was Shakespeare. Titus is a really well made film and it is also the most repulsive film I have ever seen. SPOILERSThere is a lot of body parts cut off and out. A young woman is raped and has her tongue cut out and straw stuck into her shoulder sockets where her arms were before they cut them off. It climaxes with a women's son's being cooked into a pie and being fed to her.END SPOILERThis is not for the squeamish. On the other hand, if you like that sort of thing but think that Shakespeare isn't for you, you might like it.The acting is fine and the costumes and sets are absolutely first rate. I actually liked the surreal mixture period and modern sets and the bizarre and colorful costumes.Titus is definitely not for everyone. Watch it at your of risk. Don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Pulppe Fictionne","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Julia Taymor did the best job possible with this rubbish... Titus Andronicus is reckoned to be one of Shakespeare's worst plays. Not that it doesn't flow nicely, but the heaps of corpses and buckets of blood don't have any deeper meaning or philosophy.It helps to know that WS wrote Titus Andronicus while still young - you can see how it's the 16th-century equivalent of blood-soaked modern crime shows. Anyhow, it should be an eye-opener for those who think of Shakespeare as a heap of manuscripts of interest only to scholars. Action devotees should enjoy this more than other Shakespeare.Taymor has included a frame-story about a boy playing with toys who then become characters in the story, also there are many shifts between ancient and modern settings. It's a bit pretentious and incomprehensible, but highly cinematic - it was probably the only way of getting a watchable movie out of such degraded material.Anyway, hats off to Taymor for taking on such a difficult project. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare via Riefenstahl.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  You can tell that this film has been made by a Tony-award winning director.  You have to admire the effects she manages to wrench from a limited budget (the crowds, or lack thereof, gave it away!), achieving an epic perspective through noise, business and monumentality.  But these are strictly theatrical effects, a visual sense communicated through set-design, colour etc., rather than mediated through the camera.  However, it is an energetic kind of theatre, so we shouldn't mind too much.'Titus Andronicus' is one of Shakespeare's lesser plays, so despised by highbrow fans that they tried to deny he wrote it.  The play is a catalogue of horrors - an old man enters Rome with 21 dead sons; orders the dismemberment and burning of an enemy; kills a disobedient son; his son-in-law is murdered, his daughter raped with her hands and tongue cut off;  he cuts his own hand off to bail two sons whose decapitated heads are sent back; his revenge involves killing the culprits and handing them back to their mother in a curiously Greenaway ritual, before a climactic orgy of massacring.This sounds grisly, and I felt nauseous on a number of occasions reading it.  In truth, this kind of shock horror was very popular at the time Shakespeare wrote it (notable peers include Marlowe's 'Jew of Malta' and Kyd's 'Spanish Tragedy'), so it isn't really an aberration.  As a film, 'Titus' isn't very violent; perhaps because films are generally more violent today than we expect literary classics to be.  Or, as is more likely, because of the way Traymor films it.  'Titus Andronicus' is a very short and quick play, with its multiple horrors piled on at a bewildering speed.  Traymor paces her film in true epic style (the film is nearly three hours long), and so the horrors seem less gratuituous, and therefore less shocking.There is one big problem for any producer adapting 'Titus' today, and that is tone.  There is so much violence in the play, that it risks seeming comic, and indeed the previously wailing Titus, faced with the peak of murderous brutality, responds with grim laughter.  Despite some gruesome puns, Shakespeare's 'Titus' is largely gloomy and earnest, but slightly ridiculous.  Traymor isn't quite sure, and veers between epic solemnity and wild black comedy.  Some of the latter is effective, the burlesquerie of the heads' return, for instance.  But it skips over the play's main absence, Lavinia's rape.  In the play, we know it's happening, but we never see  it - there is a powerfully misogynistic euphemism in the dank forest pit where her dead husband lies bleeding.  When we see the result of the rape, this maimed mannequin, the beautiful soliloquy of her uncle seems woefully inadequate.  But Traymor does exactly the same thing.  As a woman and in a more visual and culturally liberated medium, Traymor has a chance to reclaim Lavinia's rape, to free it from aestheticism and return it to her body, but it is elided at the time, and a later flashback is a series of 'poetic' images that takes the body out of the rape, just as surely as her script takes the politic out of the body politic dialectics.  It's difficult to see how anyone could do it without being exploitative, though.People like to defend violent movies by saying that Shakespeare's plays were just as bloodthirsty - Traymor herself seems to suggest this in the pre-credit sequence.  Yes, but how many slashers have Shakespeare's depths of theme and language, is the usual response.  Traymor altars Shakespeare's structure, which is an intricately symmetrical pattern holding the chaotically bloody events.  The play opens with a discussion of different kinds of government (democracy vs. hereditary rule) with Titus entering in a public ritual before attending to personal matters.  Traymor is not interested in politics, as you would expect from an American film, and opens with the personal moving onto the public, which makes for a very different work.  I've no problem with this - faithfulness is death; adapters must make any source their own, just as Shakespeare did.  But if you dismantle Shakespeare's precise structure and rhythm, you must substitute one of your own, and a cinematic one at that (this is why Welles' films are the greatest Shakespeare adaptations, because they are pure Welles).  Traymor does not, and so her film, for all its inventiveness, feels lopsided, moments of power alternating with more ponderous ones, dramatic effect diluted. Similarly, Shakespeare's rich imagery - of the body, reading and writing, surface and underground etc. - is largely forsaken, but nothing very systematic put in its place.  I don't mean to carp - most people who go to these filmed plays won't have time to read the play, and so the words will fly over them (as they usually do for me).  Visual impact is all, and this is infinitely more preferable to Branagh.  The conflation of different periods, costumes, locations - classical, fascist, modern, Hollywood etc. - is pure Shakespeare, and offers some startling effects, especially the toy soldiers beginning.  The acting is fine, even if, snob that I am, the American voice jars among the rest.  Once again, as throughout the play's history, the relatively secondary role of Aaron steals it, with Traymor mercifully not trying, through misguided political correctness, to sanitise his gleeful evil.  Elliot Goldenstahl's score is a remarkable work of pastiche. "},{"Title":"To full of itself","Date":"25 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Since I can't go below a 1, that will have to do. I was never fan of Shakespeare, let's stat with that. That being said, I could barely make it 25 minutes into the film. It was not at all what I expected. I was looking for a period piece about a Roman General, I really didn't need the symbolism, I found the boy a major distraction, when the motorcycles came into the film, I turned it off. That was absolutely enough. I wanted to see some fine acting by Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange, that was not to be found. All in all, I found the symbolism taking more away from the film than adding to it. Guess it's partially my fault, I should have researched the film more before watching it. All in all, the short part of the film I watched was horrible. "}{"Title":"Absoflippinglutely mindblowing (in a good way)","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film by accident just after it was released, and without knowing anything of the play Titus Andronicus. I was staying in South India with friends of friends and it was such a hot uncomfortable evening that we sat under huge ceiling fans and decided to try cooling down by watching a film. There was nothing else to be done but sit sipping cool drinks and this was put on, and from the first bizarre scene with the boy playing with his toys, I was in love. What an absolute visual feast, the staging, costumes, anachronisms etc. I don't believe that Shakespeare should always be performed in some kind of Elizabethan dress, and I had no problem at all with the motorcade, auto rickshaw, loud hailers, pool tables or any of the modernity. I loved the mixture of costumes, Tamora in THAT gold outfit, The way the gentlemen had their toga draped over a made to measure suit, Saturninus' heavy make up (I love Alan Cumming anyway), the women's hunting costumes. Gorgeous to look at. And the scenery, those strange Roman ruins, especially at the intersection of the Roman Road, beautifully done. As to the story itself, shocking!!! Never knew a thing about it before but loved it, murder, more murder, rape, bloodlust, mutilation, and yet more murder!!It's certainly Bill having a Tarantino moment. THAT scene with Lavinia in the dead wood is so outrageous and horrific, and yet blimmin' well done. The lead actors are great, Hopkins has been accused of underplaying the role but I thought he got it spot on, Lange was also excellent, and Cumming is his usual self!! It's all pretty unsettling to watch but I found it utterly gripping. The language was not much of a problem and apart from a few quieter scenes which required more concentration, the plot is not difficult to follow at all. When it ended after its long three hours, I sat there pretty stunned and thought about it for weeks before ordering the DVD. It's not for everyone, but it will stay with you for a long time. I have now seen this film many times, and last night I put it on again and for the first time I shed a tear for poor old Andronicus when he first sees Lavinia after her ravishmentOne of my favourite films "},{"Title":"stagey Shakespearian movie","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" It's a mix of Ancient Rome and modern fascist Italy. General Titus Andronicus (Anthony Hopkins) returns from his campaign with hostages, Queen of the Goths Tamora (Jessica Lange) and her sons. Titus sacrifices her oldest son. Saturninus (Alan Cumming) and Bassianus (James Frain) compete over the empty throne. Senator Marcus Andronicus (Colm Feore) nominates his brother Titus for the crown. Prideful Saturninus is angered and Bassianus is supportive. Titus relinquishes the honor to Saturninus who claims Titus' daughter Lavinia (Laura Fraser) despite the fact that she's already betrothed to Bassianus. To everyone's shock, Saturninus frees Tamora and her sons. Bassianus flees with Lavinia with the help of Titus' sons. Duty bound Titus even kills one of his own sons to try to stop them. Saturninus takes Tamora as his replacement bride as she plots her revenge on Titus.Director Julie Taymor has put as much costumes, great actors, dressed up sets as she can but it's still very stagey. It can't escape from being a play. It's interesting for a little while but it wears thin. There are not enough people and not enough grandeur. The dialog is still Shakespearian. It is a brutal violent play. The actors do a great job but this is a play, not a movie. "},{"Title":"Carried by Hopkins, Lange and Lennix and a good adaptations, despite the rest of the cast","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" True, transporting the eternal bards works into a modern setting isn't exactly everybody's cup of tea, but I must admit that I have always rooted for those, having greatly enjoyed the modernized Romeo & Juliet and Richard III with Ian McKellen still being one of my favourite Shakespeare adaptations.Let's talk about the positive aspects first Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange are in the shape of their lives; every nuance, every movement, every line being a pure delight to watch. However, it is Harry Lennix that steals every scene he's in (as would behold the villainous Aaron); indeed, I feel rarely compelled to applaud while watching a movie in a cinema, but during Lennix scenes, especially the infamous confession of Aaron, I just couldn't help myself.This, and the soundtrack is magnificent.Now, let's talk about the bad when I beheld the younger cast, to mention Jonathan Rhys-Meyers and Alan Cummings as examples, I kept wondering what could have prompted a film-maker to put those bit-actors next to the above mentioned cast. Were they related to the director? Could this have been an extreme case of nepotism or did Cummings and Rhys-Meyers witness director Taymor committing an axe-murder, and hence had something to blackmail her? Years later I would have to witness Rhys-Meyers as King Henry VIII in the TV-Series The Tudors, where his blue eyes and well-shaped stature must have appealed to an audience consisting predominantly of impressionable teenage girls (explaining the high ratings). Still, what the young man performs &#x96; both in Titus and The Tudors &#x96; could by no means be classified as 'acting'. Same goes for Cummings, whose performance almost made me bite into my tongue, temporarily mistaking it for a ham-sandwich. Cummings highlight as thespian would be him playing Nightcrawler in X-Men 2; the excellent make-up added greatly to his performance.Apart from the (partly) unfortunate casting, we must also admit that director Taymor seems more at home at producing theatre plays than she does in film. That in itself is not necessary a bad thing; so was Shakespeare himself (for obvious reasons) but not every theatre director is capable of transporting the material onto the big screen and hence Taymors work seems often forced. Again, what saves the production is the excellent acting by the seasoned cast.A fine, albeit often flawed film; 7 points from 10. "},{"Title":"Ambitious as an adaptation, but difficult to handle in and of itself","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" In Titus, Julie Taymor takes an already strange play and gives it a post-modern drug trip. While a few scenes are fantastic, others are chaos, and all the CG in the world can't put humpty dumpty back together again. This is a Shakespearean tragedy known for gratuitous gore and imperfection--so much so that at times scholars did not want to attribute it to Shakespeare. In many ways, the film's greatest problems are extensions of the play. An adventurous out-of-time setting tries to compensate for the play's shortcomings by serving up rich, saturated visuals with costuming and décor that jumps between roman classicism and 20th century modernism, in effect meeting somewhere beyond either. While Titus is depicted as an armored roman soldier, his emperor appears as a jackbooted Nazi. It works, to a point, unless the goal is to dazzle us out of a critical eye. Because fascism is bloody enough to handle the content in Titus, and because the Nazi's themselves co-opted classicism, the look holds together, if bizarrely. But all the style in the world won't fill the void of substance. Titus is as kooky as the 1990's Romeo + Juliet, but it's not nearly as good. The daunting scope of such a project must have appealed to Ms. Taymor, who has a knack for taking on impossible tasks, while I assume one particular detail at the end appealed to Anthony Hopkins, who has a knack for playing weirdos. Hopkins was appreciated, but his character had no growth to begin with. Though Alan Cummings does well as a mind-warped sado-fascist, for me, Henry Lennix's performance as Aaron the Moor was absolutely riveting. He's the true star of the show, and he alone justifies the viewing. (With fairness to the Bard, Aaron is also the play's most compelling character.)Since few playhouses will spend their time on a lesser-loved play with more gore than wit, it's nice to be able to see some production of Titus Andronicus. If I hadn't been reading the play within the context of a college course, I might not have known what to do with the movie at all. As an adaptation alone, I would rank it much higher. But taken as a whole, the flaws are too significant and too numerous. If you don't know Shakespeare stay away or defer to a more welcoming adaptation of the better-known works. For others who have a little background and don't expect a normal experience, it's an interesting trip, though doomed from the start. "},{"Title":"A very abstract and violent rendition of one of Shakespeare's most violent plays","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" This is an incredibly gruesome movie, but then again the play upon which it was based is also incredibly gruesome. Titus Andronicus, the Shakespearian play upon which this movie is based is actually one of his least popular ones, so when I discovered that somebody actually made a movie of it I was thrilled, and it thrilled me even more when I saw it and was absolutely astounded by it. Anthony Hopkins plays the role of Titus Andronicus absolutely beautifully.The play is set in Imperial Rome, though the actual period is very speculative. It is suggested that it could be at its height as Titus has returned from a successful campaign against the Goths, and it could be near the end as the movie finishes with an invasion of the Goths. However I would be hesitant to call it an invasion simply because Lucius is asked to go to the Goths and raise an army to help Titus seek revenge for the crimes committed against him and his family. The story itself is fictional, however it is not something that Shakespeare created himself (The Tempest is his only original work). There are also numerous references to Greek mythology, particularly the cannibalistic meal at the conclusion.Titus is a movie about vengeance, and it is more so than Hamlet because most of the characters have a bone to pick with at least one of the other characters. In fact it is about how being consumed with hatred and vengeance is a vicious circle with is constantly descending until there are no survivors. The Emperor Saturninus is vengeful because he has been denied the woman that he wants, simply because she loves his brother, but because he has been denied, he takes it out on Titus, a loyal and faithful general. The Goth Queen seeks vengeance because Titus sacrificed her older son despite her pleas, and when she exacts her revenge upon the Adronici, she earns Titus' wrath.The play seems to shift about halfway through, and I believe the cinematography captures this brilliantly. The movie does not set the action in a set time or place, it is the modern world, but it is a world torn apart by violence and anger. It is still Rome, but it is a Rome of the imagination, and the movie is bookended by scenes of the action taking place in a Colosseum, which places the film clearly into the realm of the imagination. This is good as it is further distancing ourselves from the violence erupting within the film. It has also been said, by the director, that the entire film is seen through the eyes of a child. In the play the child plays a minor role, but in the film, he is ever present. It opens with the child playing with toys, but the play becomes ever more violent, and in fact the entire room in which the child is explodes in a ball of fire, indicating the violence that is about to swallow the lives of the Andronici.The centre piece of the play is where Titus is pleading for the lives of his sons. He has previously killed a son, has seen his daughter raped and mutilated, and then watches with helplessness as two of his sons are lead off to be executed. It is all apart of the Queen's plan to destroy Titus' life. In this scene his brother, Marcus, is encouraging Titus to slay himself, this was common in the Roman Empire when somebody had been dishonoured and his life had been destroy. However Titus is strong in will, and will not desert those who have been wronged. He knows that he has been dishonoured, but he knows that to kill himself is to give up, and especially leave his beloved daughter unavenged.There seems to be no redeeming features in any of the characters, though none of them are strictly villains. Even Aaron, the Moor and the Queen's lover, is motivated by jealousy in that his lover has been stolen from him. However he considers himself a wicked man, and when he faces execution he is more that willing to spill his guts that to remain loyal. However, when he is finally given his punishment, he even repents of any good deed that he may have done. I don't sympathise, or even empathise with any of the characters. True, Titus has shown nothing but loyalty to his emperor, but has only been a victim of circumstance, or so it seems. The key here is the sacrifice of the Queen's son. Granted, human sacrifice was not tolerated in Rome, at all, that is one of the reasons they went to war with Carthage, so it is tempted to believe that Titus went overboard, until we consider the play. Titus is convinced that it is something that he needs to do, and he cannot back out of it, though I still cannot help thinking that maybe, just maybe, the sacrifice of a human was not necessary. "},{"Title":"Stunning slow horror","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Extremely showy but very slow moving Shakespeare. Visually stunning, but way too long for most people (including me and I like Ingmar Bergman). The play is an early extremely violent revenge story, with most of the violence occurring offstage and building up to more and more visually striking and nauseating on stage horror. The performances are uniformly excellent with a large dose of Shakespearan ham thrown in by the villains. Julie Taymor mixes history with a fluidity that dazzles but does not move the story along. Most of the intermittent unnecessary expository could have been trimmed without loss to the total impact. The ending is a hair raising smash, but not for the squeamish and not for those under 16, it will give them nightmares. This film should easily be reedited down to 100 minutes from its current length of 180. "},{"Title":"Striking Portrayal","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't plan on watching the entire movie when it began, but five minutes into the film I knew that I wouldn't be able to turn it off. I have to say that I was terribly confused through some points of the film, and I consider myself to be fairly well versed with Shakespeare and even with this particular play. I personally love the recent trend of taking Shakespeare's words and throwing them into a modern setting (such as that of William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet), but some of the modern additions such as the motorcycles in the beginning merely left me confused. After that realization, I loved the film. I thought the acting was exceptional. I had been a huge fan of both Hopkins and Cumming, but wasn't too familiar with much of the rest of the cast. I wasn't at all disappointed with the casting. I found some of the difficult cinematography to be a little unnecessary and thrown in for recognition (such as occured with Boys don't Cry), but besides those few shots, I found the filming to be quite beautiful. The music seemed to have a tad too much variation in it, though I enjoyed it. It simply drew too much attention to itself. The film was definitely a triumph for Cumming. One of his finest performances.The play itself is one of my new favorites and the story is brilliant and beautifully tragic. I definetely do not suggest this film to everyone. This film is wonderful, yet the majority of moviegoers would not be able to sit through it (it is little less than three hours in length and quite gory), much less appreciate it for the wonderful work of art it is. But for those of you who are willing to try it out, I definitely advise it. "},{"Title":"Surreal and Stylish.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not well-versed in Shakespeare and I've never read Titus Andronicus, but I enjoyed this film immensely. Sometimes I have trouble with Olde English, but it was little trouble here. Deliberate anachronisms and garish stylization make it more than just another Shakespeare adaptation. Fans of surrealism will love it. "},{"Title":"Interesting film","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I catched this on TV and I didn't see it on its entirety. I did not read the original play and can not comment on the movie's integrity to the original. For both reasons my judging of this movie can only be clouded.Having said this little disclaimer, I believe the negative comments seen on this page had lots to do with not realizing that this film is deliberately anachronistic, in a kind of roma aeterna alternate history setting. It is deliberately shocking with its use of modern imagery, which is visually reminiscent of such movies as Mad Max, in order to suggest a dystopia where everything acquires a sense of tragedy and not a lot of hope is to be expected.Anthony Hopkin's performance was excellent, especially on the dinner offered to Tamora and the Emperor. Soundtrack was fittingly powerful.The movie has some drawbacks namely some very boring scenes ( like the last scene ) and also the use of Shakespearean language which seems unfit in a modern setting. This is a problem facing similar movies such as Romeo and Juliet  the dialogue has absolutely nothing to do with the setting. I would think you either make a movie according to the original play and with the intended settings or you fully adapt it into modern times, by updating the dialogues and expressions but keeping the storyline. Shakespeare's plays, like those of all great world masters, are intemporal stories involving the same emotions modern people have. Why not then update it into a contemporary time ?This sort of uneasy mix is too arty and pretentious. "},{"Title":"Vivid, violent adaptation with some odd bits","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The first two minutes of this film are bizarre, showing a child playing with a variety of plastic war-toys, Action Men figures and foodstuffs on a table while there are bombs going off outside. Then he is rescued and brought into the play proper. I thought this whole scene was unnecessary and confusing. After this I found the rest of the movie to be compelling viewing and conventional enough. Hopkins gives the expected powerful performance in this adaptation of Shakespeare's final play. Jessica Lange was a little disappointing at first - she just sounded too American and Hollywood for the character. However, she improved later on. The costumes and scenery, a blend of 30's fascism set in Roman Ruins, make for beautiful cinematography. On the down side, I sometimes found the film confusing because it has some very odd interpolations (such as the opening scene) mixed with an apparent zeal for Shakespearian authenticity. The gory bits of the play are reproduced with shocking realism. As such it is neither a complete and faithful adaptation nor an avant-garde interpretation. It is long, but I enjoyed it. I thought it was better Ian McKellen's version of Richard III but not as good as Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet.  "}{"Title":"Ravishing and repulsive.","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  A very brave film, this one.  Can't imagine that it took much at the box office, but it's good to see an uncompromising vision up on the screen from time to time.  Not since Greenaway's The Cook, the Thief, his Wife and her Lover has something so pure made it past the distribution police.  That this should be an American production is only more laudable.Stunning to look at and to listen too (Goldenthal's score is astinishing), it is above all a very theatrical rendering which utilises the creative and imaging capabilities of modern Hollywood cinema to realise the full emotive power of this early Shakespeare play.  We can easily forget just how visceral and corporeal some of Shakespeare's work was and this film amply serves to remind us.  Titus always was a study in brutality and the corruption of power.  Here, Traynor immerses us in the full excesses of human degredation.  It's not easy to watch at at times, especially the rape of Lavinia, but it is sobering.  The images are shocking and repulsive, but rightly so.This is not a film for gore or porn fans, as some reviewers have suggested.  It is an intelligent, hugely creative and uncompromising vision of a neglected play which has some very uncomfortable things to say to us about our nature, and especially about male violence and power.Yes, it has faults.  It is dominated by its production design to the extent that that performances sometimes become almost irrelevant.  The confusion of period detail often becomes just that; and Hopkins looks decidedly uncomfortable at times.  However, these problems are minor in comparison to the film's many strengths. "},{"Title":"I can't shake this movie out of my head...","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw Titus in 1999, I was both disappointed and yet there was something about it that kept my interest.  I eventually bought the DVD, and watched it again, and this time I appreciated the movie more.  What I like most about the movie is the originality and the strength of its vision.  Julie Taymor has already established herself as one of the greatest, if not the greatest, of stage directors.  Now, with Titus, Taymor has shown that she is a master filmmaker also.  Although Titus is not a perfect film, at times it is too stagy, as if Taymor forgot at points that she was suppossed to be directing a movie and not a play, in the end the strong and daring voice of the director shines through.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary creative use of sets and costumes provides a surrealistic ride through Shakespeare's most violent play.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, this is strong stuff. But good. The whole opening scene was a little kid playing with war toys, setting the table for the surrealism to come. I was skeptical at first of this device, but I liked the way this character evolved silently, as he witnessed again and again that war is NOT fun and games. I wish the leaders of our country would get this message. In this context, none of the story's violence is gratuitous. The most impressive aspect of this production is the no-holds-barred use of sets, costumes, props, makeup etc. to make the flavor surreal, without ever departing from Shakespeare's intent. All very creative and artful.  And the music wasn't bad. So, disturbing as the story is, I applaud the production. The acting is a bit uneven. Hopkins is well-cast, but as usual, his delivery is overly stylized and bombastic. The emperor is even worse in this respect--intentionally exaggerating the infantilism of his character.  But with so much focus on the other elements of the production, this is not a big distraction. Well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Awwwwww... so this film doesn't have people in togas. Oh, well. Sorry to shock the purists, but neither did the original Shakespeare representations. Stop nitpicking and let's get on with things.What's this film about? It's about Titus Andronicus, successful and revered Roman general who returning to Rome in triumph offers the son of the conquered queen of the Goths as sacrifice. That's tradition and he HAS to do it to appease the gods into letting his own sons into heaven. Not unreasonably, the queen of the Goths bears a grudge over this.On the death of the reigning Emperor, Titus Andronicus is hailed as Emperor but he is not interested in politics. He is a simple general. So he asks that the leader of one of Rome's warring factions be appointed emperor in his stead. Bad call! To say that things go downhill from there on is a bit of an understatement. The tragedy lies in the fact that Titus Andronicus expected everyone to be as honest and decent as himself and fails to see that Rome is a proper snake pit.This film is dark, gory and rather gruesome. On the other hand, one really feels for the characters and their predicament so the violence and gore are most definitely NOT gratuitous.The productionIt's stunning. If you liked Romeo and Juliet, you'll probably like this. The sets are rather art-deco, with lots of references to Italy's fascist era (the senators for example, wear those white three piece suits with high collars associated with Mussolini) there are vespas and video arcades and newspapers and swords and horse drawn chariots all in the same film. This can be slightly jarring, but it does give the story a sort of timelessness which stops the viewer from dumping the film into the period piece bin or thinking how clever. The languageWell, it's Shakespearean English (otherwise it wouldn't be Titus Andronicus, would it?) Some bits are harder to understand than others but because the action is matched to the word you get used to it very quickly. It certainly shouldn't put you off.it's pretty good, really. The only thing I didn't like is that Alan Cumming (who becomes emperor in Titus Andronicus' place) looks far too evil right from from the start. You can't help but wonder how Titus could have picked HIM to be emperor, he looks like trouble from the very beginning.All in all a fantastic movie but because of the gore and general darkness I'm not sure I'd watch it THAT often o) "},{"Title":"BORING!!!!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Unless you love listening to Shakesperian actors...  This movie will bore you to death.  I could easily figure out the meaning of the movie by muting the audio.  Not that Shakespere type movies are all bad.  Romeo & Juliet (leo's version) and Mel Gibson's Hamlet were among the best.Not that this movie is poorly done.  It got an oscar for costume design.  Which is by no means bad.  The choreography is awesome.  But is it enough to buy this dvd?  I doubt it.  Although I thought this is a much better sequel to Silence of the Lambs than Hannibal. )6/10Quality 8/10 Entertainment 2/10 Replayable 3/10 "},{"Title":"A tasty treat","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Bringing such a surreal mixture of murder, rape, and mutilation to the screen was never going to be easy, but thanks to an excellent cast and high quality production Julie Taymor's adaptation of Titus Andronicus succeeds - just. Anthony Hopkins is superb as Titus, showing an understanding of the role as well as bringing genuine pathos and managing to escape comparisons to Hannibal Lector at the film's cannibalistic climax. He is well supported by the rest of the cast who make this production eminently watchable even when the direction falters. Indeed, this is the main weak point previously a theatrical director, Taymor occasionally lapses into uninteresting camera angles or blocking which on stage would be acceptable but on camera simply look forced, for example Chiron, Demetrius and Tamora's taunting of Lavinia in the woods. Overall though, the film is always watchable and at times delivers a real emotional kick, like the opening sequence or the discovery of the raped and mutilated Lavinia. It's also brave enough to bring out some of the blackest humour in theatrical history. "},{"Title":"Not quite there","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Based on a Shakespeare play, namely the one that many consider his weakest, Titus is at best a fairly enjoyable tale about revenge and power, at worst an irritating mess. From what I saw and see, a movie that splits audiences either you really like it or you really hate it. I'm pretty much in the middle (for one thing, don't trust anybody who says you didn't get it, as every character's motivation is up front; subtle is hardly a keyword for this movie).I never quite bought the idea carried in the movie of mixing ancient and modern set pieces, for a simple reason that goes way beyond a simple matter of visual taste. It could have been quite an accomplishment to mix the two if there was an underlying meaning to the choice, i.e. the script could have carried references to what ancient Rome and Italy in the 1930s and 1940s (most of the 'modern' set elements seem to come outta this period, although more recent stuff can be seen) had in common. That is, the modern elements in what is a decaying roman empire wouldn't seem out of place, as long as there's a reason to embed them in it. I would probably be at a complete loss if I had to think of one to include the elements that were included here, but then again, so is the movie. It's pretty much anachronism for the sake of it. Shakespeare is still valid today is the statement? Whatever... I don't need some motorcycles  for that...The movie makes extensive use of theatre-like visuals and language. Lighting sets and crowds that never exceed a few dozen people give it a surrealistic look, yet not always a satisfactory one, because it seldom feels like it's really into place. We are dealing with Shakespeare here, with a play that could -- and should -- have been much more satisfactory if adapted for the proper environment, the ancient Rome, without arsty modernism. The movie does, however, feature some good acting on the always reliable Anthony Hopkins part, and one almost-memorable scene (the sick but hilarious cake scene where Hopkins references his Hannibal Lecter character). On the other hand, Cumming was a mediocre Saturninus.All in all, Titus certainly didn't impress me.5/10 "},{"Title":"Titus, a flawed but moving experience","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The problem with Shakespeare on Screen is letting him go and trying to watch the movie in its own right. Another one is the 'script'. As it stands, 'Titus' is a rather old-fashioned revenge play, with not too much depth (compared to, say, a 'Julius Caesar' or 'Hamlet'), and a rather convoluted plot (a real 'soapera'). That's probably the reason why Julie Taymor treated us with a, by times, breathtaking visual display instead of characterization (not much to probe here). The opening sequence alone is worth seeing the movie, and there are dozens and dozens of memorable scenes. And seeing the drama unfold as 'seen' through the eyes of young Lucius (which is simply impossible to do in any stage production) is astounding. As is the juxtaposition of old Rome and Mussolini's Rome (EUR City), playing right into the 'fascist' undertones of the text. The result is much better than Loncraine's 'Richard III'.As for revenge being much better tasted when served cold, I would add 'except in the case when Anthony Hopkins is playing the cook.' In the opening he played rather well, as the gruff Roman general, but for nearly half the movie he, and most of his family, seemed rather to go through the motions, until the 'meeting at the crossroads'. From there it started to spark, especially the memorable 'bath-tub scene'. That is to say, until the end, when Anthony had a cook-and-dance number worthy of a Greenaway. But not of Shakespeare, and it nearly killed the movie. The villain of the piece, however, Harry Lennox as Aaron, is an absolute delight to watch. This is Evil Incarnate as it should be. By contrast, Jessica Lange's Tamora was rather tame (Gods, can you imagine a young Kathrine Hepburn in that role? Well, we can dream.)There are a couple of other annoying things, like the overuse of CGI, including a set of rather daft Christmas angels blowing the trumpets, and the end is leaning too much towards Hollywood.But on the whole Taymor did a very good job (remember her fantastic 'Oedipous Rex'?) . Not in the least by skillfully rearranging the bard's lines so they started to make some sense to a modern audience. She created a real 'movie' in the best sense of the word. A moving experience. "},{"Title":"Very different, but good.","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this movie, I didn't really like it that much.  But after a while I realized that it was very good. Unlike some other viewers, I did not find it boring, (I have a lot of patience with movies.)  And the acting was extremely impressive, perhaps the best I have ever seen. I was very impressed by the actor who played Marcus,  I don't think I have seen him in anything before, but he was great.  Also Angus MacFayden was very good as Titus' son Lucius.    Don't go see this movie if you have a weak stomach though,  it is very gory. Well it was very weird, and I can see how some people would hate it.  But I thought it was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Mind-blowing","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I had to write a paper on this film for a film studies class, and was expecting some highbrow art-farty take on Shakespeare. Boy, was I wrong! This is an art film, no mistake there, but it also succeeds as a radical reimagining of Shakespeare's play. Taymor uses colour like an artist painting on canvas in bright acrylic colours, something Fellini tried and failed at with Satyricon.The other thing that grabbed my attention was the use of anachronisms. By placing us in an uncertain time, Taymor leaves us not knowing what to expect, and so we are glued to the screen. The actors are fantastic, and Jessica Lange is a revelation. I mean, I knew she could act, but Shakespeare usually is a litmus test, and she passed with flying colours. One word of warning if possible, watch the widescreen DVD of this one. Even though Taymor shot in Super 35, the use of the widescreen frame is integral to understanding the film. I can't say much more without getting into spoilers, except to say that this is not a film for the faint-hearted. It is brutal, bloody, and perverse In short, a mirror of the Roman Empire. "}{"Title":"Mad Max Meets Shakespeare in an empty Coliseum","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This a breathtaking adaptation of one of Shakespeare's most gruesome plays. Though slightly long, it is  visually stunning, excellently acted (especially Anthony Hopkins who finally gets a, well, beefy role), and excitingly scored. For those interested in politics, sociology and the psychology of leadership, it is unavoidable but one must use cliches - this play, though written in the late 1500's, has a relevance today which is dumfounding.  "},{"Title":"Visually amazing, but lacking ... something","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that after watching this film I felt that something was missing. The visual effects are stunning (I still get chills when the uncle looks on the niece) and the adaption to film is great, therefore I must find fault in the actual play itself. Although it may be presumptious to rate the work of a master, I am aware that it is one of his earlier works. For example, the part with the queen of the goths and her sons posing as murder, rape, and revenge seems all too much just an easy way out of setting up the brilliant dinner scene. They were content, and could have found a thousand earier ways to kill Titus. In all Julie does a great job adapting a play that is flawed. What is missing is the spark of Hamlet (the greatest play), Macbeth, or the other later classics. Good for a visual entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Nice try, but not for the masses...","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  There is a reason this is the least performed of all Shakespeare's plays... and it is evident when it goes from the stage to the big screen in this adaption.The sets are stunning and incredible... the costumes, well deserving of their Oscar nomination... however, if you are not an avid reader of Shakespeare or literary scholar, you might encounter a bit of trouble when it comes to this film. The over-the-top score over- bears the already hard to follow dialogue, but then again, IT IS Shakespeare. I am a simple person. I like simple movies. This movie is not simple. You can follow the basic story line, just by reading the movements and listening to the tone of the actor's; but still, I could not sit through this movie. I had to turn it off half way through and come back to it the next day. I have to applaud Julie Taymor for giving this play a '90's make over, with lots of eye-candy and modernization... but still, it couldn't hold my attention for too long. 15 minutes into this film, my mind was already wandering.Too much shouting in this film irritated me to the point of turning it off. There is a feature on the DVD version that allows you to hear the score only... the film is better that way. Bottom Line If you are a fan of Shakespeare, this is for you. If not... well, if there's nothing else to rent, then go for it... "},{"Title":"A Formidable Vision Of Design And Costume","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymor brings her avant-garde theater background to this stylistic, time-bending adaptation of Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus, a lesser regarded, more lurid, violent play, not rarely performed today. Taymor merely uses Shakespeare here there's not much she can do with the material given its sadistic, sexist and racist tendencies; she lets the Bard take the rap for the excesses presented here. Instead, she takes advantage of the story to display her rather formidable visions of design and costuming (although her chief influence seems to be, disturbingly, Bob Guccione's Penthouse-financed disaster Caligula) and introduce powerful elements of absurdism and hyperrealism. Taymor, in her first feature, generously offers her performers a platform to bring a harrowing depth to their characterizations and the actors have a field day, relishing every opportunity to make a splash. The performers include Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, Harry J. Lennix and Alan Cumming and they're all very effective.  "},{"Title":"A different interpretation of the Bard","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The stunning imagery in this version of Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus initially gave me a similar sensation that I get every time I see or read the Bard.  Shakespeare's language always takes me a scene or two to grasp, until suddenly the rhythm clicks and I understand it clearly.  Julie Taymor's staging of the movie struck me exactly the same way  the first scenes were so different from that to which I'm accustomed that it took time to adjust.  Then the style of the movie stopped distracting from the story, and started becoming it, just as the language style, for me, suddenly becomes a part of the play.  And once it did, I was left with a good play, well performed.  Not one of Shakespeare's greats, I have to say, and not one that I would hurry to revisit.  It is a violent, cruel, and spiteful story, and the film leaves little to the imagination.  Jessica Lange turns in a wonderful performance as the Goth queen Tamora.  Alan Cumming interpretation of Saturnius borrows heavily from his work in Cabaret -- I half expected the Roman emperor to burst into song.  And Laura Fraser's Lavinia is heartbreaking in her descent into insanity.   "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, strange and disturbing film","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I fast forwarded my way through most of this movie.  Violent is not the proper adjective--cruel, black hearted meanness is much more descriptive.  The story transcends time and place, and doesn't even try to seem plausible.  Maybe that's why the emotions and the events just don't ring true.  This is Shakespeare at his most violently dramatic and unrealistic.Despite the horrific story, the film is a spectacular display.  The colors and clarity are vibrant and crystal clear, the lighting perfection.  The musical score is expertly haunting at times, light and fun at others.  The director, Julie Taymor, is an impressively talented, individual.  She has a unique sense of style in much the same way that John Woo does. This film contains stunning visuals, elaborate sets, and great acting.The whole cast is terrific. Jessica Lange and Anthony Hopkins throw themselves into the script wholeheartedly and give stunning performances. Harry Lennix and Alan Cumming are two especially amusing, talented actors, and Laura Fraser is also impressive.  If you are a Macfadyen fan, you're in for a special treat.  He's a hunk, with very short hair, and he looks amazing in black leather or bare chested under a waterfall. You'll see some great close-ups of his strange blue (green?) eyes.  As far as his performance goes, he's good, but not entirely convincing.  I had a hard time seeing his character Lucius as leader of an army. In the story, he is more reactive than aggressive, and despite a powerful physique, he does not appear dangerous. But if warrior Lucius doesn't intimidate, he is a capable protector. He gets the job done.Get the DVD--it's a two package set, one for the movie and voice over narrations, and the other with interviews and a fascinating behind the scenes look at the rehearsals for the film.  You see the actors sans costume and makeup, discussing the script, giving their impressions before start of the film.  Interesting and unique perspective, a real treat for any actor/director/screenwriter wannabe. "},{"Title":"visually stunning","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This movie can only be described as odd but I loved watching every moment of it.  I give it a ten for cinematography. I was constantly swept away by the visuals which nearly made me forget the semi flat acting. Warning watching in pan and scan will reduce its visual whomp. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  For the visuals alone, Titus is an absolute triumph for director Julie Taymor (I officially forgive her for that overblown puppet show/Disney cartoon she's inflicted on Broadway).  Titus is dazzling, but not the overwhelming mess that other modern adaptations of Shakespeare, like R + J, turned out to be.Fortunately, the film doesn't limit itself to visuals, but boasts fine performances from virtually the entire cast and magnificent ones from Anthony Hopkins (to be expected), Jessica Lange (ditto), and Harry J. Lennix (an actor I've never seen before but hope to see many more times in the future).  Alan Cumming is the only drawback; he comes across as somewhat shrill.That the play's text is more or less uncut is also to Taymor's credit. Instead of dumbing down Shakespeare's words, she gives it to us as is and expects us to rise to its level (which, admittedly, isn't always easy to do, especially with one of the Bard's less familiar tragedies). "},{"Title":"Director Taymor takes Unnecessary Risks","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus Andronicus is not Shakespeare's worst play (try Pericles) but after being one of his most popular on the Elizabethan stage, its stock has fallen badly due to its ruthless brutality, violence and non-stop action.  Betting that these qualities may have come back into vogue is not a bad risk.That doesn't make this a great play--there are dramatic problems that a director needs to solve.  Aaron is a method actor's nightmare, a man with no motivation except a desire to be bad.  A good director has to find a reason for his bitterness.  Titus has the most ambivalent attitude toward his children; at the beginning of the play he seems to regret having sacrificed them to the wars, he is devastated when two of his sons are sentenced to death, but he himself stabs and kills not only one of his sons for protecting his daughter's honour, but the daughter to boot.  The scenes of Marcus discovering the mute Lavinia and the frame-up of Titus's sons by Aaron are quite unconvincing without directorial help.Instead of tackling these problems, Julie Taymor seems to say Don't worry if it isn't believable--it's all a dream, or a fantasy, or an allegory, or something, so we don't have to believe it.  This is a cop-out.  And because it's a cop-out, the attempts to introduce imagery which makes the movie look like a dream, fantasy, allegory, or something don't work.  Rather than reinforcing the movement of the drama they try to distract us from it.The smart approach to this blood-and-guts thriller would be to keep the story moving at breakneck speed, cutting the text and providing graphic and concrete images in an easily assimilated setting (rather like what Zeffirelli did to Hamlet).  Instead we get the exact opposite.  The ending, instead of thrilling climax, has the action slowed to a dead stop as we watch the same image for three minutes.  Sure, it moves, but so does your screen saver.Even if we admit the legitimacy of using symbolical or allegorical images in a story like this, they have to build up to a pattern to be effective.  We start off with a kid wearing a paper bag on his head making a mess with war toys and his lunch.  Is what follows his war-play seen from the toys' perspective?  Is it a dream-lesson to reprove him for his pointless destruction?  Is it a foreshadowing of Titus' revenge on Tamora?  We never find out because we never see the kitchen table, the war toys, or the paper bag again.Don't fault the actors for the director's problems; with the exception of Tamora's sons, the acting is fine, particularly Hopkins (who has forgotten more Shakespeare than Taymor will ever know), Lange, Laura Fraser, and Harry J. Lennix.  Lennix gets the chance to step out of Aaron's cardboard cut-out Snidely Whiplash persona when the nurse brings him his child; what follows is the best scene in the film.Presenting a little-known play is a risk.  Presenting odd-ball Shakespeare is also a risk.  Using anachronisms and other dream-like or fantastic imagery in a movie is a risk as well.  These things wouldn't be risky if the chances of failure and the amount of effort required for success weren't greater than usual.  Sadly, although Taymor was prepared to take the risks, she was not prepared to make the extra effort.For the performances of the actors, the bravery of the attempt, the Stomp performance during the opening titles, and one or two shining scenes this deserves 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Powerful story, stupendous acting, weird directing","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  `Titus' is yet another vain attempt to `update' Shakespeare for consumption by the masses.  Like others before it, this film maintains the original verse intact, while providing imagery that is artsy and hip with no real relationship to the original story.  The good news is that the acting was potent and delivered a forceful rendition of Shakespeare's most disturbing play.  The bad news is that the dark and bizarre imagery was at best distracting and at worst detracting.Julie Taymor's imagery was somewhere between nightmarish and hallucinogenic.  It was typical of a style I call Noir Bizarre, where dark themes are augmented by weird and disjointed images, replete with gruesome scenes and morbid undertones.  Tim Burton's work is illustrative of this style.  Taymor conjures a surreal version of ancient Rome with contrived retro/futuristic costumes, and modern period props such as motorcycles, automatic weapons and arcade games interspersed with horse drawn chariots and swords.  Tamora's (Jessica Lange's) costumes were particularly outlandish.It is invariably mentioned by the directors that make these Shakespearean updates that they provide an opportunity to bring Shakespeare to a new generation.  They hope that adulterating his work by repackaging it with pop culture imagery will somehow make it more appealing to the masses.  The irony is that just about all of them have been abysmal commercial failures.  As soon as the masses discover that the Old English verse has been preserved, they steer clear.  The only people who ultimately see these films are the people who liked Shakespeare in the first place, and they generally resent the visual perversion.Despite my disdain for Taymor's strangely fantastic vision, the film was effective mostly due to the superlative acting of Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, Alan Cumming, and Harry Lennix.  Hopkins' sophisticated and wieldy presence provided a dominating force that bolstered the entire cast.  Jessica Lange was maniacal as the evil seductress intent on revenge upon Titus and his family for the death of her son.  Harry Lennix gave an absolutely demonic performance of Aaron, the malevolent moor whose only repentance was for the good deeds he had done in his life.  Alan Cumming was also excellent as the sniveling Emperor being manipulated like a puppet by powerful forces on all sides.In the final analysis, the peculiarity of Taymor's vision distorted but did not negate the excellence of the acting and the power of the play.  I rated it a 7/10.  I recommend that Shakespeare lovers not be driven away by the avant-garde presentation and allow themselves the opportunity to enjoy the awesome performance of a terrific cast. "}{"Title":"The Goddess of Justice Has Left Us!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus Andronicus is William Shakespeare's first play and while at one time it was his most popular, it somehow fell out of favor, dismissed by critics as a meaningless gore-fest.  Julie Taymor revives the forgotten classic, bringing Titus to the big screen, this time offering her audience more blood and more guts.  Anthony Hopkins is Titus, the great Roman hero who, as the film opens, has captured Tamara, (Jessica Lange) Queen of the Goths, and her three sons.  In an act that he terms a ritual, he kills her first born and offers his intestines to the fallen Roman soldiers who battled to capture Tamara.  Tamara is naturally distraught by this deed and vows revenge.When Ceasar dies his sons vie for the title of the new Emperor.  Titus chooses to back Saturnius, and thus a new ruler is crowned.  Saturnius (played by Alan Cummings) is smitten by the imprisoned queen and immediately offers her the empress throne.  Henceforth, as Roman royalty, Tamara is able to exact her revenge on Titus.  And so she does.Critics dismiss this play as a meaningless story of revenge,  arguing that it lacks soul.  Each character in this tragedy is guilty of at least one moral misdeed, they are all prone to brutality, and no one is ever redemptive of their actions, but I somehow wonder if that is not the point. The film Titus is not the brutal blood bath that many have said.  There is no denying that this film is violent, but I must say that I have seen far worse.  The brutality that is of concern here is not what the film shows us, but what the characters hold within.Hopkins is at the top of his game in the lead role.  He offers a tour de force playing a great conquerer who slowly falls apart and then puts himself back together again.  Lange is the perfect choice to play the queen.  Nobody can play an over-the-top woman with just the right amount of conviction, and with a seductive voice, like Jessica.  And of course, Alan Cummings holds his own as the vain emperor delightfully swishing and sulking through his role.  Taymor offers a visual treat, that is at the heart violent and seething, but in no way is it a glorification of revenge or treachery.  Instead, Titus, like Richard III from a few years back, is an updated and thoroughly original adaptation of a classic story.  And despite the inclusion of Taymor's own anti-war vision, Shakespeare's Titus continues to teach, and his players continue to learn, that revenge is a dish best served cold. "},{"Title":"Titus Ridiculous, or There's No Place Like Rome","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Julie Taymor tackles, wrestles and confronts Shakespeare's least worthy play as if it were King Lear and endows each line with the importance of scripture. What a waste! To be sure, Anthony Hopkins delivers a finely tuned, watchable performance as Titus, each tragic moment tinged with erupting irony and the glee of coming revenge. Ms. Taymor, however, serves up all with a bulldozer more evocative of DeMille's silent efforts. When not cavorting about Roman orgy scenes the camera encourages actors into a kind of Martha Grahamish posing-dancing-acting which might compel our attention if this were in fact a play of importance, WHICH IT MOST EMPHATICALLY IS NOT, and Ms. Taymor were a film director of real, not imagined talents. And just what was the little boy walking around like THE CONSCIENCE OF ROME supposed to be??? Fellini also is quoted here, ad nauseum, and fans of the glorious Satyricon will recognize lots of shots. Jessica Lange as Tamora, Queen of the Goths, is hopelessly weighted down by her costumes and barely manages to be coherent otherwise. Alan Cumming is slappable as Saturninus -- I've seen better imitations of Caligula in The Robe in my own living room. I hope to never see him in another film. Harry J. Lennix offers Titus's second most (and only other) rewarding performance as Aaron the Moor. I hope to see lots more of him in lots more films. Notwithstanding the pretentious, irrelevant mis-en-scene, please see Titus! You cannot afford to miss Mr. Hopkins in Shakespeare. He is a wonder and will grace us one day, we hope, with his Lear. "},{"Title":"A flawed but often brilliant film","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Taymor's TITUS is a less-than-perfect film, but it's so very close to being a masterpiece that it's hard to be unenthusiastic about it.  Most of the performances are spot-on, particularly Hopkins as the weary career soldier bound by ancient convention who comes to the horrifying recognition that the Rome he's returned to no longer plays by the rules he's given his life (and the lives of most of his sons) to protect and uphold.  I was particularly impressed by the measure and balance he brought to a role that can easily drive an actor over the top before the end of the first act.  Jessica Lange, Angus MacFadyen, and Harry Lennix are similarly sharp in their respective roles as the Queen of Goths, Titus's eldest son Lucius, and Aaron the Moor. Visually, the film is often stunning, but some ideas that worked well in Taymor's stage production of the play mostly serve to clutter the film.  As in all things, it's hardest to cut the *good* ideas that don't serve the completed project, but Taymor doesn't seem to have been able to part with hers.  As a result, TITUS feels more like a series of brilliantly realized tableaux than a unified film.  But it's wonderful Shakespeare, and it's a wonderful production of one of the hardest of Shakespeare's plays to produce successfully.  Given the realities of the text, this production is not particularly violent or gory, certainly not to excess. "},{"Title":"Titus Andronicus is a great play!","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Taymor's movie is very, very interesting. What is most interesting is how relevant the original play by Shakespeare is in our violent time, four hundred years later! So interesting that after having been ignored for years, now there are several different movie versions to see this year. Taymor's production values are spectacular, and as an adaptation it is sure to generate considerable discussion.  I am biased, and partial to the material because I actually played Tamora in another film of Titus Andronicus, being released right now on video. All Titus Andronicus lovers should check out the other versions listings here on the IMDb, and you can visit our wild website directly  "},{"Title":"There are impressive performances by new talent","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The film itself didn't quite impress me as much as I expected, being directed by Julie Taymor, however it should be noted that the supporting roles kept the film authentic. Just to briefly note, Alan Cumming's performance was quite impressive, as he played a memorable Saturinius. Harry Lennix (`Aaron'), who really touched the audience with his impressive monologues and superb overall style of acting, also pleasantly surprised me. The young, Laura Fraser also illustrated her talent playing the role of Lavinia. This is an awfully difficult character to play, but Laura seemed to capture the audience with her ability to portray Lavinia's feelings. This is obvious when the audience sighed and shuffled when her two assailants abused her. Overall, I film worth viewing due to the impressive supporting roles.  "},{"Title":"Just saw a complete preview; a visual masterpiece!","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I had the privilege of viewing Titus Dec. 17 in Columbus, Ohio, where director Julie Taymor is being featured in a major exhibition at the Wexner Center for the Arts. The movie is a visual masterpiece, and is an interesting adaptation of one of Shakespeare's most violent (and timely) plays. Performances throughout are strong -- especially Jessica Lang, who is fierce in the role and more than equal to Hopkins' lead character (also excellent).  Costumes and locations are stunning, and there are several images audiences simply won't forget. Following the preview, Taymor took questions from the standing-room-only audience. In answering pointed questions from the audience (about slight changes she made to the story in her screenplay, casting decisions, the mixing of contemporary costumes and ancient settings, and other elements), Taymor impressively defended her choices, making the film feel that much more intentional and impressive. It is a challenging movie -- it sticks closely to the original dialog, and requires concentration. It is also a long movie. But for fans of dark tales of revenge set in exotic locations, it's a must see. This is Taymor's first major motion picture - a major  "},{"Title":"Brave and Exciting First Work by Taymor","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I was at the Advance Screening in New York recently and myself and the audience seemed to enjoy the film considerably.Known for daring and intruiging visual images, Taymor doesn't disappoint and her stylistic flair is met by impressive performances from her cast, notably Hopkins, Lange and Cummings.I have the feeling that Taymor's next film will be the one that is remembered as it is on Titus where she learns the trade and isn't quite successful here at all times.  There is still a great sense of the theatrical about the film which at times seem disjointed and disrupt the flow of the film.  And when Taymor isn't using her visual tricks the action seems somehow flat and lacking.There are a couple of moments that are absolute gold and completely stunning.Taymor weaves in humour judicously and presents a strong calling card to the world of what she is capable of doing. "},{"Title":"The best thing about this movie is the architecture.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Very long, over the top, multi- style treatment of Shakespeare's least loved play because of (Spoilers) amputations, tongue gougings, decapitations, throat slittings, cannibalism ala Sweeny Todd meat pies, multiple murder and homicide. Not enough sex although Jessica Lange is definitely up for the job. Hopkins goes too far over the top near the end when he does a takeoff on his Hannibal persona. Cummings is a one note actor and the other minor players are straight out of high school productions. No breakthrough performances here. The best thing about Taymor's direction is it's use of architecture especially in the Roman arena.  "},{"Title":"Visually eclectic, with an amazing cast","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I did some additional dialog recording on Titus -- when guys are being hauled off to execution, and you hear them struggling, that's me! -- and got to see most of this movie. It's set in its own world; 30s technology, Mad Max fashion, and Republican Roman ceremony. Alan Cumming is bitchy and creepy as Saturninus, and Jessica Lange is sexy as all git-out. Well, I thought so. Anthony Hopkins is terrifying as Titus. He loses it so violently after his daughter's rape (ah, c'mon, the story's 400 years old, how much can I give away?). It's amazing to look at, and will not disappoint fans who come only to see Shakespeare's bloodiest play on screen. I can't wait to see the finished product myself.  "},{"Title":"Caligula meets (Kenneth Branagh's) Hamlet","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" It took 2 nights (not sequential) to get through the entire film.What stood out in my mind, was that it appeared to be a combination of the orgiastic scenes from Bob Guccione's Caligula and the 'period shifting' element from Kenneth Branagh's Hamlet.I have mixed feelings about it, ranging from the 'lowest' (vocalizing, out loud, pure disgust that someone spent money to make this film) to 'highs' (being impressed with certain actor's scenes that stood out, and should have been employed in a better film). I especially appreciated Harry Lennix's moments on screen, who's dialogue had the most 'character' and best portrayed the words spoken.I'm not sure what the intention of the direction was, but feel that it was either just some San Francisco (Frisco) Bay Area crap, which many other reviewers have also stated as being 'artsy' and 'high minded'. Or, that it was an attempt at allegory to display the decadence of the portrayed Roman period in relation to more contemporary times (again related to the Frisco culture). One should wonder what would result from a choice to give control of the nation, to the former mayor (Gavin Newsom).Though other reviewers have stated that 'this' is the worst film they've ever seen, I know that there are many more that would exceed it in that category. I would rate it as being alongside War Horse, though I spent most of my time viewing 'that' film 'laughing out loud' at its absurdity, as apposed to 'cringing' at the bad elements of this one.The best thing I can say about the movie, is that the DVD quality was exceptional, which along with the modern upscaling of my Blu Ray player and LED television, presented an HD-like picture quality with beautiful color and clarity. "}{"Title":"I ate Chiron and Demetrius with a side of Fava beans and a fine Ciante.","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Sorry, but I'll be that's what you thought, too! Hannibal the Cannibal meets Shakespeare.I always find it amusing that people who denounce violence and sex in movies don't realize that Shakespeare was far worse in some of his plays. This play had thirteen murders, a rape, multiple limbs being hacked off, and caps it all off with matriarchal cannibalism. This would never get by the MPAA if it wasn't Shakespeare.This was a fairly stylish adaptation of the Bard's work, with Ancient Rome set in a modernistic world with cars, radio and rock music. I think that it works unlike other updated Shakespeare, like that awful movie with MacBeth as crime gangs. It's an alternative universe, and you just accept that.Hopkins is pretty good in this as Titus Andronicus, and Jessica Lange shines as the conniving Tamora. The actor who played Aaron the Moor was pretty good, as well. They all do a lot to give the characters real life, not just reading dry script as some Shakespeare adaptations do. "},{"Title":"faithful to the source but original in interpretation through the medium, Titus is quite a sight","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus, Julie Taymor's first film as director (and possibly her best), is a scathing indictment of the vicious chain of violence- or circle, take your pick. First examined by the Bard himself, Shakespeare's play was- from all accounts I've heard- super violent and without too many redeeming qualities (one friend described it as Shakespeare's I Spit on Your Grave, not the highest endorsement). Taymor's take is to give it a vivacious quality, one that pulls together strands of time periods together it's not just Roman armor, but trench-coats and motorcycles and cars and shotguns and modern cook-wear and even some modern jazz music thrown in. It's disorienting at first, especially with the opening scene just showing a kid at a table playing with toys (more accurately, if one's looking for symbolism, the early affects of violence on the young), then suddenly whisked away to a Roman amphitheater. But if you're ready to give up any sense of the usual, of the constrictive or stuffy environments held by the classic adapters of Shakespeare, it's bound to provide some unexpected thrills and style.And style, by the way, as a means of expressing the harshness of the subject matter. This is far from one of the Bard's light affairs, and any tries at humor are probably gallows humor, or based around some of its talent. Anthony Hopkins takes the title role, a general who was loyal for so long to the Emperor (flamboyant as possible, which means a lot, via Alan Cumming) that he's repaid by allowing his new step-sons via new Empress (Jessica Lange, sultry and dangerous) to cut off his daughter's hands and her tongue and rape her and leave her for dead. But Titus tries to stay strong and true even through this, and cuts off one of his hands in exchange for the lives of his brothers sons. They're dead too. Then starts the cycle of revenge, leading to a table scene that might have been prep-work for Hopkins, in part, for his stint as Hannibal two years later. But all of this, including a subplot with the Moor Aaron (tremendous actor, can't recall the name), is presented in a form that's alive and energetic, insistent on making us pay attention, even if not every single work sticks to our consciousness (it IS Shakespeare, of course, a few words might slip by in his poetic prose).While Taymor's and her crew have one of the most lavish and awe-inspiring productions of 1999, and the cast has their fun chewing up said scenery as anger boils and madness comes to a head, and a sort of odd flaw continues onward with the boy's character (maybe more a fault of the writer than Taymor, albeit with one of the worst closing shots I've ever seen in any movie), it's still Shakespeare's show. It might not be his best work, but be it known that it is, thou interested reader, his most disturbing (maybe not bleakest, that would go to King Lear). There's death circling all around these characters, from those that were made slaves and then slaves of the Imperial ego like Lange's character and her two sons, to the Moor who has every reason to fight to stay alive as he will go to kill the innocent maid, and finally to Titus himself who has gone so long killing and pillaging he can take barbaric glee in stomping out a fly. And Hopkins is there to compliment the cringe-inducing moments, as he sits in the bathtub or creates the meat-pies, in a performance so staggering it should be counted as his bravest in the last ten years. Even if going in you already don't like the play, it'll be worth it for his turn. "},{"Title":"Convincing performance of early Shakespeare play","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Mr. Hopkins presents this portrait of defeat and disintegration with an incredibly expressive range. His Titus seems like a preparation for King Lear, which we can only hope he someday undertakes.The daring direction of the film never goes over the top. The mixture of ancient and current political references works exceptionally well.As Titus's brother, Colm Feore leads the supporting cast, which contains many world- class actors.This stage versions I've seen of Titus Andronicus clunked along clumsily. Juliet Traynor has directed a transference to the cinema that surpasses anything that could be done with this play in the theater. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Memorable--But Not Entirely Successful","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" TITUS ANDRONICUS is perhaps the least regarded of Shakespeare's plays, and there are several reasons. Written early in his career, it shows little of the brilliant language we associate with Shakespeare's work; moreover, the plot is extremely derivative and so extravagant as to be virtually unbelievable, owing a great deal to both Roman closet drama and the revenge tragedy popular at the start of Shakespeare's career. At best, most critics regard it as developmental; at worst, a virtually unperformable mishmash of spurting blood and grotesque comedy.The plot is notoriously bloody. Titus Andronicus has returned to Rome after successfully subduing the Goths, and he brings with him Tamora, Queen of the Goths, and her three sons as prisoners. Upon his arrival, and in spite of Tamora's pleas for mercy, he sacrifices Tamora's oldest son--but when Tamora's charms cause the newly crowned emperor Saturnius to crown her as empress, Tamora and her Moorish lover Aaron plot to destroy Andronicus for his refusal to show mercy to her oldest son. And the revenge they wreck is horrific indeed, as is the revenge Andronicus seeks against them in return. Before the story ends, we've seen rape, limbs lopped off, tongues plucked out, and two heads baked in a pie.Given the outrageous nature of the story and the very loosely constructed plot and script, it shouldn't be a surprise that director Julie Taymor's film is not entirely successful. What IS surprising is that TITUS is as successful as it is. Coming from a remarkably strong theatrical background, Taymor follows suit with the script, giving it the most extravagant visual and highly theatrical style her limited budget will allow. When it works, it works extremely well; when it fails, which is fairly often, it is at least visually interesting.Although I found that Anthony Hopkins' performance in the title role left something to be desired, he is at worst rock solid; this aside, the overall cast is amazingly good, with the major laurels going to Jessica Lange as the evil Tamora and Harry J. Lennix as her doubly evil lover-slave Aaron; Alan Cumming also makes a vivid impression as the ineffectual but vicious Emperor Saturnius, as does Laura Fraser as Titus' hapless daughter Lavinia.But as previously noted, the great attraction here is the look of the thing. In terms of the script itself, Taymor is very faithful to the original--but in order to bolster its weaknesses she transposes the story to a collage-like never-never land that includes elements of ancient Rome, the roaring 20s, set pieces that would seem lifted from the notorious film CALIGULA, and fascist Italy. There are moments when the effect is flatly awkward--the first few opening minutes of the film being a case in point. But for the most part, Taymor's stylistic vision is quite remarkable, and while you may not care for the basic vision it remarkably done nonetheless.For myself, I did not particularly expect to enjoy this film, but even though I was extremely critical of some of Taymor's ideas I found myself watching it straight through from beginning to end. Those most likely to enjoy the film are people with a strong interest in theatre, design, and art films with an extreme edge; for them it will probably be a must own. At the same time, however, I do not put it entirely out of bounds for more casual viewers, for there is much to recommend it.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Adaptation of problematic, early play by Shakespeare","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I saw Julie Taymor's Frida, and liked it very much. In an interview, she repeatedly mentioned her earlier film Titus, and so I came to view it. The film is very strange. Its setting is split between ancient and modern times, switching back and forth without warning. This takes some getting used to. The English is Shakespearean, and also takes some getting used to. Anthony Hopkins in the lead role is excellent, as are Harry Lennix as Aaron, and Jessica Lange as Tamora. It is not a pretty tale, and is quite graphic. There is much in Titus that is surprisingly relevant today, such as its treatment of race. I would not hesitate to recommend this film to anyone who has an interest in Shakespeare, Rome or cutting-edge cinema. "},{"Title":"One of my favourites (possible spoilers herein)","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so there are probably some spoilers, because this is more a comment rather than a review.In response to the comment that is currently up on the Titus page I would like to say that this is probably one of the most beautiful (and terrifying) films that I have seen, ever. Yes, there are many inaccuracies... the Goths (visi- and ostro- originated in Romania and so they probably would not be blonde-haired blue eyed... although I give her credit, the Italians looked Italian as far as I remember. Inaccuracies are generally things I overlook when being told a fictional tale. The movie was part fantasy, I mean, cars in the Roman Empire? And also, how did Tamora know Roman mythology so well (recall the dialogue about Diane and the hunter that takes place between her, Bassianuss and Lavinia), if she was a goth? I doubt she would have been nearly as well spoken in the Roman language (which in the film was English) as she was. These were inaccuracies on Shakespeare's part, not Taymor's. So my point is that in fiction one must overlook inaccuracies, if possible.The first time I saw this movie I found it strange and repulsive, but beautiful. I watched it again years later and was riveted by the creativity that went into the sets, the costume and the general atmosphere. Although Titus may seem like an extravagant gore/sensual feast it is much more, and there is a story. Perhaps if you watch it a few times more (if you can stand to, that is)you will see what I see, or maybe you will derive your own message from it. What I see in Titus is the story of a man who has lost everything, yet never lost his desire for revenge. A tortured man who has endured the worst and again, lost everything but his vengeful-spirit. So I see it as commentary on human nature. I find various subplots in it, mainly surrounding Lavinia and Aaron...And by the way, I suppose I am intellectual simply because that's where I might be categorized. I don't care enough about the label to be insecure about it, so my liking this film has to do with a genuine appreciation for the visual beauty, the lyrical quality of the dialogue/monologue and the story/plot/theme.  "},{"Title":"Judgment is clouded? I think not....","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  some people just need to lighten up. this was an adaptation of Titus Andronicus. hence, license was used in approaching the material, scenery, context, etc. the anachronistic elements chosen by taymor could have been confusing, butultimately didn't harm the textual performance of the material.in the end, i simply chose to look at the setting as an alternate timeline in which the Roman Empire didn't fall, but developed into the quasi-fascist regime you see portrayed before you by taymor. when one considers that the original play is not based on historical fact, but is a total fiction, it becomes clear that adopting such license is wholly acceptable in a modern context.did it work or didn't it? Yes and no. But to claim that anyone who praises this film is using questionable judgment is offensive and just plain stupid. there are inevitable aspects of individual creation that will be beyond singular understanding or appreciation. this was a fine effort and well worth the time to anyone lacking in pretension. there are striking visuals in this film that will stay with me for some time. taymor's wondrous aesthetic sensibility is not to be dismissed.i, for one, hope that taymor has a long fruitful career. "},{"Title":"Pure perfection for art lovers!","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Where should I start? What can I say about a movie that blew me away after just a few minutes? Hard, very hard mission to explain something so complex as this Shakespeare adaptation. As you know, `Titus Andronicus' was created early in Shakespeare career, therefore you won't find in the script the details and touches of genius that can be found in latter works. Never the less, this play is amazing in the human emotions that manage to create. Julie Taymor's adaptation is probably one of the best in film history, I have no doubt about it, even though some people think is the worst one). She took a lot of liberties here, but I think the play's nature invites for such a thing. The actors are brilliant in their roles of portraying this human drama, and I think Sir Anthony Hopkins did one of the best performances in his entire career. The movie is visually stunning, and you have to be warned that is tough sometimes to watch it.  First time I saw this movie, we were just 10 people in the cinema, and 4 of them left after a while. The second time I saw it on the DVD, and it had the same effect on me as the first time mind-blowing!!! This is a movie for art lovers, for open-mind people who are sick of the Hollywood clichés and grand productions that show nothing.10/10   "},{"Title":"Titus is Julie Taymore's opus.","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Many might choose to fault Julie Taymore for her anachronistic method of adapting Titus Andronicus to film. To those who dislike this, it should be mentioned that Shakespeare's own plays and the productions thereof were rife with anachronisms. Julie Taymore thus keeps with the tradition of Shakespearean productions.Julie Taymore's Titus is a visual masterpiece which manages to capture all the excitement, anguish, anger, and pain of the original play. Backed up by an equally dynamic score, the amalgamation of these elements with incredible special effects and superb acting jobs by Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, and Harry Lennix (among other great actors) conveys just how intense of a work Titus Andronicus actually is.Yes, Julie Taymore took some liberties with certain elements of Titus Andronicus. For example, the messenger who delivers Titus Andronicus the news of his sons' demise is highly elaborate and probably overemphasized. However, Julie Taymore's liberties also did the play considerable justice, especially with regards to the attack on Lavinia and Titus' begging for his sons' lives.Many will probably find fault with this movie as the plot is long and matches the language in comprehensive difficulty. One must recognize that Shakespearean English is an entirely different dialect if one is to try and appreciate any Shakespearean play, especially Titus Andronicus. Also, one must recognize that Titus Andronicus is Shakespeare's first attempt at a revenge tragedy, which is why it lacks the polish of later tragedies such as MacBeth and Othello. However, the advantage to this is that, unlike MacBeth and Othello, Titus Andronicus' main villain (Aaron) possesses motiveless malignity and has no redeeming personality traits (it is unfortunate that, in Titus, Julie Taymore chose to remove some of Aaron's important lines that would have supported this, especially with regards to the plea bargain between Aaron and Lucius). In later plays, Shakespeare attempted to explain away the evils of his villains and make them more understandable.Overall, Julie Taymore has managed to take an under-appreciated Shakespearean tragedy and turn into a marvel of cinematic and dramatic beauty. Titus is by far one of the best Shakespeare adaptations of all times, and its only fault is the removal of some highly significant lines. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The makers of Titus should be applauded for being so bold with what many would consider to be untouchable material (the original Shakespeare work). Every scene is presented in a way that makes it a true joy to watch, and the performances are modern enough that today's viewer can relate to the story in new ways, yet not so much so that the original character is lost.  The story is one of Shakespeare's weakest, and some of the aesthetic elements don't always mesh, however I am always entertained by something this distinct, as it often provides new meaning to a retelling of the same story. It is easy for us to forget that in many ways, Shakespeare was pushing the envelope of the performing arts; I believe he would want his writing to continue to be progressive, rather than stagnate as his work tends to do among literary purists.  Titus is by no means a perfect film, however I find the editing, cinematography, acting, and directing to be superb.  "}{"Title":"One of the few masterpiece Shakespeare adaptations","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" To see this film as having been given 'the Hollywood treatment' misses the point entirely. Nothing in Titus is there by chance; production design, costume and music have been meticulously planned to complement Shakespeare's own imagery. There are surreal elements in the direction, but Shakespeare's imagery in this, one of his darkest and most violent plays, is also often surreal. Styles are mixed in the score, for instance, we have dark baroque, grand symphonic sweeps and many styles of jazz; in production design, if soldiers on motorbikes fits the scene better than soldiers on horseback, then motorbikes are used. By devising each individual scene in a way that best complements the dialogue, in less skilled hands it could so easily have become a series of interesting but unrelated set pieces; however, the genius of the direction is that it holds together as a contiguous whole. Set against other modern Shakespeare adaptations, it is every bit as fine as Branagh's Hamlet or Loncraine's Richard III. I see nothing in the film to justify any claim that the Bard would have any problem with this adaptations Taymor's imagination does full justice to Shakepeare's own soaring imagination. And if you though Anthony Hopkins could act after seeing Silence of the Lambs; after watching this, his Lecter performance will seem like a rehearsal. A must see. "},{"Title":"Worst Play?????????","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  As someone who has seen and read almost every Shakespeare play there is, I must say that this is the best adapted Shakespeare film I have ever seen. Not only was it great because the play is fabulous and for once we weren't seeing Romeo and Juliet or Hamlet or a feeble attempt at an adaptation of a comedy...(I think Love's Labour Lost is the worst adaptation of Shakespeare I've ever seen.), but Julie Taymor's FABULOUS vision and unique insight into the play made this movie one of my favorite films of all time. The cast is perfect, and Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange are exquisite in their roles.  Not to mention Harry Lennix who plays Aaron.  Taymor's take on the multi-generational and cultural conflicts make Titus a feast for the mind as well as the eye.  Her penny arcade nightmare scenes are fabulous and, for those who can't handle Shakespeare any way but with Elizabethan dress and tights, very unique.  I highly recommend this film to anyone who can open their minds and see Shakespeare in the best way...fresh.  Titus wasn't Shakespeare's worst play...it's just highly underrated. "},{"Title":"Best Shakespeare adaptation...ever","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Underrated and underappreciated,  Titus is one of the only films that remains true to Shakespeares play of the same name. With some of the most stunning cinematography I have ever seen, Julie Taymor adds style and beauty to the virtually untouched script. She directed it in a way so that people who know nothing about shakespeare can still have an understanding of the play. She succeeds where Baz Luhrman failed, making it stylish and keeping true to the story at the same time. Beautiful acting by Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange. "},{"Title":"Julie Taymor Breathes Life Into Titus Andronicus  (9/10)","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  William Shakespeare's tragedy `Titus Andronicus' gets something of a Baz Luhrmann `Romeo & Juliet' style treatment from director Julie Taymor, in her visionary film adaptation of the play, `Titus,' starring Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange.  It's one of the more brutal and disturbing offerings from the bard, who seeks to expose the myriad chambers of darkness that can be found within the human psyche, which Taymor (who also wrote the screenplay) ferrets out and presents to optimum-- if often disconcerting-- effect.  It's a tale of revenge and madness; of revenge born of grief, and madness born of sorrows layered upon sorrows that are simply beyond the endurance of mortal man, the attendant emotions of which Taymor captures in a tapestry of images plaited throughout this blood stirring drama, making it-- for better or worse (as this is one that's definitely going to `stay' with you awhile)-- an altogether unforgettable motion picture experience.A soldier for forty years, General Titus Andronicus (Hopkins) has commanded the Roman legions to countless victories on the field of battle, and along with his army is just returned home from their latest conquest.  Once in Rome, Titus will oversee the ceremonial salute to the fallen and the burial of those who died in battle; then he will attend to his prisoners, the Queen of the Goths, Tamora (Lange) and her three sons.  For Titus, life is in order and all is well; but though he doesn't realize it yet, all of that is about to change.Titus has four sons, but it is his only daughter, the beautiful Lavinia (Laura Fraser), who will play a leading role in the drama that is about to unfold, which begins with the untimely death of Caesar.  Though it is but an opinion, when Titus is asked which of Caesar's son's he favors for succession, Saturninus (Alan Cumming) or Bassianus (James Frain), his choice holds sway, and subsequently triggers an irreversible chain of events which ultimately beget the final tragedy of the story.  Before the end, however, Titus Andronicus will suffer the agonies of hell; but into that dark night, he will not go quietly.Within the first few minutes of a film, a good director will let you know what you're in for, and Taymor succeeds in doing so here.  The riveting opening sequence, in which Titus and his soldiers march in hypnotic cadence into Rome, sets the style and tone for all that follows.  Taymor's staging and choreography are brilliant; orchestrated to draw in the audience and hold them, and she does, in absolutely mesmerizing fashion.  Set in ancient Rome, Taymor nevertheless refuses to be bound by the parameters of `era,' going `out of the box' to draw upon and blend time periods in an effort to realize her personal vision and bring her imaginative presentation of the play to fruition.  There are microphones, for example, in front of the Capitol; and in procession through the streets of Rome, chariots are preceded and/or followed by automobiles and motorcycles.  All of which is played out against a rhythm of excitement that effectively impacts the drama, bringing it all so vibrantly to life.  To find the true pulse of the story, Taymor evokes a sense of Olivier/Welles/Branagh and fuses it with a combination of Luhrmann and `West Side Story,' which makes her film not only emotionally involving and compelling, but visually stunning as well.  And though she draws upon the best of the best to make her film all that it can be, what you see on the screen it pure Taymor; the expression of a unique and inimitable artistic genius.As Titus, Anthony Hopkins gives a solid, if not his best, performance.  His portrayal is thoroughly convincing (which goes without saying, of course, with Hopkins), but the usual pure and resonant timbre of his voice occasionally and quite noticeably falters, though his elocution remains a study in perfection.  An actor who can play any role, Hopkins may always be remembered as Hannibal in `Silence of the Lambs,' but without question, he was born to play Shakespeare.  One would think, in fact, that his resume would be filled with cinematic adaptations of such; curiously, however, it is not.  And while his Titus may be comparatively sub-standard `Hopkins,' in the end, he manages to make the role his own with yet another memorable performance.  Initially, casting Jessica Lange as Tamora seems an odd choice, inasmuch as this is her first foray into the Shakespearian arena.  In the final analysis, however, it is very much in keeping with the less than conventional approach Taymor employs here, and Lange comports herself well with her portrayal of the malevolent Queen of the Goths.  She lends a definitive physical countenance to the role, and in her eyes you can discern the shadows that plague her soul and the fire that sparks her quest for revenge.  It's a performance that goes far in demonstrating that Lange is, indeed, a consummate actor, with a range that substantiates her stature as an Oscar winner.Also turning in performances of note are Cumming, who is deliciously loathsome as Saturninus; Fraser, whose Lavinia is endearingly fragile and vulnerable; and Harry J. Lennix as the manipulative, despicable Moor, Aaron.The supporting cast includes Colm Feore (Marcus Andronicus), Angus MacFadyen (Lucius), Osheen Jones (Young Lucius), Jonathan Rhys-Meyers (Chiron), Matthew Rhys (Demetrius), Kenny Doughty (Quintus), Blake Ritson (Mutius), Colin Wells (Martius), Raz Degan (Alarbus), Ettore Geri (Priest) and Constantine Gregory (Aemelius).  There's no escaping the fact that the story of `Titus' is gruesome, to say the least.  Many will find it offensive, even insufferable, especially the ending, which is a sordid business no matter how you slice it.  But the vigor and vision of Taymor's production makes it engrossing, stimulating entertainment that is entirely accessible and will appeal to an audience that transcends hard core Shakespeare aficionados.  If not madness, there is definitely magic in her method, which is more than evident on the screen.  And that's the magic of the movies.  9/10.                               "},{"Title":"One of the worst modernized Shakespeare renditions ever","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This version of Titus Andronicus left me feeling like I needed to empty my stomach contents.  Anthony Hopkins, usually a fantastic actor who has turned in amazing performances, seems to be doing more of an impression of Rod Steiger than a character from Shakespeare - in looks as well as acting technique.  Jessica Lange, also a great actress, is completely out of line trying to do Shakespeare, and just comes off as tired and unskilled.  Both performances look like high school drama projects.The movie progresses erratically back and forth between the classical and the modern, and never fully accomplishes the effects of either.  I felt like I was on a bumpy road, and had to re-adjust myself with every scene.The only saving grace in this movie was Alan Cumming, who is amazing in every movie he has been in, whether in a bit part or as a fully supporting actor.  He dominates every scene in which he appears, and it's a shame that he wasn't in EVERY scene of the movie, which may have saved it.Again, I think that both Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange are wonderful actors  -  just not in this particular movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting take on an old story","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Talk about a whole new experience!  Typically, Shakespearean films tend to follow the styles and settings  of the time they depict, but Titus seemed  to take on a different approach which  took me by surprise. The art design  was tremendous, and the neo-futuristic  wasteland-style settings were awesome.  This film was creepy, so dark, that it  the postmodern aesthetic it was  attempting to portray was an axiom  based on a time we have yet to see.  While the acting proved to be nonplus  in some areas, considering they were  trying very hard to keep to the speaking  style. In my opinion, they should have  used a more modern set of dialogue,  one which reflects the state of society  they were depicting. "},{"Title":"Some people get it, and some don't.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  My friend the English major put it best when she said,Damn Julie Taymor for making me love a play I hated so much in school.Near as I can tell, the only problem with this movie is that now Julie Taymor will have to outdo herself in the future.People have criticized this production for not being traditional enough. These same people don't get the modern look applied to most Shakespeare plays.In the imdb comments index, drn5 from Stratford UK nailed it on the head when s/he said, And this po-faced Victorian literalism has been stifling Shakespeare's plays ever sinceDamned straight! Anyone who thinks Shakespeare is just something you're supposed to half comprehend with hoity British accents by leotard clad actors moving at a f**king snail's pace is missing the point and should go back to their marathon spoonfeeding sessions of Gladiator, Titanic and other drivel that pretends to be art.The genius of Taymor's direction and design, her ensemble of actors and visual artists some of whom hail from Fellini's studio, is that they have made Shakespeare's worst play, understandable, relevant, and immediate.Taymor is a master artist. Every stroke you see on this canvas is deliberate and well thought out. There are grotesque visuals in this film and at the same time they are beautiful. This aesthetic choice is intentional. Our reactions to her imagery are a comment on who we are. Times haven't changed much since the bard's day, nor has the human condition.Other observations There are no sympathetic characters in this play. And yet, most audience members will find themselves siding with Anthony Hopkins' character over others. This is probably due to the fact that Hopkins' character is the first one we get to know. Though I have not seen it, apparently this device was also used in Silence of the Lambs where once again the audience finds itself sympathizing with Hopkins' character Lechter.This is probably one of my five favorite movies of all time.All the actors were great but standouts included Hopkins, Cumming and Harry Lennix.Harry Lennix is a god.'nuff said.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding film for those who have don't need their films force fed to them!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is an outstanding film in all respects! Acting, sets, Directing. The early scene where the conquering Titus returns in triumph and sadness at their fallen soldiers (with a solemn ceremony) is something that will visually stay with you for a LONG time!For those who need everything spelled out and spoon fed to them by their films, I would say stay away from this film! If you like your films visual and intellectual then Titus is a MUST SEE! Yes, it does use Shakespearean dialog that for some it may take 15 minutes or so to get used to but after that you will become more accustom to the speech and have little problem enjoying the film! For others it will be understandable from the start. And lastly those I described earlier who need things spoon fed to them will most likely not have the patience or intellect to even try to understand this outstanding film!Do yourself a favor and watch this film (completely) and you will find it to be a very outstanding film that offers a lot on the strong human emotions we all have inside us! "},{"Title":"OMG, a masterpiece !!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Never having seen any movies based on Shakespeare, I was captured within the first 2 minutes of this film, I had no expectations. You do not merely watch Titus, you become enthralled, like rubber necking the scene of a car accident, you cannot look away... At the end of the movie I sat there, breathing, thinking, desperately requiring a long hot shower in anticipation of washing the effects off my body and mind. Wow !! within days I was asking my friends had they seen this movie? before I knew it I was recommendng this flick with two thumbs up! It is a living entity within your soul, I ask you all who enjoyed, no, loved this movie, to recommend me others that you also found works of art. To those of you who hated this movie, All I can say is, crawl out of the box wherein you live, and explore the world of surealism, and depth, and if that does not interest you, Super Troopers is playing at a theatre near you. Cheers !! 10/10   "},{"Title":"Shakespeare at its best!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot recommend a better movie! The settings and costuming are exquisite; the music is eerie and compelling; the cast is magnificent! And this is simply Shakespeare at its best. This much overlooked play dives deep into the depths of the human psyche and addresses the darkest things that swirl in even the most honorable. Anthony Hopkins portrays Titus with a cunning ease that makes the performance superb. He manages to capture the honor of the man while giving us tantalizing glimpses of the darkness that swirls under the surface. And Jessica Lange pulls of Tamora's vengeful nature fluent giddiness. The rest of the players are equally adept in their respective roles. All in all, this movie is well worth the ride. "}{"Title":"Disturbing and Brilliant","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie thinking Gladiator (oops), talk about expectations just a tad off.I was very pleasantly surprised. It was dark and disturbing and beautiful and kept me captivated throughout. "},{"Title":"Touch me Titus","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Far from being historically anomalous, this production places us squarely in one time region, that of eighties British pop video. With it's floating polystyrene hands, opulent plywood Roman sets, flaming plinths and bumptious lighting we are whisked nostalgically and concatenately through Frankie Goes To Hollywood, Duran Duran, ABC, Spandau Ballet and (improbably) Van Halen with hardly a pause for breath against the heaving chest of a leather joy-boy. As Alan Cumming strides across the floor of the senate with a foppish fringe we half expect Adam Ant to swing down behind him wearing nothing but a jock-strap. Or Batman, as the obtuse camera angles and jazzy soundtrack immediately conjurs up the memory of Arena productions. Far from being original, Derek Jarman (another eighties icon) did all this in his version of 'The Tempest' in less moneyed but arguably more successful style. Mercifully, Livinia is unable to give us her rendition of 'I Should Be So Lucky' for reasons you may not want to discover.Purportedly Shakespeare's clucker, I find it quite accessible and the language always a pleasure, the perspicuous cast doing a brilliant job in making the action understandable to a modern audience, especially the accipitrine moor of the piece. Tamora was crying out for Glenn Close, though. Hopkins, apparently a refugee from stage Shakespeare, decides on an interpretation that avoids emotiveness and some may find that distracting or reductive.Denial of God during Shakespeare's non-secular times was a risky business, so it had to be hidden implicitly in the text, but we are left in little doubt that Titus's loyalty to the Gods is bitterly tested. The rather long climatic shot at the film's close with it's almost parousian sense of rebirth and hope for a (kinder?) future fails to resonate, however. I think the message is harsher. Can an oligarchy afford the luxury of mercy? They won't thank you for it and you can't trust the help either. Far from being a conciliatory figure, the moor's son, (further marked by race) is more likely to spurn the sparing of his life in order to avenge the father, thus beginning the cycle again. Is the quality of mercy terrigenous or an unwanted and impossible ideal imposed by God? We are not left feeling re-assured. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say?  This adaption of Shakespeare's play is one of the most amazing films I've ever seen.  Because all the dialog is taken directly from the play, the language is difficult to understand at first, but much like a subtitled movie, where after a while you forget you're reading, you adapt to it and soon get into it.  I felt for Titus as things got more and more horrible for him, and just when it seems things could get no worse, fate gives him a few more kicks in the pants.  And I loved the end how he gets his revenge by giving his enemies their just desserts (pun intended).  Some especially moving scenes were Marcus Andronicus giving his monologue in the swamp to the newly transformed Lavinia, and Titus at the crossroads pleading with the passing people to spare his son's lives.  Truly, this is in my top 20 list of greatest movies ever made.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"extraordinary film","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymor's Titus is one of the best films ever adapted from a Shakespeare play. Her brilliant staging of this play made it the best film of 1999. Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange give amazing performances that rank among their best. THe cast which includes Colm Fiore as Marcus, Laura Fraser as Lavinia, Harry Lennix as Aaron, Alan Cumming as Saturninus, James Frain as Bassianus is remarkable. THe set design and oscar-nominated costumes are incredible. The final scene which is the culmination of numerous vows and acts of revenge has to be one of the best staged scenes ever. This movie is definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"What a big loada...","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Elaborate production design and costumes obviously cost a lot of money yet lend no weight whatsoever to this bombastic, flatulent piece of designer movie-making. And goddess save us from Avid!Some really hot men tho and nice tribal tats. And Jessica Lange looked great. Hannibal Lect.... I mean, Anthony Hopkins, looked a bit sheepish throughout.Want an aggressively relevant adaptation of Shakespeare? Watch Michael Almereyda's Hamlet. There's more art (and heart) in the Guggenheim scene than in all 162 wackily itinerant minutes of this mess. "},{"Title":"The second greatest Shakespeare screen adaptation.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The first being Hamlet in 1996. This film is not for the standard American audience. This was made abundantly clear by the incredibly tiny theatrical release. It only played in one theatre in my town and unfortunatly I missed it. If you liked the horrid mainstream rendition of Romeo and Juliet a few years ago, you will not like this. Go rent a Freddy Prinze Jr. movie.  This film uses the original text and finds great actors who know how to perform it. No one is below par here. The direction, while a bit pretetious at times (whatever that really means) is awesome. The imagery is brilliant, and the story, while not rife with symbolism or hidden meaning like Shakespeare's later works, is very good. It has a solid beginning middle and end, all in all a great five act.  Give this a shot. If you can understand it, you will enjoy it. Don't criticize it for setting it in another era/world/environment. That is never the issue. It is the story that is important. The problem with Baz's version of Romeo and Juliet (besides the fact that it is one of Shakespeare's worst plays) was that he cast the box office draws in it and not actors. He found people who look pretty. NOT ACTORS.  Anthony Hopkins, by the by, gives one of his most powerful performances, and that is saying a lot. This film has made in into my personal top 100.  "},{"Title":"Who would have thought, the Bard's worst play would be his best film","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  William Shakespeare wrote plays of romance, comedy, tragedy, horror, and almost anything else that makes a story interesting. With Titus Andronicus, one of his earliest, least-known, and least-liked plays, he conceived a production that had every atrocity one can think of. Rape, murder, incest, cannibalism, it's all there. For centuries, the play was criticized, became the centre of controversy, and was often banned from being performed at all. Over 500 years later, British director Julie Taymor produced one of the greatest Shakespeare film adaptations of all time, Titus. Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange star.The film's introduction involves a young boy, seemingly about 10-12 years old, sitting at his kitchen table with food and several war toys from the Roman Empire and more recent wars. On his kitchen table, he creates his own vision of carnage, pulling apart his toys, dropping them in a glass of milk, and then covering them with ketchup to simulate blood. All of a sudden, a giant blast comes through a window towards him and he runs for shelter under the table. Suddenly, a dirty-looking man appears under the table, hoists him up on his shoulders, takes him to his cellar, and behind the cellar door he walks into a Roman arena. There, the young boy is confronted by an entire Roman army returning from battle, led by the valiant general, Titus Andronicus (Hopkins). He is only returning from battle with the sadistic Goths, led by their Queen Tamora (Lange). After losing 18 of his 20 sons to the Goth armies, Titus takes Tamora and her two sons, Chiron (Jonathan Rhys-Meyers) and Demetrius (Matthew Rhys) prisoner. Titus has returned to Rome a hero, and in turn has won the respect of all within the kingdom.Titus' popularity is the object of jealousy for Saturninus (Alan Cumming), the newly crowned Caesar. Saturninus is engaged to Titus' beautiful daughter, Lavinia (Laura Fraser), who is in love with Bassianus (James Frain). This, of course, is not approved by Lavinia or Bassianus. When Saturninus receives the word that the Goths have been captured, just to make Titus mad, Saturninus orders Tamora, Chiron, and Demetrius set free, and takes Tamora as his Queen over Lavinia. Now Queen, Tamora is free to do as she deems fit, and continues an affair with her lover, Aaron the Moor (Harry Lennix, pulling off the best performance in the film). Aaron, the object of lust for Tamora, persuades her into seeking revenge on Titus for his injustice against her. So, in response to Aaron's suggestion, Tamora offers Chiron and Demetrius the chance to do as they wish with Lavinia, simply to avenge their imprisonment after the war. Chiron and Demetrius do as she asks, kidnap Lavinia, rape her, cut off her hands and tongue, and leave her standing on a tree trunk in a forest. She is discovered by Marcus Andronicus (Colm Feore), brother and voice of reason to Titus. Titus finds her disfigured when Marcus brings her to him, and will not stand to see his daughter feel outcast for her disfigurement. In response, he cuts off his own hand, seemingly to avenge his daughter... unforunately, all is not yet avenged in Rome. Titus Andronicus will not stand to see his daughter disfigured without getting even with Tamora. Thus sets off a turbulent chain of events that will ultimately lead to the end of a rivalry, the fall of an empire, and the descent of a man. Indeed, as the billing suggests, If you think revenge is sweet, taste this.A well-made, time-bending, stomach-turning, eye-popping, gut-busting film left unknown by the general public, Titus is one of the greatest films I have ever had the privilege of viewing. Julie Taymor created a Roman Empire that makes Gladiator seem, how do you say, as exciting as a state of the union address. Ms. Taymor presented to us a new world, and timeless void with gladiator arenas, marble palaces, pool tables, video games, discmans, and violence all the same. Never before have I had an experience that commented on violence the way that Titus has shown here. The ultimate message of the film suggests that no matter what the day, what the time, what the era, violence, revenge, murder, and atrocity will always exist and remain relatively the same. Despite the underlying message of the film, there is far more to be adored here, if you can look past the disturbing content. Brilliant production design, cinematography, editing, special effects, and costumes, ahhh the costumes. This is all besides the excellent cast, actors who, Harry Lennix in particular, actually know how to speak their Shakespearean lines! They are not shouted, screamed, or simply said in an incomprehensible manner. We know exactly what the actors are talking about, all mentioned in the correct context. Being a Shakespearean actor myself, I can just imagine the kind of Hell the director put the actors through to learn their lines... not just memorize them, LEARN them. This is a virtue missing from other Shakespearean adaptations, most notably the youthful William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. All in all... haven't I said enough already? 5 stars to Titus.   "},{"Title":"Alan Cumming The unsung (well, under-sung) hero of this film.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"    This movie was visually amazing. Titus, like films such as Romeo And Juliet and Plunkett And Macleane,used scenery updating to convey a more contemporary edge. Although it may seem like a strange concept, the modern props never threw off the story or seemed out of place. I loved the scene where the Empress, Tamra's sons were playing video games and listening to music on headphones while Aaron the Moor played pool.      Anyway, more to the point, I Loved Alan Cumming. His interpretation of the origional Shakepherian lines updated the film without props. I loved the way he could be loud and dictating one second and quiet and unsure the next. This was truly one of his best performances (although all of them have been fabulous).    The only part of this movie that I did not understand was the deal with the little boy. I don't understand who he was or how he came to be there, why they held him up in the collesium, why he carried the baby off into nowhere (where was he going?). I just did not get what his role was or why he was there.           Moral of the movie        Beware of foes bearing pie. "},{"Title":"The Elizabethans would have loved this movie","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Usually dismissed as Shakespeare's worst play (has anybody read King John?), this over-the-top revenge tragedy shows a young playwright bursting with talent strutting his stuff.  Julie Taymor (who did Lion King on Broadway) does him justice by unleashing this stunning phantasmagoria.  I don't know how Jessica Lange and Anthony Hopkins could be better (though, given the plot, the latter comes a bit too close to Hannibal the Cannibal in Silence of the Lambs).  The opening sequence of Roman soldiers choreographed in the Colosseum is so overwhelming, visually and aurally, that it makes Ridley Scott's much-vaunted classical pageant The Gladiator look like the computer game it is.    "},{"Title":"THIS is the Glory that was Rome.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Once or twice every few years a film transcends the ratings scale. (Run Lola Run was the last one for me!) Ten is not high enough for this film, this is a masterpiece. The staging, the surrealism, the fidelity to the Bard, the acting - the whole production! Fellini (Satyricon) was the last time I saw the stark realities of Rome captured in a film. Dread Duty, Blood Wars and Revenge - and perverse Honor in the midst of it all. Anthony Hopkins really serves up the role - (among other things) -  with relish!  Jessica Lange outdid herself. Andronicus' portrayal is the best decadent emperor since Caligula on PBS' I Claudius (Or Nero in The Robe) And the end feast in absolutely riveting! After seeing Mr. Hopkins in this - I can't wait for Hannibal II! "}{"Title":"Pretension, thy name is Julie Taymor","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Why, why, why do directors feel they have to add their own pretenses and rubbish to perfectly good Shakespeare plays?  This is a question that may never be answered, since it has done more to confuse movie-goers than to actually when the Bard any new converts.  I was looking forward to seeing this update of Titus Andronicus, but it turned out to be just another misguided mess.This is quite unfortunate, since most of the actors (save the two playing the brothers Chiron and Demetrius) are in fine form.  The cast is generally well-chosen, and, although I generally dislike too much updating, I appreciated the set design.  Quite a bit of the costuming and setting reminded me of the most recent Richard III.What the play did not need were further artistic flourishes.  The surrealistic scenes were nothing more than recycled Ken Russell hallucinations, this time with a rote techno-metal soundtrack.  The Roman orgy scenes were merely gratuitous, and the ending shot was completely incongruous and useless.The most frustrating thing for me is that Taymor's version is not bloody enough.  A scene that was supposed to involve two severed heads being revealed as a punctuation to Titus' final revenge is not even included. This film could have been so much better if Taymor had ended her artistic ambition with the set design and costumes, and had not continued to interfere every time things started getting good.   "},{"Title":"Oh my aching head....","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  It was quite an experience being completely enthralled for 20 minutes and then just shaking my head in disbelief as a character played pinball or billiards, ride a motorcycle, use a microphone, or just dress like a fool.If it wasn't for the pleasure of watching Anthony Hopkins recite his lines I don't know if I could have made it through the entire film. It's too bad, because it is a tremendous story that if treated seriously could have been an excellent film.Anthony Hopkins performance = 8 out of 10 starsJessica Langes performance = 5 out of 10 starsThe Movie = 2 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  From the stylish pagentry of her Tony Awarded directorial triumph, The Lion King, Julie Taymor's debut film -- which I myself anticipated greatly, was terribly disapointing.While the theatrical, highly symbolic pantomime style of the stage works well on stage -- it does not lend itself very well to film.  The mediums are very different.   Theatrics on the big screen appear overdone and odd.  Such is the case with her adaption of Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus.Here, we are given a tour-de-force of Ken Russell-esque wacko directing.  A superb cast, especially Jessica Lange, works with what they have been given, but Taymor hinders their performances with her odd vision. I couldn't help but wonder if half this film is Taymor's burlesqued view of the concepts of war, society, and the other topics the young Shakespeare addressed.  In such a serious play about revenge and blind honor, reality steps off into the wings of her imposed stage, to give us a seemingly nightmarish romp of gore and mutilation. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and daringly original","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  See this film.  It is one of the most original and daring films I've seen in the past few years.  How the academy passed over this film for best picture is both surprising and depressing.  Every aspect of the film is amazing music, cinematography, special effects, acting, direction, costumes, editing, etc.  Thank god a genius like Taymor has been recognized by hollywood, and has had the chance to make this film.  Titus is actually really funny.  For those of you confused about whther it's alright to laugh, read Ebert's review or Harold Bloom's opinions on the play.  For the film is suposed to be funny, supposed to make one squirm, torn between disgust and laughter, marvelling at the brilliant juxtaposition of the two.If you care about originality, and if you care at all about risk-taking in film (an act usually reserved only for the theater), see Titus.  It will blow your mind. "},{"Title":"A feast for the senses","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymor has taken one of Shakespeare's lesser known plays and has created a stunning film that will stimulate the mind as well as the eye. The sets, costumes, and cinematography all work together to create a surreal, alternate universe Rome where machine guns and video games co-exist alongside phalanxes and the Colosseum.  Major set pieces, such as Lavinia at the Swamp, the Crossroads, and the opening scene with the soldiers, are breathtaking.Anthony Hopkins is amazing as the Roman general Titus.  He is stubborn, loyal to a fault, and is neither good nor evil.  He is human.  Watching him roar in rage as everything he holds dear is desecrated, one feels sympathy. His nemeses, Tamora and Aaron, played by Jessica Lange and Harry Lennix are equally powerful in their roles.  Actually, the entire supporting cast is great.This film has the same electric charge running through it that can also be found in some other good costume dramas such as Elizabeth or Dangerous Liaisons.  Don't be deterred by the dialogue or the length.  I read the play beforehand but I can tell you that the movie is quite understandable. I'll find a day to massacre them all and I shall grind your bones to dust don't really lose much in the translation )At times though, the film goes a bit overboard in its visual style, leading to sensory overload.  This is more than made up for though by the darkly black humour that permeates the film.  From Lavinia's hand scene to the blowout finale, the audience I saw it with was laughing several times.My favourite film of 1999.  Academy voters, are you paying attention? "},{"Title":"Wow!  Mediocre play makes for great film.","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Hard to believe that what has always been considered one of Shakepeare's lesser efforts has proven to adapt to the screen quite effectively.  The film is stunning to look at with many evocative images and a story that does have relevance in today's society.  Julie Taymor should be proud of this her first major film.  Her adaptation is clever and thought provoking.  You can easily draw the parallels with imagery for Kosovo, Chechneya, Rhawanda and here at home with the Clinton administration's scorched earth methods of handling their enemies. The tit-for-tat machinations of Titus and Tamora prove that neither is a villain when we see the extremes to which their motivations are driven.  While the actions that they perpetuate are vile and heinous, it is not difficult to see them as parents avenging their children.  Anthony Hopkins is no less than compelling as Titus, with wonderful support from Colm Feore, Laura Fraser and Angus McFayden. Harry J. Lennix is riveting as malevolent Aaron, who exacerbates the burning hatred of Tamora by adding fuel to the fire.  In the character of Aaron, Shakespeare has created a villain with no conscience towards his fellow man, his unbridled ruthlessness and sheer will to survive and destroy at any cost are unmatched and lay the groundwork for future villains, Iago (Othello) and Edmund (Lear)-his sole admirable characteristics is his love for his son.  The true revelation in this film is Jessica Lange, whose screen appearances are far too infrequent or misguided.  She handles the text beautifully and delivers a multi-layered performance of initial pathos and desperation to ultimately cruelty.  Hopefully she will be recognized by the Academy awards for a nomination of best supporting actress.  A word to the wise if invited to a banquet at Titus's - stick to the salad! The only drawback to this film is the performance of Alan Cumming as Saturninus.  His campy over the top scenery chewing, grates like nails on a chalkboard.  Hopefully, this performance will open people's eyes to the fact that he is not the emperor but the emperor's new clothes.  For the past two years, all the word about his has been how incredible he is- alas he fall short and vehicle after vehicle he still reminds me of the Scotch equivalent of Pee Wee Herman without the tongue-in-cheek humor.  With those Liza Minnelli eyelashes, I thought for sure he played her role on in Cabaret on Broadway. Please somebody -the hook -Now.   "},{"Title":"Some adaptations are not meant to be....","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Literature is that! Literary. Adapting some exceptionally good art works to a different media requires skill and hard work.This is one of the few movies that Hopkin's impressive performances do not redeem. It is a dark, cryptic and utterly uninteresting adaptation. It was just not meant to be ... at least this time.This is bad Shakespeare! Read the book! If you want to see (not read) Shakespeare check ANY of Kenneth Branagh's adaptations. Or any of the zillion previous classics by Sirs Olivier, Guinness, Gielgud; Or Kurosawa, Zefirelli, Wells, etc. You have plenty to see before you see this one -) "},{"Title":"Couldn't bear it","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I hated it. I couldn't bear to sit and watch. It was too 'arty' for me - the weird, ponderous beginning; the chariots and motorbikes; characters dressed as if from some second-rate fantasy film - it all distracted from Shakespeare's script. It was if the director couldn't decide on which era to set the movie, so included it all. Perhaps I just wasn't in the mood to sit and watch a long movie and try to ignore all the bizarre aspects to it. It totally put me off despite the caliber of the actors. While I can accept a modern version of Shakespeare, such as Richard III or Romeo and Juliet, this bizarre mix of styles just made it unbearable from the start.  "},{"Title":"Poor Shakespeare...","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Poor Shakespeare. Titus Andronicus isn't his strongest play, but the result of this adaptation is absolutely dispiritable. Awful and meaningless mixture of stiles, countries and ages. Archers in leather overcoats and modern hats etc. etc. etc. There is no any positive character in the move. Cruel and despotic Titus gains not more sympathy than his enemies. Surprisingly weak work of such excellent cast (Hopkins, Lange, Rhys-Meyers). "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Dear Lord.I am all for modernizing Shakespeare, but only when it strengthens the story.  This production is a total mess.  I can only imagine Julie Taymor sat there and thought, Yeah, I'm really digging this whole Roman thing, but what about if I throw in some Nazi stuff??  What if I dress Anthony Hopkins like the Iron Chef??  Wouldn't that be cool?That's only the tip of the iceberg.  The story is horrible, too.  There are so many stomach-churning, disturbing scenes in this movie, I lost count. Scenes that would make Marilyn Manson cover his eyes.  All totally unnecessary.  Leave some to the imagination!After watching this garbage, I was left with two questions Why in the world did Taymor choose Shakespeare's worst play to take to the big screen, how in the world did she make it worse with her adaptation? "}{"Title":"William Shakespeare on with plastic","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I personally do like many of William Shakespeare's work, but these so called modern views of usually plainly suck, and such is the case with this. The video cover was cleverly redone to look a bit like Gladiator's and the hides the fact that the film is not infact the taking place in ANCIENT rome, but some perverted artistic-futuristic crap.I just wish the great acting effort could have been saved to better version of the play. If you want to see a good William Shakespeare play with original dialogue, go and rent Henry V, directed by Kenneth Branagh.If your seeking dramaticly alternative dramatisation of the play this might maybe be for you, if not, avoid this movie and don't be fooled by attractive looking video cover.  "},{"Title":"Great flick","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I watched Titus in my English class.  I loved it all.  I loved how ancient Rome was easily combined with the modern world.  I noticed that many parts of Titus were frighteningly similar to some of the main themes in Hannibal.  The repetitive reference to animals, the eating of human flesh, the chopping-off of Hopkin's hand.  It is said that a mother nourishes her children's bodies.  It cannot be said often that the children have nourished hers.  I think this is a great movie, and I didn't even know the story. "},{"Title":"The Emperor Has No Clothes on People","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty sick film based on an admittedly pretty sick play.  The fact that it has Shakespeare as a source and Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange in it may fool some people into thinking it is an art film.  It's not.  Yet another example of style over substance, of a film caring more about being visually interesting than insightful or entertaining. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare is good, artsy is bad","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I will give Taymor credit for such an ambitious directoral debut, but the point of a Shakespeare play is to see a Shakespeare play.  As others have mentioned in these comments, there is such a thing as too much artistic interpretation.Titus Andronicus is one of my favorite plays.  I love it because it is a study in the darkest side of human nature.  It is powerful enough on its own, and does not require flashy (to garish) costumes and sets. Adaptations of his plays that replace the traditional setting are usually fine because the plays are universal.  But Titus crosses that line by building an eclectic setting that contains Roman palaces, video games and everything in between.The violent contrast of technologies, fashions and architectures will no doubt be praised by those who think artistic impression is all that counts. Those who love The Bard's work for what it is will realize that 'Titus' is nothing more than an advertisement for the director.  The focus if the film is not the play, but everything that Shakespeare had nothing to do with. Costumes props, sets, mood scenes with no dialog...There is nothing wrong with altering common ideas of presentation/settings so long as it does not distract from the play itself.  However, when you cannot see the horror and evil in the scene where Titus severed hand is returned to him with his sons' heads because some goofy guy is yelling his dialogue through a megaphone while a little girl happily dances around, the play has suffered.  Consequently, the true emotion and power of Titus Andronicus is lost in a sea of pointless artistic presentation. "},{"Title":"The Bard doth rolleth in his grave.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus, a psychotic makeover of Shakespear's epic tragedy, is so surreal as to make it laughable. Hopkins gives a powerful performance but even his mesmerizing portrayal of the title character could not keep us from being distracted by the explosion in props and costumes, a creative staff on LSD, or whatever it was that turned a powerful drama into a joke. The ubiquitous and always vocal pious aficionados who think everything atypical is creative will applaud this flick as inspired genius. However, the purists will more likely loathe it. Some things don't need Hollywood glomming them up. Shakespeare is one of them.  "},{"Title":"Whether You Like Shakespeare or not SEE THIS MOVIE","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" If nothing else this movie should be viewed for the outstanding visuals. The photography is stunning the sets are fantastic and the actors can not be beat. (Sir) Anthony Hopkins is in his element as the eventually driven insane Titus and Jessica Langes as the vicious Goth queen is breathtaking. This is the movie that made me an Angus McFadden and Jonathan Rhys-Meyers fan. I have now made a point of seeing almost everything they have been in. Their performances in this film justify viewing even their worst efforts. And there is always the wonderful Alan Cummings. The cast, the look of the film. Well pretty much everything about is well worth it. Shakespeare has been done before and will be done over and over again but this version will stand out due to the imagery. The new versions of Shakespeare have nothing on this one. (Romeo and Juliette not withstanding. Try it sober or on something and it will BLOW YOU AWAY!!!! "},{"Title":"Worst Shakespeare adaptation ever!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  LONGGGG (almost 3 hours), repititous, boring adaptation of what is considered Shakespeare's worst play.  No one likes the play, so naturally Hollywood does a movie of it.  Smart move (sarcasm).  The movie is basically just murder, mutilation, rape, cannabilism, etc. etc. shoved down the viewers' throats.  Also they (unwisely) stuck to the original play text.  Shakespeare reads a lot better than he plays.  The same points are made over again and again and AGAIN in the movie until you could scream.  The costumes and sets are (putting it mildly) WAY over the top, but it does keep you awake.  The acting...wellllll..  Hopkins has been better--he looks totally lost here.  Lange is obviously enjoying her role and she is very good.  Her outfits though, are ridiculous (and humiliating).  Her husband played by Cumming takes the movie way too seriously and turns in a dull, unfunny performance.  Rhys and Rhys-Meyers are REAL annoying as Langes' sons.  They scream and shout EVERY line at the top of their lungs.  That's not acting guys!  Every time they show up you cringe.  The rest of the cast is OK.  But altogether this is boring, overdone and unpleasant.  Who thought this would be a good idea? "},{"Title":"What is wrong with Hollywood?","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a huge commercial bomb, and rightly so.  According to VARIETY, it grossed less than 2 million before being released on DVD.  It will likely never recoup anywhere near its expense, and as an overblown, pretentious distortion of the brilliant play upon which it is based, it unfairly besmirches the public's perception of TITUS ANDRONICUS.  Taymor's silly approach to interpretation, Anthony Hopkins' bored cue-card reading delivery and the offensive sissy-fication of key characters all contribute to the depth of this homage to puerile nonsense.  Taymor's artsy overindulgences are inappropriate and distracting to any attempt to follow the author's intent...  By author, I mean Shakespeare, not Taymor (who credits herself as writer and is, of course, no Shakespeare).  Poor Will must have spun himself halfway through to China by now, from the misery of all the modernized versions of so much of his work.  Search this database for Titus Andronicus to track down better treatment of one of Shakespeare's greatest and much misunderstood and underappreciated works.  This film has its fans, primarily due to our culture's obsession with familiar celebrity appearances and fancy effects, but as an adaptation Titus should have been more aptly entitled Julie's Folly...  The box office certainly verifies that assertion. What a shtinker. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare's Tao","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" This is a handsome, sorrowful, flourishing, heavyhanded retelling of Shakespeare. I went for a walk afterwards and it felt cleansing to breathe in the cool night air after all the despair and hate of this. Much of it comes down to the play itself. It is bloody and mad, heavyhanded itself. A gloried general who puts Rome above his sons. A vengeful mother and queen who will not return pity when she was given scorn. A pathetic king, a monstrous moor, and various sons and daughters as playthings for the mad.It is clumsy in spots. The whole ruse in the forest with slain Bassianus must have felt far fetched to even Shakespeare. And a Roman general who slips out and returns against Rome with an army of the Goths he helped vanquish a few months ago? But overall it is powerful, gripping stuff because it's in the right hands here.The question how to visualize Shakespeare must be as old as the medium. The filmmaker here made a simple concession. Keep the original language. This means she can't film the metaphor, which would make a superb film of itself. Her brilliant choice was to create a modern stage for it. A Roman orgy plays out like a party from the roaring 20s. Cars and cigarettes coexist with tunics and armor. But the main thrust is still cthonic and medean.We don't have a calligraphic weave where character urges appear as encounter. But she has managed to address another, equally difficult problem of cinematic narrative. So many films are a passive exchange. What she has done in this odd way is carve a vital space for the story that avoids the pitfalls of both the usual period piece and on the opposite end the arbitrary imagination of something like the Cremaster films.It jars for a while but settles as a coherent world that is different enough to demand attention to it. It feels alive, freed from a historic stage, neither realistic nor without reality, puzzling the logical thought (why cars?) yet remaining implicitly recognizable for the eye.And yet it's all that rich, image-based language of the original that I find myself drawn to.In Shakespeare's time, plays were apparently performed with only bare essentials of stage craft. I know very little about him and the time, but this film surprised me enough to want to change that. Anyway, the word carried the cinematic stitch, the visual horizons. Here we have both word and stream of images, which may dampen the impact of the first. Yet I urge you to really pay attention to the word here, always in conjunction with the story. On the top dramatic layer we have sin and madness. Deep down, though, it is all about realizing what is truly vital and matters in life intuition, not structure. It is not the loss of queendom for her, nor for Titus the loss of prestige that truly hurt. What Titus deprives of the Goth queen and is turn torn from him tenfold is this human background of connection to loved ones that we often take for granted as we plot careers, this being love. Not the same as passion, it is exactly the sense I have when I feel happy, the spontaneous assurance provided by things, the deep anchorage in the world that can only come from caring about things other than myself.This is not poetry, but mechanics of awareness. Being happy and whole entails a sense of rootedness in the world around me.The play is stitched throughout with metaphors about exactly this the earth accepting rain, trees blowing in the wind, gnats flying in front of the sun, rivers overflowing their banks, branches, deer, earth, rain. Wonderful, wonderful cinematic flows in words. It is not the word itself that appeals, the literary quality. The word carries the insight, capacity for horizon. All cull from nature the same observation, the same motif. Transient, violent motion yet always anchored in the world with capacity to bear it.My world is Taoist, out of personal choice, worlds apart from Shakespeare. I am always riveted by his work but need that cleansing walk afterwards that restores things. And yet here I find him drawn to the same realization as the Chinese masters in their meditation, that of a (perceptive) field beyond suffering and nonsuffering where things hold each other in place by virtue of being what they are.Shakespeare's Tao. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film and in my opinion better than the play","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The play I have never considered one of Shakespeare's best, I give you that there is enough wit and poetry to make Shakespeare's style distinctive and Aaron is the most interesting character, but the story is not the most focused or developed like Shakespeare's later plays. I was worried about the film version Titus, I know that Julie Taymor is an imaginative director, both on film and on stage, but it was whether the film could do anything with the material. Not only does it absolutely do that, but it also improves on the play. The film is perhaps too long, but the story is actually compelling even with some very disturbing moments(then again the idea of men in a pie is that in the play) that doesn't rely heavily on shock value. And the characters especially Titus and Aaron are interesting. Taymor's direction is creative and doesn't swamp the dialogue too much, while the costumes, sets and various sequences are jaw-dropping. The music is rousing and haunting, and the dialogue flows naturally and has the poignant intensity you'd expect from Shakespeare. Titus is not Anthony Hopkins' best role, my favourite is between Frederick Treves(The Elephant Man), CS Lewis(Shadowlands) and Stevens(The Remains of the Day) though Hannibal Lector(The Silence of the Lambs) is probably his most iconic. His turn here is still very authoritative and moving though. Jessica Lange oozes sex appeal and evil and Harry Lennix is radiantly malevolent. Alan Cumming is somewhat off-the-wall but in an endearing way, while Matthew Rhys and Jonathan Rhys Meyers are good as Demetrius and Chiron. All in all, I found this film to be brilliant and while any Shakespeare is worth watching and reading this is the first time that a Shakespearen film adaptation has been better than the play it's based on. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Titus is a visually stunning adaptation of William Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus.","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus, a Roman general (played by Anthony Hopkins), finds his world falling apart around him when a scorned enemy, Tamora (Jessica Lange) gains the power to exact revenge against him. At his lowest point Titus begins to plan his own even more terrible revenge against Tamora who shows no sign of stopping her tormenting him.The story, set in a timeless almost fantasy like Rome, is more gruesome than Hamlet (1996), another Shakespeare film with a theme based on revenge. Tamora's revenge is terrible and is aimed mostly at Titus' family. She has two of Titus' sons framed and executed for murder and his daughter raped, her hands and tongue cut off because as he says He that wounded her hath hurt me more than had he killed me dead. She also has Titus cut his own hand off in the false hope that his two sons will be spared. There is a lot of focus on children and family in the use of revenge and Titus' revenge is no different, he serves Tamora her own two sons baked into a pie, which she eats in front of him and seems to enjoy.Julie Taymor uses dramatic costumes to help portray the personalities of the characters the costumes are all a mix of Classical, Elizabethan, and the more modern World War Two German uniforms. Particularly interesting is Saturnus' (Allan Cumming) costumes. Most of his costumes have features from World War Two Germany and his hair cut is an exaggerated version of Hitler's, he wears the effeminate make up of men from the 1920's the whole effect portraying him as a sniveling but vengeful and dangerous dictator.The use of symbolism is also strong throughout the movie. One notable scene is just after Tamora has pleaded to Saturnus of Titus' innocence. She pauses to look at Titus and the image of flames arise between them, then the burning limbs of a statue representing the limbs of her first born son that Titus had cut off and burned and finally a statue's torso bearing the same mark as Titus used to mark her son. This gives Tymora reason to hate Titus and plan her revenge. Another good use of symbolism is the scene where Lavinia, Titus' daughter relives her rape. Tamora's two sons represented as tigers pounce on Lavinia wearing a white dress that is blowing up reminiscent of the famous Marylin Monroe scene from The Seven Year Itch (1955). This moment is where Titus likewise begins to plan his revenge.Revenge is best served cold but the characters that indulge in terrible revenge in this movie all wind up dead, consumed by the destructive nature of their sense of justice. "},{"Title":"The best movie of 1999","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The best film of 1999, directed by Julie Taymore and starring Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, Harry Lennix, and Alan Cumming.Taymore brings Titus into the modern day in some of her staging of the film, but the dialogue is all Shakespeare, and the cast is excellent. It's a pleasure to see Hopkins playing a real character with many facets instead of Hannibal Lecter.In classic tragedy, the hero fails, brought down by a flaw which would have been a good trait if the hero had not had so much of it. In Oedipus Rex, for example, Oedipus would have been fine but for his overweening curiosity. In Titus Andronicus (Shakespeare's title), our hero is honest. Too honest for his own good. He has returned from war with Tamora (Jessica Lange) a Goth queen as his slave, and the emperor has died, leaving two good-for-nothing sons as his heirs apparent. When offered the crown, Titus rejects it out of hand Of course not, the crown goes to the eldest son. Titus should have accepted the wreath. All his woes befall him for not knowing he would do better for Rome.Before you see the movie, I recommend getting a copy of the play in one of the several editions that explain the language as you read the script. Read it before you see it so that you have some understanding of the beautiful Elizabethan language. The Folger Shakespeare Library or Arden Shakespeare edition should be at your local library. When people ask why Shakespeare's plays are written as they are, I've heard it answered that it's because that's how people talked back then. I assure you, no one ever talked that way. Read an annotated script so that you understand the Elizabethan English these consummate actors spread before you.Hopkins, Lange, Lennix, and Cumming all get to chew the scenery, the screen, the frame, and even some of the seats. My shirtsleeves were in tatters when I left the building. It's a great piece of Shakespearean theater, and Taymore lets it all out. That said, this is a true tragedy, and there is no happy ending for Titus Andronicus and his entire family. Where in Fracture Hopkins plays the guy who pulls the rabbit out of the hat, here in Titus Hopkins's character has to gnaw his paw off in a vain attempt to get out of the snare set by Tamora. Never has integrity been so ill repaid. Taymore does a remarkable job of bringing the play to the screen. And it got nominated for Best Costume Design. Feh. "},{"Title":"Visually and Mentally Stimulating Shakespearian Tragedy","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Past films have shown us a number of ways of adapting Shakespeare to film keeping the original dialogue or adapting it for modern consumption. Titus does the former, but that's the only way that this film can be associated with any other efforts to bring Shakespeare's work to the screen. Some film's, like Franco Zeffirelli's Romeo and Juliet keep the traditional 15th century setting, while others, such as Tim Blake Nelson's O elect to tell the story in a more contemporary setting. Julie Taymor's Titus does neither. Taymor mixes a number of different settings, blends it all together, and runs it on overdrive. The result is some sort of deranged nightmare that could only have come from the lady who stunned Broadway audiences with her daring and bizarre vision of The Lion King. Anyone who's seen that has only a little idea of what to expect.Describing the plot of Titus takes some time, and in doing so I will give away some of the surprises. Let me just say that this is a bloody and twisted tale of murder and revenge, a story that only Shakespeare himself could have come up with.The acting isn't just good, it's OUTSTANDING! It is so rare these days to see a film with a really good performance, but when every single performance is Oscar-worthy, it is a film that must be seen.Anthony Hopkins is the modern-day Laurence Olivier; no one can do Shakespeare in the movies like he can. Titus is a bombastic man who becomes bitterly vengeful against those who have wronged him. Hopkins tackles the character with relish, and he's a sight to see. From the soliloquies to the bouts of rage, Hopkins never ceases to amaze. His nemesis, Tamora, is ably played by Jessica Lange. She wants revenge against Titus for killing her son, and no act of villainy is beyond her capacity. Titus is about to find out what happens when you cross her, and it ain't a pretty sight. However, the one who really pulls the strings in this bloody drama is not Tamora, but her lover, Aaron (Harry Lennix). Aaron is pure evil, and he relishes in it. Lennix radiates this malevolence, and brings to life what has to be one of Shakespeare's most vicious creations. Alan Cumming brings his usual bizarre antics to the Emperor Saturninus. Cumming is known for his off-the-wall characters, and that suits the character well. However, Cumming does not take Saturninus over-the-top, which is to the film's benefit. Colm Feore is good as Marcus, Titus' brother, and Laura Fraser exudes innocence as Lavinia. Angus MacFayden is terrific as Titus' son, Lucius. Jonathan Rhys-Meyers and Matthew Rhys are fun to watch as Demetrius and Chiron, Tamora's stupid and sadistic sons.Taymor lifts the dialogue right from Shakespeare's original script. In order to enjoy Titus, it is crucial to have an affinity for the language. Anyone who doesn't like reading Shakespeare or seeing his plays would probably want to avoid this one.A full-length production of one of Shakespeare's plays lasts a good three or four hours, so at 242, it is obvious that in adapting the play, Taymor cut a lot out. The result is a very streamlined version of the play (which I have not read), but it is for the most part perfectly coherent.Speaking of Taymor, her vision of the play must be mentioned. The only director that I can think of that nears her imagination is Tarsem (The Cell, The Fall). Tarsem's a little more out there, but Taymor is not far behind. Bold, bizarre, and visually arresting, Taymor never lets this film become boring. However, her handling of the material is not flawless. The dream sequences are not well-integrated (in fact, they could have been left out entirely), and the last scenes are poorly handled.Titus gets a hearty recommendation, and is a must-see for any Shakespeare buff.Note Taymor was forced to make cuts to the film's orgy scene, but not any of the violence. Apparently, sex and nudity are still taboo with the MPAA, even if it is historically accurate (and was more than mentioned 600 years ago), but violence of any kind still gets the A-OK. There's nothing here that earns such a restrictive rating. Actually, most of the violence is merely mentioned, and not shown. Had the film gotten a PG-13 rating, you would not hear a complaint from me. "},{"Title":"Taymor One of the Most Insightful and Creative People To Ever Direct a Movie","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Some very open-minded critics like Roger Ebert say that Taymor understood the lavish sensationalism of Titus Andronicus and treated it as a connection to modern-day exploitation films and video games. Taymor, however, argues in a Charlie Rose interview that she sees an honest theme in the play, that of questions like, What makes a person violent? What drives one to unforgivable acts? This is what makes Titus an exemplary film experience. It, in Taymor's overachieving Dionysian way, drains the resources of the film medium on a completely uninhibited vision of a highly ambiguous, much-argued-over work of the most important writer in the English language and has, in one sense, captured it in a way so perceptively faithful that it is just as ambiguous as its source material, and in another sense, a passionate work of mystique, something that transcends so many bounds and perceptions of what cinema can do and especially what Shakespearean adaptations have done.The final shot, though its meaning is well understood, leaves an odd taste in one's mouth by negating the atmosphere of the rest of the film and taking on an almost 1980s-style freeze frame fade-out accompanied by synthesized music, and also the shot runs a gratuitous length that goes beyond the length by which we come to understand it and by which it satisfies the film's pace.Nevertheless, Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange are great, if unlikely, enemies. Hopkins relishes his opportunity as a lead in a Shakespeare production as Lange asserts herself in a manner that feels more contemporary, making them suitable counterparts in the context of Taymor's intentions with the adaptation to eschew the standard Shakespeare film anachronisms for a jolting merger of several different time periods, as Shakespeare himself merged periods himself. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and spellbinding!","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I mean what can I say about Shakespeare that hasn't already been said obviously timeless writer....But it is the actors and way this movie is shot that makes it! This move also has one of the best opening to a movie too.( Also if you have the Tool's album aenima you should sink it up to the beginning of the movie with the song that has the stomping on it I think the song is stinkfist) I mean wow this was done amazing!This is one of those even if you don't like Shakespearean writing you can still get into it. Now keep in mind this is a tragedy so you have to be in the mood to watch something dark and sinister. Anthony Hopkins commands a stellar role as Titus Andronicus. He carries the movie along brilliantly while letting you fall into his psychotic character. Diane Lange delivers a spellbinding performance in this movie as the queen and mother of these two twin boys who are completely psychotic proving by her performance that the apple doesn't fall from the tree. And last but certainly not least there is Alan Cumming who is my opinion is one of the best actors plays Saturninus a character who is a little more eccentric then Shakespeare lets onto in his writing but Alan brings out in his acting! "},{"Title":"Very confusing but thought provoking","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The first time I watched this movie I was totally lost. The second time I understood a little more what was going on. I don't really see how the boy fits in but this movie really makes me think. I think it would be a great thing for students to try to analyze and find meaning in an art class. At first I thought it was just a very artsy movie but now I actually know it's based on something. I'm still confused but I like the imagery and the plot and the symbolism. I really do wonder what the boy was all about. I kind of feel that he's just lost his mind. And the scene of the daughter on the stump just looks like it should be a painting or something. Very good imagery there. Even though I didn't really understand everything, I would like to see more movies like this out there. "},{"Title":"Titus a Masterpiece beyond it's time","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Like I said it's a masterpiece. So much so that when I first viewed the movie with my sister we were unsure of the title thru the years to follow. At last the title was discovered, yeah. I think it amazing that that movie left an imprint on our minds of the extraordinary story line and depictions of the rarely fabricated fictional lands of the mind. Acting excellent, make-up was a perfect example of what you would expect of a movie like this. The mind bending, reality altered, fictional based scenes of the story and movie ,in my opinion, haven't been captured equaled to the movies potential until this great work was done. Since this movie I have only seen one movie that compares to this work, it is the Cell with the actress Jennifer Lopez made in the year 2000. Great movies not recommended for kids at all!! "},{"Title":"Horrific beauty","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" In Julie Taymor's magical hands, William Shakespeare's most dismissible work &#150; one which some experts even claim was not his own creation &#150; is turned into a modern masterpiece of violence. Taymor's vision of Shakespeare is dark, surreal and highly stylized and is a perfect fit for this play. Some reviewers have criticized the many anachronisms in Titus. The point is that, unlike Loncraine's Richard III or Luhrmann's Romeo+Juliet, Titus isn't built around the point of transferring Shakespeare's story to modern age; Taymor's Titus doesn't occur in any specific time in history, and the anachronisms are there to help create the confusion and intense, psychotic surrealism that Taymor wants. And to describe Titus in one word, it would have to be 'intense'.Titus is a wild ride through the human psych, through madness and violence and evil, one that is very nearly unbearable. The story is indeed crude, overtly violent at every turn and quite nearly infantile, and the dialog is hardly class A Shakespeare; Taymor's film relies heavily on her highly imaginative and sensitive visual sense, one that comes from years of work in the theater; as well as on her cast. Supported by a group of fantastic actors, including Jessica Lange, Alan Cumming and Harry Lennix among others, the film still lies on the shoulders of Anthony Hopkins, who gives an absolutely dazzling performance as the title character, and proves that he's one of the best living Shakespearian actors. Again, none of Titus's dialogs has the flare of the best of Shakespeare's work, but Hopkins's ecstatic performance gives the character depth and strength. Combined with Taymor's art direction, the film is a true experience, a gripping and uncompromising piece of cinema that refuses to let go of its viewers.For these reasons exactly, Titus is not to everyone's taste. Many may find it excruciating and painful; but never for a minute dull. No matter what you've heard of it, Titus is unlike any other film you've seen, and in my opinion, that's what makes a film truly essential. I highly recommend it for everyone; it's a difficult experience but a rewarding one. "},{"Title":"Most compelling Shakespeare movie ever","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  As part of the modern Shakespeare revival, Titus stands out way above rather trite flicks like Romeo and Juliet. True enough, Titus Andronicus is not exactly what one could call the bard's masterpiece - the story delivers that particular, exuberant gloom, but without the necessary drive and consequence that Shakespeare's major gloomy tragedies (Hamlet, Macbeth) are characterized by. The movie makes up for that with exquisite photography/cinematography, great special effects and actors who fill their scanty roles to the fullest - Anthony Hopkins, in particular, plays one of his best roles ever, depicting the general's slow (but not unstopped) decay into madness, until he finally gets to live out his revenge...just superb acting on his part.All in all, the movie deserves any recommendation. If you have any sympathies to spare for Shakespeare, Hopkins, or Jessica Lange - this is the way to go.  "},{"Title":"One Masterpiece of a movie- breathtaking (and disturbing)","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus is based upon Shakespeare's first and lesser known plays which is a very complicated and disturbing work. A lot of violence and overt bloodshed is part of a fatalistic story about revenge.What's so brilliant about this work is that it is a real roller-coaster ride of emotions- the film switches easily between grotesque moments and dead serious tragedy that is always moving and touching. All elements of the film blend together perfectly the beautiful cinematography, production design by Dante Ferretti, the excellent acting by Hopkins, Taymor and all the supporting cast and the very courageous direction. Taymor really made this a surrealist movie, intertwining time periods and using very metaphorical imagery and therefore giving all very fascinating twists.This film definitely belongs to the best Shakespeare adaptations ever. 10/10  "}{"Title":"Best Shakespeare movie ever","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Spellbinding acting, scintillating plot, perfect, perfect in every way. I enjoy Shakespeare, but did not know Titus Andronicus. Perhaps my enjoyment was boosted by not knowing where the story was headed. This movie should become the yardstick by which all movies are measured. If you were trying to find flaws, it is quite long - but never dull. Also you might think that the direction more appropriate to a stage setting than a movie, but big deal. I cannot recommend the movie highly enough. Alan Cumming, Jessica Lange and Antony Hopkins all put in career-highlight performances.Hopkins' appeal to the senate is one of the most powerful scenes in any movie and ought to become standard viewing for anyone wishing to learn the art of acting. The possibility of over-acting or descending into melodrama is brilliantly tip-toed and the end-result is stomach-clutching, compelling and raw emotion. See this film.  "},{"Title":"The Art Direction/ Production Design is UNBELIEVABLE!","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say; this is definitely 2 (or more) thumbs up. Be open minded, and thoughtful and you will surely enjoy the ride. There is no way to describe this movie since I cannot compare it to anything, it's one of a kind@! Definitely in my DVD - must have - collection.It's Shakespeare, it's present day, it's futuristic, it's Medieval times, it's fictional and totally real too.The acting, the costumes, the intrigue, is all up there.I was completely absorbed into this movie it was as though nothing else existed from the time it began until long after it ended. I never knew a movie could cause that to happen.  "},{"Title":"Very, very twisted","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The sex and the gore in the film were just intolerable for my tastes.  I had to watch this film for a Shakespeare class.  The film is superb in every detail as far as cinematography goes, but the sexual content and the violence are just disgusting.  The violence isn't equivalent to Mel Gibson's The Passion by any means but it's still horrible.  And from seeing this film, I think I may be tramatized for life by the sight of Alan Cummings' nude body (ditto for Jessica Lange).  That was just unbearable.  However, the film captures the themes of Shakespeare's tragic play quite well.  Power, love, revenge...all captured brilliantly by director Julie Taymor.  Anthony Hopkins shines so well as Titus (from his previous roles as Hannibal Lecter).  This film is only for those who are not of the faint of heart or of weak stomachs. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  titus is a good movie, and it is one of shakespeare's best plays ever written (at least the bloodiest). Anthony Hopkins does a great job as Titus, a man who in the same week loses his sons, watches the kingdom that he once loved fall to the ground, and face the worst fear having to deal with the rape of his daughter.  She could have taken out the modern devices (the videogames, motorcycles, etc), because that part of the movie did not make any sense, and could have been cut out, but I like how Julie got the audience's attention throughout the movie.  Warning *SPOILERS* when Tamora's sons are dying, it might make you squeem, because it is really disgusting, but the whole play is like that*END SPOILER* This play is not for the faint of heart, and is Shakespeare's bloodiest play of all time, so don't go into the movie thinking that this is going to be like midsummer nights dream, or anything like that... but if you like shakespeare plays (which some people apparently don't because of their stupid comments on this page), then you are going to love this movie for the historical sense. Jessica Lange is the perfect villian in this movie as well. The casting was well done, and The movie was alright, but the modern stuff in there. I give it 3 stars out of 5, because of the great acting and cinematography. "},{"Title":"interesting stuff for some people","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The play is kinda tedious.  There aren't any really engaging characters, the plot is a collection of gross-out moments from Roman drama, the verse is completely forgettable and basically everything about the play indicates that it's an early, uninspired piece.  It's okay compared to The Comedy or Errors, but interesting mostly as a curiosity for students of Shakespeare.  I've always been baffled by it.  Is it a grisly comedy (like the humor of the Evil Dead films) loaded with scholarly references?  Or is someone supposed to take this stuff seriously as high (grosser-than-gross-but-nonetheless-high) drama?  I've read some compelling arguments for either side.Julie Taymor's movie suggests to me that it probably was written to laughed at.  I don't think you could ask for a better Titus and Tamora.  The rest of the cast is excellent as well.  The all brought a lot of gravity and seriousness to their roles, properly pumped and glowering.  It's all very professional work, but it kinda bored me after a while.  There is a lot of Titus that is just hard core gore and chest beating silliness, and yet the whole cast is in Masterpiece Theater mode. The art direction and cinematography was a pleasant diversion.  On the up side, the film has a unique look about it.  It is one of the most successful attempts at staging Shakespeare I've ever seen on film.  The hodge-podge of the mid-century and Roman aesthetic did a lot of move the scenery back in time while keeping the set anchored by things anyone could recognize like military uniforms, expensive suits, and limos.  After all, authentic Roman sets and costumes in a play written by a 16th Englishman (who wasn't bothered by anachronisms himself) wouldn't be any truer to the spirit of the piece.  (However, some outfits were so Brit-pop 80's that I felt depressingly old for thinking they looked cool.)On the down side, sometimes the art direction completely swamped everything else and I've seen this stuff before.  Also, there weren't any sets that looked like people actually used them to live in or debate in or eat in.  Everything, from the costumes to the biggest set pieces, looked like something built just to look good and for people to strut around in.  Maybe it's deliberate.  Taymor is nodding at the pure theatricality of Titus - working with the fact that these are not even remotely believable characters in a drama that has almost no naturalistic details.  Maybe the film Titus is like those fashion shows where impossibly odd looking women strut down runways wearing outfits that have no practical function.On the whole, I kinda enjoyed the film.  I'm happy to watch smart people take on Shakespeare's least interesting play.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who wasn't already curious about the idea of seeing a flashy version of Titus Andronicus or someone whose taste tended towards noisy, stylistized films like Run Lola Run or Jean Jeunet's stuff.&#133;what was up with Alan Cummings playing Saturnius like a satanic Pee Wee Herman (big chair and all)? "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  At first I thought the film was a mess. I was so confused, a kid in the modern world get kidnapped into the past? And in ancient Rome they have modern buildings and even jeeps? These anachronisms really annoyed me. The pace was slow and I thought I would have a hard time to endure the 2.5 hours. Then as the film progressed I liked the film. The obvious anachronisms were probably deliberate (eg using machine guns for execution), and I thought this was an interesting idea. However, I think the directing can improve a bit. Especially the scene when Aaron was standing at the balcony facing the camera for a speech. That looked like some kind of a travel show, with the host standing still in front of a scenic background. If the camera was not static I would have liked this scene more. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say that I've read all the Shakespeare's play out there, but I do love to see the way that some people turn his work into movies.  I have to say that I love this film, the camera work, the way the soliloquies were done, everything was great.  Some people might be turn off by the dialogue but in my opinion, if you are going to do Shakespeare, you better do it with the original script (or as close as possible) and that's how they did this film.  They didn't hide anything worth hiding.  If you want to see a movie that shows the chaos of revenge look no further.  What can I say to convince you people that this was a great movie but you should now what you like and if don't like to see or read Shakespeare then you won't like this film, is as simple as that, so don't hate the film cause u don't like Shakespeare, but if I had to recommend a film to a non-Shakespeare-fan then this would be it. "},{"Title":"I'll grind your bones to dust","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  You may not want to believe or accept it, but Shakespeare wins the blue ribbon amongst all humans who have ever sat down and strung some English words together. The key to awakening a modern audience to this fact is strictly held in the acting slant and production innovations when executing a peformance. Among other things, the performances must match the age, or it will surely be a failure. Even Olivier's work is now rusty, since his interpretations were suited for a bygone audience, with bygone expectations. I wouldn't recommend them to anyone aching to give Shakespeare another chance. I would, however, wholeheartedly recommend this interpretation of Titus Andronicus. This production of one of Shakepeare's lesser known but more brutal works, is most carefully crafted to ensnare the modern audience, and it does. Watch this movie, I guarantee you even a chronic Shakepeareaphobe will forget who wrote the original screenplay. Its acted and produced that well. Will Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal Lechter/Titus work 30 years from now? Highly doubtful. But something else will. I wouldnt bet against the endurance of a guy people still quote 400 years after his death. It aint what you would call a fluke. "},{"Title":"Visual, dramatic, raw.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Written in the days when kingmakers really were beheaded and rebellion meant war and not a boardroom coup, (and I am sure those days still exist in the world), Titus was a revenge tragedy not unlike others of its day, but so raw and emotionally violent that it is refreshing!Films adapted from plays that lived in times that reflected such politics and violence don't get written like this any more.Sometimes it seems that the world is too small and sophisticated to remember what people have inside them without going to a degree of caricature that befits a Batman movie. Unfortunately that also distances us the viewers from what there is of us in them  "},{"Title":"pretty okay","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" as i watched the movie, huddled up on the sofa in my pjs, the first word that came to mind was brutal.so this is shakespeare when he's PMS-ing. i hadn't known he was into the goop and gore until i watched Titus, i had (mistakenly) thought he was Mr Romance. after all, there was Romeo and Juliet, and i knew there were some plays like Julius Caesar and Macbeth where everything wasn't all flowers and candy, but this one really took me by surprise.picture this i'm eating popcorn, staring at the screen, transfixed, as a girl with twigs for hands and who has NO! TONGUE! moans and tries to speak. i was horrified.but besides the violence and the sick images that this film is now firmly associated with in my mind, i have to admit it was good. good actors, great plot. besides the old english that made me want to go, huh? every five seconds, i thought the movie was great. the characters were well-developed, and the acting was pretty passable. there was a good direction of the movie, and parts where i expected it to be boring didn't drag on and spoil the movie.anyone who is a fan of shakespear should really catch this.  "}{"Title":"stop your yapping; it was good","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was good.  If there is one thing I hate it's people who think they know anything and everything about Shakespeare and how it's supposed to be done.  Some of us appreciate good visual stimulation to go along with a story, and this movie did not fall short.The imagery only helped to strengthen the story and was not overbearing. Shocking- maybe.  But completely worth it.  If this is supposed to be Shakespeare's worst play I wouldn't have been able to tell.  I'm always for a good tragedy and I found it in this movie.It makes you think, it makes you cringe, it makes you sad and angry and wistful all at once.  Most importantly it makes you a part of it.I'm not going to sit here and act like I have a thousand little technicalities that should have been approached the way I see fit, because that is what conceited people do who think they invented the movie and can critique all subsequent productions accordingly.  I am not one of those people; I am one of the people who hate those people.So in conclusion, let it stand for what it is, and yay Titus.  I hope more people watch this because a lot of people haven't even heard of it.  keep it rollin, and don't forget, if it was exactly how you wanted it nobody else would want to see it.  ever.   "},{"Title":"this movie took guts","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  A wild interpretation of Shakespeare's first and bloodiest tragedy. Beautiful, original, creative, well acted, and appropriately disturbing. It took guts to make this movie-since it is Shakespeare's least performed play ever, but the director pulls it off with grace. Not for the weak of heart or fans of traditional dry boring Shakespeare. Very well done. "},{"Title":"Disrespectful adaptation of a Shakespearean play","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Don't be taken in by this rubbish!  Many were fooled because this picture had some great names in it.  I was one of those fools.  I expected to see a film with overwhelming visuals and a realistic storyline.  I was hoping for a great historical drama such as 'Gladiator' or 'The Patriot'.  But what I got instead was a complete failure that lasted three hours (when it only needed two hours to do the same), that was so absurd almost the whole time through that it became awfully annoying.  If Shakespeare were still alive, he'd never allow something like this to happen.One thing has to be said though. This is one of Shakespeare's earliest and surely least popular works. I do realize that this is no 'Othello', 'Macbeth' or 'Richard III' and that it doesn't even come close to 'Romeo and Juliet' and 'Hamlet'.  But I'm not going to blame Shakespeare for it.  I will however hold Julie Taymor responsible as she made the same huge mistake Baz Luhrmann ('Romeo + Juliet') did in 1996.  Both directors add modern elements to the original Shakespearean play, only to end up with nothing more but a boring and disgraceful version of what once used to be an interesting tale.  These modernized adaptations combine elements of the past with elements of the present and it is exactly this 'mix' of two different worlds that guarantees the chaos.  It simply doesn't work!But not everything is bad; surprisingly enough.  Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange prove to be excellent actors, and particularly Lange is wonderful!  But even with their great performances, they can't save the day.  Things are simply too messed-up here.And then there's the mindless plot with its ridiculous Matrix-imitation which has been done before and which only looks too stupid in a film like this.  You might think I'm exaggerating, but this film was the biggest flop in my country along with The Blair Witch project II.  In less than a month, both films were taken out of most of the Belgian cinemas. I just hope that this film will be a lesson for the next director who considers modernizing a Shakespearean novel.  "},{"Title":"a shocking movie","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This film shocked me. It is an excellent Shakespeare adaptation and so it manages to convey the atmosphere of the original play. Now, as Titus Andronicus is an extremely bloody story dominated by cruelty and revenge, successfully conveying it will shock you. Or at least it shocked me. My first impression was rather negative as I soon realized that this movie follows the trend of some new Shakespeare adaptations in which the historic setting of the story is changed and some kind of fantastic mixture of various ages is used instead as in this movie too, often XX. century is blended in to give a more contemporary look and feel. Although this pattern can work (the ideology behind it is the emphasis on the timeless nature of the story) and I tend to appreciate it, it is becoming overused nowadays and I have seen quite a few recent adaptations that tried to use it as a fancy trick hiding the otherwise poor quality of the movie. However, Titus applied it with quite good imagination so I soon accepted it, and anyway the film in general (and acting especially) was quite excellent so the horrors of the story soon carried me away.  "},{"Title":"The most impressive movie I've ever seen","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolutely stunning .... I have now seen it 3 times and every time I get so carried away that at certain moments it even brings tears to my eyes. A thing which not movie accomplish. Further more I like the whole atmosphere in the movie. The filming, sets and acting are  far above average. The old English language can be a little odd for the first 10 minutes of the movie but I got used to it very fast and think that the fact that the movie uses the original language is actually a very big positive asset !So just go and see this movie because I think it will be one of the classics in the future.Dutch audience can also read a full review on my site dé recensiesite if you contact me by email then I will send you the URL to the site.C.B. Fictoor "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Beautiful and disturbing, Titus is an incredible screen adaptation of one of Shakespeare's most gruesome plays.  The acting alone would make this movie stand out (Anthony Hopkins is a god), but the extreme and breathtaking beauty of the film's visuals juxtaposed with the extraordinarily brutal content (rape, murder, cannibalism) make it not only stunning, but difficult to watch.  It took me three days and three attempts to get through this film the first time, but it was more than worth it! "},{"Title":"Breathtaking adaptation of Shakespeare's play","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  William Shakespeare -the greatest dramatist ever and the biggest phenomenon in the history of theater- died at 1616 but when the language comes directly from him his plays will work in any time and place. Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Michael Almereyda's Hamlet (2000) are two recent examples of how stylishly these immortal spectacles work also in a futuristic frames. Although Titus Andronicus is - in my opinion - one of the finest plays of William Shakespeare it certainly isn't the most well-known one - it's buried under Hamlet, Macbeth, Othello, King Lear and all the other more famous and more beloved plays he wrote. Probably because of it I have to admit I wish that this movie wouldn't be such an obvious modernization of Titus Andronicus. Most of the audience doesn't find the story all that familiar so it would have been nicer to see it in the original settings. I bought this movie and when I started to watch it, for a brief moment before the opening credits I wondered did I accidently receive a wrong film.I'm not saying that it doesn't work like this - on the contrary. This movie doesn't look like it's taking place in the past, neither present day or in the future. It's more like a mixture of different ages. It looks timeless and terrific but from time to time confuses little too much. Many claim that Titus Andronicus is the cruelest of all Shakespeare's plays. These two and a half hours of murders, perversions, deceitfulness, mutilation, treachery, brutality, crookedness, bloodshed and handchopping shows everyone that the statement is absolutely correct. Shakespeare's violent masterpiece comes to life in the never-before-seen way. Titus is a brilliant adaption of this magnificent play and I recommend it to all of the Shakespeare lovers but also to the ones who just want to see truly a spectacular movie with an excellent story, dark humor, lots of excitement, superb acting, thrilling shocks and best of all phenomenal language. The magic of Shakespeare lives forever. "},{"Title":"poetic schlock-horror satisfies intellectually, artistically, and emotionally...","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  While it is probably beside the point to rationalise this film, it is probably best described as an alternative universe where the Roman Empire has survived into the 1950s. The decor and issues are a cross between both, and used to great effect to create a truly original movie. Based on the play by William Shakespeare, Titus is a reminder that although its brutality was laughed off-stage in Victorian times, the Elizabethans piled on the gore.Admittedly, the bare play is poetic schlock-horror, but this film grounds it with innovation, striking artistic direction, and very strong performances by all the cast. Anthony Hopkins plays the same type of character yet again (the aggressive father with too much of an ego to admit he's out of touch), but it's what's demanded of him in this film and he does it beautifully. Alan Cumming does a particularly wonderful Saturninus, and Jessica Lange makes for a strong Tamora. Jonathan Rhys Meyers (Brian Slade in Velvet Goldmine) also has a considerable role as one of Tamora's sons. While long, Titus is very intense, and like all the best films, satisfies on an intellectual, artistic, and emotional level. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare's nightmare of cruelty and revenge","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus Andronicus might be Shakespeare's least-performed play, and it's easy to see why.  Staging this play must be difficult at best, and finding the right actors to make it believable is even more challenging.  This film staged it beautifully and found the right actors.  The story plays out like a nightmare, leaving the viewer feeling disoriented and disturbed when it's all over.  Brilliant film. "},{"Title":"good if you like something different","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  this is a visually astounding and sometimes deliciously mean piece of work. Some parts were a bit hard to get through with the Shakespearean dialogue, but on the whole there are certainly some truly delightful parts and I was never bored. Tony Hopkins was, once again, great! Some of his scenes were really weird but some were truly impressive. I loved the ending. I realise this film might not appeal to everyone, but if you want something unusual and entertaining then try this out. "}{"Title":"One of the best adaptations of Shakesphere to ever grace the screen.","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Julie Taymor. Written by William Shakespeare and Julie Taymor. Starring Anthony Hopkins, Harry Lennis, and Jessica Lange. Co-Starring Matthew Rhys, Jonathan Rhys-Meyers, Angus Macfadyen, Alan Cumming, and Laura Fraser.Favorite line If one good deed in all my life I did, I do repent it from my very soul.*******WARNING Possible spoilers ahead*******For whatever reason many people consider this one of Shakespeare's worst plays. It's violent, it's vulgar, it's horrific...seems like the perfect mix for entertainment these days. This film is not for the aloof Shakespeare fan who thought Romeo and Juliet dying was a sad tale of woe (his worst play, by the way). No, Titus serves up rape and murder, among other sordid things. I thoroughly enjoyed Hamlet and Othello, but Titus is a visual and somewhat psychotic masterpiece. I couldn't stop watching.Plot/Story This story has so many complex incomplete angles it's rather hard to explain, but I'll try. Titus, a Roman General, returns home to Rome victorious over the Goths, with the Queen of the Goths and her sons as his hostages. Why keep them alive? It is never clarified. Titus is offered the crown to Rome, but declines and nominates Saturninus, the former (and apparently dead) emperor's oldest son. Saturninus is a smarmy little s*** and just to spite his brother demands the hand of Lavinia, Titus' eldest daughter whom Bassianus (the brother) is in love with. Why does Saturninus feel the need to spite his brother? It is never clarified. Then Saturninus marries the Queen of the Goths, Tamora. Why did the Emperor of Rome suddenly decide to marry the Queen of his enemies? It is never clarified. Then Aaron (I'm not 100% sure of his place in the world either) who has some connection to the Queen gets her pregnant and... F*** it, this story just gets more and more complicated and I'm not spending all day trying to explain it.Acting For the most part the acting is great, especially given the subject manner. Each character seriously looks their part and the dialogue is the same as Shakespeare wrote it. Anthony Hopkins is completely believable in his role as Titus, even if he seems only partially there through half the movie.Characters Lennis' portrayal of Aaron is nothing less than awe-inspiring, but after that they are typical Shakespearean folk. Not bad, just typical.Effects/Setting This is the strong, the very strong, point of watching this movie. If you read the reviews on this you'll catch my drift. Taymor does an extremely meticulous job on each scene allowing you to absorb everything. Most adaptations of Shakespeare focus on the dialogue, but this one didn't and many times that process worked better. The scene right after Lavinia gets raped by the Queen's sons, they have her standing on a tree stump, in the middle of a small marsh, in this huge field beside a forest with her hands and tongue cut off so she wouldn't be able to tell anyone who did it. Making this scene even more sadistic is the twigs placed on the stubs where her hands were. Then her uncle finds her, gah! All the scenes were intricate with so much artistic (yes, I said artistic) detail put into them it was hard to believe I was watching a movie written by Shakespeare!Score/Soundtrack There were a few times the score stuck out, but it wasn't bad. Every element was part of the movie and at times the music was the primary focus. However, there was nothing grand or majestic about it and I think they could have done better.This movie is not for the faint of heart or anyone looking for a few hours of diverted entertainment, it's Shakespeare and it's artsy. It's extremely graphic and the subject matter can be tough to deal with because its nature is to show the ills of society. The bad guys are very bad and the good guys aren't really that good, even the aloofness is sadistic. Watch at your own risk... "},{"Title":"What's the meaning of this?","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the worst historical effort in movies I've ever seen.This movie must have cost a lot, considering all the costumes and crowdy events. A total waste of money to my opinion. What's the use of putting motorcycles and tank-like vehicles in such a movie?? Beyond my comprehension.  What the cover the DVD I rented promised me, were some gruesome torturing scenes, realistic this and that and an Anthony Hopkins that would strongly remind of the Hannibal character. Nothing of whatsoever... After an hour, tediousness grew upon me enough to stop this awful film.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good realisation of an Elizabethan play, despite the modernisms","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Notice that in my one-liner I did not say Shakespearian play. The fact is many scholars over the years have doubted that TITUS ANDRONICUS is a play by Shakespeare. The most many will allow is that the Bard of Avon touched up a play by George Peele and/or Robert Greene, with maybe a few lines by Marlowe. If so, this would account for the fact that TITUS is so different from the rest of Shakespeare. If you polled a goodly list of afficionados of the Bard as to their least favorite play by him, TITUS would likely head the list. My own least favorite is TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA, but no matter. TITUS really isn't very well constructed, and the language, though glorious Elizabethan, is not quite up to Shakespeare's best. The violence, blood, and brutality of TITUS is mitigated in part by the beautiful Elizabethan language, even if it is second rate.TITUS appears to have been first performed circa 1593 and was wildly popular then and for fifty years after. Young Shakespeare would certainly have recognised the commercial value of such a violent revenge play, and if he didn't actually write it would likely have gladly improved it for his company to perform. In a way the Elizabethan craze for violent plays parallels the modern era when gore, brutality and violence so permeate the cinema and television. They didn't have all the special effects then, but they had lovely words to make up for it. This film contains a number of anachronisms, inserted no doubt to prove that Shakespeare is timeless. They don't have to prove it to me, but perhaps younger viewers may need some convincing. TITUS, of course, is absolute fiction, and the anachronisms within the play itself don't really matter. Supposedly the action occurs in Rome, but a Rome that never was. No Roman general in the time of the Emperors ever fought a war with the Goths, and there never was an Emperor Saturninus or a General Titus Andronicus, though there were some types like Saturninus. Nero and Caligula come to mind. I won't dwell on the plot except to say that returning General Titus turns down the job of Emperor, but supports Saturninus instead. He lives to regret it. Saturninus marries captive Goth Queen Tamora, who naturally hates Titus and turns out to be a libertine into the bargain. There is a Moor, a hanger on at court who is Tamora's secret lover, and a thoroughgoing villain. He, Saturninus and Tamora manage to wipe out most of what remains of Titus' family, with the result that Titus swears revenge and seeks outside help from his former enemies, the Goths, to get it. Tamora's sons, also not anyone's favorite bridge party friends, rape Titus' only daughter, Lavinia, and cut off her arms and tongue to prevent her identifying them. Is that brutal enough for you?The film itself is beautifully realised, with sure handed direction and great photography that is used creatively to set mood and character. Makeup is also used to establish character. You may think the editing is a bit choppy, not like Shakespeare's smooth cinematic approach to linking scenes. Here the fault is mostly due to the original. TITUS ANDRONICUS is rather poorly put together and perhaps the production team decided to keep this in the film. There are many great performances to savor. Hopkins seems to live the role of TITUS and Alan Cumming gives us a really degenerate Saturninus. Jessica Lange is effective as Tamora, but perhaps a shade too appealing. Here though, I may be wrong. To wreak her havoc Tamora had to appear appealing and conceal her inner villainy. If you don't weep a few tears over Lavinia as portrayed by Laura Fraser, you are hard hearted indeed.It is said that themes and characters in TITUS foreshadowed things to come in Shakespeare's work. Maybe so, but he never did anything else resembling the viciousness in this play, though some violence does occur here and there. The depraved Moor, Aaron, may be a prototype for Iago, or even Othello, but those villains had some motivation. Aaron is just pure evil. This film is worth a watch for lovers of the Elizabethan language, and if it isn't really Shakespeare, how often do you get a chance to see a play by George Peele and/or Robert Greene? "},{"Title":"some very effective moments but boringly staged and shot","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  An uneven movie. It has some very effective moments, where music, dialogue and visuals fuse together to a powerful whole, but also many cheap moments which look hurried, and are boringly staged and shot. After seeing impressive stills from this film, I thought it was going to look better, and have a stronger overall visual consistency. The cinematography and direction was disappointing, many scenes looking like a cheap theatre production or 80s rock video with one-dimensional lighting. Some of Goldenthals music is very effective, like during the opening credits which is one of the better scenes, and in the finale. But often I sense that I´ve heard it all before. Very nice acting, though, and it´s fun to see Hopkins engaging in some Hannibal-like activities. It is also well-paced and involving, the plot always clear. I didn´t mind the mixing of periods so much, but the over-the-top elements should have been balanced with a more austere directorial approach. It was still kind of fun and easy to watch despite the running time. 3 out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Tastefully made opera about revenge","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I could think of only four other movies on par with Titus Hamlet (1996), Natural Born Killers, The Cook, the Thief, his Wife, and her Lover, and Festern. Incidentally all five are about revenge. All present true human emotions on the edge without unnecessary shrills, have mesmerizing performances, daring visual style, supportive original score, and irresistible drive. Back to Titus. A beauty. Taymor, Hopkins, and Lennix are outstanding. Preposterous, if taken literally, play. And no, `say no to violence' message is not in the original play. The tucked prolog and epilog sequences cannot right this wrong. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant risk taking","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"      Titus has its flaws.  The modern touches don't always seem to make sense, clashing with ancient Rome.  However, the film is about a man who abides by an ancient system and is forced to adapt to a new kind of savagery.  Titus goes from mourning in his gladiatoral outfit in the tombs to dancing and smiling as he serves human pies a la Italian modern music.  He adapts in the worst kind of way to Saturninus and Aaron's brand of powermongering.    Taymor does take a lot of risks here, and this is not a four star film, dragging along especially towards the opening.  However, she elicits wonderful performances from Hopkins, Feore, a devastating Laura Fraser as Lavinia, Harry Lennix, and Angus MacFadyen as Lucius.  The music eventually ceases to overwhelm the words, though in the first half hour it is quite distracting.  However, by the close, the shifts Goldenthal manages are quite appropriate to the rapid changes in the feast scene.       I highly disagree that this is a film for people who are intellectually clouded- on the contrary, I see the risks as wonderful as long as the plot and performances remain on track.  Unlike Michael Almereyda's Hamlet, which used New York brilliantly to illustrate Hamlet's condition but neglected to make it dramatically engaging, Taymor makes the characters and story resonate in the end, nearly as much as the visuals.  It's just a shame that this didn't come out THIS summer in the wake of Gladiator's success- it might've been able to reach a whole new market.  Spleen, Taymor does do some very avant garde things here, but she's good enough to know not to throw the baby (plot, characters) out with the bathwater (setting, precise Shakespearean dialogue.)  Give praise where it's due. "},{"Title":"Lovely and Eerie.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymor sure doesn't shy away from creepy imagery. While the Shakespeare play, Titus Andronicus is already quite fascinating with one of the most hilarious scenes written in at the end - Taymor makes this film an experience you will NOT forget. If you don't like clear haunting imagery, keep your eyes squinted so you can close them when you need to! Jessica Lange is BRILLIANT...my god is this woman brilliant. Anthony Hopkins has only been better than this in the original Silence of the Lambs. He's a riot. And Alan Cumming is...well, if you know who Alan Cumming is...you know exactly what I'm talking about. The director and art design really deserve the big cake on this one...the movie is beautiful. The violence is artistic...and the acting...well, you don't even have to like Shakespeare to get it.  "},{"Title":"Shakespeare revisited","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Many people think either that you can't do Shakespeare unless all the actors behave like talking statues or that you must not alter anything about the plays. Well, remember -- Shakespeare was in show-biz. He knew you had to get, as they say in theater, the butts in the seats.This is the first time I knew what Titus Andronicus was about. I found this film's adventuresome approach refreshing. The cast is energetic and stimulating, and the artistic mannerisms of the film are imaginative without being overdone. And the politics? Reminds me of much of what goes on in our own time. How much more universal can you make Shakespeare?Don't listen to the fuddy-duddies who don't like the film because it isn't pure Shakespeare. It is pure entertainment, and the old Bard would have loved it.  "},{"Title":"Great cast, excellent direction, beautiful camera work and Shakespearean language; what more could you ask for?","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  After reading some of the comments quite a lot apparently. I thought it was really good the only serious flaw being Anthony Hopkins hamming it up at the end with his Hannibal Lectar impression.This film is a very stylish interpretation and may be a bit arty for some but I think you have to accept that it's been made for an educated audience.The play is very violent and gory so I wouldn't recommend you see this as a 'midnight movie' especially if you want to sleep. I knew it would not be a happy, jolly film so went to see it in the afternoon. Every one of the audience walked out white faced and nobody was talking, all stunned by the sheer horror of the story. It just shows that Shakespeare's work is as relevant today as it was in the 16th century. You only have to bring the action up to date eg the Middle East or the Balkans to know that violence just begets more violence and that revenge is a poisonous waste.A must see for all those who think Shakespeare's plays are dull & boring forget Nightmare on Elm Street this is HORROR with a capital H. "},{"Title":"Superbly casted, visually stunning","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best screen adaptations of Shakespeare I have ever seen.  The acting is superb.  Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange add enormous depth to their characters.  All supporting characters are played more than convincingly.  Best of all is the director's artistic vision.  The film's anachronistic and surreal touches make the movie breathtaking while fitting the difficult work of Shakespeare like a glove. "}{"Title":"Not a very good reperinsintation of Shakespeare","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I love Shakespeare.  I even love the play Titus (forgot last name). Hamlet is my all time favorite story.  MacBeth is good, and Henry is boring.  I think Romeo and Juliet is overrated.   But this movie disappointed me so much.  It's an artistic movie, and I hate artistic movies.  I tried so hard to like this movie, but I didn't succeed.Artistic movies overload the audience with hidden meanings, allusions, and funky looking art that, 9 times out of ten, the story and characters suffers from it.  While Titus is William's least known and least loved play, I actually love the story.  But the movie is too busy being weird that we get lost, forgetting who characters are, what they are doing, and what is going on.  As one of my friends stated after we saw this movie, What the hell did I just see?  No, Sam, Please explain this to me.  My head hurts.   The problem is not with the Elizabethan English.  No, not at all.  It's that it's so weird.  It's as if we jump from ancient Rome to the present.  We see roman soldiers walking in Roman looking streets, and behind them is a car followed by motorcycles.  It's like the movie takes place in Roman times, with several of today's technology.In the movie's defense, the cinematography is absolutely BEAUTIFUL.  Who ever is behind the lenses of these cameras, KUDOS TO YOU MY FRIEND!  I don't mean the director for she should be shot.  I forgot her name and I am too lazy to hit my back button to find out, but I do remember that she was the director for the Broadway hit The Lion King.  Well, missy, stick to the theater.  Anthony Hopkins is a genius, as usual, and seems to be the only person in this film who seems to know what they are doing.  The other characters have gotten little attention, as all of the attention has given to the pretty surroundings.All in all, I don't know what to think of this movie.  I enjoyed some of it.  But that opening scene, the one with the boy with the bag over his head playing in his cereal, IS CONFUSING THE HELL OUT OF ME!!! Maybe I'm too mainstream, but I still think this is weird, even for an artistic movie.  Roger Ebert considered this to be a better and more accurate Roman film than Gladiator.  This is not a Roman movie.  I'm not sure if this is even Shakespeare.  This is one crazy woman trying to see what she can get away with.  At least Gladiator chose what century it was in.I don't have a rating because my head hurts  "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I love how she puts in modern elements into this film. The costumes and sets are amazing. The cast is perfect. The music is great. The story kicks ass; it is hard to believe that this was written hundreds of years ago. It is very violent but not overly gory. Looking forward to her next film. "},{"Title":"Try this on for size","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  A flamboyant display of anachronism only Shakespeare could handle. I enjoy every bit of this. Sure, this is as pretentious as it gets, but not to be expected.  I was affaid it was possibly another Romeo + Juliet, which was utter tripe, but this works out fantastically.  Visually, whoever stated Fellini was spot on.  In the DVD linear notes, I noticed that Pasolini was mentioned as a comparison, and while not as extreme as Pasolini would go, this film is very reminicent of the late director.  This is not an updated version in any way.  I look at it, as I already stated, as an excercise in anachronism, which the Victorian era was known for. What we end up with is an exaggeration of anachronism to the point of exploitation. This is a pretty stunning film, excellent performances, not the best Shakespearian play out there, but hell this is better than some of the attempts I've seen out there.  In fact, this is probably the best Shakespeare adaptation for the screen yet. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I was in a production of Titus....okay, I carried spears in a production of Titus, but the point is, this movie is dead on. I eagerly anticipated the release of this film and saw it twice on the big screen and ordered the DVD, several weeks before it came out on that format, counting down the days before it arrived in the mail. I've noticed that a lot of people have criticized Taymor's direction. I don't think this is deserved. She had a very specific, and I think interesting point, that the violence portrayed in this play is timeless. I think that if someone is willing to become swept up in the pure emotion of this play, it is not one of Shakespeare's worst at all, but an interesting study in violence. I highly recommend this movie and also, if you have a choice, get it on DVD, because the making of video and the interview with Taymore are fascinating. I can't say anything about the director's commentary because my computer is having some difficulty with that, but I'm sure it's interesting too. "},{"Title":"Artsy, but good.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a perfectly historicly accurate version of this play, do not see this movie. View it with an open mind. I'm sure it wasn't intended to be realistic, only symbolic, and if you view it this way, you'll have a great experience. The director does take some annoying little breaks from the plot to comment on what is going on. In case you couldn't tell, this symbolises this. This is probably completely useless to college professors, but it helps the less intelligent part of the population understand the themes of the play. Of course there are times when the artsiness gets in the way of the acting. I don't need a huge guy in a wife- beater to tell me that it's painful to see your sons dismembered heads.The Star Wars like visuals were incredible, and they kept me hypnotised for the entire movie. (Except for the few parts when my stomach wouldn't let me watch.) I was also in love with the costume design and most of the acting. There were times when Hopkins seemed completely empty inside, and I could not understand his motivation. And the typical I'm-evil-just-cuz-I-feel-like-it characters are always hard to understand. But then again it's Shakespeare...Oh and the special effects (all the dismemberment goryness) mostly really sucked. It didn't look like much effort had gone into them at all. The movie was gory enough without us having to really see it all,but if you're going to do Titus, either artisticly hide their severed arms, or do it well. The special effect scene that did blow me away was after Lavinia first got attacked, out in the swamp, and her hands... (I'm tryng not to add to many spoilers.)Wow. I really want to know how they did that.All in all, it was a wonderful movie. It kept me on the edge of my seat or curled up in a little ball the entire time, and if you have a strong stomach I highly suggest you see it. "},{"Title":"I want more Taymor","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you who admire Shakespeare, for those of you who like Fellini, for those of you hung up on Grand Guignol. I recommend strongly that you put your legs in motion, run to buy or rent, engage the eyes and brain and experience TITUS.It is an adaptation by Julie Taymor(Of Lion King fame)of Titus Andronicus.Those of you unfamiliar with the play may be surprised to find that gore and violence are not 20th Century inventions.Shakespeare was just beginning his career when he wrote it and all of the tissue disruption proved boffo box office. He had arrived.Taymor does an excellent job of adapting such a vehicle to modern tastes without losing its historical roots. Almost three hours in length, it flies by and the emotional payoff at the end is worth every film rental or purchase penny. I wish I had seen this in a theatre for its impact would have been much more powerful with a bigger image.Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange star and they and the rest of the cast are extraordinary. But my main hat is off to Taymor. I will even see The Snipe Hunt if she will direct it. "},{"Title":"Best Shakepearean film since Polanski's Macbeth","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This film is breathtakingly brilliant! The three hours or so it takes seem like half an hour - you would be happy to have longer. Not many films manage to be worth two hours and most recent three hour films have been rubbish (or worse - vide Titanic bore).Anthony Hopkins gives one of his best performances ever, quite up to Hannibal Lecter. The rest of the cast don't let him down.It is difficult to over praise this film. "},{"Title":"A Story of Honor","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Much has been said about the pros and cons of this decidedly ambitious film. The film is inventive, creative, and visionary.  It is also fragmentary with regards to plot(Shakespeare's problem too), coarse, and pandering(to the taste of a small, but seemingly relevant slice of the public).  That being said, I wholeheartedly enjoyed the film.  It is one of those films that gains your attention early on and holds it till the last shot.  The director, Julie Taymor, definitely has some talent as she shows signs of brilliance.  The story is simple enough.  It is about honor, honor to one's leige, one's parents, and finally one's principles.  The titular character Titus is Titus Andronicus, a leader of the Roman Legions. He is revered in Rome for his allegiance and prowess as a soldier.  He is offered the crown, but refuses, and in so doing sows his own misfortune.  The rest of the story concerns itself with the revenge of Queen Tamora on Titus and his family for killing her son, and then on Titus turning the tide and avenging himself.  Titus is a tragic figure.  He is a man that causes much of his misfortune through his undying, unyielding pride and code of honor.  Anthony Hopkins is marvelous as Titus, conveying many different emotions with credibility.  The rest of the cast, for the most part, is pretty good.  Jessica Lange really stands out in her role as the vengeful queen.  Lange has rarely been lovlier and she exudes sex and evil with great relish.  The film follows the play for the most part, and in doing so, is very VERY bloody. Hands, heads are lopped off here and there.  A tongue is also excised from a girls head, and two men are baked into a pie for the purpose of unwittingly quenching their mother's appetite. "},{"Title":"Avoid it, to say the least","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Stupid. Not a movie. Not interesting. Less than pointless. Maybe aliens *have* landed... Whatever you do, stay away from this one.My only regret is that I can't reduce the IMDB rating for Titus enough.  It was at 8.1 when I looked on Aug 22, 2000!On a scale of 1 to 10, this movie is definitely a zero. In that respect only it is off the charts. Leave now, while you still can. Quickly watch any other movie. To clear the palate.Too late.Hurl! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  So far, I have seen this movie twice.  It blew me away in the theaters, and I fell in love with it on DVD.  One thing changed though, which is why I waited to post my comments.  I missed the opening scene the first time. Therefore, the boy wandering in the movie was strange, but it did not bother with the story.  Now that I have seen this opening scene, I can say that it did not have a great effect.The opening scene features a child who plays violence with his toys while wearing a bag over his head.  The play is very excessive, and seems to be way over-the-top.  I have never seen a child play like that with his toys, and most would probably say that he was ADD right on the spot.  It did not help the film, even though I understood what it was supposed to mean.  The film could have stood to be without it.The rest of the movie is still breathtaking, and awesome.  Shakespeare was a vicious man with a brutal sense of humor, in his plays.  The movie retains the brutality and viciousness of the movie, and emphasizes the humor in the play.  The dialogue was kept the same as in the play, and it was surprising. The modern slang, probably not its origins, in the movie and play were funny then, and still funny now.The movie also realized the meaning of the play.  A student who had taken a few classes in Shakespeare told me that this was supposed to be a satire on the brutality of the stage in his time.  That is why the play is so excessive.  The movie realizes this, and satirizes a couple of modern movies (including The Matrix, and Caligula) and just goes overboard in general.The movie never loses sight of this purpose, though, which is that revenge is not as sweet as it may seem.  The whole movie could  have been prevented if Titus had been kinder in the beginning.  What follows is a series of events all bent on revenge.  The movie ends on a note of hope throughout the whole dark and deep movie.  Even the character that evokes no sympathy, Aaron the Moor, has his reasons for being the way he is.The style of the movie is also great.  The music borrows from many great time periods, from progressive jazz to big band to opera.  The look of the movie borrows from the same eras, as well as the roman era.  The look of the square coloseum is great with the black flags coming from it.  The Penny Arcade nightmare sequences work, and the costumes are fabulous.  I love watching the wedding reception.10/10 "}{"Title":"Beautifully true to the original text...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I am a junior theater major, and i adore Shakespeare.  When I saw that Titus was going to be a movie, i was totally pumped.  I had no idea how wonderful it would be.   The cinematography blew me away, and the acting was wonderful.  I knew that this was Bill's bloodiest play, but the violence was not as bad as some might think.  I highly recommend without qualm, this movie. "},{"Title":"The best film of this decade!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  If you see any film this decade, see 'Titus'!It explores human relationships in the raw. If you don't understand hatred, honour and love, this is the film that will help you learn about these difficult matters.It is not an easy film. It is directly as Shakespeare wrote it in 'Titus Andronicus'. However, it is so brilliantly performed with such excellent sets, scenery and imagery as to be a very, very rare delight.Feast on this spectacle of both the eye and the mind and leave both humbled, refreshed and enlivened to a better understanding of the human condtion. "},{"Title":"The best film adaption of Shakespeare ever","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The only other film adaption of Shakespeare that comes close to this is Roman Polanski's 1971 version of Macbeth. Like that film, Titus is violent, bloody and incredibly vivid. Julie Taymor has gone a step further and given the film a totally original setting and visual interpretation, allowing modern movie goers to relate to the story a little more easily. This film was robbed at Oscar time when it lost the costume design award, and I have no idea why it wasn't nominated for art direction. Alan Cumming should have at least been nominated for Best Supporting Actor. This film is unforgettable. "},{"Title":"A better update than most, but still an update","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie I had high hopes for, and I would say that it delivered at about 50%. I find it hard to justify anachronistic storytelling in most instances and Titus is no different. I can imagine that I might not have minded so had they been uniform and not played out like some parlor trick. Their appearance seems erratic and unnecessary.The cast is superb and pulls off great performances in the midst of this jumble of ill-chosen director's vision. The sets, cinematography, and score also rack up points here. These examples of what is great about this film may have made it enough to overlook my dislike for the modernizations if it weren't for the clear moral agenda of Julie Taymor. I do not like to go to the cinema to be preached to and Taymor finds every occasion in this movie to do so.Overall, I would suggest everyone check this film out for yourself since my objections to it are from a personal standpoint. Unfortunately, Titus is a good film that could have been great. "},{"Title":"The most well-made motion picture I have ever seen.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, Julie Taymor may have used many of those particular cinematic devices which popularized and idiosyncrasized some of the most well known, mainstream films in America, today... but Titus has made the most effective use of these devices I have ever witnessed. Ms Taymor overemphasizes no one effect, nor any style of presentation, nor even any genre of score, as many directors often do to give their movies some kind of unique edge over others, so that they will be remembered. Instead, she executes every aspect as means to heighten the audience's understanding and the emotional virility of individual scenes and moments... and she does this to such an extent as to create some of the most powerful and memorable images and seizing catharses I know at least I will experience in all my life.Strengthening the film's impact even further, Ms Taymor breaks limits some of the more cowardly filmmakers, decades ago, should have strode past. The word grasping comes to mind when describing the iconic pictures she paints with uncensored blood and fantastical, yet all-too-real brutality - though one must keep in mind that it is done with great taste (to boundaries gone past the grotesque). As hard as it may be to express angelic beauty in dismemberment, Taymor succeeds, brilliantly.Righteously complementing Taymor's masterpiece, Anthony Hopkins rises to a seldom achieved level of performance by any actor, and in an extraordinarily difficult role to portray. Laura Fraser admirably exhibits a surprising, heart quivering pageant of emotion, and Harry J Lennix fashions quite a unique and challenging character as the villain Aaron. The presentations of the entire cast were all played exceedingly well - rarely does one find an ensemble with so few imperfections, and which works so well together.Quite honestly, as a whole, Julie Taymor's Titus is the most well-made motion picture I have seen. I hope to watch her thrive in the industry in the near future. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This film is excellent and I highly recommend it. A must see for actors and Shakespeare buffs.Julie Taymor does an excellent job with her cinematic directorial debut, but misses the mark with her use of the boy in the beginning and end of the film. With the exception of this nuisance, the film is flawless. "},{"Title":"This flick has style to spare!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't your father's Shakespeare, that's for sure.  Julie Taymor has brought her genius to a new medium, film.  I saw it twice in the theater and can't wait for the DVD.  I can understand why Anthony Hopkins agreed to be in this production, even though he vowed never to do Shakespeare again. Making old Will's least-liked and goriest play into a film that I shelled out money for (more than once, mind you!) is a testament to Ms. Taymor's talent.Don't see it if you are squeamish or have just eaten pie.It's interesting to see how these words were brought to life.  Leonardo DiCaprio need not apply to act in this Shakespearean tale, and there's nothing in it to set young hearts swooning like the recent production of Romeo and Juliet.  It's for grown-ups who like their revenge so sweet, it will rot their teeth.Special cheers go to Jessica Lange for staying so beautiful and talented--without her skills and deceptive good looks, this story just won't work.  Thank goodness there are still good roles for women over 25 in the movie business.  This is one of her finest roles ever, as good as Frances. She knows how to chew up some scenes!  Ditto for Harry Lennix, the man who plays the Moor;  in one of only two roles for a black man in all of Shakespeare's plays, he made the character seem even creepier and more despicable than it seems in print.  Harry, thank you for that evil, evil grin--it served you well in this movie! "},{"Title":"Titus(Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange) NOT the TV Show, is awesome.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Don't miss this movie.  Not only is it over the top, it is awesome!!!  The sets, scenery, costumes, actors and actresses, the children,the major speeches, the magnificent camera, filmwork and animation, all are provocative and worthy of the Bard.  I especially liked the homage to Fellini as well as that paid to Shakespeare.  This may just be the best thing that Anthony Hopkins has done yet!  The Italians, the English, the American's and the countries that hosted the filming have all produced a film that is true art.  I only hope that when it is released on video and Disc that it will be in letterbox so that the entire mise-en-scene will be visible on screen. "},{"Title":"Great Acting, Audacious storytelling, Not afraid of the Dark","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I love films which are able to stare at the darkest side of humanity and even get a chuckle or two out of what is presented (Clockwork Orange for example). Julie Taymor (I can only hope she gets more chances to do this kind of thing) was not afraid to take big risks. For me the risks all paid off.It is easy to see why some say this is Shakespeare's weakest play (some insisting he never even wrote it). The subject matter, human cruelty and the urge to revenge are not easy to acknowledge traits we like to speak about in polite society. The terms morality play, or good vs. evil (who was good in this story?) don't make sense to me in relation to this film.The Bard's poetry was powerful and accessible. I was engrossed from beginning to end by the visuals, the acting (Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange are magnificent as are others), and the visceral nature of the emotions presented.  I believe the film is meant to be timeless and does not jump between Ancient Rome and Italy of Mussolini or any other modern setting. The modern young boy is a touch of genius. Doesn't anyone remember being or seeing children playing at war? Cruelty does have a human face. In the end the two youths are our only Hope.We have just entered a new century, a new millennium. The last century witnessed humanity's darkest hours. It continues even now. Despite our progress we show no capacity to control our need to destroy. Oh please, Mr. Shakespeare, Ms. Taymor, don't make me look at such bad things. Let's pretend, as Speilberg and his ilk would have us believe, there really is something redeeming underneath all of the inhumanity to which we've become so accustomed. "},{"Title":"Richly cinematized, avant garde morality movie that's right on the money and entertaining.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about the opening scene in relationship to the closing scene, where the two hour and 40 minutes in between are a lesson. The story seems to be a morality lesson for a totally goofed up kid who lives and breathes childish, popular violence.Yes, the movie was beautifully photographed. Yes, it was often beautifully choreographed. Yes, it was avant garde in jumping around from one era to another. Yes, the acting was competent. But these are all merely tools of this morality movie.Titus, the Shakespearean play, by itself, probably couldn't be related to by today's people. However, add a kid from our century, obviously drenched in cereal box war toys, TV cartoon violence, prime-time Cops shows, Terminator movie violence, and endless news coverage of violence, violence, violence. Suddenly we have, by connecting the kid to a Shakespearean play, a morality play that can be related to by our 21st century kids.  At the end, the kid has obviously learned a lesson, walking away from the violence while displaying caring for another.Striking, in that opening scene, was the absolutely mindless violence of the kid playing with his toys. Extreme. Movie goers must have universally concluded that this 21st century kid had lost all of his marbles.Then we movie goers, questioning the opening scene, are taken back with that kid to historical eras in which violence was considered a respectable, understandable, justifiable, everyday way of life. What kind of violence? War. Honoring war heros. Religious-ceremony violence to assuage the Gods for the killing of our boys, the war heros. Then Justice, eye for an eye revenge. Power-seeking. Feudal intrigue. Family feuds. Fascism, Nazism. Most of all, Revenge! Justified, always justified, revenge--rolling on and on like the plague revenge is. Oh, how we love, in America, justified eye-for-an-eye revenge.A man justifying stabbing a mid-wife, to forever silence her, to protect HIS son.Endless Justified violence is one of the great everyday themes of modern-day man. And so the writers, actors, producer, and director of Titus decided to make a movie about it.That insanely violent kid, shown murdering toy after toy in the opening, is the object of a morality lesson.  He is shown Real Violence. He learns that his insane breakfast-table rampage with toys is truly kid stuff compared to historical violence. He learns how insane Real Civilization is. Ultimately, he quietly rejects violence and walks away from it in an act of love towards another human being. The young kid finally seems to be the only adult in the whole movie.This is a movie that should be seen by kids. Unfortunately, it probably cannot legally be shown to kids because of a few X-rated fornication murals on walls during Roman orgy scenes. Too bad. Because if ever there were a Scared Straight movie for today's violent, numbskull kids, this is it.The movie is well done. Because it's restricted to Shakespearean dialogue that's tough to say as well as hear, the acting could only be said to be very competent. But the morality message was clear. The message against violence is right on target for our American society that is heaped in justified violence.I wish this movie could be shown UNCUT on national TV during prime time. It might do our society some good, in place of, for one night, of all our horrible television shows of our putrid 21st Century entertainment era. Most of today's entertainment features violence and humiliation in a style resembling arena-gladiator shows of the past, where we cheer the death, injury and humiliation of our fellow human beings that we home viewers (and kids) watch on television.Bravo, to all involved in this movie. It was brave of them to attempt a modern-day morality movie. They're way ahead of their audience of today. Hopefully, this movie will catch on and the message will be understood. "}{"Title":"Titus","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This 3 hrs of Shakespere could easily be renamed Festival Of Blood!I am a paramedic & I see NOT AS MUCH maiming & mayhem on a daily or even monthly basis as in this movie!I walked out about 90minutes into this classic/modern movie that, although well acted, don't mean that it was a good or even decent movie.Don't waste your time or $ on such a farce...-( "},{"Title":"Excellent non-verbal cues add to the reinvention of an almost lost classic...","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymor's TITUS does a most excellent job of communicating Shakespeare's work through all sorts of fantastic non-verbal means that add a great deal of depth to the experience.  Her use of absurdity, anachronism, outlandish sets and costumes, and most of all an absolutlely fantastic cast is exciting to see on screen and really helps move the story along, allowing the viewer to really enjoy Shakespeare's verbage without having to simultaneously deduce every plot point.  With only a minor amount of dialog rearrangement she has given new life to what seems to have been an almost lost work.  I find it encouraging that such an artifact from our language's past can be recast in a format that is so accessible and exciting.  This film should be compared favorably with other recent film adaptations of WS's plays such as Greenaway's Prospero's Books, Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet, and Branagh's Hamlet in which tremendous licence was taken by the film makers to revisualize these plays as living works worthy of reinterpretation. Other amazing inter-textual connections, such as this film's relationship to other sword and sandal epics, it's reflection of history, or the compelling and disturbing race and gender issues this film grapples with, makes  this film even more satisfying.  It's a shame that CNN's Paul Tatara felt the need to bash the living daylights out of it, making it just that much more difficult for a film that will already reach a tragically small audience.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Magnificent!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  2 hours and 45 minutes has never passed so quickly!   This has to be one of the best films I have EVER seen.  True to Shakespeare's original words, it was completely understandable and you will forget all about the language being from a different time. It is absolutely flawless in all aspects. Incredible cinematography.  Compelling juxtaposition of eras.  Startling visuals and an excellent musical score.  Luxurious sets and glorious colors. Top-notch acting and the most intriguing, wonderfully told, enrapturing story.  There aren't enough superlatives for Jessica Lange, Alan Cummings, Anthony Hopkins and Harry J. Lennix who are so perfectly marvelous in their roles.  Warning for those who have a weak stomach as there are several moments of blood, gore and human debauchery.  Others will revel in the gloriously filmed scenes of revenge, lust, and pure unmitigated evil.  "},{"Title":"DO ANYTHING YOU MUST TO SEE THIS MOVIE.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This rendition of Titus is the first I have seen and without any doubt is the best adaptation of any of play I have seen.  Although Titus is one of the more obscure stories, this movie will developing a loyal following. The movie stays very faithful to the text while leaving room for creative visual twists.  Titus not only has brilliant direction but also unsurpassed sets and costumes.  Rush to the movies to find this movie. "},{"Title":"Bloody good, in both senses.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is the film that made Sir Anthony claim he would never make another film again.  After seeing it, you'll beg him to keep working (he's since changed his mind, thankfully).  But its not just his work that makes this film work, its everybody's - direction, cinematography, costumes, art direction, make-up... you name it. This version of Shakespeare's bloodiest play is as close to perfect as one could imagine.  I will grant that my experience with the play was previously limited to enumerations of the physical manglings of the characters within it, but those alone made me wonder how the story could fitted into the evening with so many choppings and bleedings and raping.  Yet, Titus himself comes off as being one of the most noble and suffering of the Bard's heros, as hero he is. Titus Andronicus has to deal with revenge upon him from the Gothic Warrior Queen, who is embittered by the death of her first born son by Titus' order.  Meanwhile, there is a political struggle for the position of Caesar, with two brothers battling it out with the Senate.  Titus chooses one, therebye beginning the destruction of his world, at least in one way. The brothers are battling for the control of much, and at one point this includes the hand of a girl.  This ends in tears, brought about by the sudden involvement of the remaining Gothic sons (their mother is now favoured at court, so they are as well). To be honest, any more detail is going to ruin it, but suffice it to say that Titus is put through so much that you wonder if Old Bill S. modelled the guy on Job of the Bible.  Everybody seems to be out to get him in some way or other, even if it's just to mock him or make him go insane. The acting in this is inspired.  The villians (and there are no shortage of them) are deliciously evil, with the possible exception of Saturnia who is directed to run around and yell a lot (this may be true to the character's text, but for Heaven's sake, it gets boring after awhile, Ms. Taymore!).  The sets are both sensual and evocative of a modern interpretation of ancient Rome - as if you combined Pre-Depression Berlin, Modern-day Elegance, and Sci-fi Future brushed metal.  The make-up for the villians is suitably worn, as though it's been slept in after an all-night orgy.  For the rest, the make-up is typically invisible. The only problem I have with it is the occasional intrusive use of multi-media visions, a la Peter Greenaway.  While they're neat and evocative, somehow they don't fit the rest of the whole.  It would have been better to either do something tamer (more traditional vision stuff with a bit of fog) and let the viewer decide of it was real or a dream. All in all, this is a GREAT film, even with the few problems.  You must have a strong stomach, as this is not a film that pulls its punches in the visuals department (there's a lot of blood everywhere), and its shock value is pretty high at times, but if you don't have a problem with any of that; run, do not walk, to your local theatre. "},{"Title":"Julie Taymor rocks!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! For a film with a two hour and forty minute run time it went fast. I loved it, but like a few other films I've seen lately I will be very selective in who I recommend to see it. Titus Andronicus is a play that follows the Roman theater tradition of violence and excess. Titus is a film that takes these qualities to an extreme while retaining visual beauty. Normally I am one who has difficulty with the dialogue of a Shakespeare play, Titus presented no such problem to me. The acting was superb. Every character took a form that was convincing yet over the top. The film is a visual masterpiece. (If you can handle the bloodiness of it all) Even without a word in the opening scene you know just how powerful and important the man Titus is. Basically, if you are mature enough to handle extreme violence and aren't too squeamish, SEE TITUS!  "},{"Title":"nothing but positive","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  on the heels of luhrman's version of romeo & juliet, this shines as an even more impressive elaboration of shakespeare's vision & dramatic expertise...rarely has playing to the mob come across with such visual flair...harry j. lennix as the moor stands out amidst this stand-out cast. highly recommended! "},{"Title":"damn good","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  A visually dazzling adaptation of a very violent Shakespeare play. The main character is somewhere between hero and anti-hero, the villain is beautifully unrepentant. Taymor's surreal timeless style makes the story seem fresh while constantly reminding us that it's very old.For a woman who will turn 50 later this year (heck, even for a woman who was going to turn 40), Jessica Lange looks gorgeous, and plays her insidious and charismatic character flawlessly.The mixing of eras does at times distract from the story, and there is a narrative device involving a little boy that draws too much attention to itself. But overall I was impressed enough that by the end I had forgiven those minor slights. "},{"Title":"An impressive vision, but not well-executed...","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Titus is a very impressive vision of one of Shakespeare's lesser plays. Hopkins is brilliant, Lange holds her own, Alan Cumming is a hoot, and the rest of the cast is quite strong.  Taymore's vision of the Titus Andronicus is wonderfully detailed and frequently horrific.The film works well from the outset, and then collapses into a series of disjointed scenes that leave the audience wondering where the passion went. Like Ian McKellan's Richard III, Titus rests on a concept -- unfortunately, the concept is not nearly as compelling as the setting of Richard III. "},{"Title":"Makes a bad play seem almost good in comparison. . . .","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  If, after a full minute of a movie has gone by, members of the audience are still asking each other if they're in the right theater, a movie is in trouble. And any film that ends with slow motion shots containing virtually no visual or audio information, just meaning, is in very bad trouble indeed. TITUS has both scenes, and what comes in between is no picnic, either.There is nothing wrong with staying close to the theatrical tradition of production (striking sets & costumes, staging and lighting which express moods and themes, exploring resonances with the present) when doing a filmed play. Mostly, director Julie Taymor sticks with this style, and it works, mostly.Unfortunately, two-thirds of the way through, you're forced to stop watching the wonderful sets and start watching the actors go through their speeches, as if Taymor decided this was where she was going to buckle down and start directing. You are then exposed to bright-orange thought-candy which tries to tell you what the characters feel. Of course, we already have more than enough of that from the actors, the truly magnificent photography, etc. We're being force-fed information, which is always bad, but, much worse, it's information we don't even need.A few notes on the actors. Harry J. Lennix gives what is easily the best performance in the film, even adjusting for the fact that he's playing the most attractive part, the satanic satyr. To Taymor's credit (as screenwriter, not director), TITUS does not back away from Shakespeare's evil black Moor, giving Lennix the dialogue he needs to take the screen away from anyone who presumes to try to share it with him.Alan Cumming as Saturninus shows that he's capable of doing more than playing a creepy guy with a nipple-ring and Hitler haircut for TITUS he ditched the nipple-ring. Of course, I might have missed it while I rolled my eyes during the mock-Fellini orgy scenes. To be fair, Cumming does what is asked of him in TITUS, and is one of the few members of the cast who seems able to act in close-up.Finally, there is a major problem with Anthony Hopkins as Titus which someone really should have seen coming and prevented, if possible. I'm sorry to say that I--like a few other people--have seen an obscure little film called Silence of the Lambs. When Hopkins really starts to cook as an actor in the last third of the film, part of you is distracted by the appearance of referentiality. I realize that this is a commonplace about Hopkins' work, but it really is true this time.Like Shakespeare? See TITUS and be prepared to wince at the seemingly random appearance of the Hand of The Director. Like film? You might well want to see it, but don't expect much except the visuals and of course the dialogue.In sum a bad film of an excellent production of a bad play. "}{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is a wonderful example of how staging, acting, and meticulous directing truly make or break a play. Titus Andronicus is miles away Shakespeare's worst play, but this film may very well be the best film of 2000 (it's actual release date). Any flaws in this film come from the flaws in the play itself, a turgid, heavy-handed work which was Shakespeare's first, and the fact that there are SO few flaws is a testament to the genius of this film.Julie Taymor's direction is steady, assured, and always thoughtful. Tovoli's cinematography is phenomenal and adds greatly. Goldenthal's score is always appropriate and extremely well orchestrated. The performances are brilliant to the last. When William Shakespeare is your weak link, you have an amazing work of art.A few words of warning are in order. Since this is Shakespeare, clearly those who are put off by Elizabethan English (though very intelligibly inflected) should avoid this play. Purist Shakespeare fans should avoid it as well since it is not set in ancient Rome but rather some modern alternate reality thereof. The character of Aaron the Moor is African-American and is presented as the epitome of Evil. In my opinion, though, it is greatly to the film makers' credit that they did not at all back off from this modernly controversial element; their solution was to cast Harry J. Lennix who, in a career-making performance, instills the character with nobility and power and, while still evil, makes him the most dynamic and powerful character. Finally, the film is disturbing, violent, and bloody (though not moreso than Shakespeare's original staging), so be warned. If, like me, none of the above disturb you, then consider this film a must-see. It is a fabulous piece of cinema, and if you ever manage to see a stage production of this almost-never-performed play, it would be extremely hard pressed to outdo this film.  "},{"Title":"A Beautifully imaginative version of the Dark Tragedy.","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I found it to be as sensual retelling of a Shakespearean classic. All 12 principle characters were portrayed so beautifully I had to see the film twice.Alan Cumming's performance of Saturninus stood out like a rose among daises. The Rhys boys played the Tiger-like brothers with such reckless abandon, I could not take my eyes off of them.As for the look of the film, I think the melding of the classical and the modern, in all aspects, was brilliant. The costuming was inspired, the backdrops amazing. I think it is the best movie out today.  "},{"Title":"Dazzling Cinema","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect going into see this. But I don't think anyone could really prepare themselves for TITUS. It's the most thrilling, innovative and challenging movie of the year - and maybe decade. I've never seen or heard anything like it. The director Julie Taymor pushes everything to the edge - and beyond. Her witch's brew is made up of extraordinary acting, incredible sets, a stirring musical score, surrealistic episodes integrated successfully into a tale of horror, revenge and redemption which has long been the skeleton in Shakespeare's closet and she makes an excellent case for its rehabilitation.All the actors are exceptionally fine Jessica Lange makes a femme fatale to die for - and so many do!  Alan Cumming is mesmerizing and Harry J. Lennix is an actor of power and subtlety.  But the movie essentially belongs to Sir Anthony Hopkins. This part must be an almost impossible one to play the technical skills demanded and the emotional range called upon to make Titus believable must be unparalleled. Yet Sir Anthony makes him not only believable but a compelling force of nature. His performance is a landmark in Shakespeare on film.This film will probably appeal more to the people who think they wouldn't like it! Regular Masterpiece Theater fans will be shocked by the avant-gardism and all the display of sex and violence and fans of raunchy movies will be scared off by Shakespeare!  Women may think the subject matter too horrifying to appeal to them. They would be wrong. "},{"Title":"Streak of eccentricity too much.","Date":"16 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus is a film that does have a certain allure but it alienates just as much with its peculiar segments within the film. For all its gusto and confidence Titus fails to be as poignant as it could be.The period is created with a flurry of modern additions, which at times does not look that far out of context with the overall picture but would have been better to maintain in its intended setting. Indeed the inclusion of Lucius, a young boy who is ignored and then brought into the film (you will understand if you see the film)is rather bizarre and unexplained progression, which I did not like.Harry Felix and Angus MacFadden are the stand out performances with Anthony Hopkins and Alan Cummings giving powerful displays which are both hindered by the over dramatics created in the film. The score is at times too over-the-top to take seriously, and the story is dark and harsh which will quell people's potential enjoyment.Titus for all its art and craft manages to sustained itself through its strong acting but its bravado is too much to be able to palate in reasonable proportions. "},{"Title":"A strange yet impressive delve into Shakespeare's work.","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I was taken by absolute surprise at the opening scene of Titus. The setting of a 1950's kitchen and a boy with a paper bag on his head threw me for a loop. The scene in the colosseum with the horses rising opposite of motorcycles and tanks, and the foot soldiers marching to music made me wonder what I had gotten myself into.For me, the film improved as the viewer progressed further into the storyline. As my eyes started adjusting to the cross-era ambiance and my ears began to hear Shakespeare's compositions in this adaptation of his little known play, I started to see the pervasive stylization of Titus as a strong point.This film was equal parts chaotic as it was brilliant. Some things felt out of place, others fit together beautifully. I found the musical score striking (although sometimes the modern twist seemed a bit much). The violence at times was hard to watch, and there was generous amounts of nudity as well, although none of it seemed gratuitous within the context of the story.This movie was long, and definitely not for everyone. In the end, I found this to be a positive experience, even creating in me an interest in Shakespeare's work where only a faint curiosity once existed. Titus was not a flawless effort, but it was unique and impressive and that counts for a lot in my book. "},{"Title":"Thinking about it from this standpoint.","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" If you're here reading this you're considering watching this movie, or you have seen it and are therefore attempting to find out what other people thought of it. I watched Titus several times before I became satisfied with it. Having read the play from Shakespeare many years ago...I wanted to see how well the movie added up to the play. I was not let down. I found that the original work was interpreted to a modern audience very well. If you have a transcript of the movie with you it would be quite easy to understand a first time around, but if you do not you may find yourself left in the dust because although many of the scenes in the movie are filmed in a modernesque setting, they are still spoken in old English verse. I was never that big into THAT era's literature, I always preferred the Greek's and Roman stuff..but because this has the imagery I have always loved, it was a nice blend. But besides that. I would suggest this to anyone who is considering watching this Go into it with an open mind, take in the beauty for the first time, not the words. Then watch it a second time, some days later, now try to put those images to the words. Wrap your brain around it piece by piece and you'll appreciate the work put into it. The acting is truly phenomenal, Anthony Hopkins was an incredible leading role, and the part Alan Cummings plays is also incredible. This movie however is NOT for the...average I'm going to rent a movie and sit down and enjoy it. kind of person. You don't need to really know what's going on beforehand, but it helps. And you may find that after the opening credits roll you find yourself saying, Why did I spend five dollars on this. Still, to me this is one of those movies that is a hidden treasure. "},{"Title":"Could it be worse? Well, yeah, but I can't think how.","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  OK, let's see what we've got. Take a play so bad that many experts can't bring themselves to admit that it could have been written by Shakespeare, a trendy director with no feeling for the material and the need to modernize bits of the settings in ways that a first-year film student would reject for being too unsubtle. Sure fire recipe for success, eh? There are a few decent performances, which is why I gave the film a rating of 2 instead of 1. Anthony Hopkins is strong in the title role, though draws perhaps a bit too much on Captain Bligh in The Bounty, and Alan Cumming makes the most of the over-the-topness of his character as the emperor Saturnine (though still and all, are the motorcycles, flags with the colors of Germany and the ankle-length leather coats really necessary? We get it, already.) Overacting reigns, except where underacting does. In other words, there's no cohesiveness to the directing, many of the other players trudge through the material like farmers through manure-filled fields after a rainstorm, and the imagery is piled on with a shovel, presumably on the grounds that if you're stupid enough to watch this drivel, you're too dumb to know what Julie Taymor thinks it means. Feh.  "},{"Title":"Just another Shakespeare film.","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say I'm much of a Shakespeare fan, in fact, you might even say that I dislike Shakespeare's work.  I'm sure his stuff was great back in his day, but in my opinion it just doesn't stand up to contemporary work.As for the film though, I thought it was mildly entertaining, with a lot of cool stuff to look at, but that's really all it had going for it.  The film was a little too bizarre for me, the story wasn't terribly interesting, the acting was WAY too over-acted, and there were a number of scenes made to be dramatic that really weren't dramatic or shouldn't have been made dramatic.  Oh well, isn't that just the nature of Shakespeare?Anthony Hopkins pulls off an ok performance, but he's had much better.  Jessica Lange is decent.  James Frain pulls off a rather good performance, although he doesn't last very long in the film.  Alan Cumming plays a particularly annoying character, a likeable guy in other films.  The rest of the cast isn't worth mentioning, some did a good job though.If you're a fan of Shakespeare or enjoy seeing two completely different era's thrown together, then go ahead watch this film.  If you are like myself and are not a fan of Shakespeare, then do yourself a favor and watch something else that you'll more likely enjoy.  Also, I have one last complaint, although the film did go by quickly, the film was WAY too long!  A good hour of the film could easily have been stripped away!  Well, if you do feel like watching this despite my review, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"A thought provoking flim","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus, is a flim that requires the viewers attention. Although for those not compatable with Shakespares language will get the general idea. A flim that is beautifully made, and a first rate cast.Like Ian McKelan's excellent Richard 3rd (facist England), and Romeo + Julliet (on the beach), the blending of modern and acient Rome is entirely appropriate.However Recommended for audiedences with very strong stomach's.9/10  "},{"Title":"A Yankee pastiche of a lesser known bard story","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear - the things Americans do when they go wild with Shakespeare! On the plusses, this film brings a lesser-known story (Titus Andronicus) to a wider audience, has some stunning scenery and imagery, and is haunting enough to want to watch till the end. On the downside, the actors, for me, all seemed to be standing there reciting Shakespeare (with theatrical flourishes) and some of the time not even understanding what the words meant. This means that it lacks the power to suspend disbelief as well as it might and the gory, terrifying scenes are less shocking because of the inherent stage-iness. The constant flirtations with modern props (such as machine guns) whilst maintaining the classical settings will irritate many, especially as the justifications are flimsy and, as with the surreal sequences, barely beyond the level of playing with the toys accessible to filmmakers. Sadly, special effects are woefully lacking in basic areas, such as when Titus' (Anthony Hopkins)' hand is chopped off and he wanders around with it laughably stuffed up his jacket sleeve and a bloody stump sewn onto the end of the same sleeve. Audience titters at the UK premiere were also apparent at the unconvincing hand which the mutilated girl picks up between her teeth. If you liked Shakespeare as portrayed in productions such as Prospero's Books you will probably like this as well. If you prefer either the authentic bard (such as in Branagh's full-length Hamlet) or films that use the medium to enforce realism (such as Polanski's Macbeth) or make the meaning accessible in modern day terms (such as Baz Luhrmann's Romeo and Juliet) then you may be disappointed by Titus.  "}{"Title":"Overblown and silly","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a good example of why the broad, exaggerated style of Broadway does not translate well to movies.  Julie Taymor should have toned it down about 4 notches.  But instead she took every opportunity to overdramatize and the result was a puffed up, silly piece of self-indulgence.  This resulted in even the most tragic scenes (of which there were plenty) coming off nearly humorous as caricatures of themselves.The movie was slightly redeemed by some good acting, especially by Harry Lennix. "},{"Title":"True Vision","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a masterpiece of visionary film making.Its delicate balance of grit and beauty is expertly struck. Its stunning visuals and surreal settings draw the audience into the movie. Its unorthodox handling of issues which would otherwise be consider shocking and vulgar only seek to enrapture the watcher in this gripping tale of the dark side of human emotion.The successful mix of classical and contemporary elements in this movie is one of its crowning glories and the grandeur of its dialogue and the larger-than-life characters make it a true epic in every sense of the word. Despite the proportions of the film it still feels very personal and one feels for the protagonists in many parts.The theme of revenge, which is not always handled well in film, is reminiscent of Shakespeares' 'Hamlet'. The character interactions and relationships are very similar between these two works and, given that this movie is an adaptation of a Shakespearean play, this is not surprising.The characters themselves are well developed and, coupled with some possibly career-best performances from Anthony Hopkins, Alan Cumming and Jessica Lange, provide a taut, emotional and sometimes comical spectacle of film making.In short, if you are looking for an engaging and beautifully realised piece of cinema then this is for you. "},{"Title":"Violence Of The Hams","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Julie Taymor worked very hard to bring one of Shakespeare's most problematic problem plays to the big screen, and you'll work nearly as hard trying to follow what on earth is going on, in this phantasmagoric feast of the senseless.Anthony Hopkins is a general named Titus Andronicus who bewilderingly allows a very unstable and spiteful rival of his named Saturninus to be made emperor. Saturninus says thanks first by taking Titus's already-betrothed daughter as his wife, then spurning her for a captive barbarian queen named Tamora who Titus made his enemy by killing her son. Now empress, she plots her revenge with the help of her two remaining sons and her adulterous lover.When William Shakespeare wrote Titus Andronicus, he set it in a specific place and time, ancient Rome. Taymor's adaptation skitters from ancient to modern and back again, sometimes combining diverse elements in single settings. Senators wear togas with ties. The soldiers dress like Romans, only with triangular codpieces and colorful mud-paint splashed about their faces. The punkboy princelings prance about shirtless in vinyl pants.Stylization isn't a crime. Some of it in Titus is very arresting and thoughtful. The real mix-up comes with the bent of the story. Is it a tragedy? On paper it is, but there are some wacky moments, too, enough that critics like Roger Ebert praise it as a clever send up. Take the scene when a father bids his armless daughter pick up his severed hand with her mouth. Are we supposed to be moved by the sad pathos of this, or chuckling at its goofy panache? I don't know. I don't think Taymor does, either.Shakespeare is primarily at fault for the storyline, an obvious attempt to furnish the audiences of his day with the blood and nastiness they desired. But he was young and needed the work. Taymor is the real problem. She can't seem to trim a line in this overlong adaptation, and allows every scene to be weighted with excess portent. She's very strong on visuals, but there are times when her focus should be more straightforward. Instead you get a wash of odd Felliniesque nonsense.Hopkins has good scenes, but excess moments, too. A scene at the end is played by him as an obvious homage to his earlier Silence Of The Lambs, and Taymor should have hosed him down instead of abetting his grandstanding. Titus is a sloppily written character, but Hopkins's unsteadiness in playing him only worsens matters.Jessica Lange is great as Queen Tamora, very sexy and teeth-gnashingly evil in a way that serves the story more than herself. Harry J. Lennix does justice to the best role in the play, the nihilistic Moor Aaron, who mourns the idea that, sometime in his misspent life, he may have done a good deed. The rest of the cast is decidedly minor.Titus is like an acid trip. There are good acid trips and bad acid trips, and sometimes one can turn into the other. Very few of them go on for three hours, though. So caveat viewer, as the Romans might say. Let the viewer beware. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" What a strange confection this movie turned out to be.Usually I'm eager applaud all attempts to bring Shakespeare, plus his dialogue, into the modern age, but then usually his plays were good! Titus Andronicus has always been a mess, the language and characterisations poor by the Bard's standards. It's a nasty, bleak, affair, devoid of nuance or humanity. So it's a mystery as to why it was filmed at all.What makes this film yet more bizarre is the frankly stark and pretentious historical motifs. Far from suggesting the timelessness of revenge stories and human frailties, the muddling of eras, the set design and costume jumps from Ancient Rome to Mussolini, are distracting and little else, though in fairness does help paper over the cracks provided by the source material. To read other IMDb reviewers, it does however appear to impress those with a mind willing to enjoy such artifice. It's cool only should you choose it to be.True the cast do get their teeth into in the film, most admirably avoiding embarrassment, save for Jessica Lange, who is helplessly miscast. She's more pantomime villain than Queen of the Goths. I had to restrain myself from cautioning her, He's behind you!.Tony Hopkins is of course the star, and scenes wain without him, even though, he fails to save Titus from the falling into the annals of turkeydom. The only worth, the only reason to give two and half hours of your life to this film, is the climatic dinner scene. It is unmissable, the manic and enormous Hopkins unleashed, in fact fast forward to that scene, you'll miss nothing important from the story.If this is to be the definitive modern version of Titus Andronicus, it's true, the play was always as awful as everybody said it was. "},{"Title":"One of the very best Shakespeare adaptations on film","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Why did I like the film? I applaud any director making his or her initial film who chooses to film a complex subject like Shakespeare's least known tragedy, probably the mother of all his well- known tragic plays King Lear, Othello, Macbeth, Hamlet, and Julius Caesar that literature critics have dubbed a problem play. It is true that each of the later Shakespeare tragedies borrowed strands from Titus Andronicus. Shakespeare staging Titus Andronicus was in a way similar to Julie Taymor's effort to film the play. Shakespeare wanted to establish his name. Some even suggest that Shakespeare did not write it but borrowed the source material. Yet no one can dispute that even in Elizabethan times, the play went down well with audiences. And Shakespeare went on to write and stage more plays. But for years the play was a problem to put on stage and it is well-known that few directors chose to stage or film it, due to its gory and dark contents.I applaud Julie Taymor's decision to pick up the play to film. Titus, the play, is relevant today even more than it was in Elizabethan days. Titus is replayed almost each day in the Middle East, in Darfur, and till recently in former Yugoslavia, in Rwanda, and in Ireland. I am delighted that Taymor chose to rework the play mixing the past Roman glory with those of Mussolini's Italy, which underlines the relevance of the play today&#151;irrespective of whether the conquering heroes ride horses or Rolls Royces.I congratulate Taymor's decision to create a modern chorus distilled in the personality of a young boy, who plays like an adult but is shaken and stirred by events outside, who seems to realize as the play unfolds the importance of forgiveness, tolerance and love for all. For the Greeks and even for Shakespeare, the chorus had to be old and blind (as in Macbeth) but for Taymor it's the young who have eyes to see the dawn after the dark night.There are more facets to the film that make the film extraordinary. Jessica Lange's Tamora presents a range of emotions&#151;crying for pity, yelling for revenge, smiling to seduce and aroused by a kiss of her mortal foe Titus. The short kiss of the aging Titus and Tamora is a highlight of the film, the kiss between conqueror and former slave, a kiss between a queen and a demented subject&#151;all highlighted by the facial expression of Ms Lange choreographed by Taymor. This brief shot cries for our attention, as throughout the film (and play) Titus seems to be celibate. (There is no mention of Titus's wife or lover). I thought Taymor brought out the best in Ms Lange, even exceeding her range of emotion in Frances. While Anthony Hopkins might not have enjoyed making this film, Taymor brought out his finest performance to date here in this film. It was almost like watching a mellow Richard Burton rendering the lines of the Bard. Taymor and cinematographer Luciano Tavoli, who is often arresting, is able to get a shot of Titus crying on the stony paths, with his face and eyes inches from the stones, signifying the lowest of the low the character has been hewn down to the terra firma.A third commanding performance was that of Alan Cumming as Saturinus, second only to his mesmerizing role in Eyes Wide Shut as a gay front office clerk. If you reflect on the film, the casting was superb.The only flaw in the absurdist treatment was the introduction of the Royal Bengal tiger&#151;which could have been replaced by a leopard or a lioness. This I thought was taking the theater of the absurd too far. Perhaps Taymor wanted to glamorize Tamara to be more attractive as the tiger than any other great cat. That was one decision I thought did not work well in the movie.The film's strengths are not restricted to the screenplay, the direction and acting. The film grips you with the music and choreographed title sequence and the overall production design. You want more. You get more, if the viewer is able to think while watching the film and think laterally. This is not Gladiator or Spartacus. It challenges the senses, beyond the gore and sex. Why do people behave as they do? Is the bias of many of us limited to race and color? These are questions that Terence Mallick asked in The Thin Red Line. To appreciate Taymor's Titus multiple viewings will help, preferably with a thinking cap. I rate this film as third best Shakespeare film ever made&#151;the first two being the Russian black and white films Korol Lir (King Lear) and Gamlet (Hamlet) directed by Grigory Kozintsev, some 40 years ago.Finally, like Orson Welles and Terrence Mallick, Julie Taymor appears to be little appreciated within the US but more lauded elsewhere. But that should not dampen the brilliance of this talented lady and her spouse the music composer Elliot Goldenthal. "},{"Title":"Simply horrible","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is, perhaps, the second worst that I have ever seen in my lifetime of watching movies. The director is entirely unskilled at making movies, and furthermore seems to have an enormous amount of personal vanity, this based on the interview segments of the DVD. The main problem with the story, however, is the setting. It is set in the modern age, with guns, cars, and bombs, in the country of Rome. Apparently the screenwriter was too stupid to notice that Rome is no longer a nation. The film tries very hard to be entertaining, to tell a coherent story, and fails. If it failed in a spectacular way it would at least be funny, something to laugh at, but it does not do this. This is easily the worst adaptation of Shakespeare that i have ever seen, worse even than all of Branaugh's attempts to ruin the works. Not worth the almost three hours it takes to watch. I hate this movie.  "},{"Title":"Flashy version of a bad Shakespeare play","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  For centuries, certain Shakespeare scholars have been trying to convince themselves and others that Titus Andronicus was penned by someone else.  It's that bad.  Admittedly, this screen version is entertaining almost from start to finish (a trip that  takes three hours), but it's also guilty of fever-dream excess  and an anachronism that steals props and costumes from every era. Roman to modern.  Some sequences are intended for camp value, as if to mitigate the raw spots in the material; other sections (like the fantasy sequences) are just there to employ the special effects team.  The film starts off with a modern-day child having a tantrum with her food, throwing it everywhere in her kitchen; a few moments later, she's gripped by a seizure of sorts, and transported to the world of Shakespeare, where everybody speaks iambic pentameter.  The girl appears on and off throughout the rest of the play, which contains rape, torture, dismemberment, cannibalism and murder (as well as a few tidbits thrown in by the filmmaker -- like incest and orgies).  From the standpoint of spectacle, Titus grabs you; as drama, it's a mess.  "},{"Title":"Give-Away DVD","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I found it most interesting to read pages of superlatives devoted to this film, now on DVD.  This version of Titus is dreadful.The purpose of any media, be it film, print, canvas, is to take one on a journey, is it not?  Titus tested my sense of the ridiculous on numerous occasions.Apart from Mr. Hopkins bathtub soliloquy, the only redeeming quality this film has, is that it may spur an interest in reading the original text.How there could possibly be a minute 0.7 difference in rating of this piece of trash and the film A Man For All Seasons is well beyond me. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" This has to be one of the worst movies ever. I have never before seen so much money spent and so much talent wasted on a film which was so uninteresting, difficult to follow, and absent a reason to make the effort to follow it. Listening to the director's commentary only made it worse, hearing how the director essentially had a vision which was absurd and plowed headlong into subjecting viewers to it when at least somewhere along the way someone HAD to have told her to pause and take stock of what she was doing.... and, yet, in listening to her commentary it is apparent she believed she had done something great.There is a reason I had never heard of this film until I saw it six years after its release -- it stunk. "},{"Title":"Just Your Everyday Pretentious Artsy Piece of Crap","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" There are artsy movies, and then there's Titus. Titus was like to the movie Fountain directed by Aronofsky. It focused so much on visuals that the plot and substance of it was more of an undertone to the monstrosity that it was. Titus made everything that happened symbolize something greater, which is a horrible offense to a movie. Symbolism, when used sparingly, can convey themes much larger than the medium that they exist in. However, if everything that happens in a movie conveys that symbolism, it makes even the most meaningful parts of the movie meaningless. Another major problem I had with this movie was the pseudo realism. Not only were there roman-style soldiers all over the place in the beginning, but there were also 40s styled cars and motorcycles, along with microphones from the same era. This only adds to confusion, it conveys little meaning to the actual movie. It only succeeds in annoying the viewers- or at least the viewers who aren't into pretentious art- movies. All of the characters seemed flat, even those played by big-name actors like Anthony Hopkins. Part of the problem with this is, admittedly, the script. It takes impeccable acting and directing to create complex characters out of the script that was written by Shakespeare. If the directing and/or acting is poor, then the dialogue will sound awkward, because nobody speaks in Shakespearean English now. As the directing and the acting was poor, the entire movie was just one awkward transition to the next. From what I was told about this movie (I saw it in a Drama class after we finished reading the play) the budget was relatively low, so the visual effects were, as expected, not that great. But the thing is, the only visual effects that you would really need in making this movie would be what it would take for the gore scenes. The beginning choreography with the roman soldiers was unnecessary and confusing, the explosion in the opening scene was confusing, and all of the over-the- top costumes were annoying, especially Saturninus', Tamora's, and Chiron and Demetrius'. Really, this movie would've been so much better if the visuals conveying characters' thought were scratched, and if the director had chosen which time period the movie would take place in. Another huge problem that this movie had was the scene where Marcus finds Lavinia. There was surprisingly little blood (except for when she did this weird thing where she turned around and spat blood at Marcus in slow-motion), and her hands had been replaced by branches. I found this odd, because I don't think that Chiron and Demetrius would bother with doing this. I know hat this is supposed to be a take on the line saying, more or less, that she had been rid of her branches (meaning hands), but if she had lost her hands, and the text says branches, how does it make sense to put actually branches on her arms instead? Titus also over-glorified the character of Young Lucius. I've been told by many of my friends who were in the same class that this character is supposed to show how this kind of tragedy affects someone, and to make it less confusing when Young Lucius first shows up, but both are invalid arguments. It only makes things confusing. First of all, I would like to point out that it's not really that weird that Lucius randomly shows up halfway through the play. It actually makes sense, because a child would not be present at the ceremonies occurring in scene one of the text, the hunt, or the trial of the other two sons (the ones who were executed, I forgot their names). Young Lucius' omnipresence actually makes thing more confusing, because he doesn't talk until much later, and even the quietest kids would speak after seeing many of the things that happened, especially Lavinia after she's raped. One of my least favourite parts of the movie was the opening scene. When the movie starts, you think you're watching the wrong one, because it's some kid in a 40s or 50s style kitchen, making a mess of things with some action figures that resemble the characters that you meet later on. Then, there's an explosion, and some hulking guy just appears out of nowhere, and carries this kid down this really long staircase that likewise appeared out of nowhere, that leads to the Colosseum. This leaves you wondering as to what had just happened. Is the kid in some kind of coma? Has this actually happened? Is it all a dream? When is the movie going to start? It takes about 7 minutes of opening credits and marching soldiers in pseudo Ancient Roman armour, marching around in a display at, what you find out to be, their return from war against the Goths. I already had taken issue of the sudden switch from 40s/50s to Ancient Rome in such a bizarre way, that the existence of mummies in ancient Rome really annoyed me. I found the entire movie to be filled with annoyances like that. Basically, this was a horrible movie that no one should ever have to see, unless they want a movie filled with bad visuals, artsy cello music, and horrible acting and directing. "}{"Title":"Good enough for 8!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished seeing this movie, and it just fascinated me. Anthony Hopkins' performance, as usual, was astonishing. If you're planning to make a movie collection you can't miss this one. It was a free interpretation of the Shakespeare's play. If you're expecting to see Gladiators fighting around in a Roman environment forget it. You're going to see a very unique look at Titus the play. Wonderful. "},{"Title":"Chilling but true-to-Shakespeare adaptation","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This adaptation is horrifying---it's a blood, guts, and gore extravaganza. However, one should remember that Shakespeare's tragedies, especially Titus Andronicus, were meant to be horrifying.  Anthony Hopkins gives a superb performance that should have received more acclaim than it did. Do not see this movie if you have no tolerance for extreme disturbing violence and carnage!! "},{"Title":"Average Roman Alternative","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Average alternate Earth Roman drama that has good all around production and performances but unfortunately,was done in the wrong way.The alternate Earth decor,impressive as it was,could have been more impressive with high quality standard Roman props which are much more nicer to look at (see GLADIATOR).Also,the Shakespearean English was over done so as to drag the movie in many scenes.Dialog should have been more shorter.The story is incredible.Nice nasty/semi horror tale that coupled with other shocking Human sins depicted here,truly entertains those who are willing to see such things.The ending here is also a good climax.Almost there.If only done with the right flow and style,this could have been a classic.Only for fans of alternate style Shakespeare plays,alternate style soft porn and big fans of the lead actors....    "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  My friends and I decided to watch a serious movie, and being teenagers and all this would have been the most far fetched movie we picked, but something drawn us too it.  The movie is amazing, hard to understand the english dialouge at first but gets easier as the movie progresses.  Lots of scandal and twist in this movie that make shakspear one of the greatest writters ever.  The cinematography captures you at the first seen and Hopkins is remarkable in this film.  I suggest everyone to watch this movie! "},{"Title":"The director has no clothes.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The movie looks as if they took every set ever made, threw them into a cuisinart, and randomly threw splotches on the screen.  It's all static that gets in the way of the story.  Forget historically accurate, this movie isn't even vaguely internally consistent. "},{"Title":"One of my top three favorite movies!","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I am not going to bore all with the details as to what I liked in this movie. I liked EVERYTHING in this movie. One thing I find worth mentioning. No matter what anyone says this is not, I repeat NOT a gory movie at all. It is not in the least bit scary! From the second I saw a preview I was in love with it, just out of curiosity I read some reviews and they made it sound like the scariest and goriest movie ever made. Now, I am not at all found of tasteless gore so with a tortured heart I avoided it thinking it to be beyond any imaginable content of extreme gore. Finally, my mom saw a preview for it while we were watching another movie and remembered that it was her favorite Shakespeare play when she was young. Right away she just had to see it. I, of course wanted to all along, but still I got this nervous queasy feeling in my tummy thinking, oh my god! This is going to be unbearable. ***SPOILER ***I already knew the plot by this time and imagined all the possible ways to cut off a tongue and hands, and make pie out of young male flesh (Jonathan Rhys Meyers is beautiful) in the most goriest of ways. ***END OF SOILER*** Then, I watch the movie careful to leave the lights on, to everyone's annoyance. I wait, and I wait, and I wait, and I wait&#133; There was not one single gory scene in the whole movie! NOT ONE! So for all of you out their who think it is laden with violence and gore, try looking at Blade or The Faculty, or even Dracula.  "},{"Title":"Shakespeare Improved","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far my favorite movie.  I am very reluctant when it comes to Shakespeare remakes (I am a purist in that sense).  But, though it hurts to say it, I think that this movie is unequivocally an improvement upon Shakespeare's work.  If Shakespeare had directed this, this is what he would have done.  This movie is a masterpiece of surrealism and creativity, and the best movie you will ever see. "},{"Title":"Shame on Anthony, Jessica","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I have always been a fan of Jessica Lange and Anthony Hopkins but after seeing this revolting bit of egocentric trash, I wonder if they are broke or desperate.  It has long been assumed that Plan 9 From Outer Space is the worst movie ever made, but I would have to argue that point after seeing Titus.  At least Plan 9 didn't take itself seriously and profess to be art.  Never have I seen Jessica Lange overact so badly.  Defines the word ham.  If you need to kill time, watch paint dry or grass grow but don't put yourself through this overblown debacle. "},{"Title":"Too much theatre-like for the big screen","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I have just been to seeTitus, and I must say that i wasn't exactly watching with both eyes all the time.I think this movie is over-dramatic and i'm sorry to say i think it's a little boring watching.Unlike Shakespeare In Love, which i think was a good way of bringing Shakespeare to the big screen - this movie is too much of a theatre-play.The complicated dialogues and the lack of story, makes me wanna warn other movie-watchers. Do not watch this movie, unless you are a shakespeare fan, or need something to make you sleepy.Perhaps the movie should just have been 1 hour shorter - you sit right to the end, and want something interesting to happen - but it's never coming.Perhaps the original theatre-play was good - i have never seen it - but as a movie - this is a failure.Or perhaps it's just because i'm foreign, and don't get all the old-time sentences being told in this movie.Anthony Hopkins was much better in Instinct, and it is a shame to see him in this play - even if the acting in the movie is pretty good - it can't help the boring way the story is told. Also the costumes are quite weird i think, not at all as i imagine people from that time to look like. Some looks like punks or gays, and some looks like a mixture of science-fiction and middleage. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Best Movie of the Year, Matrix notwithstanding. The Academy is worthless. Trust me, someone you have never met who has no reason to be anything but honest - THIS MOVIE IS FANTASTIC, BRILLIANT, AND AMAZINGLY WELL DONE. Not for minors. "}{"Title":"Hated it","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Could not wait for this film to end.  The acting, cinematography, etc. were great, but it did not make up for the disgusting nature of the play/film. I did not like switching back and forth between Roman times and today (nor did I like Olivier's Henry V).  More graphically, violent films have been made (Silence of the Lambs was pretty gut-wrenching, but a great film), but somehow this one seemed especially pointless. "},{"Title":"Julie Taymor is a stage name for The Terminator","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I've known about this movie for years and never got around to seeing it. Finally tonight I had the random occasion to watch it with a group of friends, some who had seen it and some who had not, all creative-type people who work in film in Los Angeles. I think most of us were expecting some kind of visually stunning masterpiece or a totally fresh creative way to do a classic story or something else that blurbs on DVDs told us. So we were obviously stunned when what we saw was an overwrought mess of bad acting and horribly dated costume design all in beautiful locations with a monotonous spew of Shakespeare lines on top, many of them poorly dubbed in.Granted I had seen some of Taymor's more recent Across The Universe and I hated it but I had heard stories of studio interference and Titus seemed to be considered her untarnished masterpiece. But really I was struck with how bad the whole presentation was. Obviously a lot of work went into the design and execution of the world she was creating but there was a resulting disharmony between the visuals and the dialogue. Entire scenes would progress with an endless parade of oddities and anachronisms and over top just endless words that seemed to have an abstract connection at best to what was on screen. And even in the times where there was a discernible connection the emotions of any given line or moment were so buried in the general wackiness of the actors or the crazy sets and costumes that they almost never hit. It honestly felt like a movie directed by an alien or robot from the future who has no comprehension of human emotions, things like why people laugh or shout or cry or jump around or fight or anything.I know that Julie Taymor is supposed to be an amazing artist and I respect that, but really it felt like the only thing even attempting to hold this mess together were her own whims and fancies. No logic was applied to the whole thing, just whatever she wanted.Of course it's just my opinion, but for my money the fresher Shakespeare adaptations are Branagh's Hamlet and Baz's Romeo and Juliet. At least in those two films they care about the language, which is really why we care about Shakespeare in the first place. "},{"Title":"It gets worse and worse....Just like in Shakespeare","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Believe it or not, Titus is faithful to Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus which is based on old Roman legends such as the Rape of Philomel and the origins of the House of Atreus. For years, it was among the most popular of Shakespeare's plays people just couldn't get enough of the gore. (How little things change!) Anthony Hopkins, like the title character, undergoes an interesting change in the course of this film, beginning with a performance not unlike that of the butler in Remains of the Day and ending as Hannibal Lechter, complete with chef's hat and white coat.Jessica Lange as Tamara, Queen of the Goths, plays her villainess so well that it shocked me. Yet her performance at the beginning of the film as the captive mother who must watch her first born son die is convincing and sets the stage well for the revenge tragedy that follows.By the end of Act II, when Lavinia has been raped and mutilated, one of her brothers killed, Tamara's son killed, the emperor's brother killed, and two more of Titus's sons destined for the chopping block, you tell yourself But it can't get worse than this! But it does. "},{"Title":"Best of the Worst","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Demetrius Villain, what hast thou done? Aaron That which thou canst not undo. Chiron Thou hast undone our mother. Aaron Villain, I have done thy mother.Yes, it's as bad as you think, perhaps even worse.But bad is good, and good is bad, or so it is with Titus.Anthony Hopkins plays an enviable role as Titus Andronicus. His sons Lucius (Angus MacFadyen), Quintus (Kenny Doughty), Mutius (Blake Ritson), and Martius (Colin Wells) each uniquely help to polish their multi-faceted father. But it's Titus's daughter Lavinia (Laura Fraser) who really let's him shine.Foil to Titus and equably as enviable Jessica Lange (Tamora, Queen of the Goths). Her two sons, Jonathan Rhys-Meyers (Chiron) and Matthew Rhys (Demetrius) are all but detestable in their immaculate effectuation of brutish bane on General Andronicus.Alan Cumming (Saturninus) is the sanity in all this madness. As the Emperor of Rome, he is both consort to Tamera and indebted kinsman to Titus.Colm Feore (Marcus Andronicus) is truly the unofficial favorite for most overlooked support in all literature. That Titus falls with a bang and not a whimper he owes to his brother; and in a scene that would make any other Hopkins character proud, Titus redeems us all.Harry Lennix (as Aaron) completes and brings us full circle.Dario D'Ambrosi? who invited this clown! But he's there. So too is the genius direction of Mrs. Taymor.Costumes, sets, cinematography what use are these in a film such as this? But they're there.I do not know what is meant by R, but this movie definitely should be NC-17. Not for the sexuality, though it has that too, but for its pure, unswerving adult content. That it is not rated so I blame on the mechanizations of one Mrs. Julie Taymor.Aaron If one good deed in all my life I did, I do repent it from my very soul.Oh, and lest I forget, but then it doesn't really matter much now anyway.Tamora The eagle suffers little birds to sing, and is not careful what they mean thereby, knowing that with the shadow of his wings, he can at pleasure stint their melody  "},{"Title":"One of the BEST films EVER","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I could just pack a load of superlatives into this comment to say how wonderful I think this film is, but I wont. All i'll say is that if you appreciate truly original cinema done on a grand scale and without fear of criticism for original thinking or commercial compromise, you simply have to see this film. This sort of movie only comes along 2 or 3 times in a decade, dont miss out. "},{"Title":"A Symphony of Horrors","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" That subtitle to F.W. Murnau's Nosferatu would fit this odd beast like a glove. History has it that a young and inexperienced Shakespeare, eager to make an impression, got his Tarantino on and churned out this barely sensible story of revenge, incest, rape and cannibalism. It was his first big hit.Julie Taymore, a master of making the stage feel cinematic with her hugely successful adaptation of Disney's Lion King, is an avowed fan, having tackled the play within the safer confines of the theater. There she experimented with her more unusual ideas, mainly an aesthetic that collapsed all time periods of human civilization into one, and concluded that the result would not look half bad on the big screen. That's putting it mildly.From an opening TV-night gone wrong scene transitioning to an ancient arena to the sight of Roman legions riding into the capital on wolf-skin decked motorcycles, it's clear we're not in Kansas anymore, but make no mistake this IS Rome. Not the real Rome nor the matte paintings of Spartacus, but that idea of an ancient, cruel, semi-savage Rome teetering between fledgling democracy and dictatorship. The language, immaculately preserved, becomes less a barrier and more an integral component of the weird parallel universe Taymor and her crack team manage to conjur up.But for all his dramaturgical prowess, Shakespeare loved actors and always put them first his plays were meant to be seen and lived and performed and the performer is the be-all and end-all. So it must be for any film version, however brilliant the visuals.In an exhausting performance that almost led him to retire from acting (and arguably should have), Anthony Hopkins is a force of nature as the titular Titus tragically rigid and sad, then broken down into fragments before being reborn in sheer madness, he is magnificent to behold, playing his craft and character like Paganini played the violin. He is surrounded by both veterans and newcomers, and while Jessica Lange is an excellent foil as the empress Tamora, it is newcomer Harry Lennix as the Moor Aaron, one of Shakespeare's most unusual and controversial characters, who walks away with the supporting honors. The film itself is not just about descent into madness. It IS a descent into madness. One that Taymore bravely staked a large part of her professional clout on, and threw a large part of her soul and creativity into, so much so that little was left for her Tempest adaptation years later. It was worth the price.If you want to experience Shakespeare, you've come to the right place. "},{"Title":"Best Shakespearean film since Polanski's Macbeth","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This film is breathtakingly brilliant! The three hours or so it takes seem like half an hour - you would be happy to have longer. Not many films manage to be worth two hours and most recent three hour films have been rubbish (or worse - vide Titanic bore).Anthony Hopkins gives one of his best performances ever, quite up to Hannibal Lecter. The rest of the cast don't let him down.It is difficult to over praise this film. "},{"Title":"Wonderful blend of Spaghetti Westerns and Grand Opera","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  In contrast to many people of my generation, the fact that I had Shakespeare rammed down my throat at school, didn't cause me to be put off the works of the Bard for life. And that is only fit and proper when you think of the many quotes from his works that we regularly use.And while it is a different medium that Shakespeare intended his plays to be performed, they can work wonderfully well in cinema. Even when the text is truncated.This is certainly the case with Titus. It is one of his earliest plays and, undoubtedly, it is a work of a playwright honing his craft. Maybe that is why Julie Taymor does such a marvellous job with the film version.It is Shakespeare's bloodiest and most outrageous play, so it was never going to appeal to the politically correct or theatre luvvies. And perhaps it is fitting that it is set in ancient Rome as the director has filmed it as a wonderful blend of  Spaghetti Westerns and Grand Opera which maybe yet will set a trend in interpretations of Shakespeare's work. The vividly violent and wonderful scenes will stay with methe modern opening ; the scenes of the all-conquering returning army; the horrific realisation of the fate of Titus' daughter; Titus' realisation of his betrayal on the Appian way; the wonderfully over-the-top climactic dinner scene (which proves how original The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover really was).And the acting in the main roles was suitably good. The title role is one which is difficult to underplay and Anthony Hopkins does well not to go too over the top (For me, though, I'll have to agree with the British loyalists who claim he has gone Hollywood).Jessica Lange must have enjoyed her part but for me the main acting kudos would go to Harry J. Lennix (a fine performance as a real hissable villain who perhaps will play Othello soon) and Laura Fraser in the role of Titus' daughter.What matters is that when I came out of the cinema after viewing this film I still had the sensation of an adrenaline rush.But you must see it at the cinema with widescreen and digital hi-fi sound and the wonderfully stirring music.The film has not been widely promoted here, (It's only Irish performance to date was at the recent Dublin Film Festival), and it may even go straight to video. But as someone who admires both the classical peaks of Olivier's Richard III, and Orson Welles' innovative Othello, I will put this among the ranks of the great cinema Shakespeares no matter what the stuffy critics might say. "},{"Title":"The best, ever","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" The only filmed Shakespeare that even comes close is the Lear with Olivier in the title.Taymor-- who spent some of her youth in Indonesia, and who has lived in Europe as well-- understands the pagan origins of Titus and brings her astonishing visual gifts to bear here. The story is well-known; what juices up this production is the costumery, the very effective juxtaposition of dream imagery with the interior monologues, and of course the superb acting. Taymor uses clothing as metaphors for the characters' emotional and social states of being; her Titus at the crossroads finally unbuttons his uniform when he realises the empty savagery of the world he now inhabits.The play is ultimately about a world-- the post-Ceasar Rome, Caesar having been both Rome's first dictator and self-proclaimed God-- where humans take on the powers and prerogatives of the Gods, and what happens. It is also a tragedy in that Titus' serially misplaced loyalties cripple him. As loyal and noble, he ruins; as savage, whimsical and vengeful, he redeems.This film is Taymor's blast at the Bush administration and the early 21st century's Anglo-American idiocy. The themes are all there-- usurpation, law-breaking, subversion of precedent and procedure, warfare, corruption-- and now that we have a more principled (at least in words) Obama, the film's criticism stands out all the more strongly.Superb-- though not for children. "},{"Title":"Complete and utter rubbish.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This is certainly one of the worst films I know. Totally unwatchable. Nothing historic about it. A drag. I couldn't even watch all. I fast forwarded through the film and even that was boring. Forget it. I can't possibly recommend it for any reason. "}{"Title":"Emperor's New Clothes version of a superb play.  A crass and shameful effort that even Hopkins can't save.","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" After watching Julie Taymor's screen adaptation of William Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus, Titus, I can now understand why so many people feel alienated and baffled by Shakespeare's excellent plays and why in many cases they believe them to be the province of a pretentious pseudo intellectual elite. For myself, having read the play several times, but never fortunate enough to see it, I was disappointed to see this stunning play sullied by gimmicks delivered without tasteful discretion. Surely the Bard's brilliance speaks for itself? However, yet again I'm bearing witness to a production where the directorial decisions appear to be serving personal ego rather than gifted artistic integrity.The context of the play is ancient Rome, yet the viewer is treated to a hotchpotch of clumsy visions filched from various time periods, to name but one example stylised Roman Legionaries - impressive in themselves &#x96; but then motorbikes and cars! Whatever happened to the beauty of straightforward, clear simplicity? Shakespeare was a genius, remembered and admired to this day because of the universality of his themes, brilliance of his characterisations and his awesome way with words. Scarily, Julie Taymor thinks she's better than him - or perhaps she know's she's not and is simply creating a smokescreen. The soundtrack frequently drowns out speeches; obviously what the characters are saying is not as important as Julie Taymor's crass visuals! Imagine the crassness of Lavinia (raped and mutilated off-stage) by psychedelic tigers. I'm torn between saying Emperor's New Clothes and just plain embarrassing.However it is the misdirection of the actors that is my main gripe and the film's major flaw. With the exception of Anthony Hopkins and James Frain who valiantly bring a degree of sincerity and believability to their performances, the film is rife with overacting, incoherent gabling and in many cases amateurish performances &#x96; Jessica Lange, Matthew Rhys and Jonathan Rhys-Meyers are particularly culpable - the unfortunate product of an untalented director and actors who are for the most part out of their depth and have no idea what they are talking about! A wasted opportunity and a crime that is all too frequently committed! "},{"Title":"The rape of a Shakespeare classic","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  In very few words, this film is set partly in modern, partly in classical times. I know some people see this as a sign of genius; I tend to see it as a regular rape of Shakespeare's masterpiece. The blend of cars and horses, swords and guns simply does not impress me, but rather seems to mess up the straight lines in an otherwise excellent story. In other words I strongly advise against this film, if you happen to be a big fan of Shakespeare like me... It is kind of comparable to the new version of Romeo and Juliet, except the fact that the latter stays modern in it's approach and interpretation, thus leaving less confusion and a clearer image of the thoughts, that went through the mind of director in his attempt to reconstruct another Shakespeare classic. "},{"Title":"Sophomoric garbage. An absolute waste of time.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" An overly stylized hodgepodge that neither amuses, shocks, or entertains in any meaningful way. Extremely long and tedious as well. The film is evocative of Ken Russell's The Devils(c.1972). While the latter film was also compromised by its own excesses, it was indeed shocking and sometimes quite funny.Titus is stilted and shallow, and the pseudomodernistic sets make it even worse. The Goths besieging Rome are done up as Hasidic Blues Brothers with modern archery equipment. Alan Cumming as Saturninus does a great Pee Wee Herman Playhouse imitation, oversize chair and all. Anthony Hopkins does, in all fairness, turn in a decent performance--- mostly because he gives the impression of playing the part for laughs.I can't believe the critical acclaim this dreadful trash has received. This emperor truly has no clothes. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I see the overall rating at this time of 7.7 and am completely confused as to why this has such a high rating. I tried to watch it and made it through about 10 minutes. Bizarre mix of present day and Roman times with cars and motorcycles mixed in with chariots. Young kid from present day interacting with Hopkins as Titus... Whatever.Vic "},{"Title":"decadent avant-garde trashing of Shakespeare","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  This interpretation has no redeeming qualities except the beautiful language and cadence and that I could have gotten by reading the play. I've tried to instill a love of Shakespeare in my daughter by reviewing adaptations of his work that are well done and inspiring. She will NOT be watching this one. The acting (when I could focus on it) was wonderful, but it's so overshadowed by the bizarre, avant-garde surrealism that it's not worth the money I paid to rent it. How did this ever get rated R? Frontal nudity, orgies, mutilations, cannibalism, gore. It's one thing to talk about it in the dialog, another to witness it. This project goes way beyond bringing Shakespeare to life and should have a warning on it Not suitable for anybody. Hummm...maybe there's a reason why this is one of Shakespeare's least popular plays. "},{"Title":"Heinous. Painful. Fraudulent.","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Titus Andronicus is a controversial play. There are many Shakespeare purists who refuse to believe that Shakespeare had a hand in editing it, much less writing it. It's a violent play with lots of gore and far less of the poetic tongue that Shakespeare is noted for.This film, despite the huge production values and amazing talents of Julie Taymor, is almost torture to watch.Let's start with the actors. Jessica Lange? Doing classic theatre? Seriously? Even with all of her previously outstanding performances, she comes off as a little better than community theatre when faced with complex dialogue. Even worse, we're expected to believe that she and Alan Cumming could be physically attracted to one another. It's like putting Pee Wee Herman and Zsa Zsa Gabor in a sex scene. Gag.Sure, the scenery is interesting, the artistic design and costumes are neat, but even Sir Anthony Hopkins is at a loss in this one. If you're a torture enthusiast, maybe this one is for you. If you have taste or a sense of what a Shakepeare play is supposed to be, there are plenty of other titles that would suit you better. "},{"Title":"Of all the stupid things in the world...","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  How come everyone cries foul when somebody is arguing for ancient language style and the Bible? And when someone tries to change the language of Shakespeare - this is rendered as foul as blasphemy? While setting the story in a modern Rome with vintage cars, motor-bikes and military boots, the language is still not updated. This is pure stupidity, if stupidity can be reckoned pure. Why can't anyone take stories of Shakespeare, modernize the language and the style and put into real life?...I just wonder... "},{"Title":"Why can they not innovate?","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit I'm not a Shakespeare fan, the dialogue is so out of date and lacking easy understanding that it's just huge hard work to even follow what is happening.Hopkins is no doubt an excellent actor, and the sets were spectacular.  However, due to the phenomenally boring dialogue this just became unwatchable and I had to turn it off before it had finished.No doubt the unbelievably boring Shakespeare enthusiasts would have a go at me -- but why cannot people innovate more and base films etc on his storytelling without using the language word for word?  It's just so outdated and inappropriate in modern times. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Although my expectations from this movie had been almost nonexistent, it still managed to disappoint me in a major way.Everything about this movie is a sickening display of bad tasteThe presumptuous non-consistent setting varies constantly, blending modern day artifacts with ancient Rome. Many elements in the film are completely out of context, which produces quite an irritating effect (since they are never bothered to be explained or introduced into the plot). The vein adherence to the original text by Shakespeare is even more ridiculous, and eliminates any trace of reliability in the already pathetic and shallow characters. It takes only the grotesque scenes of redundantly explicit violence to complete this work of modern art.After pondering the question How could anyone have the nerve to make and release such a terrible movie to the general public, then charge money from innocent people to view it?, I realized that it must have been an experiment in the study of human hypocrisy. When I read positive and enthusiastic reviews about this movie, I can't help but recall an old Hans Christian Andersen fairy-tale, known as The Emperor's New Clothes Look at the Emperor's new clothes. They're beautiful! And the colors! The colors of that beautiful fabric! I have never seen anything like it in my life.The Emperor is naked. "},{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I was disgusted by the excessive and sickening imagery in the film.  I would have understood same in a theater performance, but the graphic realism effected on screen turned me off to the movie. Worse, however, the characters were created as one-dimensional and expressly idiotic caricatures of either good or evil who have little or no redeeming qualities, and the storyline itself revolves around ridiculously inane decisions and plot twists.  Clearly not one of Shakespeare's best tragedies, this play certanly did not deserve to be made into a movie. I want my three hours back. "}{"Title":"Blue in the face.","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I will admit that I'd never heard of Shakespeare's play Titus Andronicus until the movie Titus came out - it was one of ol' Bill's lesser known works. This may be one of the harder Shakespeare plays to understand, but it basically has Emperor Titus (Anthony Hopkins) returning from battle only to find doom back home. The opening scene of the boy playing with things was a little confusing itself (I'm assuming that the original play didn't feature that). A particularly interesting thing was that the movie got released in Portland around the same time that Gladiator came out, so there were two Rome-related flicks in theaters. Fairly interesting. "},{"Title":"Among the Worst movies Ever","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I cannot believe that anyone voted a 7 for this movie. It clearly is among the worst movies ever. How could anyone put a beautiful cast together, so badly misdirect them, take ancient Rome as a pretense to trick viewers into watching this hodge-podge, then put motorcycles, 1930's autos, and 20th century war-making equipment, into the mix? Yes, I get it - the reference to Hitler. That is no excuse for making a farce of serious material. It is an insult to history, to the actors, and, ultimately, to the viewer.Do yourself a favor and stay away from this trash. If only I could have given this a -0- instead of a one --- now THAT would have been an improvement. "},{"Title":"Disrespectful adaptation of a Shakespearean play","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Don't be taken in by this rubbish!  Many were fooled because this picture had some great names in it.  I was one of those fools.  I expected to see a film with overwhelming visuals and a realistic storyline.  I was hoping for a great historical drama such as `Gladiator' or `The Patriot'.  But what I got instead was a complete failure that lasted three hours (when it only needed two hours to do the same), that was so absurd almost the whole time through that it became awfully annoying.  If Shakespeare were still alive, he'd never allow something like this to happen.One thing has to be said though.  This is one of Shakespeare's earliest and surely least popular works.  I do realise that this is no `Othello', `Macbeth' or `Richard III' and that it doesn't even come close to `Romeo and Juliet' and `Hamlet'.  But I'm not going to blame Shakespeare for it.  I will however hold Julie Taymor (`Titus') responsible as she made the same huge mistake Baz Luhrmann (`Romeo + Juliet') did in 1996.  Both directors add modern elements to the original Shakespearean play, only to end up with nothing more but a boring and disgraceful version of what once used to be an interesting tale.  These modernised adaptations combine elements of the past with elements of the present and it is EXACTLY this 'mix' of two different worlds that guarantees the chaos.  It simply doesn't work!But not everything is bad; surprisingly enough.  Anthony Hopkins and Jessica Lange prove to be excellent actors, and particularly Lange is wonderful! But even with their great performances, they can't save the day.  Things are simply too messed-up here.* - POSSIBLE SPOILER - *And not to mention the mindless plot this film holds with its ridiculous Matrix-imitation which has been done before and which looks only too stupid in a film like this one to even talk about. You might think I'm exaggerating, but this film was the biggest flop this year along with The Blair Witch project II.  In less than a month, both films were taken out of most of the Belgian cinemas. I just hope that this film will be a lesson for the next director who considers modernising a Shakespearean novel.  "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  The sets in this movie gives a real feel of a wrecked and corrupted empire on the brink of it's own destruction, it's great monuments and honourable people all but a shell of there former selves. With sterling performances from Anthony Hopkins, Colm Feore, and Laura Fraser. Though this film does says about Elizabethan literature than Roman history, it still a first rate production10/10 "},{"Title":"The biggest load of CR@P ever!!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I just made the mistake of renting this piece of cr@p for the second time. Couldn't finish it a year ago and can't finish it now.  Shakespere is dated anyway and has nothing to say to this age.  All you art film lovers who have raved about this overblown production need to get a life.  After seeing more than 5000 movies. I must admit this is the WORST I have ever tried to watch and one of only 2 or three I have walked out on.  Its ONLY redeeming qualities are Anthony Hopkins, one of the greatest actors of all time, Hope Lange, one of the most beautiful women in film, and Pee Wee Cumming.  He is a hoot!!  Why did they even make this overlong, overblown tripe?  2 thumbs waaaay down. "},{"Title":"Boring, dumb and severely out of context...","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  I must confess.  I could only watch about 1/3 of it before I just skipped to the end.  The whole modern age Shakespearian thing just didn't work at all, as it did in Knight's tale.  If I had been watching it in the theater, I probably would have walked out.  So the ridiculous mix of the ages plus just getting board, I skipped to the end figuring I'd see the main people get whacked, which was about the only worthwhile part as I cared for no one in the whole story.  I have no idea how closely this movie matched the actual play in terms of the storyline, I hope it didn't because this thing was just filled with stupidity.  Stupid decisions on Titus's part that make you wonder, how could he have prevailed on the battlefield for so long given the stupidity of his actions afterwards.  A ridiculous emperor, The lame psycho brothers, the list goes on&#133;  About the only thing worth while was the dialog which was probably transcribed word for word from the Shakespearian play anyway.  I'm surprised this thing got a 7+ vote on IMDB.  I like art films every now and then, but this film was not art (or at least good art) IMO.  Anthony Hopkins did a good job, but his character was so lame that it didn't matter how good he did.  For me 3 out of 10, so well below average for me&#133; "},{"Title":"Sometimes spaghetti just likes to be alone","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":"  Julie Taymar's film (audaciously credited 'screenplay by Julie Taymar'...... 'adapted from Shakepeares's Titus Andronicus') blithely skips between Imperial Rome, the Thirties and the future, doing a supermarket sweep of every cinema and TV cliche on the way. Vehicles from Mad Max, cute little boy from the Speilberg genre, Tamara the Goth dressed as Zena, Princess of the Universe and her two thuggish sons in Womble costumes. It was only only going to be a matter of time before we got the split screen from Woodstock and the Camera-Pans-Round-The Set-While-The-Actors-Remain-Frozen-In-Mid-Air thing from the Matrix. And we did. We had togas and tigers, tuxedos and taxis. We had aqueducts and ventilation ducts, funeral biers and tinned beers, the Appian Way and the American Way. I suppose it is possible that Taymar was attempting a subtle parody of Hollywood, but I rather fear it was all serious.Fortunately, the film is saved by a brilliant cast. Anthony Hopkins gives a superb performance as Titus, oozing with machismo and compassion and despite the repellent violence of the plot, Shakespeare's poetry radiates beauty, even in the mouth of Aaron, who closes the film relishing his own treachery.The best moments are when the actors are left alone with the camera and the script. As the beleagured Italian restaurant owner in Big Night said when a customer asked if the pasta came with meatballs and cheese; Sometimes Spaghetti just likes to be alone "},{"Title":"Without any knowledge of Shakespeare this film is lousy","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" Statement #1 I've never, ever read anything written by Shakespeare, nor ever seen any play of him. Statement #2 Having stated #1, I'm probably the only one on this forum who can judge this film without comparing it to any previous versions of this story and without comparing it with other Shakespeare stories. Statement #3 What a lousy movie! Why? Reason #1 The dialogues are horribly static. It takes all the speed there could have been out of the film. Reason #2 It seems that even people in the worst situations in their life have all the time in the world to think about it all and come up with some deep revelation. This is so un-natural and un-logic that it can only make me laugh and I somehow suspect that this was not meant to be a comic movie..... Reason #3 The mix of old and new in this film is to 'artificial'/'affected' (don't know any better English words for it, sorry I'm not a native). It just splatters from the screen that the producers wanted to force the viewers into some kind of awe for their imagination. It doesn't work. Reason #4 Most of the actors seem to be on a stage instead of in a movie. They don't act, they say their text. Reason #5 The story itself is unlogical, incoherent, un-believable. Even the most weird movies must have a story that drags you into them. This film has nothing of that. "},{"Title":"I would have enjoyed this movie if the actors spoke in contemporary English","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Thriller","Review":" I love movies. I still like James Bond and the like...but good character development, an engaging story, good acting and understandable dialog to me make a good flick. I hated this movie because I couldn't understand it. I even turned on the English subtitles and still couldn't understand it. Why do people think speaking Shakespearian English in this day and age is a good idea? It might have been eloquent and eminently understandable hundreds of years ago but the words are archaic and the grammar is not what anybody uses today except for a handful of English majors and some who think playwriting reached its apex with the bard. The actors were good, the costumes outstanding, the cinematography was stunning and the sets were beautiful. Too bad it wasn't in English. I wasted twenty bucks on this. I'd give it a zero if I could because I'm so disappointed in the language they used. Bah "}]