[{"Title":"A period movie with a difference","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"32 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this most affecting adaptation of Henry James's dense and difficult novel, Ian Softley brings passion back to the oft-derided genre of period movie.   There are many angles in the story;  tales of deception, social hypocrisy,  conflict between our hearts' desire and our conscience, of regrets, and some degree, of just deserts.   However, in the heart of it lies an unforgettable love triangle, fuelled by the amazing performances of the three leads.   Helena Bohnam-Carter, in the pinnacle of her career, embodies the fierce intelligence and ruthless determination of Kate Croy, a woman born in a wrong era, whose effort to hold on to both love and wealth tragically backfires.  Linus Roache, playing Kate's secret love, brings tortured Merton Densher (where does James come up with these names?) vividly to life.  He has the sort of intense good looks and physical presence required for this role in spades; and his dramatic ability shines though, especially in his last scene with Millie, where he acknowledges his duplicity before the all-accepting love of the dying girl with an incredible raw emotionality.   I was most impressed with Allison Elliot's Millie, however.  The angelic Millie could have been a big cliché of a character, but in Elliot's skillful hands, Millie takes on the luminance of spirits and love of life that grow even as her physical strength fails.  The story and the actors are tremendously aided by gorgeous cinematography (especially the mournful beauty of rain-soaked Venice) , costumes-to-die-for by Sandy Powell (who wore that fabulous red dress to this year's Oscar, accepting the award for Shakespeare in Love.  She should have won it for this film), and beautiful music.   A movie to be watched in a dark rainy afternoon, and savored like fine wine. "},{"Title":"Incredible.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Wings of the Dove is an incredible film.Helena Bonham Carter performs her role with nuances of visage and body, and in particular eyebrow, which capture the essence of Kate's manipulation and longing.  Everyone performs well.The cinematography is some of the most beautiful I have ever seen on film--it ranks near Vertigo as one of a few films which breach entertainment and are masterpieces of art. The Venetian and Edwardian locales never cease to fascinate and titilate the viewer.  The final sequence represents graphically the vacuity which has enveloped Kate and her love with haunting realism.Do not watch the film to be entertained--it depresses with little reserve and wrenches the heart.  Let the music, camera, and Bonham Carter sweep you into the magic of this cinematic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Rent it","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe there are only two comments for this film. It's a subtle film and a rare one in which your feelings for the characters change. I have read the book, and seen all the other films made of Henry James novels, and this one is by far the best at translating at least some of the moral ambiguity at the heart of most James novels.Helena plays a woman forced to give up her boyfriend Merton because he has no money. She meets and befriends a wealthy, but terminally ill American, Milly. She decides that Merton will court Milly, inherit all of Milly's money when she dies, and have the funds to marry Helena. The film is about Merton's moral awakening as he realizes how horrible what he's doing is, and WHO Helena's character really is.You would have to read the novel to understand how difficult it is to adapt this material, and what a great job they really have done. Bring your hankies for the scene near the end (not in the novel, actually) in which Merton apologizes to Milly. This invented scene crystallizes all of the emotion and makes the movie fulfilling in a way a straight working of the novel could not have been.Helena is good, but her character is simplified somewhat from the book. I think this should have at least been up for Best Picture. See it.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Carter showcase of very good movie","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was not one of my favorite novels when I read it (for James, I prefer THE PORTRAIT OF A LADY), but this is a very good film.  Director Iain Softley and writer Hossein Amini made the smart decision to move this up in time to the 1910's, which enables them to get to the passions more than James does here.  Softley also makes this darker than most literary adaptations, in look and in tone, without suffocating it, and he avoids making this a film about production design rather than about a story.  He does labor a bit in trying for tragedy, but that's only a quibble.Alison Elliot, a good actress (I liked her in THE UNDERNEATH and the otherwise flawed THE SPITFIRE GRILL), takes awhile to warm up as Millie, because she seems a little too modern, but she avoids easy sentiment as the dying heiress.  Linus Roache, who I thought was a little awkward in PRIEST, here avoids the trap of being the third wheel, making us understand what both Millie and Kate see in Merton.  But the real triumph here is Helena Bonham Carter, who gave the best performance of the year.  One character says of Kate, There's something going on behind those beautiful lashes, and that can usually be said of the characters Carter plays, but sometimes she's overly detached.  Here, she's completely engaged, and she pulls off the difficult trick of never losing our sympathies even when her character does something despicable.  And where James sort of made Kate just manipulative, Carter makes her human and longing.  "},{"Title":"Subtlety is not dead","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's nice to see that some directors still believe that a great movie is subtle.  No need to hit audiences over the head to get the point across. Think 'Howard's End.'  Think 'Remains of the Day.'  Think 'A Passage to India.'  Wings of the Dove is in the same league.  Helena Bonham-Carter is magnificent as she takes us from thinking of her in sympathetic terms, to beginning to have second thoughts about her character, to becoming aghast at the cold calculation of her plot.  No one is good or evil here, merely human and full of beauty, pain, and unworthiness.  I loved it.  And most of all, it's a moving PICTURE.  The night scenes in the gondola are some of the greatest cinematography ever.  'Titanic' didn't come close. "},{"Title":"In Love with the Memory","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are two tests in my mind for a classic film.First, it must plant some images permanently in your life. Very few films do that. Two films that are cogent to discussing this one are Helena Bonham Carter's Ophelia in Zefferelli's `Hamlet.' She and Glenn Close acted circles around the guys -- her expression in the midst of the play within the play is lasting over years in my memory. The whole film revolves around that moment.Also lasting are several images from the ostensibly unambitious `Oscar and Lucinda.' But I also carry many lasting film images that are junk, courtesy of Lucas and Spielberg. That brings us to the second condition for a film to be classic, evocation of the images, the remembrance, needs to be multidimensional, to elevate rather than dumb down.Measured by those rules, this film is remarkable. For a few years, I have carried the image of the next to last scene where Carter makes love and in the act discovers the truth about her love. This is so wonderful, so tragic, so true that it has stuck with me, together with the secondary images, the memories of Venice and Millie that Merton is in love with. I hope to follow this woman's career for decades. I wonder where it will go? "},{"Title":"Poetic, subtle, and beautiful","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Wings of the Dove poetically unveils itself with beautiful visuals and explorations in to the complexities of desire. A tragic irony, with an excellent finale.  This movie also contains the most painfully emotive sex scene that I have ever seen; as it is honest and detailed with emotions that so rarely are captured this brilliantly in 'art'.  This movie is intimate.  "},{"Title":"An exceptional film with my all-time favorite female performance.","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This one really took me by surprise, in the best way possible. The story is a perfect blend of suspense and romance that is flawlessly engaging from start to finish. I couldn't help but keep my eyes glued to the screen the entire time. It flows beautifully and never moves too far ahead or too slow for the viewer. There wasn't a single second where I was bored or waiting for the film to end. I'm not usually the biggest fan of a period romance, but I was blown away by this one. The score is incredible. It sets the perfect ambiance for the film and makes you feel like you are with these characters. The ending left me in a complete catharsis. I was just numb, staring at the screen in disbelief. Helena Bonham Carter is unexplainably phenomenal. She is one of a rare breed of actors who can display more emotion simply with her eyes than most actors can with their entire body. I feel blessed to watch her perform. Her extreme versatility and authenticity is unparalleled. Her performance is the best from a female that I've ever seen. The Academy should be in jail for giving the Oscar to the mediocre Helen Hunt over Bonham Carter's flawless tour de force. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite films of the 90's. Great cast, fantastic screenplay, simply an incredible telling of a compelling story. The movie moves along in organic fashion, never feeling contrived or manipulative (probably because the story comes from a good novelist). The characters are well developed and make the choices you believe these characters would make. Helena Bonham Carter, Linus Roach and Allison Elliot are all excellent, and Charlotte Rampling is always good. I also like the contrast set up with the dreary English settings vs. the romantic and elegant Venetion scenes. I think this movie is vastly underrated and should be seen by any serious film fan. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and tragic beyond measure, put it on your view list right this very minute","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Kate (Helena Bonham Carter) is a young woman in love with a poor journalist, Merton (Linus Roache). Its Edwardian England and, having no money of her own, Kate lives with a wealthy aunt (Charlotte Rampling) who is avid to marry Kate well. Thus, the beautiful lady will not be free to wed Merton or any man of her choosing, if he doesn't have the goods. They meet secretly and passionately, even arranging a clandestine trip to Italy. Once there, the two cross paths with an extremely wealthy American, Millie (Alison Elliott) who casts her eye on Merton. Since neither Kate nor Merton have revealed that they are a couple, a difficult triangle is created, for Millie also chooses Kate as a friend. This becomes even more complex when the British duo learn that Millie, despite being young and beautiful, is incredibly ill with a respiratory ailment. Temptation arrives. What would happen, Kate asks Merton, if HE romances Millie, marries her and inherits her wealth upon her death? Why, the secret lovers would be set for life! Merton is appalled at the idea of making advances on a dying girl but, eventually, gives in. What neither Kate or Merton count on is the young gentleman's growing attraction to Millie, for she is sweet and funny as well as very lovely. Is tragedy in the future for this trio? Unfortunately, yes. This stunningly gorgeous film, based on the novel of Henry James, is a superior piece of movie making that cannot be denied. The three actors, Bonham Carter, Roache, and Elliott are extremely compelling in their difficult roles and all of the lesser cast members do fine work, too. Then, the setting in Italy, mostly, is lovely, with cinematography of the very finest. Costumes, too, are gorgeous, especially Elliott's garments and accessories. But, naturally, it is the powerful story of love and deception, with tragic results, that is the strongest asset of all. It should be stated that there are a couple of explicitly sexual scenes that might upset a few viewers. But, for the majority of film fans, they will be accepted as a necessary part of the story's elements. If you have never picked up this film, don't delay! Wings of the Dove is a soaring achievement that should be seen by everyone who loves great cinema. "}{"Title":"Rich, beautiful, subtle, special--Henry James not far from where he'd like it","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Wings of the Dove (1997)Yes, this is a quite, indirect, thoughtful movie. But it is never slow. And the acting is incredible, almost as incredible as all the dresses and interior sets, which will blow anyone's mind. The story, by Henry James (the master of indirect but probing feelings), is about love of all kinds. And about being a good person, really. Three of the four main leads struggle with doing the right thing (and they do the right thing). The fourth struggles, falters, then comes forward again, then falters, finally, by making a demand that can never be met.It's unfair to compare this kind of period movie (set around 1910 even though James's book was published in 1902) to A Room with a View (set in the same decade) but the reason this happens is that the 1985 Merchant-Ivory masterpiece seemed to open up a new way of making period films, filled with beauty and lingering thoughts and, well, feeling. Not the feeling two people have for each other, but a feeling of a time and place. It so happens the star of this 1997 film, Helena Bonham Carter, also starred (magnificently) in the first one.The other star is a man, Linus Roache, who almost overplays his understated character by making him dry and deadpan and polite. But it works, over time, to help make the final few seconds of the film (which are so important) succeed. The third lead, really, in this lopsided triangle, is Alison Elliott, who puts in an equally subtle performance. So much of the movie is about little changes in facial expression, the acting had to rise to the needs of the plot. Bonham Carter, above all, does this with chilling perfection.But those dresses! This is what is called Edwardian England, the first decade of the 20th Century, a time when modernity swept Europe with a passion (Picasso and Klimt) and when cars and other new technologies were surging. The styles of the dresses are part Art Nouveau, with its Asian influences, and part European excess, a showing off of style and wealth and material sensibility. Thank god! It's just breathtaking. The interiors are likewise brimming with tiles and flowers and paintings and light of all kinds.All of this is handled with a cinematic control that reminds me of the color coordination of mid-century Technicolor films, where the palette of a scene is often limited to a pair of colors. You'll see many scenes where a mix of blue and rusty orange are the only two colors in various guises (and these are most common because of the hair and eyes of Elliott). The cinematography is by Eduardo Serra, one of a handful of the most sumptuous contemporary shooters in film (Girl with the Pearl Earring and What Dreams May Come). And he lets the light and color inhabit every scene, never letting the photography get in the way. Just beautiful.So what does it mean to be a good person? Who cares with all this great acting and beautiful filming? But really, you do care, and it's a touching and provoking film in all its quietness. And it's not a bit obscure. Henry James never quite liked the book, but I think it's because he expected more from it, the themes and characters are so promising. Critics have come to see it as one of his great late novels, and that much is here. Director Iain Softley takes a couple of turns that the book avoids--a little sensational talk toward the beginning, and a frank and sex scene at the end--and both are okay in the film but not actually in keeping with the tone of the rest of it, which is about never quite showing your hand even to your closest friends. It's about waiting to speak, and hiding even good intentions for fear of seeming good when in fact part of being good is simply being good, not merely seeming it. "},{"Title":"Deception, Love, Jealousy in 1910","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Wings of the Dove is a sinister, fascinating love story.Helena Bonham Carter plays Kate Croy, an ambitious but poor young woman who lives on the generosity of a rich aunt. Unable to live poor but not wanting to surrender to the husband her aunt is trying to find for her, she hatches a genius and simple plan to let her boyfriend, Merton Densher (Linus Roache) seduce the rich and dying American millionaire Millie (Alison Elliott) so that she will leave all her money to him.Carter shines in this movie and her performance is one of the main reasons to watch it. It's one of those rare performances in which all the character's thoughts and feelings are transmitted by the eyes; Carter's eyes are always expressive, she barely needs any dialogue.And yet Hossein Amini's screenplay is also one of the brighter aspects of the movie. I cannot judge ho well he adapted the novel since I haven't yet read it, but as a movie it's a joy each dialogue is essential, precise and enjoyable; no words are wasted or out of place. The movie's pacing is constant, deceptively calm but always filled with tension, for deception is pretty much the theme of the movie how far will someone go to deceive another, and what effect will it have on them? For Merton the moral consequences of the deception haunt him as he realizes he may be falling in love with Millie, whereas Kate fears she may be losing her beloved's affection. Between this strange dynamic we have the innocent, cheerful Millie.The movie is also a fine period piece Sandy Powell got a a much-deserved Oscar nomination for the costume design, but in truth all aspects of the movie deserve merit for their recreation of England in 1910. This movie takes us to places period movies seldom do the underground system; the interior of bookshops and opium-dens; the interior of museums (in a wonderful sequence the characters attend a Klimt exhibition).And then there's the way Eduardo Serra's cinematography captures Venice in 1910. Serra is an under-appreciated director of cinematography, although he's left his mark in many memorable movies. His best work perhaps remains this movie, in particular the segment taking place in Venice. The way he captures the old canals, the gondolas, the colors at night during Carnival, the decay of the buildings, the beauty of the monuments, perhaps surpass the classic Death In Venice.The Wings of the Dove was a pleasant surprise, an underrated movie that caught me completely by surprise with its perfection. Although it was nominated for several Oscars back in 1998, it seems time has forgotten it. That's a pity, but for those who dare to give it a look, it'll be a huge source of joy! "},{"Title":"Painting over Henry","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When the film came out a lot of people commented on the way the adaptation shifted the action forward in time to 1910.I was puzzled too but on re-viewing the film it was clear that this was to enable the filmmakers to draw on the more socially aware painting styles of the time. Essentially Kate and Merton are two people who are stuck in the oeuvre of Walter Sickert and want to move upmarket into Whistler territory. But they fail and are doomed to spend the rest of their lives in squalid Camden Town scenes. Incidentally this means there are artistically valid reasons for Helena Bonham Carter getting her kit off--the final scene is pretty much Sickert's What Shall We Do for the Rent? with live actors. While this visual metaphor is superbly played out, it is at the expense of James' intricate verbal edifices. The film grates when anyone opens their mouth as animated paintings, the characters are literally two-dimensional. This is a film which is at its best when no-one is saying anything, and would have worked much better as a silent movie. "},{"Title":"Much Better than I Expected!","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I only watched this movie because I was bored one afternoon, and it had a relatively high rating. I was expecting something along the lines of a very slow moving Merchant-Ivory period drama. The storyline was much more compelling than that. Through much of the film, I was thinking that I've seen similar stories on soap operas, and I knew how this was going to end. However, midway through the film, the story line ended up taking very interesting twists and turns. By the end of the film, I was on the edge of my seat waiting to see what was going to happen. The film was lushly photographed, well paced, and suspenseful. It made me want to read the original source material. "},{"Title":"An unforgettable story of love and desire set in Edwardian England.....","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the classic novel by Henry James,Iain Softley's 1997 adaptation features one of Helena Bonham Carters best performances,an ending that will stick in your memory long after the films finished and breathtaking period costumes designed by Sandy Powell.A timeless love story blighted by restrictions of class and money which will move you like no other.London 1910,spirited and beautiful Kate Croy(Helena Bonham Carter)is deeply in love with kind hearted but penniless journalist Merton Densher(Linus Roache).However since Kate became the ward of her wealthy aunt Maude(Charlotte Rampling)she now has no choice but to consider her financial position at all times.Especially as her aunt sends money to her alcoholic father Lionel(Michael Gambon).This drives a wedge between Kate and Merton and she soon finds herself being courted by the wealthy Lord Mark(Alex Jennings).When Kate befriends the outgoing yet fragile Millie Theale(Alison Elliott)she hatches a plan to get her to leave her fortune to Merton by bringing the two together knowing Millie is seriously ill and may die.However the plan backfires when Milton visits the women in Venice and really does come to care for Millie and falls in love with her.And so begins Kates quest to try and reclaim Mertons heart even though it may now completely belong to Millie.A haunting love story with beautiful location work and memorable performances,Wings Of The Dove will stay with you long after it's over. "},{"Title":"You think love is sexual chemistry, think again!","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie which might be overlooked for the romantic side of it because some people tend to judge a movie as trash if it is about romance. Well, I agree but not all romantic movies are the same. There are romantic movies that have messages which go beyond the emotion of love to the twin emotions jealousy, envy, sexual desires, respect, humanity, sacred love, pain and many others. All these feelings you can still experience in a romantic movie cooked well.Wings of dove is a movie with a plot and actually there is a part in the middle of the movie where if you pay attention carefully you might be able to understand what's going on before the story starts revealing its chapters. Actors are great; Helena Bonham Carter is indeed good in this role and Alison Elliotte is just as good and even better. Linus Roache also knows how to exhibit his transmitting emotions in a brilliant way. He knew how to play the difference which is a thin line between love and desire. You only have to guess whom he loved and whom he desired. "},{"Title":"Glossy, plotless","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The Wings of the Dove' is a slick period romance, but slightly too glossy (everything we see is either gorgeous or squalid - was there no mundane in the Edwardian period?).  Helena Bonham Carter's role is that of a sassy young woman, well-connected but with no money of her own, who decides to manage an emotional con-trick.  But she can't cope with the consequences of her own actions.  Unfortunately, the plot is poorly developed - the other characters are not held responsible for their own actions, while Bonham Carter progresses from master schemer to victim of her own machinations in little more than a scene.  Perhaps for this reason, all the actors seem a little disconnected from the story, the depth of their involvements conveyed by little more than the occasional smouldering look. Someone dies beautifully, but the film as a whole is synthetically inert.  Though changes from a constant diet of Hollywood blockbusters are usually welcome, 'The Wings of the Dove' is almost like a parody of a subtle film - delicate but flat.   "},{"Title":"The Wings of the Dove","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A British period drama cannot be a bad alternative for a flushing upsurge of my Febiofest movie-goers' schedule. Nominated for 4 Oscars (Leading Actress, Cinematography, Costume and Adapted Screenplay), TWOTD represents a paradigmatic melodrama study of love, conspiracy, betrayal and passion, meanwhile mildly bashes the mercenary vanity then, all converges to a superior satisfactory coda. Venice part is memorably shot as an enchanting last journey to enjoy the fullest of one's life, an engaging score from Edward Shearmur firstly accompanies the film with a soothing pace, then adheres to the dramatic rotation aptly all the way along. The most striking caliber of the film is indisputably the acting stretch, Helena Bonham Carter is magnetically absorbing in her puberty of mixing brisk gal, smart aleck manipulator and sophisticated lovelorn victim, her career-best so far. A terrifically undervalued Alison Elliott radiates an unassumingly captivating rendition with both vulnerability and playfulness (she and Helena currently end up No. 2 and No. 1 in my Oscar chart for supporting and leading actress respectively). To juggle with these two vehement lovebirds, Linus Roache (the alien form THE FORGOTTEN 2005) may be tread the water a little bit frivolously, with a moral criterion swinging back and forth ambiguously, he tackles the most tricky part heedfully. The nudity scene near its finale is theatrically robust in delivering a love-lost denouement and generates poignant pathos. The minor satellites revolving around are all British old hands, Rampling. Gambon are too skimpy on screen, while McGovern's sedately elegant attendance is never histrionic. Adapted from Henry James' novel of the the same name, this Neo-classical piece has an imposing buzz on its own merit, some might deem it a shad mawkish, but I'm confidently not among that breed. "},{"Title":"An utterly poignant  film. Helena Bonham Carter should  have won the Oscar.","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Iain Softley, The Wings of the Dove is a period drama set in England, which tells the story of Kate Croy (Helena Bonham Carter), a beautiful, wealthy, woman who wishes to marry a common journalist, Merton Densher (Linus Roache.) Their love is forbidden by society, until a young heiress from America (Alison Elliot), enters their lives, and tempts the couple to set forth an unorthodox plot to be together.The acting in the film is superb. Helena Bonham Carter's sensual, thoughtful, performance as Kate Croy earned her many critics awards, as well as an Oscar nomination for Best Actress (This reviewer maintains that she should have won.) Supported by a wonderful supporting cast, Alison Eliot delivers a touching performance as the young heiress, and Linus Roache is magnificent as Bonham Carter's poverty-stricken love interest. The film is further enhanced by the beautiful cinematography, at it's best in the scenes set in Venice, and the gorgeous costumes. Ten stars "},{"Title":"Bonham Carter Flies.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Wings of the Dove (1997) Dir Iain Softley / Cast Helena Bonham Carter, Linus Roache, Alison Elliott, Charlotte Rampling, Elizabeth McGovern Compelling romance that suggests purity. The doves are a symbol of purity and wings indicate elevation. Helena Bonham Carter seeks refuge with her lover played by Linus Roache. Her aunt insists that she marry into wealth but Carter doesn't love the man of choice. Alison Elliott enters as a wealthy American but she has a life threatening illness. Carter schemes Roache as her lover so that they may inherit her wealth. When they grow to actually love this woman they are overcome with guilt. Beautiful 19th century settings with skillful directing by Iain Softley who previously made Hacker. Carter and Roache bring out the free spirited love of young romance to the point of preventing interference. Of course, their love will bear a price at the cost of another. Elliott demonstrates a love for life and a willingness to live to the fullest despite the obvious presence of fate. Supporting roles are unfortunately typical stereotypes that feature fine actors, such as Charlotte Rampling and Elizabeth McGovern, who can do no more than say the lines and hope that it rises above cardboard. Strong theme regarding guilt and the idea of rethinking our actions before we are left with a lifetime of regret. Score 8 ½ / 10 "}{"Title":"One of the best film adaptations of Henry James' work ever made","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not all of Henry James' work has adapted well to screen, but there are three film adaptations especially that were adapted beautifully and are brilliant films in their own right. They are 1949's The Heiress (my personal favourite), 1961's The Innocents and this.It is hard to decide where to begin praising The Wings of the Dove, but a definite starting point would be the production values. Simply put, The Wings of the Dove is not only one of the most visually stunning films personally seen in recent memory but also one of the most beautiful ever, strongly reminiscent of a Merchant-Ivory film. It's exquisitely shot, especially in the Venetian scenes and the final scene between Millie and Merton, the settings and period detail are so colourful and evocative and The Wings of the Dove has to contain some of the best and jaw-droppingly amazing costume design in all of film. The sensitive and beautifully elegant music score and rightly restrained direction also add a great deal.Hossein Amini received an Oscar nomination for the film's script, and it is not hard to see why. It is a literate, deliciously dark and beautifully nuanced script that is never devoid of emotion, and adapts very difficult source material remarkably cleverly and with utmost coherence. The story is deliberate in pace, but dark and poignant- the latter scenes being incredibly powerful emotionally- and it is throughout told with complete control and respect for James' work. It also succeeds brilliantly as a mood piece, the darkness, poignancy and lyricism very well brought out. The characters also fascinate, compellingly real and human rather than labelled just good and bad.The Wings of the Dove contains fine performances, with that of Helena Bonham Carter ranking among the year's and her best, her character makes some questionable decisions to put it lightly but the many nuances Bonham Carter brings to the role allows one to really sympathise with her and understand why she makes them. Allison Elliot was also charming and heart-breaking in a role that easily could have been played annoyingly or blandly in lesser hands, and Linus Roache handles the hardest role of the whole film and story very, very well. Charlotte Rampling, Michael Gambon, Elizabeth McGovern and Alex Jennings are all talented actors too and give excellent support.All in all, wonderful film and one of the best Henry James film adaptations ever made. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"It's unusually moving","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just found out this movie after 17 years absence. It's beautifully done. I don't know how I missed it before. I saw The Making of a Lady recently and wondered who Linus Roache is then found this movie. I like the way he did the romantic scenes which were contained and passionate at same time. What made a memorable love story are those obstructive surroundings i.e. social casts, financial situations, different love interests and above all, forbidden emotional attachment. I think this movie got them all. I might not have the same feeling about it if I would have seen it 17 years ago in my thirty. The reason would be the growing experiences in my life. I like those actors and actresses from other English speaking countries. They have more training in the classical theaters which usually come in handy when they portray those characters in the classical literacy. It's a memorable movie if you haven't seen it, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"a great Love triangle which positively depicts inner conflicts and relativity of being right","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great beauty, great visuals and also very good drama and a positive love triangle. A triangle that says a lot about manner, honor, the relativity of being right and wrong. It's about how conflicts, inner conflicts, can be. How can impact you.The life is complicate. The established rules for right and wrong are far from to be true. It also talk how people change. How the man who doesn't love the girl, finally couldn't not love her. When you go through new feeling experience you'll change. You will not comes back. There is no restore point in feeling.This film, depicts how complicated human drama is. How complex its emotions is and How dynamic he/she is. I think this film enlighten the viewer to take a deeper look to complex human interactions and how simple are our religion and established norms and stereotypes. "},{"Title":"Wings of the Dove Film Review of another Henry James Story by C A Hall Spellbreaker Studios","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm on a roll with Henry James stories that have been made into films, but I'm beginning to think Mr. James is a vampire, an undecided one. He places his deep and penetrating insight into rooms high and low, then watches the pulsing carotid artery of his various prey beat slowly. They are living human morsels and he is committed to draining their blood from them&#x85; slowly. But instead of flinging his entire self at his victim, per more recent permutations of the blood lusting sort, or ejecting a leaping succulent tongue out to ensnare and devour like a frog in a nature program with unbelievably quick reflexes, he approaches carefully, with all social graces intact and intelligence bright and cold, places his lips on his character's necks, allows his incisors to puncture and mark. Then undecided, he just hangs out there for an hour and a half. You can't hear him drinking, yet once again, so many elegantly dressed and ensconced individuals meet wily doom. The film starts as a forbidden love affair between two lovers whose rising social status is keeping them apart. Then a third character joins them, who knows nothing of their affair, a beautiful but tragically ill heiress. It is not social criticism that ultimately separates the lovers, but the mark of this woman whose real relationship to them both remains a mystery. Oh Henry James, what is wrong with you? Never love, sex, passion, or real compassion, but the dopplganger of these elements in a room full of ghosts and mirrors haunt your stories. A story is not a great story just because you write accurately about difficult hidden things. But this is worth seeing. Its just a horrible, terrible, very good, quite scathing film. Watch it and pray nothing of the sort ever happens to you. "},{"Title":"A Room with Several Views","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I always love a movie that can take me back in time to a period I can almost escape to. The Merchant Ivory films used to do that for me and my wife way back in the late 80's and early 90's. Now this seems to be the last of this class. Helena B Carter has a way of being in these great epic small movies. I love the sweeping subtle story telling set with intrigue and mystery. The acting allows us to become entranced in the twining of this tale. The meaning of true love is clarified and the ending leaves me adding my own ending to it. I should like to think that a greater deception was underneath the story. I hope others see it as well. I think this is a great movie to sink your teeth in yet the subtle wickedness boils to the top so slowly it leaves you breathless. This movie allows us to see the sacrifices made in society and wealth. All of the characters were well rounded and expressed the spectrum of the personality wheel. Watch it with a loved one in a comfy place with some hot chocolate. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Corrupt","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on Henry James novel, Kate Croy (Helena Bonham Carter)'s mother was born to wealth, but she threw it all away to marry Kate's opium addicted father. After her mother's death, Kate is offered a return to privilege. Of course, she must abandon her father, and her fiancé, journalist Merton Densher (Linus Roache).When she becomes friend with sick wealthy orphan Millie Theale (Alison Elliott), Kate sees an opportunity to get back with Merton and keep her position.It's a real murky portrait of the London class system, and how money corrupts the characters in this movie. The scheming is heart breaking. It's moral ambiguity is delicious. Helena Bonham Carter puts in a multi-dimensional performance. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great film to watch when you are feeling a little melancholy and want to be taken away somewhere else- Somewhere far away, and subdued.It was a slow yet enjoyable film. I would say that some might find it boring. It is true that the plot is fairly simple, and you have to wait a while for the few twists and turns it has. Though, it does always have something interesting going on, and the pace is decent for what it is. But if you don't enjoy long cerebral romances and period films, you probably won't enjoy this.I have to say it was visually appealing. This helps the film from becoming boring. Also the two leading ladies are gorgeous. You see the beauty of darkness in Kate and the beauty of sunshine in Millie- like night and day. I must agree fully with Lord Mark's comment about Kate's eyes.What was great about this film was the acting, presentation, mood, and lesson.Okay spoiler time, because I'd like to share my opinions on what happened. What I took away from this film is that it is not a good idea to persuade your love, for whatever reason, to be with another, even if it seems like a good idea at the time! Ha. Though I fully sympathized with Kate. She wasn't the sociopath that you often see in stories like this. She actually did care for Millie, and it seemed that she tried to convince herself that it would actually be good for Millie, at first. Although, the way she did try to break them up was a little heartless to her friend. But you can understand how it would be difficult for her to find any other way to do it. I suppose she could have admitted it to Millie herself, but I would think she might be too ashamed to do this. And anyways, she did say this is the first time I didn't feel bad for her. She was jealous, and whilst at first she may not have expected herself to feel jealous, I think we can all understand the lack of sympathy we might have for someone if we did truly become jealous of them. So it is a little understandable that she would have hurt her friend. Besides, her friend would have been hurt anyway if she knew the truth with whatever way she found out, and she did deserve to know it.The best part for me was the ending where she was turned away by Merton. (By the way, did anyone else notice how at the end, Kate laid in the same position as the woman in the painting she asked Millie to look at?) I didn't fully expect her to be rejected. But it did make sense afterwards, as he was faced with a truly good human being, and felt so wretched about what he and Kate did to Millie, and finally realized that Kate wasn't such a great person after all. I think he was put off by the selfishness in Kate's final demand. I think if she hadn't requested that, he might have let bygones be bygones. But seriously, one can understand why she felt hurt and worried about throwing away so much to pursue this true love that she wasn't sure still existed. She was worried she already lost him to another woman and missed his undying singular commitment to her. But I can see why Merton would be so offended. Her request really did speak of an ignorance and uncaring about his feelings which may have developed, which were all her fault to begin with. I honestly thought it was a little silly for Kate to make her final demand. I mean honestly, she loved Millie and she should have realized that it was only natural to love such a great person. Besides, it's not like she would truly be a threat any more, 6 feet under! All things fade with time. Kate was honest with him about her feelings and intentions, so I don't think that Merton should have turned her away due to a lack of trust. Especially since she did change her mind in the end about going through with the plan. But I do suppose he could have resented the fact that she wanted money so badly, or acted so selfishly, or lied at all, and would have never known whether she was with him for his money after he got it. I suppose that was where his demand came from. But the fact she agreed to marry him should have been enough. He should have called her silly when she brought up her side of the bargain, and admitted that yes he loved the memory of Millie, just as Kate found herself loving her. I mean come on, Millie was an easy person to love, and Kate should have understood that. Besides, if Kate truly just wanted Merton for the money, she wouldn't have made her request.But really, they probably did need some time apart. I think that later on, they probably would find themselves back together after they had healed from the experience.One last thing I wanted to mention - The scene where Merton was crying was amazing. I don't think I've ever seen such a realistic portrayal of a man crying on screen before. He really nailed that one, and I felt very sympathetic to the feelings he was portraying.Anyway, it really was a wonderful film. It was very grey in its portrayal of the goodness and badness of the characters, which I like, and which isn't easy to do. It also made you think. I only downgraded it a bit because the storyline, while nicely portrayed, wasn't anything really spectacular. "},{"Title":"Did Someone Say Henry James -- Please Wait While I Shoot Myself","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The inevitable question will be is The Wings of the Dove faithful to its source material? I, alas, can't answer that question for you, because to me Henry James's novel was 800 pages of random words strung together in ways that resembled sentences but made absolutely no other kind of sense. I'd rather be bludgeoned to death with one of his books than ever have to read another one -- the movie version could have featured transvestite cyborgs for all I cared; as long as I wasn't actually having to read it, I was a happy boy.The film is pretty good, about what you'd expect from a period piece based on a famous literary classic. It's got more pizazz than a Merchant-Ivory production, and boasts a great performance from a Merchant-Ivory regular, Helena Bonham Carter. It's nothing special, but probably worth a watch.Grade B "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the novel by Henry James, 'The Wings of the Dove' is a beautiful film both in terms of locations, story and acting. Helena Bonham Carter plays Kate Croy, who after being taking on as a ward by her Aunt Maude, is forced to meet illicitly with her lower class lover Merton Densher (played by Linus Roache). When Kate discovers that her new friend Mille (played by Alison Elliot), a wealthy American heiress is terminally ill, she sets about enticing Merton to seduce Millie in order for Kate and Merton to be able to marry through the acquisition of her inheritance. The cinematography of the film is simply stunning, especially the night scenes in Venice, the costumes too are beautifully made and in my opinion Helena Bonham Carter has never looked better; whilst she may not want to be known as a corset queen, it must be said that her performances in such period films are always superb. It is also obvious why Bonham Carter was Oscar nominated for the film, she succeeds playing a complex character and the scene where she writes a letter to Merton, terrified that her lover will fall in love with Millie is almost heartbreaking to watch, we can truly understand her pain, yet we also understand that this is a pain of her own design. All in all, 'The Wings of the Dove' is to be highly recommended, darker than your normal period drama; the film looks at human manipulation and jealously. The final love scene is incredibly emotive, the viewer can almost see the pain etched on the protagonists' faces, and indeed it is interesting that during an act of complete and utter intimacy, the two lovers have never been further apart from one another. "},{"Title":"A Truly Excellent Film!!!!","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so well acted, that even though I was dead tired, from earlier in the day, I watched as if mesmerized!!! Helena Bohham Carter was amazing in her role, and became the person she was depicting, as if a metamorphosis was taking place, and she fit right into this very interesting time period! The plot takes place in England in the 1920's. An British woman, wouldn't marry her Journalist lover, because she wanted to continue a new privileged lifestyle! She then befriends a terminally ill American heiress and tries to arrange a love affair between this heiress and her boyfriend, so he can become wealthy after her death!I consider this an wonderful cast, for it not only stars Helena Bonham Carter, but also stars Linus Roache, Alison Elliott, Charlotte Rampling, and Elizabeth McGovern . This movie was up for a lot of well deserved awards. Nominated Best Actress in a Leading Role - Helena Bonham Carter Nominated Best Screenplay, Adapted - Hossein Amini Nominated Best Cinematography - Eduardo Serra Nominated Best Costume Design - Sandy Powell You will also find Helena Bonham Carter's biography extremely interesting,as can be found by researching this information on Google! I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I have!!!! Shelby "}{"Title":"People doing ordinary things in extraordinary situations...as they would...","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I picked up this film in the video library because I thought the cover looked pretty.  Linus Roache looked more than delectable, and a 1910 period film set in London AND Venice?  I could do a lot worse...As it happened, I loved it.  I was entranced by the music, the alternating 'rising tension' and 'nice piano' themes perfectly captured the scheming Kate and the goodness of Millie respectively.Of course the film has flaws, none that stand out...but as a whole the film doesn't really make it on a 'great film' level if you're comparing to movie classics.  However, on its own, as an 'adventure' into the lives of three rather (I've heard them called dull...I wouldn't go that far)...well, unrelatable characters.  I don't think many people face what Kate and Merton did...but then...wouldn't that take the fun out of the movie?Visions of Venice to die for...absolutely beautiful music and the best costumes and art direction this side of Titanic (far far FAR better than Titanic).  If you're a period film buff, and you loved such drivel as Somewhere In Time, Titanic and the somewhat better Room With A View...watch for it...Lauren. "},{"Title":"A great period piece","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Wings of the Dove combines breathtaking art direction with stunning cinematography which all, of course, is topped off with superb acting. The characters are filled with passion and enthrall the viewer into James' spellbinding tale of romance and deception. The emotion portrayed by the actors is second to none. The Wings of the Dove soars to great heights in almost every area of cinematic excellence. "},{"Title":"What about Allison Elliot?","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that Helena Bonham Carter's Oscar nomination was well deserved and she should at least a Golden Globe or Screen Actors Guild Award for it. However, Alison Elliot was the surprising performance in this movie.  She brought surprising strength and life to a role that could have been just another frail victim.  She should have been nominated for a Golden Globe and especially an Oscar nomination for this role she was ten times better than Minnie Driver was and Elliot should've gotten her nomination.  If you thought she was good in The Wings of the Dove she was just as good in The Spitfire Grill. "},{"Title":"Is it love, passion, or is it money, position and power in the Edwardian era?","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kate, Helen Bonham Carter, must choose between her beau, a poor young journalist, or the wealthy life of position in society as her aunt's ward. She in unable to make either choice until an unexpected opportunity comes her way in the person of Millie, an American heiress who just happens to be fatally ill.You probably can figure out the rest, but watching Carter smolder is worth the trip. "},{"Title":"Helena Bonham Carter, queen of the costume drama, does not disappoint","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautifully photographed movie. But, hey, it's hard to mess up when you're photographing Venice. A reasonably interesting plot. I have only read one Henry James novel, (The Turn of the Screw, I think) and have absolutely no recollection of it. So the source material may not have been scintillating. The direction was a bit overdone, including some distracting and unnecessary camera shots.Of course, Helena Bonham Carter is the queen of the costume drama, and she does not disappoint here. She is so beautiful, and her dark eyes so soulful, I could just get lost in them and never find my way back. Her much-discussed nude scene was, while deliberately somewhat un-erotic, was stunningly beautiful nonetheless.Anyone who can at all stand this sort of film should see this one. "},{"Title":"A subtle, languorous, splendidly acted, Henry James sad love story","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A previous commenter's lack of real life relationship understanding clouded their perceptions of this fine film. It must be remembered that the story is very much true to the social strictures of the period in which it plays (1910's). All the characters have their very true to life individual reactions to this world and the demands of their passions. The film is like an Ivory Merchant/Miramax film. It has an un-hurried, un-frenetic, pace but is not wasteful and captivates the viewer in the story and characters, and delights with the supporting scenery. Bonham-Carter, Allison Elliot, and in a supporting role, the ever reliable Charlotte Rampling, are wonderful even as their personal story may be perspectively painful. It is not an epic, but it is satisfyingly more than a classics illustrated adaptation of James his love story. Much of the literary description is eloquently translated into looks, pauses, and film. "},{"Title":"Not a yawner","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I usually don't really get the appeal of costume dramas, which in a lot of ways that's just what this is. There's usually too many codes and mores and banter about characters we never meet that I feel the book has just got to be where this story should remain. The Wings of the Dove is different, though. At its core is an exceedingly passionate story, laced with an intense amount of sexual tension. The plot line picks apart true love versus love conditional, all the while speaking from a very monetary status perspective, which weighs the costs of love for love and love for money. It's a really fine film, so don't miss this one!! "},{"Title":"See this movie!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am completely baffled by the six's and seven's in the user ratings for this movie. It's fantastic! Helena Bonham Carter is one of the most underrated actors working today. This movie has everything passion,suspense, psychological intrigue, and amazing performances by the three lead actors. Watch this movie if you love love. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It is truly an entertaining movie based on the Henry James novel. Although the ending was the most troubling part of the film. It did not follow the novel's ending. I enjoyed it with Helena Bonham Carter as the leading role. I felt the movie could have been better though but still it was an entertaining movie for a certain audience of romantics and Henry James readers. I love the scenes filmed on location in Europe such as London and Italy. The film deserved several Academy Award nominations but it was overlooked for Titanic that year. Still, it's a great adaptation of a classic novel. Henry James may be one of our greatest writers or authors. "},{"Title":"James Tailored","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   The wings of the dove has a lush yet aching beauty that seems to saturate you as you watch it. I'm not just talking about visual beauty. I'm speaking of dramatic beauty, the exquisite moment to moment tension of characters who reveal themselves layer by layer, flowing from thought to feeling and back again, until thought and feeling become drama.   Director Iain Softley has made one of those rare movies that evokes not just the essence of a great novel but the experience of it. In some ways this is undeniably a modernization of James (a nude scene makes his underlying sensuality powerfully explicit) yet we are enveloped, at every turn in the hidden pulse of his characters' motivating passions. The wings of the dove is a great film - the finest Masterpiece Theatre movie ever made.   Helena Bonham Carter has always been an earnest yet curiously remote actress, but from the moment you see her here, she has a new, dark tones womanly radiance. As Kate Croy, Carter does full justice to a heroine who loves helplessly and deeply - so deeply that she's willing to become a scoundrel out of that love. We're in London in 1910, and Kate, the ward of her manipulative rich aunt is enmeshed in a passionate but secret involvement with Merton Densher, a handsome journalist possessed of wit, devotion, a fierce commitment to his ideals - everything but money. A marriage for these two, is thus, out of the question. If Kate were simply a gold digger, it would be easy to write her off. But the necessity of material well being is no mere luxury here. It's the edifice on which the world stands, and we follow Kate into an eerily justified form of treachery.  Kate has befriended Millie, a sweet, trusting American heiress who takes a shine to Merton, having no idea that he and Kate have been together. What Kate doesn't know - yet - is that Millie is dying. When she learns this, a scheme forms She and Merton will accompany Millie to Venice, where Merton will woo her, providing the woman some romantic comfort in her last days, and not so incidentally, winning her fortune.  A forgivable plan? A dastardly one? The elusive power of this movie derives from the way it embraces moral judgments and then transcends them. For it is Merton's mysterious fate not so much to fall in love with Millie as to fall in love with her death. The way this plays out is at once tender and cruel, ineffable and heartbreaking. The wings of the dove is a film that confirms the arrival of major screen talents director Softley, who works in sublime sensitivity to the intricacies of self deception. Carter and Roache who create a dazzlingly intimate chemistry within the propriety of Jamesian manners - and Allison Elliot who with her beatific charm and Mona Lisa smile, does one of the most difficult things an actress can - she brings goodness itself to life.  "}{"Title":"Carter's best performance in years makes this movie watchable.","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Carter's performance alone brings life to this otherwise weakly-acted movie. Her facial expressions and body language reveal how she buffed up impressively for the role of the problematic heroine.  The script, written by Hossein Amini (Jude), is far better than your average costume drama, with balanced mixture of sex and melodrama. But I still wonder why it got mixed reviews from the critics in spite of the good work, including Carter's Oscar-nominated performance? Is there such thing as satisfaction to film critics? "},{"Title":"I didn't know that Helena Bonham Carter had it in her!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing Helena Bonham Carter for the first time back in the mid-eighties, in the film called Lady Jane, and then later in A Room With A View.  Who would've known that that young woman would've blossomed into one hell of an actress.  Helena's performance as Kate Croy is without a doubt the performance of her career.  She was the favorite of the critics last year.  She won many awards for this performance, and they were all well-deserved wins. What a great movie this is!  I have this film on video, and this film seems better and better the more I watch it.  One particular thing I like about this film is all of the rain in it.  Just about every day in this film is either a cloudy day or a rainy day.  It's so lovely to see rainy days in Venice, as well as the rainy days in London.  The rain sets the grim mood of the story just right.  Also, the costumes and hair/makeup are wonderful. It's a very authentic representation of the Edwardian era.  Helena is so well cast in this film--she's the ultimate period film actress.  The other actors are good too, especially Alison Elliott. It's great to watch the character Kate in what seems like a transformation. But what she's really doing is showing her true colors.  She seems like a victim at first.  But she turns out to be pretty devious. The cinematography of this film is so hauntingly beautiful.  A lot of the shots were done in the dark, and with the use of low light.  It's awesome to see Kate and Merton in their last scene together at the end of the film. This film was one of the best films of 1997.  It should've been honored more highly. Watch this film with all the lights off.  Beautiful! "},{"Title":"The Most Beautiful Movie I've Ever Seen!!!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Wings of the Dove is the most beautiful movie I've ever seen, and along with James Cameron's Titanic, my favorite.  I was very impressed with Titanic, but it was The Wings of the Dove which stole my heart.  I first heard of this movie while watch Emma (there was a preview of the film before the movie Emma started), and just by watching the preview without knowing what the movie was about, I instantly fell in love with The Wings of the Dove.  I was impressed by the early 20th century European aspect of the film.  Watching the movie itself was like staring at a painting by Seurat for hours and hours.  It's very sexy, very gorgeous, very romantic, and of course, captivating!  I couldn't take my eye off the television screen!  I take fashion merchandising at my vocational school, and a project that the class is working on (separately) is to plan a fashion show.  Each student must find some influential background to make this project come alive.  My influential background comes from this movie, but at first I wanted to do a fantasy theme.  Yet I guess it was a good choice (along with the opinions of a few of my fellow students) to do this one instead.  So, thank God there is The Wings of the Dove, the movie that truly stole my heart!As for Helena Bonham Carter (Kate Croy), Linus Roache (Merton Densher), and Allison Elliot (Milly Theale), they truly bring this movie to life!  Helena and Allison are very lovely actresses and gave a brilliant performance! Linus is just as brilliant and pretty cute!  Along with Helena, Linus, and Allison, I also give lots of praise to director, Iain Softley, and of course, the great Henry James for writing such a beautiful, twisted, romantic tale of friendship, envy, and love!!! o) "},{"Title":"One of the best films I've ever seen....","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a stunning film--I lost all faith in the Academy when 'Titanic' was even nominated when this film should have WON! First of all, Linus Roache is not only beautiful (as is said in the movie), he is a flawless actor. Helena Bonham Carter, as usual, is just as passionate and brings such amazing depth to her character.  Forget Leo and the whole 'Titanic' phenomenon...this is filmmaking at its finest.Oh, yeah, and my favorite scene is when they're in the gondolas.  It reminded me of my best friend, a theatre arts major--the cinematography here was just breathtaking. He would be amazed (if I could convince him to see it with me, ha ha) at those beautiful takes.This was simply one of the greatest films ever made.  Usually I'm disappointed when great books are made into films, but this film was a pleasant surprise in that aspect. "},{"Title":"A must-see!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truly a beautiful film with fabulous performances. Linus Roache, so handsome and so wonderful in the 1994 film; PRIEST, is once again on hand.  He's truly a remarkable actor, you can understand the obsessive love that the two women hold for him.  I couldn't recommend this film more.  A must see!  "},{"Title":"Be careful what you wish for","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Helena Bonham Carter was outstanding in this Henry James tale of a woman who thought she had it all figured out.Kate (Helena Bonham Carter) was in love with Merton (Linus Roache from Batman Begins), but she had to do what her Auntie (Charlotte Rampling) wanted because she had the bucks. Merton was just a poor journalist, so he wouldn't do.Enter Susan (Elizabeth McGovern) a rich American, whom Kate finds out is dying due to the ramblings of a drunken sot (Alex Jennings) who needed money and had plans to marry her. Kate devises a plan where Merton gets Susan to marry him, she dies and he gets the money, and they live happily ever after.You know it's not going to work. There always has to be something to muck it up. But, watching the plan come together and fall apart is a thrill. And, hey, you not only get to be enchanted by the superb acting of Helana Bonham Cater, but there is a special bonus for those that stay until the end.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Apt Title","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A delicate froth of a tale. Henry James stories are all in the subtleties of human behaviour, the unacknowledged depth of our desires, the secrecy of our manipulations. Many plusses to commend it, not least of which is the setting of Venice for most of the story, just saturated in rich colours. Many scenes of satin/silk clothing reclining on matching satin/silk furniture, a cocktail for the eye.Helena Bonham-Carter (playing Kate) never fails to deliver incredible performances, ably assisted by her looks which belong to another century, the eighteenth or nineteenth. Alison Elliot plays Millie, the dying rich girl who is the prey of Kate, penniless, in love with an impoverished journalist, Merton, played by Linus Roache. Kate's desire drives the plot but the subtleties are in Millie's acknowledgment of it and the effect of the machinations on the tortured Merton.Many wonderful bits, particularly Michael Gambon as Kate's alcoholic father and Charlotte Rampling as her aunt who sees everything. Too light a tale to sustain a full movie-length, some annoying anachronistic bits. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Wings of the Dove is unpleasant and downbeat, a brooding adaptation of the Henry James classic American novel.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Wings of the Dove is a downbeat brooding adaptation of the Henry James classic American novel of, as usual with Henry James, Americans abroad. The film, as the novel by the same name and almost all of James's novels, is about money and status and the power they confer on the individual.Beautifully filmed, the scenes of Venice steal the show and are the film's real attraction. Helena Bonham Carter is good as Kate Croy, the schemer who persuades her lover, Merton Densher, played by Linus Roache, to marry a wealthy American woman who is dying, but overall, the film is lackluster, especially when compared with the much richer and more vibrant film by Jane Campion, The Portrait of a Lady (1996).Henry James deals with subtle nuances of meaning and thought, but this is not why the film fails to satisfy. James's novels have been successfully filmed before, most notably by Jane Campion. In addition, the very Jamesian book by Edith Wharton, The Age of Innocence, was adapted into a wonderful film (The Age of Innocence, 1993) by Martin Scorsese. If the novelistic ambiguities of Henry James are not to blame for the film's failure, what is?Perhaps the actors do not fully embody James's characters as portrayed in the novel. Linus Roache, for example, is slightly wooden in his portrayal of the radical social activist. Is he idealistic, a champion of the downtrodden, or merely a shallow opportunist who becomes a victimizer?!!!!! SPOILER !!!!!Alison Elliott plays an interesting Millie Theale, the American millionaire who loved both Carter and Roache, and her presence is felt long after she quits the mortal scene. Strangely enough, the one rather long nude scene with the beautiful Ms. Carter fails to be erotic. Instead, there is a morbid air of the tomb that surrounds the couple's frantic lovemaking.The deep, black darkness of the love-making scene suggests that the soul of the dead Millie watches over them. After all, Millie was the bond that held them all together when she was alive. Her death will dissolve the bond of love and greed that unites Carter and Roache. Ultimately, the love scene fails because of the unpleasant associations with Millie and becomes simply depressing.In a way, the film emphasizes the point, so well made in James Joyce's wonderful story from Dubliners, The Dead, that the dead hold power over the living. The way the film builds up to this climax is its greatest triumph. (John Huston's adaptation of the James Joyce short story was his last film (The Dead 1987), and a worthy addition to that director's list of masterworks.) "},{"Title":"Great to look at","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    Someone has already said of how Bonham Carter's character doesn't make sense, and I'm forced to agree.  She is manipulative and deceitful, and we never really find out if she does love Merton or is using him as excitement.  The love story is quite well told, otherwise, with excellent performances by the three leads.  Alison Elliot is great as the American heiress.  Her Millie is quite funny and enjoyable, yet serious and sad.  Bonham Carter also gives a great performance as the confounding Kate Croy.  Linus Roache gives a subtle performance in a role quite unlike his role in Priest.  He projects hints of happiness, yet assuming he is a happy person would be incorrect.  The cinematography is beautiful, and the scenes with Roache and Elliot very touching.  It is worth a look "},{"Title":"Pretty wonderful","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Period pieces of this sort, well, just not my type of films. I do love Atonement though, although that really proves to be the exception. But this one wasn't the usual stuffy period melodrama, the writing and direction prove o be really restrained and elegant while still being sensitive and graceful. The performances are also fantastic. Bonham Carter really should do more grounded roles like this, she's amazing here, showing how subtle she can be when the part calls for it. Alison Elliot is also magnificent, even threatening to steal the whole film. This actress deserves to be so much bigger, if her talent here is any indication. "}{"Title":"Helena Bonham Carter's Best Received Performance","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although neither of them had anything to do with Wings of the Dove, it reminded me strongly of the string of Merchant-Ivory films. It's a period film, based on a famous novel (by Henry James), set in gorgeous locations (London and Venice), with magnificent costuming and a largely English cast led by Helena Bonham Carter, who graced many a Merchant-Ivory film. Wings of the Dove is widely regarded as her finest performance. It earned an Oscar nomination. Although she lost out to Helen Hunt, many critics thought she deserved the honor more. Here she plays Kate Croy, the impoverished niece of her wealthy Aunt Maude (Charlotte Rampling) in love with a handsome, impecunious radical (Linus Roache) and decidedly not in love with her Aunt's choice, Lord Mark (Alex Jennings). I won't give away the scheme that is at the root of the story but Bonham Carter is both distinctively beautiful and a powerful actress. Only Rampling holds her own -- in a much less prominent role, although Michael Gambon in a small part as Kate's ne'er do well father is excellent (as always). Subsequent to Wings of the Dove, Bonham Carter drifted in the direction of films (the Harry Potter series, for example) that failed to utilize her enormous talent or take full advantage of her slightly unusual but distinctive beauty. She's still young enough to make a big splash at some point in the future but she seems to have lost the urge to make the most of her considerable talent. If so, this film, which she made at the age of 31, may turn out in retrospect to have been her career high. "},{"Title":"Well made and superbly acted but ultimately unsatisfying.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As stated in my summary, the acting in this movie is excellent, the visual feel it has as a period piece really hits the mark. However, and keep in mind I have not read the novel, I was not really all that convinced of the sincerity of the characters and it seems that they were made to play it down. I think this is entirely evident when Mille asks Kate if she loves Merton and she just kind of spits out no (and there were many such scenes). Now I know that Helena Bonham Carter is a much better actress than that so I assume it's just the director not wanting her to put too much pain in her voice or something but I just didn't feel that it worked. In the scene with Millie and Merton, when she is too sick to do anything and he breaks down and apologizes for lying to her about his feelings for Kate, there just isn't enough of a come to Jesus moment... I mean, he's fallen in love with Mille and he feels guilty about loving Kate and lying to Mille but it's too constrained a scene. I'm sorry, but I just didn't buy it and it really didn't move me that much. "},{"Title":"Complicated to say the least","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alison Elliott, and Helena Bonham Carter, in my opinion are quite possibly the two most beautiful ladies in the world, and to see them both in the same movie is a privilege.This movie is very complicated in as much as Kate Croy manipulates circumstances to such an extent that her lover actually goes along with her in a scheme to marry a dying Millie Theal, who is rich, and upon her death will in all likely hood leave her fortune to him. Then he will be financially well off enough to marry Kate who is an aristocrat and won't marry him until he is financially well off.In my observation of what took place, he fell in love with Millie, and from that moment on chaos was prevalent.You'll have to see the movie to find out how it turned out. "},{"Title":"The Wings of the Dove (1997)","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the era of Masterpiece Theater and Kenneth Brannagh, period pieces have gotten a bad rap for being all looks and no substance. This criticism has only been confirmed by the enormous success of this summer's over-bloated blockbuster romance, Titanic, and while The Wings of the Dove may not have the most ingenious script, it does manage to succeed where so many others have failed. Adapted from a Henry James novel (The Europeans, The Bostonians), The Wings of the Dove -- which was first made as a made-for-TV movie in Britain in 1979 -- is a lavish romance set in the early 1900's. Kate Croy (played deliciously by Helena Bonham Carter, who garnered a well-deserved Oscar nod for her performance) is a young mistress that has left her poverty-stricken family to live with her wealthy aunt (Charlotte Rampling, Stardust Memories), who is determined to marry her for money and secure the family's fortune. But Kate has already fallen in love with a penniless journalist (Linus Roache), and is caught in the typical dilemma of the beautiful-yet-confused woman in your typical Merchant Ivory movie (and while Wings may have all the aspects of a Merchant Ivory flick, it must be noted that it is, indeed, not as such; the film is directed by Iain Softely, a British film-maker whose only preceding credits are Hackers and Backbeat). An opportunity presents itself, however, when an American relative enters the picture (a charming Alison Elliot). Dying of an unspecified disease, Milly (Elliot) has come to London in search of love, and when she takes Kate and her secret lover on a trip to Venice, Kate hatches a scheme that -- if done correctly -- could win her the guy AND the money. Romance ensues, yet instead of being lumpy and forced (as it was in James Cameron's three-hour soap opera) the love triangle in Wings is as sumptuous as the lush cinematography. We, as the audience, actually CARE about these characters, and want them all to find success in their endeavors. And what keeps us interested is the foreknowledge that they WON'T all find success, which leads us to wonder who will come out on top? Appropriately, the film ends on an open note. While we are given a fairly good idea as to what will happen after the final fade-out, we're still granted permission to wonder about the various possibilities. The picture is beautifully shot, and could probably be enjoyed if only for its visual splendor -- which may, perhaps, be the best aspect of the film. But terrific performances and a taut screenplay certainly contribute to its excellence. There may be smarter and better films this year (i.e. L.A. Confidential), but I'd be hard-pressed to say that there were any more beautiful. The Wings of the Dove is the best film Merchant Ivory never made.Grade A "},{"Title":"Schemers taking no joy in the scheme thud","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The locations (especially Venice), the actors (especially Helen Bonham-Carter), the pedigree (Henry James), are all in place for a great movie.  But the movie was an ordeal to sit through, and it was not all that long.  There is only one person in the movie who is truly good, the sickly character played by Elizabeth McGovern.  But she is so saintly that you can't relate to her.  The others are schemers who take no joy in the scheme. They are consumed by guilt, and any joy in a fine caper film is ruined by angst.  So the movie rides along joylessly and closes with a thud.  But the scenery is gorgeous. "},{"Title":"Hovers between Henry James and Henry Miller","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure if this good-looking, well crafted and expressively acted movie, is an entirely successful adaptation of Henry James's acclaimed but hard-to-read novel. Set in London and Venice in the early 1900s, it tells the story of a poor but beautiful and well connected woman, Kate Croy (Helena Bonham Carter), who persuades her would-be husband, Merton Densher (Linus Roache), to court a fabulously wealthy young American, Millie Theale (Alison Elliott), because Kate knows that Millie is dying and will leave Merton a fortune. The breathtaking beauty of Bonham Carter, a strong performance by Roache, and a remarkably touching one by Elliott, together with the magnificent sets, locations - especially Venice - and music make this movie very watchable. But the plot seems rather thin and contrived, compared, say, to The House of Mirth - also a period piece about a poor female in society - with its abundance of social comment and character studies.The case against the movie as an adaptation is one that can be levelled against many adaptations. The various updatings, additions and simplifications to the original - no matter how necessary they may have seemed to writer Hossein Amini and director Iain Softley - have destroyed much of the essence of James's writing. In particular, adding explicit sex to Henry James is about as appropriate as would be taking it away from Henry Miller. Overall, I think the makers should have taken more liberties with the book to create a more complex, deeper movie; or taken fewer and aimed at a movie that was more recognisably Jamesian.   "},{"Title":"Unexciting and depressing!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the first half of the movie we are given a glimpse of the social set of Edwardian London in 1910. We meet the rich, the not so rich and the downright destitute trying to keep up appearances through marriages of convenience. Gossip, furtive glances and smart repartee abound while lovers sort out their relationships. While this might be typical of Edwardian upper class behaviour, I find it rather boring as a piece of entertainment.  However, the second half which is shot against a background of fascinating Venice inspires more enthusiasm. The storyline shows how jealousy and mistrust wreck a cunning plan to extort money from a dying friend.  So at last we come to the real point of the plot.  When problems overwhelm the three lovers and death steps in, the man exclaims O that I had the wings like a dove for then I would fly away and be at rest. I felt much the same about this unexciting and depressing movie. I give high marks for art direction, but low marks for overall entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Not Enough Story with a Character That Makes Little Sense","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  English films set in Italy like Wings of the Dove quickly seduce me with lovely atmosphere and beautiful photography. These movies are usually well acted and this cast, including Bonham Carter, do not disappoint. Still, I felt dissatisfied.First the plot even for an English art film seemed thin. There is no murder, little mystery, little character development. There are no subplots or surprises. It is simply a story of deception.I still might have liked Wings of the Dove. But the Bonham Carter character is very inconsistent and this was bothersome. While this is somewhat interesting, it gave me the feeling that the script needed more work. Bonham Carter's role is of a very controlling, manipulative and deceitful person. Yet, she must have a lover who is completely sincere. There is no explanation. We are expected to understand. I didn't. I did not believe the Bonham Carter character and my enjoyment of Wings of the Dove floated away with the gondolas in the canals of Venice.  "},{"Title":"Nice shots of Venice, anyhow","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't read the book, and maybe you need to if you want to appreciate the story properly. All I could see was a Dynasty-style plot about a man trying to bring himself to seduce a dying rich girl so that he could inherit her money, then having terrible qualms about it, as you would. None of the characters seemed to have any personality. It's worth watching if it's on TV free of charge but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it. But if you have never seen Helena Bonham-Carter's bare bottom... "},{"Title":"Beautiful picture of Venice","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful picture of Venice. Powerfull acting. The music gave the picture a real 3-D view.It's a pity that the characters were a bit flat. It gave me the impression that I missed a few chapters of the book..... "}{"Title":"A very long weeper","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This long, long soap opera is not at all worth the academy award accolades one sees on the film box. It is boring, predictable, and oh-so-arty. Yes, the acting is good, especially if one doesn't mind watching Helena Bonham Carter perpetually whimpering and simpering with one of her three facial expressions. The costumes were lavish, and there was a lot of money spent on making the film appear to be authentically 1910. The much-touted scenes of Venice are nothing special. The most beautiful scenes are on screen for only seconds, and then it's back to the set. The sex scene near the film's conclusion is pretty gross; this is the most liberal definition of R I've seen in some time. All in all, this is for soap opera fans exclusively. A four hankie job. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but So What","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the beautiful cinematography in this work.  A lot of trouble was gone to to make it an authentic period piece and very pretty.  I think the characters were not drawn well enough to support the plot.  I was not drawn into caring about them and at times they themselves seemed not to care. "},{"Title":"Not entirely my cup of tea but it simply is a good, well made movie.","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll confess that this is not entirely my favorite genre. I like some British costume drama's, as long as they have some quirkiness added to it, such as for instance is the case in such movies as Barry Lyndon, The Draughtsman's Contract and Dangerous Liaisons. This movie is more in the style and mind of a Jane Austen novel, which is just not the type of movie for which I sit down and enjoy watching.But nevertheless that doesn't mean I'm totally blind for the quality this movie got made in. Its Oscar nominations; Best Actress in a Leading Role, Best Cinematography, Best Costume Design and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, are all certainly ones I can agree with. Add to that the costume design and you have the 5 elements that make this a good and certainly perfectly watchable movie.What I like about the story is that it features an original love-triangle. It's not the type of love-triangle you would just expect and it also makes the movie as a whole original not entirely predictable to watch. It's well layered and executed in the movie. It however perhaps too long for the movie to take shape. Basically the first halve of the movie totally couldn't interest me and it was standard, slow and just not that interesting. However the second halve, from the moment on the movie gets set in Venice, really made up a lot for me.The movie is set at the early 20th century, which is not the most usual time period for this type of movie. However, if you would had told me the movie was set in the late 19th century I would had also believed it. Basically it are only the cars and phones that give away that this movie is set in the 20th century. The rest of the movie just feels and looks the same as any other costume drama set during a more common earlier time period. The sets and costumes for this time period are just fantastic. Not just for the Venice sequences but also really for the sequences set in London.The movie is also not as heavy handed as it might sound and as you perhaps would expect. The movie mostly remains on the shallow safe side, until heads toward its very ending. It often makes this a bland and rather formulaic movie to watch, despite its hospitality. I think you can blame director Iain Softley, who directed his movie rather static and standard. Or perhaps blame the '90's, which just wasn't the most style-full period for movie making.A good and certainly watchable movie, that perhaps should had been a bit more bold and edgier in its execution.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"on the wings of James Ivory","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For a while it looked like adoptions from books by Henry James were the sole territory from James Ivory, but in 1997 director Iain Softly (who later would make his K-Pax) made his effort. Funnily enough we notice that Softly found his solace in Helena Bonham Carter who appears in almost every Ivory-film but that makes the film only better. Not that I ever tried but books by Henry James appear to be almost unreadable but this movie is just a sober love story. Kate (Carter) is a woman who lives in the high society that is controlled by her aunt Maude (Charlotte Rampling) who has only hard feelings as she has to live the way she chooses, even her forthcoming marriage is planned by her. Kate must marry Lord Mark (Alex Jennings) but in fact her heart beats for the journalist Merton (Linus Roache). Maud's statement is quite clear  if she marries the man she's longing for, she won't get a single penny. Then out of a sudden Millie (Alison Elliot) comes on the stage. This fine looking lady is dying and Kate has an evil plan  coupling Merton with her so they will get a fortune if Millie will die. Everything in this picture is quite fine, the landscapes are mesmerizing but that's the least you expect if the half of the film is set in the wonderful Venice. The sole thing is just that this movie isn't that original as you saw it all before in the movies from Ivory, but apart from that it's quite a nice thing and as usual Carter is breathtaking. "},{"Title":"Visually one of the best and well above average but didn't enjoy it quite as much as I thought I would.","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUT Wings of the Dove is enthralling both from a visual standpoint as the movie is so visually beautiful, almost unreal, that even if you don't get into the movie you can watch it just for the Visuals, and because of the characters and the incredibly talented performers portraying them. This movie has been so acclaimed by critics. I enjoyed it but not to the extent where I'd give it a 10 rating.The three main characters are Kate, Millee and Merlin. All are complex and fascinating in their own way. The Plot of this movie is both complex and straightforward at the same time. This movie reminded me of another, older film(that I just saw this year for the first time) and that's Dangerous Liasions. There are many similarities.I had a few problems with Wings of the Dove, one of which being the dialog. Many critics have mentioned the amount of facial expressions used in place of dialog and while I did notice that almost immediately I am not sure, after awhile I liked that. I am mentioning Liasions just to draw comparisons. In that film the suspense was always there and part of the reason WAS the dialog which was extremely powerful. To me, with Wings of the Dove, a lot of the power was missing. Oh yes I was intrigued by the premise but the edge, the gripping feeling many times prevalent in a movie like this was not here for me. Although I was interested in how it all turned out, if something had come up where I had to turn the movie off before the end, it wouldn't have bothered me tremendously.I think part of the problem for me was the slow pace. The movie is not unreasonably long but it feels longer then it is and moves very slowly and I think had there been more intensity and more dialog it wouldn't have felt that way.My second problem was the sound quality. But that, in all fairness may not have been the fault of the movie because I didn't see it in the theater, I saw it on television and it's possible that it wasn't mixed right when I watched it but was fine in theaters. However, it became, for me, almost impossible to understand what anyone was saying. By the end of the movie, the friend I watched it with was translating for me, and SHE couldn't make out a lot of it either. I am not sure if it was the whispered way people spoke or just not right on the day it aired. But for whatever reason, it is very hard to enjoy a movie when you are craning your ears throughout to try to understand what the people are saying. It was quite frustrating.On the plus side now- the visuals as already mentioned. They were so luscious and beautiful I really hope this movie won an award for art design, cinematography etc. The look of the movie was close to hypnotic and hard to get out of your head afterward.Also I really found the ending to be quite powerful. While I did feel much of the movie lacked power, it did all come together during Merlin and Kate's final scene together and the power and drama to that was very impressive. The movie was not necessarily predictable and I liked that.I think 7 is an appropriate rating for Wings of the Dove. Although I didn't take to this as Dangerous Liasions and many other period pieces it was an interesting movie and better then average. I Perhaps might watch it again sometime. "},{"Title":"Wings clipped","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Effortlessly mediocre adaption of some novel or other. Obvious set-ups bereft of poetry. Actors all at sea. Or is it Venice? Director best suited to commercials. "},{"Title":"These wretched aristocrats can't even heat their houses.","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Helena Bonham Carter is one of those rare actresses in Hollywood that is able to completely involve the audience with her passion, her terror, or her conniving plans with only the flutter of her eyes. She can literally tell an entire story with just her eyes. They are so full of passion and desire throughout the course of this film that you cannot help yourself but keep your own eyes focused on them. When she is on screen, her eyes demand respect, and she finds it. Perhaps this was why this film was her best film to date, being recognized by the Academy and from her fellow peers. I think that the reason this film was different than all the others is because of Carter and several outside factors. While these factors do skyrocket this film in my eyes, there is one element that keeps this film grounded and somewhat ruined.Let me begin by saying that I hate, absolutely dislike, all period piece films. I can be honest enough to say that I have never seen a period piece film that I simply adored and was taken aback with, until I watched The Wings of a Dove. There was something about this film that just grabbed me and immersed me into the world that director Iain Softley had created. First, it was the characters. As I mentioned before, Helena steals the show with not only her deep character study and development, but also with those passionate eyes. You can see hints of intelligence and stupidity all rolled into one, which really helped develop the rest of this film. To accompany Helena through this journey, you have two other actors that keep up their end of the bargain. Linus Roache compliments Helena perfectly. His honest devotion to this conniving woman and his lack of self-preservation gives us that character that we know little about, but are quietly rooting for. Then there is Alison Elliot, who literally comes in with guns a-blazing. She is the most difficult character of the film due to the amount of layers that she must convey, but in the end she shines and brings upon us a very emotional ending. Throw in the mix a cameo by two great actors, Michael Gambon and Charlotte Rampling, and you have quite possibly the best names to helm this project.With characters going to their full potential by the strength of some amazing actors, what also compliments this film is the charismatic story that helps lead the actors. Seasoned with a feeling of Dangerous Liaisons, this film takes us to a whole new level of sophistication and lust. When one woman will stop at nothing to ensure that she has the lifestyle that she desires, plus the man that she wants, she will look past friendships and morality. This shines through in not only Henry James' novel, but also in Hossein Amini's screenplay. With the amazing talent of Softley directing, we have scenes like that at the beginning of the film (eerie wordless Strangers on a Train moment) coupled with gorgeous shots of the City of Love, Venice. We have a multi-faceted story that goes beyond my premature expectations.While I felt this was an amazing film and Carter should have been recognized more for her role, there was one scene that I felt pushed me into that brick wall of cinema. It was as if I was traveling quickly through this film, taking in all the sights and sounds of these complex characters, when suddenly I was hit by a brick wall. The brick wall that I speak about is a very pornographic scene in this film with Carter. I felt that it wasn't needed, nor really brought any real relevance to the story, other than a nude actress. This took away from the overall scope of the film, and for me took this powerful drama down a notch.Overall, I was impressed. It took me away from my consistent dislike of period piece dramas, but that violent sexual scene just turned me in disgust. Don't get me wrong, I am all for nudity if it progresses the plot, but this was not in any coherent context to the film. I just thought that Softley wanted to see Carter naked. Perhaps I am wrong, but it just didn't seem to fit. Outside of that, it was an outstanding film, which is worthy of all the honors it was bestowed during the year that it was released.Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Breasts of the Helena, The","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A young british sociopath arranges for her working-class beau to wed a dying, wealthy American and blah, blah, blah. This is a Chick flick. Why would I, being a red-blood male and of sound mind, give a good rating to such a movie that is this geared to women?? Well two reasons, if you suffer though it because of your significant other, you will get laid (and if not, you damn well SHOULD). And number two , if you DO fall asleep, try at least to catch the last part of the film, which has Helena Bonham Carter in her BEST nude scene of her acting life, HANDS DOWN!!My Grade for the movie a C, for the nude scene an A, so a B I guess overallWhere I saw it Encore LoveEye Candy Helena Bonham Carter topless as well as fully nude in a fairly long scene "}]