[{"Title":"Good Portrayal of the REAL Newton Boys","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was a good portrayal of the real Newton boys...i am a Newton from Texas, and unfortunatly connected to this Newton clan...the true story in brief is that they were kicked out of the family for some kind of wrong doing by their parents...no other Newtons were farmers...mainly insurance salesmen, that kind of thing...Matt DEFINITLY looks like a Newton in this film...he looks almost identical to my great uncle John Newton when he was in his mid-20s...i was suprised by the acurracy of the film... "},{"Title":"MUCH BETTER THAN EXPECTED","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was much better than I expected. Interesting true story told of a band of unusual bank robbers. Almost gentlemen bandits, if you will. McConnaughey, Ulrich, Hawke, and D'Onofrio do a great job with the brother's characters. The end credits are definitely worth watching this for. "},{"Title":"Big time crooks settle in small time Uvalde, TX.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What makes The Newton Boys so interesting is that it is based on a predominantly true story. Lead by Willis Newton (Matthew McConaughey, a Texan) who had big dreams of drilling for oil in the boom years after WW I, the 4 brothers used explosives to crack open safes all over the USA and Canada and robbed the banks. Willis' rationale, We're helping to keep insurance companies in business. If there are no bank robberies then there will be no need for insurance. For reasons I don't understand at all, round safes cannot be opened like rectangular safes, so they eventually had to resort to train robbery. They were eventually caught, tried, and convicted. After serving a little time (max. 5 years) most of them retired to Uvalde, Texas, a small town west of San Antonio and in the texas Hill Country so popular with motorcyclists. Most of them lived long lives and died in Uvalde.Julianna Margolies was excellent as Willis' love interest. They eveidently stayed together into old age, even though they never married.Pretty good film. "},{"Title":"Linklater's surprising but not altogether successful step into genre","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this on DVD because it was recommended by Jonathan Rosenbaum on his ten-best list for the year, and the cast interested me, especially D'Onofrio and Skeet Ulrich. This confirms my admiration of the under-seen Ulrich, who's the doubting, conscience-stricken brother. His uneasiness stands out against the tedious good-old-boy jollity of the others. That shtick is a little too easy to do, and I don't think it gets the Twenties quite right, really. Rosenbaum is a great film critic but his end of the year recommendations are not always to be trusted, which makes you wonder about how written-in-stone his 1000 films list is. He also said that since the expansive images were a big part of the pleasure of the movie he didn't know how good it would be on DVD.Gosh, was it really so easy to rob a bank in those days? The way some of the robberies go makes it look like it was all a cinch, but surely they'd be scared sometimes because you still stood to go to jail for it, maybe for a good long time. Actually it was easy to robe banks with square-doored safes, and it isn't so hard to hold up a little bank today.This is surprising from Linklater not only because of the step into genre, but because of his willingness to glorify and simplify his good-boy/bad-boy crew. Where are the tormented and confused guys of his stoner movies? Matthew McConaughey certainly does rise to the challenge with a spirited and enthusiastic performance, but all his moments are still clichés. Hawke similarly grins and giggles in a quite shallow way. His character is not well defined and D'Onofiro, arguably the best actor of the bunch, is wasted. Statistically the Newton bank robbers were remarkable, but Ebert may be right that they are less famous than Dillinger or Bonnie and Clyde because they were too respectable, i.e., dull. The screenplay lacks an angle, other than the glib one of boys on a lark, which fails to convince, and even when things go wrong, lacks a tragic dimension.The action is desultory, lacking a strong focus on character or action or any guiding principle. Hence comparison with 'Bonnie and Clyde,' or more dashing adventures in the same vein like 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid' or 'The Sting,' simply isn't really possible. This isn't in the same league. It utterly pales in comparison to European robbery films like 'Rififi' or the recent 'Mesrine' gangster epic starring Vincent Cassel. Only the few moments with Dwight Yoakam as Brentwood Glasscock, the brothers' explosives expert, provide a welcome 'Rififi'-like hint of bank-robbing as a challenging activity requiring certain skills and techniques.This is not to say you can't have fun watching. These young actors are in their physical prime, and that includes the ladies, notably the handsome-looking Julianna Margulies as McConaughey's girlfriend. The period flavor is sometimes ripe and tasty. The production is very good-looking, and there is some nice cinematography a silhouetted image of the mail train the Newton brothers are about to rob is particularly cool. The whole cadre things are set in, including the jaunty music, is conventional, but it's undeniably fun. The movie's a little long, but the climactic later scenes are involving. But still, this is very far from Linklater at his best, and Rosenbaum ought to admit he erred in ranking it so high. "},{"Title":"Lesser Linklater, still a solid entertainment.","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Though not on par with some of his more noted works such as Dazed and Confused or Before Sunrise, The Newton Boys is still a noteworthy film by Richard Linklater, focusing on the all-to-real story of the four Newton brothers from Ulvade, Texas who ended up robbing over eighty banks and a train in just four years before finally being arrested and imprisoned in 1924.What Linklater does here that is most interesting is his use of music and detached style of shooting. Nearly all of the music on the soundtrack consists of blues-infused, upbeat country style which is consistent with the setting of this movie but not necessarily the tone. There is a dark underlying element to this story, most notably in the evolution of the main character Willis, played so wonderfully and engagingly by Matthew McConaughey it makes one shake their head as to why he would continue to make useless romantic comedies these days. Willis begins the film as bright, optimistic, a loyal son and brother but upset about the way justice is mistreated in south Texas. Determined to right this wrong, he becomes enamored with the idea of robbing banks, justifying it by claiming that the banks are the real thieves and his form of stealing would simply be a little thief taking from a big one. Though many of the subsequent scenes are nothing original in this genre, simply derivative of Bonnie and Clyde or Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, the four leads are all very engaging and likable, especially McConaughey and Ethan Hawke. Linklater keeps the audience at a distance with the use of the awkward music and the lack of character depth. In many cases, the supporting cast is simply that rather than an opportunity to reflect the brothers' view of their lives and worldview. Nevertheless, the film is as a whole better than the most recent of its kind. It has an innocent-like quality to it thanks to the fervent belief of Willis Newtown doing this was simply a way to make money and for that reason there was no reason for them to stop. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure...","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was loosely based on the most successful bank robbers of all time. It was one of the many collaborations Matthew McConaughey did with director Richard Linklater. Much like all the film versions of Dillinger, The Newton Boys has car chases, bank robberies, explosions, partying, love triangles, etc. All the elements that add drama and excitement to a film that I enjoy. Again, this film was panned critically and commercially, but again I don't care. Everyone I've introduced to the movie too, has enjoyed it. There is a cool scene during the closing credits too which shows miscellaneous interviews with all the Newton Brothers featuring one with Johnny Carson and the youngest Newton Boy and the last living at the time of the interview in the early 80's. Reviewed by AN/NR 11-14-11 "},{"Title":"Tremendous cast, good, but not great, historical narrative","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In a way, it seems like a waste to gather Matthew McConaughey, Ethan Hawke, Skeet Ulrich, and Vincent D'Onofrio for this movie, because they should've been able to do something great, although, if it weren't for them, it would have been boring.  It is a straightforward assembly of the facts of the incredible run of 80 bank robberies by the Newton brothers. Then they go for the big one, a train robbery of Federal Reserve funds.  It is entertaining, but I was most entertained during the running of the credits. Over to the left, they show clips of Joe Newton at about age 79, on Johnny Carson's Tonight Show, interspersed with film clips of an interview with Willis Newton in his 80's, both giving their views of what it was like and how they felt about what they had done.  After seeing Hollywood's version of their lives, it was interesting to see what they were like in old age. "},{"Title":"Linklater...He knows how to do it","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Newton Boys begins as an old movie, with old wasted colors, kind of black and white. This is the way we meet the players (what actually are the actors), and together with a very happy music (that also seemed old), the credits are simple; maybe boring. If the movie is in black and white, I won't watch it, said my friend Matías. In fact, the movie started and it was in colors, and very nice colors by the way.We see Willis Newton (Matthew McConaughey) and before we notice we are in Texas; with the horses, ranches, and the cowboys that always seem good people when they mostly do bad things. Maybe it is because we love to hear them talking, and the cast of this movie is very convincing in that aspect. Soon Willis encounters two younger guys, riding some difficult horses. These are Jesse and Joe Newton (Ethan Hawke and Skeet Ulrich), also cowboys and Willis' brothers. Now we're living the true story of the Newton Brothers.With the help of Brentwood Glasscock (Dwight Yoakam), alias Glass, and later with the last brother Dock's (Vincent D'Onofrio) collaboration, Willis and his gang robbed a lot of banks and one train that got them to their end. Well, not their end because, unlike any regular cowboy, the Newtons reached ages surpassing the 70 years.With his writing partners, director Richard Linklater created his adapted vision of the story, located in the pages of Claude Stanush's book. His own vision of these enchanting cowboys that made up stories to beautiful women, drank a lot and lived a full life. Stanush, Linklater and Clark Walter achieved something wild in terms of screenplay, because I'm not sure if a man could live the situations these characters experience, but who knows? In other cowboy movies like American Outlaws these things occur, and it's all about the characters. In Outlaws it was the excellent Colin Farrell, now it is a whole talented ensemble.I'm a fan of Richard Linklater's work. And admirer of his camera, settings, colors...The respect he has for his colorful characters, without caring how surreal they can be at times, when he is telling a real story. Led by McConaughey's Willis (who makes a more charismatic leading man than Farrell), usual in Linklater's filmography, Ethan Hawke follows, in good shape as always; he commits more with Linklater than with any director. Then we have a gifted Skeet Ulrich in one of his most natural and charming performances; he isn't getting many jobs today, but here it was a great work. As always, Vincent D'Onofrio sticks to what is requested of him. It is also to notice Dwight Yoakam's efforts, in his most remarkable appearance; now I won't forget about him. Everyone else fulfills, and the women I was talking about, Louise Brown has an important part, played convincingly by the always good Julianna Margulies.It was some weeks ago, that a friend of mine told me he did a work about a director's filmography. He had chosen Woody Allen. I hadn't done the work, but he asked me Who would you choose?. Richard Linklater, I answered. "},{"Title":"Linklater is a genius","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How Richard Linklater made this film on such a small budget is a miracle in itself; the casting was inspired; but the inclusion of the clips of the real Newtons was pure genius. I read Richard's script a year or so before the film went into production, and I felt that this movie simply had to be made... I was right. With a little advertising money from the distributor, the film could (and SHOULD) have been a blockbuster. This is the film that defines the Texas film industry, and as a Texan, I'm proud of Linklater's effort.  "},{"Title":"Fine gangster film with a cowboy tint","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Newton Boys tells the story of Willis, Joe, Jess and Dock Newton, four brothers who become some of the most notorious bank and train robbers the history of America has ever seen. And they're based on real life events and people, making it all the more exciting.What really keeps this movie afloat are the actors. McConaughey, Ulrich, Hawke and D'Onofrio are all versatile and personable actors, breathing life into their characters by their sheer presence. The story is told largely from McConaughey's point of view and it's actually one of his better performances and fits his usual mannerisms perfectly, unlike in some other movies where they are somewhat distracting.The plot is also entertaining, though because it's based on real life it ends up being somewhat repetitive until the final third when the big twists start rolling. Not that the first two acts aren't interesting, but they don't raise the stages the same way a fictional story would. It's not a huge problem, but it's noticeable, especially if you've seen a lot of gangster films.In the end The Newton Boys is well worth a watch if you're into the idea that sometimes real life is more exciting than any movie and/or if you're looking for a good gangster/robber movie to check out. "}{"Title":"We're thieves stealing from bigger thieves.","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Fans of the Director will probably be disappointed in this rather straight telling of the Real-Life, dirt poor Bank Robbers. There is a colorful often made story of Anti-Heroes waiting to be told here, but for some reason, while engaging and fun this Movie kind of disappoints and at the same time is a somewhat amusing, if not a terribly interesting misfire.Here the talented and usually off-kilter Director has been restrained by the conventions of the Genre. It is all handled with taste and is a tactful representation of likable Criminals who never killed anybody, but they did rob 80 banks. That in itself is a feat worthy of any Comic Book Character.There is a standout cast and the Movie looks great. But in the end it kind of loses momentum, but is never completely unworthy of the gist it created. Not a bad diversion and is worth a view as a rather lightweight entertainment that will let down more viewers than it captures. A bit different and deserves more credit than criticism. In this it did not succeed. "},{"Title":"lacks intensity","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's 1919 Texas. After three years of incarceration for stealing, Willis Newton (Matthew McConaughey) gets into robbing banks and recruits his brothers Joe (Skeet Ulrich) and Jess (Ethan Hawke) into the business. Joe is reluctant, wanting clean living. Brentwood Glasscock (Dwight Yoakam) is the explosive expert. They are joined by escape convict brother Dock (Vincent D'Onofrio). Willis takes a liking to single mom Louise Brown (Julianna Margulies).Director Richard Linklater is trying his hand at a different genre. He doesn't bring any intensity or edginess. It feels a bit lightweight. He's able to up his visual game but it's not good enough. It's almost a throwback to an earlier film era but it doesn't have the drama. These actors are all individually good. This could be a great movie if Linklater gets a darker edge. "},{"Title":"The greatest train robbery","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Newton Boys, Richard Linkletter's account on this family of criminals, was a surprise when it was shown on cable, recently. The strength of the story, which was co-written by the director, is based on a real family of bandits who never became as famous as other notorious criminals of the era. Perhaps, because they were basically farm boys, they never got involved in killing their victims, yet they manage to rob a string of banks that had a simple type of safe. Once bigger, and more complicated devices were adopted, it ended the way they did business.Willis, the brain of the organization, learns from someone he meets on the road when he leaves his rural home, how to blow a bank safe with the help of explosives. Willis, in turn, gets his three brothers involved in helping him for the different jobs throughout the middle of the country, and even in Canada. Willis, who falls in love with the attractive employee of a hotel news and tobacco stand, is a successful robber whose luck runs out when he tries his hand at robbing a train that is carrying about three million dollars, a fatal miscalculation on his part.The film is fun to watch because of the easy chemistry among all the brothers. Matthew McConaughey, Ethan Hawke, Skeet Ulrich, and Vincent D'Onofrio appear to be having a great time with their characters and with each other. Joanna Margulies is a lovely Louise, the woman who falls in love with Willis. Dwight Yoakam is seen as the man who teaches Willis his trade as a bank robber.At the end of the film we watch one of the brothers appearing as a guest of The Tonight Show as he looked then. All brothers, it appears went straight after their brush with the law and lived long lives. Richard Linkletter did a film that is fun to watch as it is never heavy, and keeps moving at a quick pace. "},{"Title":"most entertaining","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" as a western movie fan i have been somewhat disappointed in the low numbers of western films made from the 90's to '06- and surprisingly i just seen The Newton Boys for the first time while channel hopping a couple of months ago on HBO- and after seeing the movie i immediately logged onto IMDb.com to get the low- and i just wanted to say the movie in every way is splendid and entertaining throughout. there is comedy touches blazing side by side with drama- and the best part it is based on a true story. and when the movie ends DO NOT TURN THE CHANNEL- the extra/ending credits will fulfill any junkies need for a fix as they have interviews with the real newtons- robbers/criminals yes but the movie is done in such a way that you never have any hatred towards them- one hell of a thumbs up for Linklater- one very smooth job- and while i watched the movie 3 times i didn't know it was D Yoakum playing the part of Glass until i read the IMDb reviews and I'm also a yoakum fan as well- so my hats off to the D for one fine acting performance and to all the cast as this is one western that has no boring moments- i just wish we could be rewarded with a movie with this much satisfaction on a monthly basis------Tom "},{"Title":"Hidden History","Date":"16 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story of the Newton gang, the most successful bank robbers in history, thanks to their good planning and minimal violence.Although I am more well-versed than the average person on organized crime and the gangster era, I confess I had not heard of the Newton Gang prior to watching this film. This may be because they were from Texas, which falls outside of traditional history... but either way, this is a hole that needs rectifying.The film is excellent. Apparently reviews were mixed and it did not do very well, today considered one of Richard Linklater's failures. That is a shame, because it has a solid cast (even a rarely-seen Skeet Ulrich) and a fun, adventurous plot. Hopefully following the Oscar buzz with Boyhood (2014), people will go back and revisit some of Linklarer's work. It is not all amazing, but most of it is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Nearly as good as the Marx Brothers","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film is very banal. Bank robbers and postal train robbers, déjà vu, blasé, passé. Nothing particularly interesting or exciting. Yet the film has a slight flaw that makes it maybe of some interest. These bank robbers and postal train robbers survived the whole business in 1924, got through the trial with rather light sentences and they most of them died of old age fifty or so years later after giving, for some of them, some TV interviews about that profession of their young age. Then that was not a film but a fictionalized documentary. Shucks! Those who got the heaviest sentences were the few real profiteers who were the real organizers behind those young cowboys who got misled, by their own dream, into getting by force the money they desired to have. But the worst part in all that story is that they got caught on their last venture, the postal train robbery, because one of the gang of brothers shot another member of that brotherly gang because he did not stick to what he was supposed to do, went on the other side of the train and got frightened by someone who did not have the identifying hat they were all supposed to wear. A mistake, another mistake and the whole venture came to a stop, though they apparently did not recuperate all the money, neither the authorities, not the Newton Boys, because the part that was hidden away by one of them was done so under the influence of alcohol, not the money of course, but the Newton Boy who was supposed to bury it and he could never, so he says at least, remember where it was. If you are not afraid of the strong cowboy Texan accent of these boys, you can watch it and entertain yourself with the dream of what you could do with three million 1924 dollars. I guess you would favor buying a new hybrid car to be economical and nice with the planet.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"I like it!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the story of the most successful bank robbers in the United States.It is well acted and the violence is not over the top.Slight spoiler They never killed anyone during the course of robbing many banks.Watching this movie is just plain fun and worth the time. Sometimes we root for the bad guys and this is one of those times.One of the neatest things in this movie comes at the end. If you are the type of person that shuts it off as soon as the credits start to roll, don't do it this time!!! "},{"Title":"Matthew McConaughey's best movie","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it is because I'm from Texas, but I think this is a very watchable movie. A good story, with a good ensemble cast, and Matthew playing a very interesting character, probably closer to his real personality than his Dazed and Confused character. "},{"Title":"A Solid Movie","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why does everyone think this is a bad movie?? I thought the story was great and so was the acting. I like Matthew McConaughy and thought he did a great job with this movie. I also thought at times this movie was quite funny like when hes blowing the safe and blows up the whole bank. And i also think the setting of the movie is very well done. I like alot of movies around this era. And this and O Brother where art thou? top some of the movies set in the twenties thrities.. I give it eight out of ten stars... "},{"Title":"A fine little film, and a fun evening's viewing.","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I picked up this movie initially because I'm a Dwight Yoakam fan and had to see it for that; I found myself enjoying the entire film for it's open, good cheer and deft handling of a time when there was a very fine, blurred line between respectable folks and criminals.  The Newton Boys may not have been completely the former, but they approached the latter in a far less lethal fashion than Bonnie & Clyde.  I was favorably impressed with most of the acting, and glad to see Dwight being used in an amiable role with some serious screen time; also excellent was Chloe Webb in a small role as Avis Glasscock.   "}{"Title":"I enjoyed this film there were some nice touches in it","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film on video at home and really enjoyed it.  It is not available in the UK so I got an NTSC version sent over from the states. Many other people have commented on how like Bonnie and Clyde and Butch Cassidy it was.  The film it reminded me of was The Sting. On the whole I enjoyed the performances of all the actors but was particularly surprised by Dwight Yoakam.  There were two particular moments of his performance that struck me.  One being the first view we got of the Nitro and the little comments about Avis liking it kept under the bed. The other being when a bottle of nitro falls from his pocket in the train, he catches it with his foot.  This man can act as well as sing! His delivery of the lines and his facial expressions were good.  I totally believed in the geeky character Dwight Yoakam portrayed.  I saw him in Sling Blade and was impressed but had not seen any other performances so how could I judge?  Time to start listening to his music I think.  I felt the story began to wander towards the end of the film and I have seen better.  Mind you I have seen a lot worse!  Not a bad night's entertainment.  "},{"Title":"A good movie, much better than some reviews would indicate","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I get the feeling others were expecting to see an action-packed shoot-em-up a la Bonnie & Clyde or maybe even Goodfellas. I wasn't expecting anything, so I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. First of all, it has excellent music that helps the movie flow along at its own pace -- but not too slow. Good acting, great cinematography, a good script, a true story, outstanding costumes, and the essence of the early 20's all made this film an interesting and refreshing change of pace. "},{"Title":"Nicely Filmed & Better Than Anticipated","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a pretty interesting based-on-a-true story account of a bunch of brothers who robbed more than 80 banks in the early 1920s. One thing for sure it's better than the critics would have you believe. Oddly enough, it drags a bit near the end overall retained interest for most of the two hours. It is nicely filmed with good 1920s sets and music.Matthew McConaughey is easily the star of this as the mastermind of the group, and he's the most interesting character of the Newton boys. He had a strange, funny smile in this role. I had to laugh out loud a few times looking at it. Some bad news no one else here is likable and there is way too much usage of the Lord's name in vain.I do agree with the critics that something is missing here, something that prevents it from being rated higher. Note two of the actual robbers are shown in 1980 interviews, one on The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson! In the other interview, the thief still sees nothing wrong with what he did! Amazing. "},{"Title":"Gathering cool cash beats pickin' cotton.","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  History is history and Hollywood is well...Hollywood. This is a fact-based drama that chronicles the exploits of the bank robbing Newton brothers(Matthew McConaughey, Vincent D'Onofrio, Ethan Hawke and Skeet Ulrich)who robbed over eight banks from Texas to Toronto in the 20's and 30's. Along with them a friend(Dwight Yoakam)who knew his way with nitro.This makes for exciting explosions on screen with clouds of money to go with gunshot blasts and whining getaway cars. The prolonged career in crime is capped off with a three million dollar mail train heist outside Chicago. This finally landed the boys in a court room and behind bars. By all means don't walk out on the closing credits for you get to find out what happened to each of the principle players. Also in the cast are Julianna Margulies, Charles Gunning, Chloe Webb and Casey McAuliffe. There is the claim that the Newton boys never killed a soul during their robbing the bigger thieves...the banks.  "},{"Title":"Linklater's Worst?","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Newton Boys (1998) Dir Richard Linklater / Cast Matthew McConaughey, Ethan Hawke, Vincent D'Onofrio, Skeet Ulrich, Dwight Yoakam This is about as boring as a western can get. The best aspect of this film are interviews with the real Newton Boys in the conclusion. They were bank robbers in the 1920's but the story is a long dreary bore with hopeless settings and characters whom we really never care about. Matthew McConaughey leads the pack that includes Ethan Hawke, Vincent D'Onofrio, Skeet Ulrich, and Dwight Yoakam. They might have well stayed home for all the humanity they give these roles. They are names on faces that never elevate off the screen. It never involves viewers and much of it is predictable and repetitious with a dull action climax. Director Richard Linklater often examines consequences of human behaviour. He previously made superior films such as Dazed and Confused and Slacker and despite The Newton Boys being a different outing for him to direct, the final product is about as exciting as a kick to the crotch. What he does do is bring certain purpose to the material as it showcases the lifestyle of these boys and the historical elements. The ensemble cast is an unfortunate waste when the actual Newton Boys interviews might have been more entertaining for ninety minutes. This film plays like a history report as oppose to a feature film. Score 4 / 10 "},{"Title":"Charisma isn't king","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Richard Linklater, as a writer and director, loves to let his characters breathe while on screen and confine them to a day's worth of events. However, with The Newton Boys, he attempts to infuse his laidback style with a true crime caper, concerning the Newton Gang, a group of four brothers who robbed banks in the United States during Prohibition. He conducts the film in an episodic manner, devoting over two hours to these brothers, their robberies, and their schemes by simply allowing their conversations to prevail and the charm of the actors to carry the film.The ringleader of the gang is Willis Newton, played by Matthew McConaughey, a suave, smooth-talker who maps out these heists. His brothers are the amiable ladies man Jess (Ethan Hawke), the lovable softy Dock (Vincent D'Onofrio), and the youngest and wiliest Joe (Skeet Ulrich). In addition, the brothers seek the help of Brentwood Glasscock (country singer Dwight Yoakam) to help blow the safes of banks with ample amounts of nitroglycerine. The Newton's work under a simple code of conduct, which states they won't kill, they won't harm or rob any women or children, and they won't snitch.Immediately, what The Newton Boys lacks is the element of perspective. Examining successful biopics of recent time, like Jersey Boys and The Wolf of Wall Street, both films benefited from the perspective of many of their individuals, particularly Jersey Boys, which showed how one story was told with bias from each of the band members. Despite spending two hours with these brothers, we feel like we're hanging out with them more than we're being told their story or learning of the men themselves. The brothers never transcend past caricatures, and Linklater's energy level and interest in these characters seems greatly diminished, especially considering his last several films.The irony with Linklater and The Newton Boys is here's a film about bank robbers running from the law, and it manages to be less interesting than Linklater's formal directorial debut Slacker, which focused for no more than five minutes on a single character and Before Sunrise, which simply featured two characters walking and talking. Linklater's investment in his characters is noted with every film I've seen from him, but here, it's as if he's within arm's length of his characters at all times, never gravitating towards them to learn about them, despite the glacial-pace of the film. The conversations between the men reiterate tired ideas describing how robbing the banks isn't a bad thing because they're essentially stealing from insurance companies, so clearly, stealing isn't so bad. These conversations undermine the titular characters, and the coffin-sealing nail is no perspective is ever provided on these men to show how we're supposed to view them.So The Newton Boys drags on without much energy, like someone who worked a forty-five hour week and begrudgingly took on a twelve hour shift to follow it up. As it meanders and rifts around, it manages to drain the energy out of us, the audience, as well, and we're left with a film that's lifeless and impotent, two traits I never thought I'd associate with Linklater. All the pieces are here aesthetically, with the costumes, the music, and the aura of the Roaring 20's all captured with visual flair, and the four young leading men prove they have charisma, but at the end of the day, that's all they have, and a film about bank robbers needs more than that.Starring Matthew McConaughey, Ethan Hawke, Skeet Ulrich, Vincent D'Onofrio, and Dwight Yoakam. Directed by Richard Linklater. "},{"Title":"This is a hell of a way to make a livin' ain't it.","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 2 1/2 out of 4 stars.In 2014, it feels like the gangster film has hit a plateau. The last major thing to influence the gangster genre was TV show The Sopranos. The last films to make an impact on the gangster genre were Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction and Martin Scorsese's Goodfellas. Now, though, we have a lot of films that repeat what these great films did, but don't push it forward. Richard Linklater's 1998 film The Newton Boys is one of these repeats.The Newton Boys is a typical gangster film. It felt like the filmmakers made a checklist of everything a gangster film needed and checked them all off, but it didn't push the film anywhere it hadn't been before. You have your stock characters the charming gangster (Matthew McConaughey), the fun gangster (Ethan Hawke), the pessimistic gangster (Skeet Ulrich), the brute force (Vincent D'Onofrio), the brains (Dwight Yoakam), the love interest (Julianna Marguiles), and the cops. All the actors play them decently, but that's about it.There's the action, the romance, and the stylish gangster life, but it feels kind of flat or stale. This film doesn't feel like a Linklater film. Sure, McConoaughey and Hawke are Linklater regulars, but there's no long tracking shots, philosophical discussions, or witty humor. The film doesn't feel as personal.The redeeming quality to this film, though, is how it feels like an ode or tribute to the classic gangster films, like The Public Enemy (look at the opening credits and style of the film), Bonnie and Clyde (look at them having fun robbing banks and the bluegrass music), The Godfather trilogy (look at the themes of family and brothers), and Goodfellas (look at the characters as punks with nothing left to lose and the theme of betrayal). The Newton Boys feels like a summary of all the gangster films before it, which interested me. The Sopranos would begin soon after this and push the gangster genre forward.The Newton Boys is a fun little tribute to gangster films. It sheds light on who the Newton family was and their uniqueness in the crime world, but it doesn't bring as much originality to the gangster films. It has its moments, but the film is neither the best of Linklater's or the gangster genre. "},{"Title":"Not a good film. Don't see!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the type of non-fiction movie that is so fictional that one begins to doubt that this ever happened.  Dialogues between towns folk and Newtons durning bank robbers are all to cleverly depicted and most of us have already seen Butch Cassidy.  A reluctant brother and the squandering of their proceeds are all too recognizable and predictable,  making for a somewhat ludicrous plot.  The acting is often overly dramatic and far too clever to be taken seriously.  American westerns have forgotten what their past or perhaps they are confusing it with the present. "},{"Title":"A fine film, but not Linklater's best.","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that the first time I watched it, I was kinda like ah, it's ok but then improved drastically with a second viewing. (Dirty Dancing is another one I can think of)  Linklater is quite possibly my favorite director, and Before Sunrise and Dazed and Confused are two of my favorite movies of all time.  I really enjoyed this movie the 2nd time I watched it, but it still isn't in the realm of Before or Dazed.  The 4 male leads are charming, but I was most affected by Hawke (whose character should have had more screen time) and Ulrich (I was surprised how well he acted in this movie, and also how young he appeared).  I liked McConaughey in this movie, but felt his character monopolized the movie, and the time should have been spent more equally among the brothers.  The movie is good if you like the 4 male leads, and the best part of the movie to me was the credits, which had clips of interviews of 2 of the real Newton Boys. ) "},{"Title":"This film is incredibly boring.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I sat through this film, I couldn't help but think of The Rocky Horror Picture Show. That's not because this film is anything like RHPS, but my family was continually yelling BOORINGGGGG! at the screen! (We watched this on video at home.)This film also reminded my of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, and Bonnie and Clyde, and it's an excellent testimonial to those two films, as it shows how talented their directors and actors were (but only because this film is *so* bad).First of all, this movie had all the character development of Archie and Jughead. I didn't care one iota for ANY of these guys. In fact, I couldn't even tell them apart! It was like they were all portraying the same person.And then there is the matter of 'excitement'. You'd think that a tale about robbing banks would be exciting, wouldn't you? WRONG!And then there is the 'cuteness factor'. These guys are so lame (and cute) that when a woman witnesses them robbing a bank, and sounds the alarm, one of the Newtons (I forget which one, as they all acted the same) yelled to her, You're MEAN, you know that?!!! Good grief!In short, if you want to sit through a two hour long film (that seems like four hours), and see a bunch of guys acting cute and playful while robbing banks with banjo music playing in the background, then this film is for you. But if you want excitement, suspense, character development, good acting, and a PLOT - rent something else. Dazed and Confused was a better film (but I didn't like that one either.)  "}{"Title":"Famous? Even Google couldn't locate their photos !!","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" what always gets people is that Hollywood line, based on a true story ....so, i tuned in and tuned out rather quickly. the plot was fairly shallow & predictable and the characters were just too jolly for actual reality and especially reality of wanted criminals.but i was curious to see what they looked like since criminals tend to all look so similar in that freakish kinda way. but even the search engines couldn't locate their photos. so i question just how successful the robbers were as it seem nobody in their era really cared much about them other than the usual anger at being victimized. look up bonnie & Clyde & other criminals of their era & you will find the photos. but not these guys.the movie & the subject..... guys thinking they're intelligent for doing nothing more than using guns & explosives ) just plain stupid behavior / so what?. don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"A miss","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Newton Boys, an obvious Bonnie & Clyde-wannabe, ignores the most fundamental reason for the latter film's resonance and success--*it did not glorify the heroes.* We can't even call Bonnie and Clyde heroes, really, protagonists would be a better word.Bonnie & Clyde makes it perfectly clear that its two lead characters are overgrown children, getting in further and further over their heads. We feel sorry for them when they die, but we also acknowledge, with a sad sigh, that this was the only possible end for them.Director Richard Linklater of The Newton Boys, however, was clearly enamored of his subject and approaches these criminals as personifications of the misunderstood man and carefree American spirit. The period details are well-done and all the actors have charm to spare, but the fact remains--*these are criminals and they are stealing other people's money.*This deals a fatal blow to our identification with the so-called heroes and our enjoyment of the film. Am I really supposed to sympathize with Dwight Yoakam's character as he throws a temper tantrum over a round safe (apparently harder to detonate than square)? Oh, the poor little bank robber's having a hard day at the office.The film also has problems in terms of writing and performance. It's hard to believe that Julianna Margulies's character would be head over heels for the top Newton bro; someone that stunning would surely be able to find numerous, law-abiding boyfriends. The film needed less bank robbing scenes and maybe a few showing how she was ostracized by society and/or poor and Mr. Newton gave her a new lease on life...something like that. Perhaps Julianna was bored with this thin role, for there is little life in her performance.Only one or two of the brothers, especially Skeet Ulrich as the youngest, stand out in any particular way. The music is hokey and the whole thing goes on far too long. If you see it, though, do stay till the very end to catch interviews with the real Newton brothers toward the end of their lives. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE CAN ONLY BE COMPARED TO A SLOW, PAINFUL DENTAL PROCEDURE.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At only 113 minutes long, one would assume this movie would be a breeze to watch; DON'T BE FOOLED.  The corny, not-quitene way in which this film tries to capture a great era, paired with the uninteresting characters and boring story line (I am not even sure if there was a definite story line) leaves a viewer feeling like the film is 24 HOURS long.  For me, the only high points in this film occured when various characters were injured or imprisoned and thusly kept from speaking.  About three quarters of the way through when I thought I could take no more, one of my viewing companions thankfully said Can we turn this off?  We were saved. "},{"Title":"An updated Bonnie & Clyde","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although these characters are supposed to be real, the film is a direct copy of Bonnie & Clyde. Another case of repetition being the sincerest form of flattery!! Well acted, and at least it moves. "},{"Title":"This movie is cool","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is one of the best movies ever made.i think they picked the right  people for the cast. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I ever paid money to see at the cinema!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pitiful!  I walked out of this movie and chastised my roommate for having dragged me to it!  The thirty minutes that I saw showed no acting whatsoever.  All it showed was a bunch of young actors that look good to chicks acting like a bunch of country hicks a whoopin' and a hollerin'.  "},{"Title":"what's gone wrong","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Linklater directed the superb 'Slacker', 'Dazed & Confused' and 'Before Sunrise'. 'SubUrbia' was a disappointment, but this is an awful waste of 2 hours. A story that has been done a 1,000 times, and in 999 instances a lot better. The acting is wooden,  and the script is bland. The 2 hours duration feels like 222. Catch the earlier glories, and miss this mess. "},{"Title":"Lame, very lame caper movie","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Frankly, I don't know what possessed me to rent this video, and once I started watching it I couldn't believe I'd wasted the two bucks. Cute bank robbers, ooh what a concept! The acting was completely undistinguished, the plot line a joke, and nothing happened!  "},{"Title":"Just too cute!","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another cute little film glorifying crime.  Who wrote the dialogue?  No contact with reality!    Sound track was good tho', if you like the 20s sound.  Best part of movie was the credits when the real brothers commented on their crimes.   "}]