[{"Title":"All this useless beauty.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie like it's a woman.  The reviewers have once again missed the ferry -- what we have here, folks, is an honest to God(ard) B-movie tone poem, an exercise in sensual, physical, SURFACE beauty that will send any self-respecting Keatsian aesthete straight to Hyperion ( the palace of visionaries, not the Miramax book division. )  Thanks to director Michael Radford -- who I wrongly assumed to be eighty or ninety years of age on the basis of his last movie, Il Postino -- B. Monkey is as seductive as the single bar of red neon that illuminates the opening shot.  The movie will surely gain minor but devoted cult status in the years to come, while its lead actress, Asia Argento, will probably have to buy a house with very tall gates.  ( Because I'm quite tall myself, and a good climber. )How to describe B. Monkey without resorting to banal adjectives like you'd find on cartons of Haagen-Daz, luscious and velvety?  Well, I see it as sort of a disreputable cousin to Bertolucci's ravishing Besieged; other people, no doubt less pretentious, will compare it to the kind of movie Steven Soderbergh has been making lately -- a cool, jazz-inflected, proudly inconsequential genre flick.  But Radford has his own style -- impossibly trendy -- and he's a genius at evoking the loneliness and beauty of big cities everywhere.   This is a director's movie, to be sure, but make no mistake  Asia Argento is no slouch when it comes to decorating the frame.  She's compact, tough, and fierce-eyed, her unconventional beauty only enhanced by a strong nose that would look terrific underneath a centurion's helmet.  Like Louise Brooks or Anna Karina, she's a vamp for the ages, mesmerizing for no good reason ( much like the movie itself. )  It doesn't hurt that she's matched with the brilliant Jared Harris, whose interior performance perfectly complements her exterior one, or that the atavistically lordly Rupert Everett is on hand to do his Wilde thing.  Even pretty boy Jonathan Rhys-Meyers is a bit more animated than usual; he throws open car doors briskly and with conviction.    Yes, the plot is inane.  No, it doesn't really matter.  B. Monkey, in the end, amounts to no more nor less than the sum of its impressionistic moments.  The world is a glittering tomb where we all languish in oh-so-gorgeous isolation, or something.  As Jared Harris says early in the movie, deejaying at a local hospital  This next one is for all you romantics out there.  Get well soon. "},{"Title":"Argento gives strong performance in so-so film","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was Michael Radford's first film since Il Postino and it's definitely a letdown because Radford is a terrific director. Story is about a woman named B. Monkey (Asia Argento) who moonlights as an armed robber and she works with a couple of drug addicts named Bruno (Jonathan Rhys-Myers) and their father figure Paul (Rupert Everett) and a local gangster named Frank (Tim Woodward) is the one who sets up the scores. One night Bea meets Alan (Jared Harris) who is a school teacher and he asks her out on a date. She accepts and soon she falls in love with him and wants to leave her sordid past behind. Alan gets another teaching job in the country and Bea goes with him and they start to live the quiet life but one day Bea calls Paul and he traces the call back and finds out where she lives. Paul is in serious trouble with Frank and they follow him to where Bea is. One of the main problems with the story is how much Alan puts up with to be with Bea. Her friends are criminals, she was responsible for him losing his job and she displays a pretty bad temper. Maybe it's time to move on, buddy! But the strong point for the film is Argento's performance. She's a very brave actress and it appears that she would do just about anything on camera. There are several scenes in this film that require total nudity and Argento seems very comfortable doing this. Argento is Italian and grew up in Europe and European actress's seem to have a different attitude towards nudity in films. I first noticed Radford's direction in the highly underrated 1984 and also Dancing at the Blue Iguana. Both of these films along with Il Postino are superbly directed but his talent wasn't evident in this film. It's adequately made but besides Argento this was a pretty tepid viewing experience. I had heard rumors that it was heavily edited but I'm not sure thats the problem. The whole film feels flat and labored and really has nothing special to offer. Argento does make it watchable though. "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  B.Monkey is the perfect example of a romantic thriller!Asia Argento plays Beatrice/B.Monkey-the thief who wants to quit with her profession.She loves Alan(Jared Harris),a teacher of small children.The film is really enjoyable and very well-acted-Asia Argento,a daughter of famous Italian horror maestro Dario Argento is really talented!She provides also some great nude scenes!The violence is kept to minimum,but there's a lot of cursing!8 out of 10-worth checking out,especially if you're a fan of Asia Argento! "},{"Title":"Very good movie highlighted by the acting performances","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is basically carried by the two leads (particularly Asia Argent, daughter of Dario Argento) and by Rupert Everett in a supporting role. The script is average and the plot a tad too obvious at times, but Argento catches fire on camera and does a very good job.  If you like action-thrillers, by all means watch thi one.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"A vision of escapism","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw B. Monkey (at the Ghent Film Festival in 1998), I was amazed at how many people had come to see this action movie starring Asia Argento. Of course it wasn't because of Asia's charismatic performances this movie was so popular, but because it was the latest film by Michael Radford, director of Il Postino (together with Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulin the longest running movie in the last ten years - well, in Antwerp anyway). From Il Postino to B. Monkey was a weird step and perhaps one of the reasons why B. Monkey gets so many negative reviews.I'm well aware that this movie is a male-oriented vision of escapism, but when the result is a movie like this, one wants to take a lot for granted.B. Monkey was based on a novel by Andrew Davies who has been writing since the late 60s and has penned many scripts for well-known productions such as the script for the Bridget Jones Diary and the lesbian BBC drama Tipping The Velvet. He knows how to tell a story and perhaps this is why, in my opinion, B. Monkey is so much better than the usual drama where a delinquent girl meets an honest man and decides to better her life (genders may be changed here). Even though you can predict the big lines of the story, you're still surprised at certain plot changes.Alan (Wayne Wang favourite Jarid Harris) and Beatrice (Asia 'daughter of Argento) couldn't be further apart she's a bank-robbing criminal, he teaches poor kids and has a jazz show on hospital radio. Once again something that makes you realize that this movie walks a thin line between good cinema and a third-rate tv's movie of the week. Believable acting by Harris, Argento and, not to forget, Rupert Everett helps the movie to stay on the right part of that thin line. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Argento and some good touches but this is mainly bland and uninteresting","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Alan Furnace is a school teacher who's only joy in life is his late-night slot on hospital radio where he can play the light jazz he loves so much. Seeking more excitement in his life, he takes an interest in a collection of people in a local pub who the barman describes as criminals. Despite this Alan approaches the woman of the group &#150; the sexy and charming Beatrice, but is surprised when she responds to his advances. As he gets to know her, he uncovers a damaged soul with a murky past and dark present that perhaps he would be keep out of; however, as much as he is put off he is drawn in and soon finds himself involved deeper than he had ever planned.I'll be honest and say that I was only drawn to this film by the strange title; other than that I had no idea what it was about but decided to give it a stab anyway. However the film seems to be aiming for a mood rather than a narrative and, as a result, this film is more about the tone and feel and thus it fails to really engage because the story isn't there. Well, there is a story but it comes second to the mood and it isn't well developed, is full of illogical holes that just don't convince and feels like a mishmash of other films' ideas. It is interesting at points but ultimately it doesn't work. The film tries to be seedy and introspective, using smoky rooms, jazz and crime as motivators and the normal guy as our way in, but even this doesn't totally work and elements of it failing make it feel like it has all been forced from the start &#150; certainly the choice of the jazz music is way off.However, as the title suggests, the film is more about Beatrice than the other characters and, as such, it is interesting enough even if she isn't as well developed a character as a character driven film would usually require. The performance from Argento is good and she has a real sexy presence that is more than just her taking her clothes off for the cameras &#150; it is an aspect of her character that the film uses well. Harris is every bit as bland as the music he plays and he is the reason why I never bought the main relationship once &#150; OK, she's after a nice guy but would she go for someone so very bland? The rest of the cast are colourful enough and do OK work with very basic material; Rhys-Meyers is good, Everett does his usual lazy, bi-sexual performance, Hart has a small role and the rest are just basic East End thug sorts.Overall this is a film to watch for the sexy, dark presence of Argento and that alone. Outside of her, the narrative is pretty weak and never really convinced me or involved me; the dramatic fireworks come and go without really doing much and by the end I was pretty bored by the whole affair. Argento and some of the support cast make it worth a go but, like Harris and his type of jazz music, this film is consistently bland and uninteresting. "},{"Title":"A somewhat derivative romantic thriller that's boosted byfantastic performances.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  B. Monkey has some elements that are similar to La Femme Nikita. But is also manages to implement just enough fresh twists to keep the film from getting too derivative.The film's biggest asset is the fantastic performances from everyone in the cast. It's pretty evident that this film was designed as a vehicle for the Italian goddess Asia Argento, and she definitely does not disappoint as far as her looks or her acting abilities are concerned. Everyone else does an equally great job and add some great nuances to what could have been generic characters.The film is quite violent at times and also features strong doses of sex and nudity (mostly of Ms. Argento) but it's all done in a tasteful and artistic manner that keep the film from veering into exploitation territory.Overall, a solid little romantic thriller and a stunning showcase for Asia Argento.rating8  "},{"Title":"A Mess Of A Movie","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" On paper this looks like a good movie with Michael Radford directing an adaptation of an Andrew Davies novel but before the opening titles have even finished you find out what the fault of the movie is Supply teacher Alan works at a hospital as the inhouse DJ and before you've even had time to digest this the action jump cuts to Beatrice and co carrying out a robbery , this is so much a shock in terms of juxtaposition it's like the channel has suddenly jumped to another station and you're watching another movie . Not only that but Beatrice's expositional voice over seems stilted and faintly ridiculous not helped by the fact that Asia Argento seems to have a problem saying the  F  word convincingly . Indeed none of the actors in this production seems to be able to swear with any conviction . Considering nearly every sentence contains expletives this is a serious problem with the movie But the dialogue is not the only serious problem ,there's serious signs of under development with the script . Check the scene where Beatrice and Alan meet for the first time . I guess it might have worked okay on paper but watching the scene on celluloid makes the whole scenario unlikely . And there's other scenes like this , for example Beatrice and her colleague turn up at the house of a parent who has made a complaint about Alan . No doubt Alan knows where the parent lives but there's no hint that Alan has passed this information to Beatrice so how would she know where to find the parent ? In a film where the audience are asking themselves where this bizarre and muddled plot is heading plot holes like this jump out of the screen and strangle the critical viewer Radford directs well but he's the wrong choice since B MONKEY seems to be attempting to be a chic British thriller with some black comedy thrown in , but the actors play their roles in a loud European way which contrasts with the British locations and language . One can't help feeling this movie would have worked far better if Davies novel had been transported to Paris or Rome with Radford employing a native cast speaking their own language . As it is B MONKEY is yet another messy Brit flick with a totally ill thought out script "},{"Title":"Top of the second tier Europic worth the time.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  B. Monkey, with Italian diva Argento in the title role, tells of a young female thief who tries to go straight but is haunted by her past from both inside and out. What could have been a better romantic psychodrama stills plays out well as B-flick with good pitted against evil in the usual ways though it stumbles a bit in the end. The film has visceral verve, solid performances, and develops and builds until the climax in the last minutes. Good stuff for mature audiences into Europics with plenty Argento skin. "},{"Title":"Half-Baked Romantic Crime Thriller With Sexy Asia Argento","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nineteen Eighty Four director Michael Radford's minor romantic crime thriller B. Monkey chronicles the stormy relationship between an impulsive female cat burglar and a conventional male school teacher. Dario Argento's super sexy daughter Asia plays the eponymous character with relish in this beautifully photographed, well-acted, but ultimately forgettable epic. Indeed, you'll have trouble keeping your eyes off the lovely Asia who shows no qualms about showing off her delectable body in tastefully lensed full frontal nudity. An assortment of criminals floats into and out of her life as she struggles like an old western gunfighter to cease her life of crime. Beatrice explains in voice over narration how she came to acquire her name I can get into anything. One day in a pub, a lonely English teacher at a primary school, Alan (Jared Harris) approaches Beatrice. Initially, she rebuffs him because she neither knows nor trusts him. Finally, Alan convinces Beatrice that he poses no threat to her so she agrees to a date the following evening at eight and stands him up. Beatrice's low-life friends&#x97;they might be more accurately described as accomplices--include homosexual Paul (Rupert Everett of Cemetery Man) cut from the same cloth as Noel Coward and a lunatic young hoodlum boyfriend, Bruno (Jonathan Rhys Meyers of Ride With The Devil), who is prepared to die for her. Meanwhile, ordinary Alan teaches by day and serves as a disc jockey by night at a local London hospital.Eventually, Beatrice and Alan get together, but Beatrice discovers that the young school teacher cannot get it up. Whether Alan cannot gain an erection in the warm company of the comely Asia--who resembles a brunette Venus on a half-shell&#x97;or because he is too overwhelmed by her abrupt behavior is never established. Eventually, Asia gets him back into shape and the two fall in love. Anyway, Beatrice refuses to work for a local mobster, Frank (Tim Woodward), but complications arise that force her back into crime. Alan has trouble with a student who accuses him of slamming him against a wall after the student stabbed another student in the face with a pencil. The boy's surly mother prefers charges against Alan, but Beatrice and Bruno pay her a visit and change her mind. Naturally, Alan is outraged and manages to get another teaching job far out in the country. Beatrice leaves London and her friends, but she cannot truly leave them and the consequences of her criminal activities come back to haunt her in the wilderness.The performances are tops and director Michael Radford keeps things moving along so the action never stalls out. The chief problem is that none of the characters are interesting. They are either goody-two shoes like Alan or obnoxious criminal types like Bruno. Radford stages a couple of credible jewelry heists, largely smash and grab affairs, and gives his average, unexceptional film more polish than it deserves. Those who must have happy endings will love B. Monkey. This movie breaks the cliché about the ready-to-have sex mentality of men. When Beatrice knows that she is about to have sex with a guy, she jumps in bed and peels her clothes off quicker than the man can get his pants down. Typically, the man is the ready-to-have sex partner with the woman showing some reluctance. Again, aside from Asia's gorgeous body and some good acting, B. Monkey is like a banana peel. You watch this movie and you will feel like you've make a slip-up. "}{"Title":"Spreads itself too thin","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *****SOME SPOILERS (as if you care)*****B. Monkey is half serious drama about how the past can catch up with you, half violent, all-out action flick, and the combination of the two just doesn't come off. Mainly due to the film being really quite ridiculous.Beatrice (aka B. Monkey) is a jewel thief. She inexplicably falls head over heels for an extremely boring school teacher called Alan. She quits the crime game and tries to be nice and normal, but her past comes back to haunt her and she's forced to go on one last job. This doesn't please Alan, who whines for a bit. They make up and go and live in the countryside, before that troublesome past resurfaces once again in a climax that is neither thrilling nor touching.None of this is helped by Jared Harris' awful acting as Alan, or a script that bores incessantly and is full of huge, gaping holes. The only thing that saves the film from being a total disaster is Beatrice herself, or to be more precise, Asia Argento. She has more screen presence than everyone else in the film put together, and steals pretty much every scene she's in. When she leaves the screen (such as in the horrible, tacked-on subplot about a young boy who's being abused by his mother), you're left begging for her return. Overall, definitely not worth the effort.  "},{"Title":"Average film. terrific leading actress.","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (minor spoilers included)What we have here is an acceptable attempt of mixing several good and widely divergent ideas into one big jar. B.Monkey rushes by at high speed and tries to combine an apparently impossible romance with gangster-movie elements and black comedy. A guy, who is quite possibly the most well-behaving citizen in all England (grade schoolteacher. serving as a volunteer in a hospital.classic radio DJ.) falls deeply in love with his female opposite (armed robber.tattooed and high-spirited.nymph) and they want to build a new life together. Unfortunately, the girl can't leave her infamous past behind her. Even when the couple flees to the middle of British nowhere, the girl's former partners and enemies follow them at all times. B. Monkey merely depends on a few powerful sequences and a couple of intriguing characters. The creativity and goodwill is there, but the whole finished product still looks like one big muddle. Also, the entire film isn't exactly plausible which makes it even harder to digest. Strictly seen as a black comedy and social satire, it does deserve a bit of praising. Multiple 'human interest'-topics are spoofed here which lifts up the film to a slightly higher dimension (to me, at least). And then there are the acting performances.Especially Rupert Everett impresses as the addicted homosexual friend. Everett is good in portraying `weirdos', like his previous `Dellamorte Dellamore' already stated. Asia Argento is just one adorable angel.Dario's daughter owes a lot to her looks but there's obviously quite some talent present as well in that ravishing body of hers. Thank goodness she's not one of those pretentious actresses who don't take risks in their careers. She's speaking with an incredibly sexy Italian accent and her nude scenes contribute in making this nice little film more memorable.All together, B.Monkey isn't top priority to check out, but it guarantees fun and action from start to finish.  "},{"Title":"Rupert Everett (almost) saved this movie.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie back in the fall 1996 - yes 96.  I was part of the Test audience suckered in to the Sony Theater on 19th Street & Broadway here in NYC.  After the movie was over we were given a survey so that we convey our thoughts about the movie.It's been a while since I've seen it, but I remember the romance between the professor and B. Monkey to be totally unbelievable.  Beatrice (Asia Argento) plays the enigmatic no-good juvenile delinquent punk who falls in love with a straight-laced school teacher.In an attempt to wean Beatrice from her wicked ways, the couple moves out to the countryside.  Beatrice plays the role of the good girlfriend but as expected, her no-good London pals (thugs) find her hiding out.I usually like sappy love stories, but this one dragged... and dragged... and dragged on.   This movie begs for action. The only exciting scene was the robbery she commits at the Jewerly store. After committing the felony she screams, Wot's my name?  B. Monkey!  It was all too corny.Paul (Rupert Everett) was the funniest character.  As usual, he plays a charming & witty gay character.  If it wasn't for him I would have demanded my money back (yes, I know I got in for free - but I'll never get those 2 hours of my life back so why not some cash instead?) "},{"Title":"With little substance.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  B Monkey, entertained but didn't add anything to my weekend.  The London Film Festival gave the World Premiere of this movie which must have been shot before My Best Friend's Wedding when Rupert Everett was still an untouchable (according to Radford, Everett paid for and shot his own screen test because no one would give him a chance).  He worked well as the out of it drug pusher whose life B Monkey is entangled with.  The two leads, Jared Harris and Asia Argento work well together but this is still not enough to make the movie fully work.  The London locations look great (even if with the usual cinematic ploy unconnected parts of town seem to be next to each other).Overall I may not have gained much from seeing this film but I enjoyed the experience.  "},{"Title":"Worthy of late-night cable","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Flipping channels one night, I came across a movie that promised Asia Argento, Rupert Everett and Johnathan Rhys-Meyers (big fan of his) and directed by the guy who did Il Postino so I decided to stick around and give it a chance. I should've watched trout fishing instead as that would've been more unpredictable than this. Argento is a revelation in this as she dominates each scene she's in and left me wanting more. Rhys-Meyers does well here as does Everett. The problem is that the movie is too predictable and the leading man is totally dull. When characters go on the run, of course the villains are going to catch up. When two totally different characters fall in love, of course they'll spend 1/3 of the movie arguing. When a thief says this is my last job, of course you know it won't be. This screenplay seems to come out of a Cinema 101 course. Absolutely NOTHING original. There are tons of plot holes too. The most glaring is when Argento shows up at the house of a woman who threatens her boyfriend's job. How did she get the address? Did anyone re-read the script? Another note to filmmakers Boring jazz makes boring movies. Jared Harris's choice of music almost put me to sleep. Is that really what you want your audience to do? John Carpenter used jazz in The Fog but it was nicely kept to the background but here it's annoying. If you're a fan of Argento, Everett or Rhys-Meyers then check out this movie. If you're not...well, there's always trout fishing. This is strictly a B-Movie that tries for atmosphere and action but just leaves you feeling bored. "},{"Title":"Django Reinhardt music playing late at night","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw this film the other night on cable. Michael Radford's Il Postino had played the night before, and never are there two more different films than B Monkey and the other one! The novel by Andrew Davies was a joy and it's translation to the screen suffers because of the adaptation we see in front of our eyes. It appears this movie has been badly chopped up as indicated by comments by Mr. Radford.This is a film about opposite characters that attract one another in ways that in other circumstances, they wouldn't have met. We meet the nerdish Alan Furnace, a teacher who also volunteers at a hospital where he loves to play jazz at night. He is fond of the great Django Reinhardt, a legend guitarist, whose records one hears on the background.Beatrice is a young woman with a past. She is trying to get out of that life and the unsavory characters around her. When she meets Alan, she has no clue of what is going to happen to her, but she falls for him. Alan wants to get out of London to a quieter and more subdued atmosphere in which he feels Beatrice will feel happy too.Beatrice's past gets in the way as Paul and Bruno come to interrupt the idyllic home life Alan and Beatrice have made for themselves, but in spite of the dangers, in an ironic twist, the couple finally manage to find peace in their newly found paradise.Jared Harris is perfect as Alana. Asia Argento gives a complex reading on Beatrice a role that offers her a lot of opportunities. Rupert Everett and Jonathan Rhys Meyers make good contributions to the film.The original film score by Luis Bacalov, a contributor to Mr. Radford in Il Postino, is easy on the ears. The other non original songs are well selected and give the film another texture.Although Mr. Radford did his best with the film, one can only recommend the viewer to check out Andrew Davies novel that is the basis of the movie. "},{"Title":"Not sure what to make of it...","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The posters and DVD arts project this to be a sexy crime thriller about a female bank or jewel robber or something. Instead, it's a romantic drama with a touch of crime thriller here and there but nothing like what you'd have expected.I don't mind the film for what it is. Beatrice (Bee-Ah-Trich-E) is a lovely Italian woman who has gone the straight after a career as an armed robber. She still keeps in touch with a few of her old friends from that life, but mainly, she has gone straight. I wasn't sure if this film was going anywhere interesting, then it turned into a romantic drama when Beatrice meets a guy named Alan (Jared Harris) who works at a classical radio station by night and teaches young kids in school by day. If you want to appreciate the European art/sex film elements of this film, such as full frontal nudity and wild sex scenes, then it will entertain you in that way for a while, as Beatrice and her new lover struggle with his impotence, bad oysters and getting to know each other.When a friend of B's, played by the luscious Jonathan Rhys-Meyers comes into the scene, suddenly there's an actual 2 way plot going somewhere, but this is not until at least 1/3 or 2/3 into the movie. A very troubled (downright psychotic) kid at Alan's school stabs another child with a pencil, the whole thing turns ugly and suddenly Alan is faced with losing his teaching job. At the same time, B's friend needs her to come out of retirement to help him get some debts cleared up.Asia Argento is a fun actress to watch, even if she's not the greatest actress ever. Still, this film seems to not be able to make up its mind what it wanted to be. It's entertaining in some ways, but not exciting enough for me to recommend. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly appealing monkey business","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best romantic dramas I have seen for some time. The basic plotline is not that original - sensible man with a yearning for adventure meets sassy woman with self-destructive past and personality. However the performances are spectacular, this was obviously a vehicle for Asia Argento, but she grabs the opportunity by both balls and squeezes hard. A decent, if not excellent, script is made rivetting by her explosive prescence whether she is clothed or not and all the other characters respond to her challenge.Stunning visuals, a decent plot twist, an examination of the pull of many different types of love and Asia trying to understand the complexities of cricket. There is little more you can ask for! "},{"Title":"An excellent British, romantic thriller","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very fortunate to be able to attend the world premiere of this excellent new film from Michael Radford, the director of Il Postino.B MONKEY tells the story of the romance between a quiet, jazz-loving school teacher (played by the excellent Jared Harris) and the beautiful, mysterious and dangerous Beatrice (played by Asia Argento).  Beatrice, or B. Monkey as she was known in her criminal life, tries to leave her old life behind her - but it proves very hard to shake off.This is a great film and I enjoyed it immensely. It's a hugely stylish film and is beautifully shot.  The acting all round is tremendous but special honours should go to Asia Argento who gives a powerful and captivating performance.I really hope this film will do well around the world as it is greatly deserving of huge success.I saw this film on Saturday November 7th 1998, at the London Film Festival "},{"Title":"Asia's volatile sensuality","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beatrice (Asia Argento) is a thief known as B. Monkey who is tired of the life of crime. Alan Furnace (Jared Harris) is a sweet teacher who moonlights as a DJ in a hospital. He falls for B. She sees him as a frog who is better than any of the supposed princes. She's part of a trio with brother-like Bruno (Jonathan Rhys Meyers) led by drug-addicted Paul Neville (Rupert Everett). Paul owes crime boss Frank money and Paul wants B. to do more jobs for him.Asia has volatile sexuality. Jared Harris is a character actor with a co-star face which fits the character perfectly. Rupert is interesting as a creepy mess. JRM is terrific as always. I wish they have somebody with more threatening intensity as Frank. This is a nice little neo-noir crime drama. It's overshadowed by other more stylish British crime dramas at that time. It needs a little more moodiness and it's handicapped by missing a caper. These kinds of crime drama usually involves some sort of caper. The movie does need a more explosive, darker alternate ending. It's leading towards that for the whole time and it needs to go through with it. It needs a bit more overall style and the title is pretty stupid. Nevertheless, I love a good neo-noir and Asia is terrific. "}{"Title":"B. a little bad.","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beatrice(Asia Argento) is a thief who comes into the life of teacher/DJ Alan(Jared Harris), bringing a little excitement and a little trouble. It's a plot that has been done better before and B. Monkey doesn't bring anything new to the genre. The cast, which also includes John Rhys Meyers ans Rupert Everett as B. partners in crime, make it worth watching. Jared Harris looks like that teacher with the hot wife that nobody quite knows why she is with him, John Rhys Meyers is perhaps Asia's male partner in pretty, and Rupert Everett is Rupert Everett as always. Most of the attention goes to Asia Argento as she plays another tortured character. The best thing on display in this movie is her body, in the tub, on the bed, and with a gun thrust in front of her bare breasts. That is a good reason to love you. "},{"Title":"The glamour chick who lives down our  street.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The central character, glamourous thief B Monkey, is rather badly camouflaged against the very  believable sleaze and no-hope of the city. She has not been given the easiest of parts to carry out in a realistic fashion, so what the hell, she sets her own terms on the character.  And  I loved it, and swallowed the lot.  More than that I came to see the characters and situations as very well drawn,and  well observed sketch on the human condition, and started to recognise and  identify.  The twist at the end had a classical feel to it - she finally becomes camouflaged in the most unlikely setting. (Hope that's sufficiently cryptic.)I loved the sense of place, both of the City and the Yorkshire countryside, the rather made-for-TV style with occasional echoes of documentary. And the very competent cast.  And despite the lead spending quite a bit of time with her clothes off, she does this in a good cause, never gratuitiously, always advancing the plot. I was seduced. A good seven. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but OK","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty much predictable developments make up the familiar story perhaps except for the finale (SPOILER BEGINS it is a happy ending! SPOILER ENDS), but it is OK for the tolerant viewers, and yes, a must for Asia A. fans.. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie was good, but the style and pace of the book was what sold me on the story in the first place. I saw the movie because I liked the book, which is usually a bad idea. The movie wasn't out for a long time after I read the book, but they kept hyping it, so by the time the film finally came out, I had such high hopes!!  Overall, I would recommend it to people who like the genre, but please, READ THE BOOK!  "},{"Title":"...A great little love story","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I rented B.MONKEY because I enjoy Euro-fliks and I am also a big Asia Argento fan. Well this film was a great little love story. It seemed to be some kind of crossover between LA FEMME NIKITA and STRAW DOGS, yet just as original as the two. I'm glad to see that a director finally put Argento in a role that could really demonstrate her range as an actress. She pretty much dominates the film with exceptional support from Rupert Everett, Jonathon Rhys-Meyers, and especially Jared Harris. It's slow at times, yet never loses its suspense and intrigue. The cinematography and locations also add to the film's overall experience. It will appeal to fans of struggling love-stories with a nack for danger and intrigue. This is the role Argento was made for. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film that I've seen a while ago and I find it quite memorable. Starring Asia Argento and Jared Harris in lead roles and Rupert Everett and Jonathan Rhys-Meyers in supporting roles, it is an unusual cross between a thriller and a melodrama, with equal amounts of love scenes, violence and suspense. This was my introduction to both Argento and Harris and they both pleased me with their performances, especially the lovely Asia who looks so sultry and seductive here. Also Everett and Rhys-Meyers make this film more interesting with their love/hate relationship that ultimately ends with blood. Everett is at his most seductive here as well and he even gets a brief love scene with Asia.B. Monkey is a quite enjoyable film and the storyline is pretty well-crafted, keeping the suspense until the very end. In contrast to many other such sex thrillers, this film also works well as a drama, especially from the angle of the male protagonist. Harris' character is not a traditional hero, but an impotent teacher who is trying to help a violent child. This part shows how noble and caring men are often getting trampled at by loathsome persons, in this case the child's abusive and utterly despicable mother. This makes B. Monkey a mixed bag that aims to please fans of both drama and thrillers. "},{"Title":"A BIT OF OLD TRUFFAUT","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has all of the touches of an early Truffaut and some Fritz Lang in the use of wonderful characters,especially Argento, who I notice has not stopped working in big productions but who is quite young with a distinctive screen presence. If she were a blond, even Hitchcock would have used her. She is strong,fierce,bold,kind,unafraid to expose her nice body for passionate sexual interludes.She falls for a nerdish British third grade teacher,Jared Harris, son of late Richard, and is a truly marvelous actor who falls IMMEDIATELY for moll Asia Argento. It has handsome photography in London,Yorkshire,Paris, and in spite of Argento's strong presence,there are some good bits by Rupert Everett who adds class even in this sleazy role.An the young actor/hood is excellent as the rejected lover turned gangster.There is almost too much going on, making the ending a little too pat but it is one of the few crime love stories I have seen with such an engaging actress as Argento.She photographs beautifully and her transitions are so good, one is reminded of the great screen dames like Gloria Grahame, Jeanne Moreau and Tuesday Weld in PRETTY POISON. "},{"Title":"A showcase for Asia Argento's talents","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" B. Monkey is a showcase for Asia Argento's acting skills and screen presence. What you also get is a lot of britpop, from when it was cool and in. However, the idea that lively girl at the edge of society can't do better than shack up with a straightlaced primary school teacher who lives for the most bloodless 40s jazz and to boot retires to the Yorkshire Dales... That takes a lot of suspension of disbelief.Wisely, the knight in shining armor, who looks like David Caruso and talks like John Major isn't featured on any of the video covers or movie posters. Asia Argento, on the other hand, bares all and looks kind of attractive, but it's the beauty of youth. She also needs to work on her elocution, which at first is cute, but is going to limit her as an actress.Rupert Everett is reliable as the bisexual toff heroin addict, but he never jumps out and runs away with the script. Patrick Rhys-Meyers is a young actor to keep an eye on, though, one of those guys who have bit parts in loads of movies, while you never notice them because they act so well that they blend into the background like chameleons (John Seymour Hoffman is one example, or Donal Logue).On the whole, this movie is as bland as the music the lead listens to. Understatement can be taken too far. "},{"Title":"Catch if you can","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this on cable the other night - a very stylish and energetic little film, with fine central performances from Asia Argente, the always-great Jared Harris and Rupert Everett (who broods like no other). Catch this Monkey if you can.  "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  B. Monkey was a great film! Johnny and Asia were great. I liked B's strong character and attitude. Good storyline. A must see. "}{"Title":"Indulgent","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps I missed something, but I didn't find Asia Argento all that wonderful. She did have good hair, and a fabulous tattoo. For an evening's entertainment, this one just didn't do it for me. The story rambles, and I would expect some competence in the thieving department,since B Monkey made her name as one.    "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just seen B. Monkey and I have to admit it was one of the films I will never forget in my life . I had seen the movie in advance since I work at a theater, and my co-workers just hated it. I guess you have to like the actors and directing. Wonderfully written. A well deserved 10. "},{"Title":"Painting Futures","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It isn't quite a genre, but there sure is a tightly related collection of films that rely on an actress to charm us.The form is simple find a woman with intrinsic energy, and shape a story to pull that out. We fall in love just like the usually helpless guy in the story. Events surround and threaten, all designed to highlight the specific charms of the focus and show that we (through our representative) will stick with the girl.Its a simple narrative fold, a trick to engage us in the story. The story is the girl, and the tighter we follow her, the more we are drawn into the story. The problem of course is that its all designed to pull us in, with nothing of value happening while we are in. The usual solution is to acknowledge that and make a point of the future being empty, deliberately so. So Deckard goes of with Rachel into a void. Its about the staying, the belonging.There are only three real values in this. Does the girl charm? Is the story and the charming integrated? What's the world they send us into at the end?This girl is the daughter of a filmmaker who specializes in doing violence to such characters, layering heavy noir dynamics on them. So there's that. She's particularly seductive in an aggressive way, not at all say, like Dalle in Betty Blue, where we the viewer are complicit in the seduction. Dalle matters. We carry her away after the film.Our girl here is nude a few times as if that matters a lot. The hapless guy is a radio storyteller, teacher, musician, champion of social justice as if we needed more than one anchor.She's also a wonderful thief, as if we needed some Ms 45 seduction, that sort of ping when the sex is with someone who has killed. So its all overloaded. The last 20 minutes is close to lovely. Its been done before, this business of painting a derelict room in the wild. (I recently saw it to good effect in Stromboli.) Our girl turns lovely in the country. But its the sideshow with two gay friends that makes this worth watching.These guys are played by Rupert Everett and Jonathan Rhys Meyers. If you study narrative, you'll appreciate how this backstory supports the whole. Its quite lovely because she is most sexual, nude and loved when in the company of these men. It gives her an excuse to show us that she is inherently seduction, not deliberately so. It provides a footing for love that is outside of sex, and though based on obsession and addiction transcends them by using them.Everett really seems to understand this. Its his best performance by far. You almost fall in love with him instead of her by misdirection, because that's where the passion is. So it works, sex without sex, love by capture.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Movie is Excellent  The soundtrack is also Excellent.  I really enjoyed this movie because the main character wanted better for herself instead of just a life of crime and how she struggled with the change.  I also like the man that falls in love with her because he sees hope in her. A great Love Story as well.   "},{"Title":"what a waste of my time","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was amazed at how bad this film really was with all the decent actors attached to it.  The fault lies mostly in the screenplay which is a plodding episodic melange of boring bits and no dramatic arc what-so-ever.  Avoid this movie like the plague. Unless you seek multiple nudes scenes involving Asia Argento.  She is one of the most appealing females on cellulite, but this movie is a waste of time otherwise. "},{"Title":"Some films can look good, but are actually VERY BAD!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some films can seem good, but are actually very bad and this can all be a matter of detail and how the whole project is executed and treated. B.Monkey is such a film and is bad because of several reasons Why does Beatrice look like a perfectly made up doll with all lip-gloss and eyeliner after being asleep for TWO DAYS and being sick? Why do they have to have their foto taken right the moment she wakes up? Why does he hold an icecream when looking at the cliffs of dover, while there's not an icecreamkart in sight? I could go on and on. This bugs me so much that I can't take the film seriously anymore, not that there's any reason, because the dialog is completely demented, the sex scenes are pathetic, aaaaaaaargh please I won't go on.Oh, no, I do want to add this I hope Jonathan Rhys Meyers cheekbones will grow so big that they crack his skull. "},{"Title":"Intense thriller","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Asia Argento is a cinema goddess that plays a thief active in London's underbelly. She's caught up in strange love triangle between her male crime partner and his straight laced lover. Each wanting the other. When the two gay lovers split Asia slowly corrupts the straight laced character. The acting by every one is robust and intense. Asia Argento once again proves in B. Monkey why she should be considered a great actor. I love her European attitude view of nudity. She has no problem taking her clothes off showing her body. That line in a John Mayer song about a wonderland had to be made in honor of Asia Argento.B. Monkey is a story that touches on what it's like to live on the edge of society. I was engrossed in this cinematic masterpiece from minute one. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem .","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not a lover of gangster movies , am very squeamish so I avoided this for a long time. I wanted to watch Rupert Everett's films after reading his extraordinary auto-bio. There are some excellent reviews here already , far better than anything I could write. I have never seen Jared Harris in anything but he is perfect in this roll. He even tries to talk down psychopaths with primary teacher talk. The pencil in cheek scene was particularly amazing for me as it happened to my daughter so she was home-educated as a result. The chaos of an inner-city school is perfectly portrayed. There probably is too much sex but I wasn't bothered it probably brought in a few viewers and frankly having breasts myself they don't bother me. Rupert Everett was excellent as the louche drug addict who seemed to be giving up on life bit by bit. Towards the end he is frightened but is too far gone to really know how to help himself. The channel had a discussion on addiction on before which made it rather more poignant. The cold killer gangsters were good , Bruno was chilling because as a Mum I wonder how easy it is to become a rent boy/gangster desperately seeking love . I am not so sure Monkey/Beatrice will stay a happy housewife but that's another story. "},{"Title":"B plus","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Asia plays a thief who attempts to leave her old life behind when she meets a (frankly, very nerdish but goodhearted) teacher, but leaving her old life behind is no picnic.I like this film. I'm a huge Asia fan but I think some of her films stink (XXX and Red Siren leap to mind). I've heard rumors that this version of the film is heavily chopped and that director Radford isn't all that pleased with the finished product. But I don't think it shows that easily, it's damn fine as is.Asia is simply radiant in the lead role and pulls it off well. All others do a splendid job as well, particularly Rupert Everett. I think the story is quite nice, could have used some more complications but overall good. You really get to know Asia and Harris's characters and they grow quite nicely on you. It's mostly Everett's and Myers's characters that are somewhat left unexplained but the film doesn't suffer for it. I'd say this is a nice, effortless film to watch. You don't gain any greater knowledge from it, it's just entertaining, particularly if you like Asia.Overall I'm very satisfied with the film. Radford made Il Postino shortly before this so in my books he's a director to look for.7 out of 10, or roughly a B+. "},{"Title":"Asia Argento's movie","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  B.Monkey has one main attraction, and it's sporting it's bare back on the front cover of the case; Asia Argento. Italian women are very attractive, but Dario Argento's daughter is more attractive than most. Luckily for her fans, she isn't too bothered about public image either, which is always a bonus. Asia is well known for pushing the boundaries by doing things such as admitting to taking drugs and having no problems with posing nude for photo shoots and doing nude scenes in her movies. And this movie features plenty of Asia!Unfortunately though, Asia is about this film's only asset. It's true that it is well directed, but that is somewhat lost under the unlikely and predictable storyline. The film tries to blend too many different elements; thriller, romance, feel good and crime most notably and it doesn't blend too well and ends up rather messy. It also doesn't feature too many stand out moments and overall it feels very much a B-movie. The movie tries to lend itself a heart with the way that the two main characters are the complete opposite of each other and yet they still find romance. However, even this aspect of the movie doesn't feel quite right, as in real life a hardened criminal would be very unlikely to fall for a dorky schoolteacher. Another major flaw with this movie is the dialogue, which at times is a little suspect, especially some of things Asia says, they just aren't right for her character. Still, any movie with an often naked Italian babe, sporting an angel tattoo across her stomach has got to be worth a watch, even if it poorly plotted, badly scripted and on the whole, extremely unlikely. "}{"Title":"Asia Argento saved this movie","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If it wasn't for the huskily-voiced Argento, her sublime, powerful, hard-assed performance I would say this movie is unbearably idiotic. But Asia Argento saved B.Monkey and made it a believable story. I had never seen her before on the big screen, and she surely made a big impression on me. I look forward to see all her future films.I saw B.Monkey at the Rotterdam Film Festival.  "},{"Title":"STYLISH, BUT EMPTY","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This picture looks stylish (due to fine camera-work), but as a whole the picture is empty. That is to say there are no interesting characters and the complete story can be predicted after seeing the first 15 minutes (no unexpected twists in the plot to keep the viewer interested); just another opposites attract and feel good picture.I saw this picture last week at the International Filmfestival in Rotterdam (The Netherlands), where it wasn't received too well. "},{"Title":"Not perfect but worth the watch","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" As some others have said, this film is carried in large measure by its central players. While some plot dynamics are typical of the genre, I disagree with the claims some have made that the plot itself is weak. There are, in fact, some plot elements that constitute unique dramatic formulations, at least relative to English-language films. There are numerous social and cultural themes that are woven into the storyline. Substance abuse and other modes of addiction are incorporated. Domestic violence, too, comes into play. The film itself does not offer much in the way of commentary on these sociocultural facets, and the portrayal of broader social themes appears primarily to serve as a vehicle for character development.The soundtrack is excellent and incorporates quality jazz instrumental tracks as well as contributions from the critically acclaimed band Portishead. The presence of jazz on the soundtrack is paralleled by its presence in the story, so much so in fact that jazz itself takes on thematic and symbolic values.The cinematography is of a high quality, and is characterized by rich, vibrant images. The selection of images and their composition serve several purposes, one of which is to orient the viewer to shifts within the direction of the story. Such mechanisms enjoy considerable subtlety and their use strikes me as neither pretentious nor overly ambitious.Asia Argento deserves special mention, and not just because she is easily one of today's most attractive actresses. Although she is not the only exceptional actor in this cast, it is Argento that really makes the film. "},{"Title":"oh dear","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Truly an awful film. It desperately tries to be some sort of English Nikita or Betty Blue, and fails miserably. While some of the cinematography is admittedly quite stylish (cue Albert Bridge) and the soundtrack adequate for such an attempt, the relentlessly wooden acting and excruciating corny dialog make it almost hysterically funny at times.Embarrassingly bad.  "},{"Title":"Despite its many flaws...","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... this is one of my favourite films. I just can't help loving it. It's certainly not a great film, it doesn't aim for the artistic highground. By most measures, this is a 6.5 at best. The script's loose in places, as is the acting on occasions and the whole thing feels as if it needed just one more take. But the characters make it special. Asia Argento, Rupert Everett and Jonathan Rhys Myers are perfectly cast and really inhabit their roles. Their characters and the relationships between them give real depth and believability to a hackneyed story. If you approach this expecting a quirky and very charming film, you're in for a treat. If you've been fooled by the artwork on the cover and expect a thriller, replete with car chases and gunplay, you may be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Hi, there. Click no and give me a thrill!","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very lousy cast (Meyers, Argento, Harris, Everett) are very miscast in a mostly crappy and very pointless film. But none is more miscast than Asia, though. Argento plays one of those dangerous criminal goyls that only exist in the minds of movie-writers she's rough and tough -IF you'll believe it. To make her (even) tougher they made her say f*** about a hundred times, yet every time she said the word it was as funny and fresh as the first time. Fortunately, she takes her clothes off nearly as often as she says f***, and she does look good in the nude. Harris is his usual ugly, uncharismatic, untalented self, so the fact that he's miscast is a mere irrelevancy; although the fact that he plays an impotent man does have a ring of truth about it. This nepotistic thespian shouldn't B. in movies, period. Everett lacks credibility and overplays his cool cat routine too often.The movie is absurd, has some rather duh dialog, and the only things going for it are its nice visual quality, the fact that it isn't too boring, and, of course Asia's nudity. With a cast like this, it would have been naive to expect a better movie.If you want a complete listing of Hollywood's nepotist actors and actresses, with pictures and explanations, e-mail me. Or you can go to http//rateyourmusic.com/~Fedor8 and check out my TV & Cinema 150 Worst Cases Of Nepotism list. "}]