[{"Title":"A good example of what the Bond films have always been- superior escapist entertainment","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"60 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the standard received ideas of film criticism is to say that sequels are almost never as good as the original film. (There are also a few standard exceptions to this rule, such as 'The Godfather Part 2' and the second and third parts of the 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy). Subject to these exceptions, however, there seems to be a law of diminishing returns to the effect that the more sequels a franchise spawns, the worse they become. The Bond films, however, seem to me to provide the most striking exception to this principle. The franchise started with 'Dr No' in the early sixties, and 'Tomorrow Never Dies' amounts to 'James Bond XVIII', or 'James Bond XIX' if one includes 'Never Say Never Again' in the total. Despite this, one can watch the latest offerings with as much pleasure as the original Sean Connery films from the sixties and seventies. The Bond films are highly formulaic. They typically start with an action sequence before the opening credits that has little or nothing to do with the film that is to follow. The main story will involve Bond thwarting a dastardly plot by some megalomaniac bent on world domination. It will always involve at least one extended chase sequence, and possibly two or more. The main character, apart from Bond and the villain, will always be a beautiful young woman who helps Bond in his quest and who will end up by falling for him. There will always be at least one other beautiful girl, either as a secondary heroine or as a villainess. The villain will always have a small army of henchmen ready to do battle on his behalf. The story will always end with a shoot-out, normally in the villain's headquarters, in which Bond manages to avert the threatened disaster at the last minute.'Tomorrow Never Dies' contains all these formulaic elements. It is, nevertheless, in my view one of the better entries in the Bond canon, for a number of reasons beyond the fact that Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond since Connery. These can be summarised as follows-1. The Villain. Jonathan Pryce plays Elliott Carver, a newspaper and media tycoon intent on whipping up a war between Britain and China. The reason is to facilitate the accession to power of his ally, a renegade Chinese general who has promised to give his organisation exclusive broadcasting rights in China. Bond villains have always provided scope for some splendidly over-the-top displays of acting, going back to Lotte Lenya's Rosa Klebb and Gert Frobe's Goldfinger. Although Pryce's Carver is more restrained than some, it falls within this tradition. At first sight the silver-haired bespectacled Carver seems mild-mannered and soft spoken, but soon reveals the raving megalomania which is the hallmark of the Bond villain. Particularly noteworthy is the speech where Carver states his ambitions as being 'power' and 'world domination'. Although he puts a liberal, metaphorical interpretation on these two concepts, the audience is left in no doubt that he means what he says quite literally. There is also a good performance from Gotz Otto as Carver's brutal German henchman, Stamper.2. The Girl. Admittedly, Teri Hatcher is rather wasted as the secondary Bond girl Paris Carver, Elliott's wife and a former girlfriend of Bond. Michelle Yeoh, however, is superb as the main female lead, the Chinese secret agent Wai Lin. (That's how it's spelled, although the pronunciation used in the film suggests that the name should actually be transliterated as Wei Lin). Apart from Michelle's striking looks, she is also an accomplished martial arts performer, and her skills are put to good use in this film. (Part of a trend of giving Bond girls a more active role, in contrast to the earlier films in the series where they were required to do little other than look decorative.) 3. The Chase Sequence. The main one, in which Bond and Wai Lin escape on a motorbike through the streets of Hanoi from the villains in a helicopter, is excellent. 4. The Opening Sequence. As usual, this has little to do with the main plot line. It does, however, fit in with a growing tendency in the Bond films, that of mocking or undermining the militaristic, macho values which the series was once accused of promoting. This film introduces a new comic character, the gung-ho, blustering Admiral Roebuck, a sort of naval equivalent of Colonel Blimp, who clashes with the more liberal 'M', the female chief of the British Secret Service. (I was interested to learn that the actors who play them, Geoffrey Palmer and Judi Dench, are husband and wife in real life). In the opening sequence, Bond narrowly prevents Roebuck's blundering attempt to bomb a gathering of international terrorists from setting off a nuclear explosion. The more active roles for female characters are also part of the trend towards a politically correct Bond, as is, perhaps, his remark that smoking is a 'filthy habit'. (The earlier films were often criticised for glamorising the habit by making Bond himself a smoker). As with all the Bond films, one can probably pull holes in the plot of 'Tomorrow Never Dies'. (The scene where Carver sinks a British warship by cutting a hole in the side with what looks like a giant chainsaw struck me as particularly implausible. What's wrong with a torpedo?) Nevertheless, the Bond films are not meant to be works of social realism and unlike, say, the novels of John Le Carre, have never purported to give an accurate picture of life in the British Secret Service. 'Tomorrow Never Dies' is a good example of what the Bond films have always been- superior escapist entertainment. 7/10  "},{"Title":"James Bond-Still saving the world after all these years","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"47 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Tomorrow Never Dies' is a superb Bond film, and if you're not looking for anything else, it provides some great entertainment.The story Bond (Pierce Brosnan) has the save the world from a megalomaniac again, but this time, the threat is Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce, clearly having the time of his life), a worldwide media baron who wants to start a war in order to get higher ratings. All the Bond regulars are here Q (Desmond Llewelyn), who gives Bond a new BMW complete with rocket launchers, machine guns, and a remote control (there's a fun chase sequence in a high-rise garage where Bond sits in the backseat and drives the car by remote); M (Judi Dench), still frosty and unamused with some of Bond's... questionable tactics; and Miss Moneypenny, who gets one of the best lines in the film.The Bond girl this time around is Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh), a Chinese agent who has also been sent to find out what Carver's up to. Lin and Bond team up in the last part of the film, and their chemistry is impeccable. Lin also gets to kick some butt, which is always fun to see.Overall, if you're looking for some good IL' action and adventure, you can't go wrong with James Bond. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Let's see how she responds to my touch.","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"38 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Q demonstrated how to drive the BMW by remote control by moving his finger around a pad inside a special mobile phone&#133;None of Bond's cars can compare for hi-tech gadgetry with the BMW 750 Sedan he drove on this film mission&#133; Tomorrow Never Dies opens with H.M.S Devonshire on a routine patrol from the Philippines to Hong Kong when it was overflown by two Chinese MiGs, whose pilots claimed the ships had veered into Chinese territorial waters&#133; While the captain and the pilots argued the point, the Devonshire shuddered from stern to stern&#133; Something had holed her below the waterline and she was sinking quickly&#133; Virtually undetectable by radar, the stealth ship (invisible to radar) was Elliot Carver's secret weapon in his plan to cause international conflicts&#133;The schemes of Carver had brought Britain and China to the edge of war&#133; And the British will think it's a Chinese aerial torpedo&#133; Bond needed to find the wreck of H.M.S Devonshire and discover how and why it had sunk&#133; However a problem remained how to get to the wreck, and which lay between the Chinese and the British fleets, undetected by the Chinese radar? Carver's daring bid for communication supremacy involves nothing less than achieving World War III and offering subscribers a ringside seat&#133; In his attempts to situate and stop Carver, Bond becomes implicated with his former lover Paris &#150; now Carver's wife &#150; and collaborates with resourceful Chinese agent Wai Lin&#133; In Tomorrow Never Dies, Pierce Brosnan was seen more confident as Bond&#133; The actors playing Bond's back-up &#150; Judi Dench, Samantha Bond, Joe Don Baker and Desmond Llewellyn &#150; all reprise their GoldenEye roles&#133; Former Miss Malaysia Michelle Yeoh was awarded the role of Wai Lin&#133; MI6 was not the only agency interested in Carver&#133; The Chinese government sent one of its top security agents to uncover the secrets of his organization&#133; After initial distrust, she and Bond form an almost telepathic understanding&#133; A martial artist of considerable skills, she preferred to work alone &#150; until she begins to trust 007&#133; Carver's wife Paris was played by the great beauty, Teri Hatcher&#133; I always wondered how I'd feel if I ever saw you again, said Bond&#133; He soon had his answer &#150; a stinging slap in the face... He had broken Paris' heart years before, and she had consoled herself by marrying a jealous husband&#133; Yet she still carries an ex-flame for 007&#133; Paris, like Jill Masterson (Shirley Eaton) in Goldfinger, has only few minutes on-screen in the film&#133;Jonathan Pryce plays the villain, 'the emperor of the air,' Elliot Carver who was prepared to go to any length to increase the power of his media empire&#133; Ricky Jay plays Henry Gupta the eccentric quietly spoken man to Carver's plans&#133; He's the most dangerous of the magnate's followers&#133; Götz Otto plays Stamper, the loyal psychopath henchman who follows Carver's orders murdering a group of shipwrecked British sailors&#133; Vincent Schiavelli plays the menacing Dr. Kaufman, a professional hit-man, and a priest of pain&#133; The 18th Bond movie has it all Too much action (including an exciting chase through the streets of Saigon on a stylish BMW R1200); an effective girl; and a super car&#133; "},{"Title":"Overwhelming and thrilling entry in which Bond/Brosnan  goes after  a powerful media mogul","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Elloit Carver (Jonathan Pryce) is a megalomaniac and selfish media baron. Carver has the power to reach every person on the planet through his Carver Media Group Network- except for the People's Republic of Chinese who refuse his presence in their nation . The mogul is tied to the disappearance of a British battleship in the South China Sea . James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) heads to stop the media mogul's plan to induce war between China and the UK in order to obtain exclusive global media coverage and whose tentacles reach around the world . Carver, whose spouse (Teri Hatcher) was a former flame of 007 , is supported by a computer genius (Ricky Jay) and a nasty hunk man (Gotz Otto) . Along the way Bond join forces with a Chinese secret agent (Michelle Yeoh) , expert on martial arts . In addition , there appears the usuals , such as M (Judi Dench), Q (Desmond Llewelin) , Lois Maxwell, ¨MoneyPenny¨ (Samantha Bond) , Minister of Defense (Julian Fellowes) and Jake Wade (Joe Don Baker) . But not counting the regular characters of Bond, Q, M and Moneypenny, this is the first Bond movie to contain absolutely no Ian Fleming references . Likable Pierce Brosnan in an amazing adventure set on wonderful outdoors located mostly on Vietnam , being actually shot in Thailand . The original title of the film was Tomorrow Never Lies, which makes sense when you consider media mogul Elliot Carver was creating the next day's headlines in advance, then causing those events to happen , but a typo on an early script draft was adopted by the producers, and ¨Tomorrow never dies¨ was used instead . This is a Bond's good outing in which faces dangerous adventures around the globe . Brosnan's outing with overwhelming action and spectacular scenarios , the film teams Bond with Michelle Yeoh as endearing ally in an effort to stop a technological communication mogul . After his first introduction in ¨Golden eye¨ as tough and attractive James Bond of the Ian Fleming's famous creation , Pierce Brosnan went on playing various 007 , as ¨Die Another Day ¨ and this ¨Tomorrow never dies¨ . The picture starts with an overblown opening and following other impressive action set pieces . This solid , slick thriller with magic mix of action-packed , dazzling stunts, gadgetry, and romance provided by sexy company as Teri Hatcher and Michelle Yeoh . Pierce Brosnan as James Bond is fine , he does remarkably well , he earns in irony, humor ,suavity and sympathy, however also has coldness ,cunning , intelligence and toughness . Here Bond is an efficient , relentless agent trying to chase obstinately the criminals , traveling around the world as always , as this globe-trotting story is set in Pucket, Bangkok, Thailand (Saigon, Vietnam) , Hamburg , London and many other places . Because the second half of the film is set in Vietnam, the production negotiated for some time for permission to film there ; although it appeared close, the Vietnamese Ministry of Culture and Information eventually refused to allow it , the production decided to use Thailand as Vietnam, with Bangkok substituting for Saigon . Bond to achieve his aims , along the way uses violent means even pulling off brutal killings against enemies who wreak all sorts of havoc . As always Bond will use fantastic gadgets and spectacular cars (here 15 BMW 750's were destroyed in the making of the film) provided by ¨Q¨ (Desmond Llewelyn) . The stealth ship is not a fictional invention , Lockheed secretly constructed and demonstrated one in the early 1980s, but the US Navy finally decided they didn't want any ; the prototype, called the Sea Shadow, was 160 feet long . The picture contains comic-strip adventure , sensational pursuits , silly set pieces , great stunts , tongue-in check humor, automovile chase, frantic unstopped action , a breathtaking tour around the world , amazing gimmicks and stimulating images like are the happenings on the spectacular pursuits on the motorcycle and helicopter . As is like a roller-coaster , as is fast-paced , light , excitement, funny and entertaining ; it's a winner for oo7 fans and non-fans alike . The chase and suspense formula wears strong in this entry .The film made particularly heavy use of gadgetry because some fans thought there was too little of it in GoldenEye . Enjoyable title song by Sheryl Crow and stirring musical score fitting to action by David Arnold , following the John Barry's classic style . Riveting and fancy main titles , furthermore eye-popping production design by Allan Cameron . It's brimming with colorful and fascinating cinematography by cameraman Robert Elswit . The motion picture produced by habitual producers, Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson and dedicated to the memory of long-time Bond-film producer Albert R. Broccoli ; being professionally made by Robert Spottiswoode who filmed other successes such as ¨the 6th day¨, ¨Turner and Hooch¨, ¨Air America¨ , Shoot to kill¨and Under fire¨ . Robert keeps this moving at an incredibly fast pace and this story about every's favorite super-spy facing off dangerous mogul . The film will appeal to James Bond series's buffs but good for fans only ; because this one goes on far too long and has provoked so much debate among 007 followers . Rating  6'5 , well worth watching . "},{"Title":"Tomorrow has the power!","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"43 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" OK, this is what i call an action movie, a great one, it has everything you need to make your adrenaline flow. And of course it also does it for a Bond movie, it has funny lines, clichés, gadgets, and it deliver us a movie that is pure action and danger without losing the sense of humour (like all Bond movies).James Bond had always fought to the powerful, but this is the first time, i think, that he deals to a press magnate like Elliot Carver, who cares nothing about an informed world as he says, but to get all the power and money that he can. In WW2, the men who took advantage of the war were those who manufactured weapons, in the 90's, the medias gain as much money as them, so Elliot decides to begin a war to have the complete coverage of the deed, so our fellow agent 007 must stoop this crazy guy from beginning a war just for economic reasons.... So, we can say the plot is quite good and original as well, nobody can say no.And this movie was a great follow up to the blockbuster mega hit that was Goldeneye, Pierce Brosnan shining as the British agent, as he always did in his 007 period. Michelle Yeoh was great too, and she portrayed perfectly good the woman of the 90's Independent, fighting side by side with men, even defeating them, smart, pretty, well the 90's woman......The music by Sheryl Crow is lovely and sweet, and fits great into the atmosphere of the movie, something on what the producers of the Bond movies always lay stress on. A good Bond movie needs a good song, and a good car too, ja.The difference between craze and greatness is measured only by success There's no news, like bad news This is an example of Carver's philosophy of life, funny thing to hear, you realize he is a crazy that believes what he says....So, if you are an action lover this movie is for you, and if you are a Bond lover this movie will like you too. "},{"Title":"Fine follow-up to Goldeneye","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"27 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is the 18th James Bond film, with Pierce Brosnan back as 007. This is a very good follow-up to Brosnan's first Bond movie Goldeneye. Tomorrow Never Dies had the unfortunate task of opening on the exact same day as Titanic (December 19, 1997). Even though Titanic went on to break box office records, Tomorrow Never Dies was not left in the dust. It surpassed Goldeneye domestically with a box office gross of $125 million (Goldeneye grossed $106 million). There are two major assets that make Tomorrow Never Dies really work, a great Bond villain and a great Bond woman. Jonathan Pryce is a major standout as Elliot Carver, the megalomaniacal media magnate Bond faces off against.  The other standout Michelle Yeoh as Wai Lin, Bond's female sidekick who makes a fine companion for Bond. Brosnan is fine as 007 as he was in Goldeneye, and also returning for the second time are Joe Don Baker as CIA agent Jack Wade, Judi Dench as M, Samantha Bond as Miss Moneypenny, and Desmond Llewelyn as Q. As for the other familiar face in the cast, Teri Hatcher from TV's Lois & Clark is just adequate as Elliot Carver's wife Paris.  Tomorrow Never Dies is just as good as Goldeneye***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"It was great... I don't understand the backlash","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"26 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For some reason, Bond loyalists and sometimes Bond fans didn't rate this installment. However, I believe it was one of the best Bond's ever made.The villain (Pryce) was terrific, even though the nature of his character was a bit overdone. The women were both stunning and were not denied some character development of their own (as is the case in many other Bonds).The gadgets delivered by Q and the gadgets in Lin's secret office in China were extremely impressive - including that magnificent 7-series BMW.But probably the stand out aspect of this Bond, above all others, were the terrific comedy and double entendre. After all, this was the film that gave rise to the now often used cunning linguist. But there were many others that were absolutely hilarious - including I'm brushing up on a little Danish, I've always been a fan of Chinese technology and Bond returning his car to Avis.That said, the film did not get bogged down in the comedy. Furthermore, it didn't get bogged down in boring, drawn-out plot divergences that other Bonds (especially the older ones) tend to do. It was thrilling and engaging from start to finish and avoid the boring periods that crop up in other bond films. Brosnan is terrific and this was certainly his best effort.I regard this is one of the best Bond's of all time. "},{"Title":"It's kind of like a Fast Food Burger. You consume it, enjoy it, but forget all about it as soon you are finished","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A far cry from Goldeneye, but It doesn't necessarily deserve all the hate it receives either. Tomorrow Never Dies is a fast paced affair, and an easily agreeable time-waster, but it's not the follow-up Goldeneye deserved, either. It's much too daft for the heavy plot that it has. The main reason this movie is entertaining is the spectacular stunts. It has some great action set pieces, which managed to make the time pass nicely. Michelle Yeoh makes for a refreshingly unique Bond Girl, due to her actual Martial Arts background. I dug the chemistry with her & Brosnan. Speaking of Brosnan&#x85; He is very good as Bond. He has charisma and wit to spare. He's not quite as good as Timothy Dalton, but he is excellent nonetheless. Johnathan Pryce is decent as the villain. He is fitfully menacing and did the job overall. Teri Hatcher's character is a bit disposable, but she was good in her role. Desmond Llewelyn & Judi Dench are as classy as everFinal Thoughts Instantly forgettable stuff, but it manages to be an effective time-waster. It's not a great Bond film, but it is an OK action film. I didn't mind it at all. 5.6/10 "},{"Title":"Another Fun and Action-Packed Bond Adventure","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film may be nowhere near as good as Goldeneye, but it still another fun addition to the series.Pierce Brosnan once again shines as James Bond, and Wai Lin, played by Michelle Yeoh, is quite possibly the toughest Bond girl ever. She does a lot of karate and steals the show as much as Brosnan.Elliot Carver, played by Jonathan Pryce, is a pretty decent villain. He is nowhere near as intimidating as some of the best Bond villains, but he is certainly passable. His goals were a little more realistic than most Bond villains. His henchmen is just another Red Grant clone.The story, while not the deepest, has a lot of intriguing elements with Carver writing disasters in his newspaper and making them happen. The media angles makes a lot of sense these days. The locations work, especially Thailand.This film is up there with Moonraker as one of the most relentlessly action-packed entries in the series. We get a spectacular opening sequence, a chase in a parking garage with Bond using his remote-control BMW, a wicked motorcycle chase, and so much more.This is a very solid if slightly by-the-numbers entry in the series. There is rarely a dull moment, and there is enough action for several movies. Another fun Bond film.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"All the Bond tropes, as per the manual","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Coming off the heels of GoldenEye, Tomorrow Never Dies always felt to me like a by-the-numbers OO7 entry. the filmmakers know what we've come to expect from a Bond film and it confidently delivers high-end extravagance, globe-hopping, explosions, lots of shooting. And it's fairly methodical in that respect. even the quips are businesslike. And while we're talking about GoldenEye, Bond is much less of a precise gunman; here, he just picks a direction and sprays. It's probably nitpicking, but that's always jumped out at me.Brosnan's still great, but it's his fellow actors that get the shaft. Michelle Yeoh's a Hong Kong badass who's always getting saved, and Jonathan Bryce is playing a media tycoon bent on world domination. Sure, he's mean about it, but c'mon, Bond's fighting Rupert Murdoch. It's lame! Not really a bad movie, but also pretty forgettable.5/10 "}{"Title":"It's Bond","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is almost everything we expect from a James Bond film. It has little more than that, but that's fine. It's certainly a fun and well-made film and definitely worth two hours of your life. The movie contains the standard Bond film formula. A megalomaniac wants to take over the world, Bond is sent to stop him, he seduces some women and kills some men on the way, causes thousands of dollars worth of damage, confronts the villain and foils his plot (and life), and gets the girl. The film doesn't really do anything new with the formula, but it executes it well. Pierce Brosnan goes on his second outing as Bond, and he's quickly become comfortable with the role, becoming one of the best Bonds ever. He has the suaveness and toughness of Sean Connery, the comedic timing and charm of Roger Moore, the coldness and brutality of Timothy Dalton, and he adds his own touch of gentleness and humanity to the role. He's very entertaining and even actually kind of sympathetic, and when he's on screen, he simply is James Bond. He's able to take on any challenge and survive any action sequence. As an action piece, Tomorrow Never Dies is fantastic. There are some fantastic and inventive action sequences. The stuntwork is wonderful, and the usual great Bond car chases are present. A scene that sticks out strongly is a chase in a multiple-story garage, with Bond driving his car via remote control in the back seat, as henchmen fire their pistols and bazookas at him, and he uses the car's dozens of hidden gadgets against them, such as spiked balls to take out the tires of other cars, and the hidden guns at the front of his own car. The film doesn't do much new with the Bond formula, but it does it well. It has an original idea for a villain, him being a media mogul, but not much is done with this concept, although actor Jonathan Pryce revels in being a megalomaniac. Tomorrow Never Dies is a fun movie, offering little new, but as long as it's fun, that's OK, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Not the best Bond or Pierces finest.But a good cast and a lot of action makes this movie very enjoyable,","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is a good movie with a good cast,good storyline and plenty of action and suspense to keep this movie alive.Its not the best James Bond movie,but its not the worst either,but it certainly isn't Pierce Brosnans best Bond movie,who would currently be my favourite actor who's played Bond,although there's no Bond I don't like,Sean Connery,Roger Moore and Daniel Craig are also all great.When I saw the opening credits and saw Teri Hatcher came up,I was happy to see she was in it,because I've always liked her and find her very attractive.I was disappointed that she wasn't as main in it as I thought shed be,I thought shed be the main Bond girl in this movie,but that role actually went to Michelle Yeoh,I thought Teri Hatcher was much better,as an actress,her character and looks.James Bond returns and must stop a man named Elliot Carver,who is trying to cause war between the Uk and China just so he can obtain exclusive global news coverage. "},{"Title":"Stylish, Fun and full of High-Octane Action!","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I never really thought much of Tomorrow Never Dies the first time I watched it. At the time I had just seen GoldenEye the first Pierce Brosnan entry and the seventeenth bond film in total and I was totally blown away by it (and many repeat viewings followed). I had also fallen in love with the Nintendo 64 video game GoldenEye 007 and so when I got around to watching Tomorrow Never Dies I was quite disappointed.GoldenEye was the first Bond film I had ever seen and so I wasn't familiar with the on-going formula throughout the series. Where was Natalya? Where was Valentine? And where was Boris? (surely he survived being frozen?) ... I was a such a naive little kid. Needless to say I missed the characters from GoldenEye that didn't return and the story didn't engage me as much as GoldenEye's. I'm pretty sure I tuned out halfway through the film and went back to playing the Nintendo 64 video game.Many years later I picked up all the James Bond films on DVD and now a more mature individual I understood the Bond formula as I began to watch and discover the many other Bond films I hadn't seen. It was clearly time to re-evaluate Tomorrow Never Dies and not judging it as some direct sequel to GoldenEye which it is not (none of these films are after all).The story centers around ego-maniacal media baron Elliot Carver. Carver harnesses the power to reach every living person across the globe through his media group network - all except for the People's Republic of China who refuse to accept his presence in their country. Carver becomes tied to the disappearance of a British frigate in the South China Sea and James Bond is given 48 hours to investigate. Wai Lin a member of the People's External Security Force of China is also dispatched to investigate the growing crisis. With and without Wai Lin's help, Bond slowly uncovers a plot that goes all the way back to a mission on the Russian-Kazakh Border, and will ignite a war only to feed the fire that is Elliot Carver's ego.The story isn't as strong as GoldenEye which features themes of betrayal, revenge and post-cold war tensions and it's not the first Bond film to feature the familiar plot line of starting World War III (Thunderball and You Only Live Twice are prime examples). The script is weak and apparently went through many re-writes (script pages were supposedly being delivered to the set daily!) but it moves at a smooth enough pace that it doesn't detract from the film entirely.The filmmakers did a pretty darn good job of masking up the relative weakness of the script with some of the best action seen in the entire series. This is where the film most succeeds and where it is most entertaining. The film opens with a wonderful action sequence where Bond infiltrates a terrorist arms bazaar and hijacks a L-39 jet armed with Soviet nuclear torpedoes. Other highlights include a terrific car chase sequence in a parking-garage with possibly Bond's best-ever gadget-filled car; a shootout in a press-printing factory, a thrilling motorcycle chase through Saigon involving a helicopter, and the explosive finale aboard Carver's stealth ship should leave the viewer breathless.The film is directed by Roger Spottiswoode a director I am not familiar with nor have I seen any of his other work, however he does a pretty fine job here striking a balance between action, drama and classic comic 'Bond' moments. My favorite scene in the film (and one of mine in the entire series) is between Bond and an assassin named Dr. Kaufman in which Bond finds himself cornered into a trap in his hotel room, Spottiswoode does a wonderful job of showcasing the tension in this scene and we get to see the cold-blooded killer side of Bond which is not shown all too often throughout the series which is a shame given that is exactly what he is.Cast as Elliot Carver is Jonathan Pryce who plays him as the classic Bond-villain archetype - an over-the-top diabolical villain with world-dominating intentions. But he does a damn good job playing it that way and injects much color, humor and cunning into his performance and while not physically intimidating he is still stands as one of Bond's most dangerous enemies because of the power he holds. Michelle Yeoh plays Wai Lin but unfortunately the character doesn't come across as very interesting but she shares great chemistry with Brosnan and performs some wonderful martial arts skills. Teri Hatcher is mostly watchable as Carver's doomed wife Paris, I felt the character was wasted potential and should have been the main bond girl. Ricky Jay is also mostly wasted as the terrorist Henry Gupta; however Vincent Schiavelli shines in his cameo performance as Dr. Kaufman; Gotz Otto sleepwalks through his role as Carver's henchman Stamper (a villain crafted from the mold of Red Grant and Necros). Joe Don Baker, Judi Dench, Samantha Bond and Desmond Llewelyn reprise their GoldenEye roles.Overall Tomorrow Never Dies is a fun, thrilling, always entertaining, but if not a little by-the-numbers Bond flick. While it would have benefited from a stronger script I definitely feel overall that it is one of the stronger entries in the series and I always find myself going back to watch it simply because it achieves what it sets out to do and better than most Bond films Explosive action, exotic locales, beautiful women and a menacing villain. "},{"Title":"The distance between insanity and genius is measured only by success.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is directed by Roger Spottiswoode and written by Bruce Feirstein who uses characters created by Ian Fleming. It stars Pierce Brosnan, Michelle Yeoh, Jonathan Price, Gortz Otto, Teri Hatcher, Ricky Jay, Judi Dench, Colin Salmon, Desmond Llewelyn and Geoffrey Palmer.Music is scored by David Arnold and cinematography by Robert Elswit.Bond 18 and 007 is called in to investigate media magnate Elliot Carver who appears to be instigating disasters to cause a war between the UK and China.After GoldenEye had broke records and Pierce Brosnan was firmly accepted as the new Bond to usher in the approaching millennium, Eon wasted no time in getting Tomorrow Never Dies into production. Once again another studio had to be built since Leavesden was being used for the Star Wars sequels and Pinewood simply wasn't big enough! A sign that Brosnan's second film was to be gloriously high in production value? Further snags came and went, Vietnam refused permission to film in the country at the last minute and Brosnan got injured but thankfully pulled through to avert further delays. With a script being rewritten daily by Feirstein it appeared to be a jinxed production, the budget went over $100 million, a new record for a Bond movie. Was GoldenEye going to be a false dawn? Was Tomorrow Never Dies going to end up with the bottom feeders of the franchise?As it happens, Bond 18 was a roaring success at the box office, it made $334 million even though it went up against James Cameron's Titanic upon release. Reviews were, and still are, mixed, yet it's one of the Bond films that actually rewards upon revisits if you can forgive the clunkiness of the script in the latter half of the picture. The gigantic budget is up there on the screen, great locations, great casting, amazing stunts, hi-tech gadgets/vehicles and outlandish action sequences. A dynamite score from David Arnold helps as well, unashamedly a big John Barry fan, Arnold brought back some traditional Barry strains whilst putting his own energetic composition into the mix. Sheryl Crow's title song is one of the best of the modern Bond bunch and K D Lang's Surrender is also a fabulous addition to the production. There's great spectacle here, a nice blend of traditional Bond with new age Bond, were it not for missteps in the scripting and unrealised character potential, then it surely would have a better reputation.Michelle Yeoh (Wai Lin) is a fabulous Bond girl, she kick ass, is very pretty and rivals Bond in every department, but she is incredibly underused. The one great ass kicking sequence we get from her only serves to make us lament there's not more. Teri Hatcher (Paris Carver) has all the tools to be another in the line of worthy Bond girls, but she serves only as a plot device to get Bond broody and moody, she's utterly wasted. Pryce is a class act who dominates every scene he is in, but his Elliot Carver's motives and means are weak, and once again we find ourselves with a larger than life villain who we can't accept can give Bond a run for his money. The henchmen score better, though, with Otto's Aryan brute Mr. Stamper a real muscular threat and Vincent Schiavelli's amusing hit-man offering up genuine peril for Bond. Dench continues the good work in Golden Eye as M, Llewelyn as Q gets another round of sparring joyously with 007 and Samantha Bond gets some well written lines as Moneypenny.It failed to live up to the Bondian standards set by GoldenEye, but it is still a great action movie full of vim and vigour and dotted along the way are some truly great scenes. Bond and Wai Lin on a bike, Bond and remote controlled BMW, Bond and Stamper face off and Bond sitting in chair brooding whilst knocking back neat vodka. These are great Bond moments. It loses its way once 007 gets to Vietnam (Thailand standing in) and the gun toting finale is more akin to a Stallone/Swartzenneger movie, but there's still plenty here to enjoy and be thankful for. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most exciting Bond films ever made","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By far, my favorite of Brosnan along with Goldeneye. Might not be one of the best Bond movies but it's certainly one of the most memorable. But truth be told its effectiveness now is a little ruined to the massive appeal of the award winning Skyfall, which at the same time reinvented Bond yet brought back some of its most appreciable qualities - this merge was inexistent in Casino Royale and Quantum of Solace, both are just new reboots with a theme song to show that it's faithful to its roots. Mr. Brosnan at the top of his game, so smooth, active and funny, returns as Bond with plenty of style in one of Bond's most down to earth missions to stop a possible conflict between England and China about to emerge from the dephts of a creative and destructive mind, the egocentric Elliot Carver (the priceless Jonathan Pryce), a media mogul à la Citizen Kane/Rupert Murdoch with his own declaration of principals which is to provide the news before they happen. The big scoop is to broadcast (and cause!) the WWIII. 007 is helped by a Chinese agent, the handy Colonel Wai-Lin (Michelle Yeoh) who is more advanced in her spy/fight techniques; and the other Bond girl is a former affair of his, now married with Elliot, a femme fatale played by Teri Hatcher. And this wouldn't be a complete Bond movie without the gadgets carefully supplied by Q (Desmond Llewelyn); here, a fully equipped BMW car that can be guided with the cellphone which also has its deadly functions. It's quite obvious the merchant made by the already mention company - they also brought a fancy motorcycle used in one of the most thrilling sequences when James and Wai-Lin escape from Carver's henchmen and that includes the couple's fly over a helicopter. Tomorrow Never Dies is great because it doesn't commit any kind of excesses, the plot is very simple to follow (this can be viewed as a problem to some, specially those who are more accustomed with complex plots, Bourne style) and never absurd; all the action and adventure are not overplayed, prolonged or tiring, it's all in a good measure and it's very exciting. I dare say those sequences were quite inspired. High point the building escape using Carver's poster as a way out; the incredible car chase; Wai-Lin effortless escape tactics against the dangerous ones faced by 007, who feel a little annoyed with her. Their pairing is one of the best in the series, but the great and fun spectacle is the buffoon Carver and his memorable lines and actions (his mimics of Wai-Lin fighting style kills me every time). Obviously, he cannot put up a fight against the secret agent, but he has the loyal and muscular Stamper (Götz Otto), a frightening guy who likes to torture his victims, and that's his only form of pleasure.For me, the only downer of this movie was the theme song, that hurts the ears, completely oversung. Anyway, it's a fun entertainment, filled with adrenaline and we can't forget the marvelous cast (one of the finest in the series) with Judi Dench (M), Samantha Bond (Moneypenny), Geoffrey Palmer, Vincent Schiavelli, Ricky Jay, Joe Don Baker and Gerard Butler (but you get an award if you find him in the middle of all the action). 10/10 "},{"Title":"DVD (Special Edition Review)","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After viewing the TND special Edition DVD, I can honestly say this is the best overall DVD to date. The disk is packed with extras...Trailers, Sheryl Crow Video, Gadgets, Bond historical movie and of course the feature film in a variety of formats. The interface of controls is also a special treat. The movie gets an 8/10...for Bond fans and action fans alike. A must have in everyone's library. On the whole 10/10 well worth the extra money. *** A great choice for Demo'ing a home theatre*** "},{"Title":"A very entertaining Bond movie","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is not an exceptional Bond film, but it's still a really fun film to watch. After Eric Serra's bland score for Goldeneye, we get David Arnold's amazing score, which is one of the best Bond scores of all time. The main theme by Sheryl Crow is awful however the theme at the end credits by K.D. Lang is absolutely amazing. This is Roger Spottiswoode's first and only Bond film. Action is great most of the time and the movie doesn't really have a boring moment. Jonathan Pryce as Elliot Carver is one of the best Bond villains ever, his only competition is Donald Pleasance as Blofeld from You Only Live Twice. Not only he is terrifyingly creepy but he also has great speeches. He has a henchman - Stamper played by Gotz Otto, who is basically a Red Grant/Hans rehash, but he's still pretty cool. Dr. Kaufman (Vincent Schiavelli) however is a very memorable henchman and he doesn't even have much screen time. He manages to be funny and creepy at the same time. The new car is remote-controlled BMW 750iL, which is one of the most memorable Bond cars and probably the best since Lotus Espirit S1 from The Spy Who Loved Me. Michelle Yeoh plays Wai Lin, also one of the bond girls, she is not your typical Bond girl for sure but her character really works here. Joe Don Baker returns as Bond's ally Jack Wade but I preferred him in Goldeneye. I don't get why people hate this movie so much, sure it's bland and it's not one of the best but it's definitely entertaining, has great cast of characters and an excellent story. This review is a story i've already written... so... 8.3/10 "},{"Title":"Filthy Habit","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Every decade, the world's least secret secret agent strives to reinvent himself to square off with the changing times. GoldenEye got the '90s ball rolling, boldly reasserting Bond's relevance and appeal in a more action-oriented, post-cold war setting, but it's Tomorrow Never Dies that charts his most topical, inevitable evolution Bond as a video game character. But if the prospect of 007 swapping his Walther PPK in favour of dual-wielding submachine guns a-la first person shooter is enough to make you want to swig enough martinis to take you back to the '60s, take heart this Bond may be a livelier, non-smoking, and more raucous edition, but he's still replete with more than enough charm, poise, and oddly topical sociopolitical satire to make Tomorrow Never Dies a somewhat puzzlingly rocky but reliably fun 007 escapade.With video game tie-ins on the brain, it's rather appropriate that Tomorrow Never Dies targets mass media broadcasting by way of central conceit (the opening credits, accompanied by Sheryl Crowe's silky, albeit forgettable, title ballad, drives the critique home, transforming Bond's customary slinking women into cybernetic nightmares). It's an unexpected reconciliation to have one of the most trigger-happy Bond films play as a strangely appropriate companion piece to Wag the Dog of all things, but the premise of machinating a world war for news coverage strikes the perfect balance between ludicrous and credible to play as far less fantastic, and far more ominously prophetic, than was likely initially intended. This paradoxical inconsistency proves pervasive, though. In contrast to the razor-sharp satire at its core, the film's script eschews all of GoldenEye's slick deftness in favour of a campier, flamboyant levity more befitting the Roger Moore era. This is no fault of Brosnan's, who glides across screen with a suave nonchalance. He aces Bond's more cold-blooded moments while still committing to some of the more groan- worthy one-liners of the post-Roger era (we seem to have developed a certain attachment&#x85;), while grounding the more bombastic shootouts by never skimping on the chance to straighten his tie after a kill shot. It's his least showy rendition of the role, but his consummate smoothness is a perfect fit for the breezier tone of the film. Regardless, this can take some acclimatizing to, particularly thanks to nemesis Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce, delivering a deliciously hammy Rupert Murdoch caricature), who pontificates enough to make Auric Goldfinger roll his eyes. Nonetheless, in the wake of the grimmer, more personal Bonds to follow, it's hard to begrudge Pryce for taking so much evident joy in chomping through his monstrous monologues (his self-satisfied giddiness when proclaiming we're on a STEALTH BOAT is palpably infectious), and thereby reminding the film around him to share in the fun.But don't be distressed director Roger Spottiswoode is more than happy to compensate for the film's talkier political subterfuge with enough explosions to retain the interest of all the mass media drones Carver salaciously preys on. For the purists, Spottiswood sprinkles in some vintage 007 globetrotting stuntwork (a halo jump skydive turned scuba dive; a breathtaking motorcycle/helicopter chase through the streets of Vietnam) amidst the more contemporary shoot-'em-ups. Bond even gets in on the video gaming fun, with Brosnan visibly cackling with meta glee as he drags his finger across a cell phone track pad, orchestrating his own car chase remotely from the back seat of his car. It's a thrilling sequence that toes the line of being too audacious even for Bond, but is curiously restricted to the confines of an interior parking lot &#x96; a setting almost as underwhelming as Bond's boxy new BMW, comedic relief German GPS and all. Grow up, 007. Thankfully, sh*t hits the fan with the introduction of Michelle Yeoh's Wai Lin (literally, in the case of her Chinese Q-branch gadgetry, yielding the film's best pun) &#x96; arguably the first 'Bond girl' to be such a match for Bond that, rather than being subject to his customary sexist condescension, he almost pleads for her partnership. Yeoh is easily the most fun addition to the film, spicing up action sequences with her martial arts prowess, and balancing it with a perfectly acidic dry wit and oddly chipper approach to conflict resolution. She and Brosnan share a wonderfully curt but sparkling chemistry, trading barbs while shooting over each other's shoulders, that the franchise has never quite replicated since. By way of supporting cast, Teri Hatcher introduces the intriguingly dark subtext of infidelity into Bond's womanizing, even if Hatcher's affections may be a bit too glib to properly embody her character's world-weary heartbreak. Again mirroring the Moore days, Götz Otto, Ricky Jay, and the wonderful Vincent Schiavelli have fun as a pantheon of goofy yet sinister henchmen. Finally, Judi Dench's frosty M maintains an exquisite twinkle in her eye throughout, whether airly prompting Bond to pump Carver's wife (for information) or derisively barking at her As Time Goes By co-star Geoffrey Palmer, here fretting as an oafish Naval commander, while Desmond Llewellyn's Q saves a superfluous insurance waiver aside (will you need collision coverage&#x85;?) thanks to his peerless cantankerous charisma.Imbalanced oddity that it is, Tomorrow Never Dies clips along at a tidy pace (one of the few Bond films not to breach two hours) &#x96; a clumsy but energetically competent return to the frivolity of the Moore era. Bolstered by the clever timeliness of its conflict and the winning chemistry between Brosnan and Yeoh, Tomorrow Never Dies makes for lighter and more action-heavy Bond fare, but exemplifies the escapist charm of the series without drenching it in the CGI excesses to follow. As Bond would retort, there's nothing wrong with giving the people what they want.-7/10 "},{"Title":"Tomorrow is another day...","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I can't say I've watched that many James Bond films but I saw this one recently and enjoyed it.Pierce Brosnan does a good job in the central role, and seems more comfortable dishing out the one liners than he did in his previous outing as 007.The plot is as difficult to follow as ever but the central theme of being able to control the media for your own ends is a good one.It's all a good romp and at under two hours too. There is more gadgetry than in Goldeneye and a more substantial villain too.I know lots of Bond fans don't like this film, but for a casual fan it proved enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Manipulation of the Media","Date":"29 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies rarely strays far from formula but what a delicious film this is! A megalomaniac villain, an internet age and a Bond girl in the form of a Chinese Secret Service Agent!Elliott Carver is a crazed media mogul. Craving power so much that he is willingly to make the UK and China go to war just so that he ends up with exclusive coverage for his newspaper Tomorrow before anyone is even aware of this disastrous event taking place. Of course Bond must stop Carver before he starts World War III.Tomorrow Never Dies is a weaker film than Goldeneye. Its plot is far-fetched yet entertaining because of how silly the film is. Yet I could not help but lap up every second. Tomorrow Never Dies may have its flaws, but it is an enticing proposal. Even if the Bond girl spouts dialogue that would turn heads due to confusement in a Hit-man movie. Yet Tomorrow Never Dies' problems stop here.Pierce Brosnan is firmly set in the role of James Bond by his second instalment as the title character. I cannot remember it being this easy for Sean Connery and Roger Moore, do you? Embracing the role with enthusiasm and the appropriate amount of swagger, Pierce Brosnan is what elevates Tomorrow Never Dies from merely being a competent action film to the thrilling extravaganza that it is.Tomorrow Never Dies has no time to slow down. It has only two speeds, fast and faster. Yet the film is not tiresome and the action sequences rank among 007's greatest. The secondary Bond girl is a better fit for the film. Paris Carver is wife to Elliott and Bond's former lover. She asks questions that we all wonder and it's interesting to see a previous lover come back into the fold and give her views. Did I get too close for comfort? Yes Bond replies. We begin to realise from this point onwards that she actually meant something to Bond and that is all too rare.Jonathan Pryce may ham up the evil side of Elliott Carver by quite a large amount, but his performance is delicious all the same. It brings back fond memories of the early days of Bond, when you could not wait for the villain to go up against Bond in the climax. The same principle applies here maybe even more so because of the eagerness that Pryce brings to the role. It is like all he ever wanted to be is a Bond villain. His wish is granted.Finally, we have someone worthy as a replacement for John Barry; David Arnold. He manages to offer a blend of themes old and new, bringing an up to date feel for the well known and loved Bond theme.Tomorrow Never Dies is an amalgamation of everything I love and crave for from a Bond film. A sharp and witty Pierce Brosnan, a brisk runtime, a slew of nifty gadgets, a delightful soundtrack and gloriously over the top villains. One thing remains certain, 007 Never Dies. "}{"Title":"Pump Teri Hatcher For Information","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Jonathan Pryce as Rupert Murdoch like international media mogul quotes William Randolph Hearst's famous maxim about 'you furnish the photographs, I'll furnish the war' in Tomorrow Never Dies. In fact those words are the paradigm of this particular adventure for famous fictional British secret agent James Bond.007's mission and he has no choice, but to accept them is to prevent a war starting between the People's Republic of China and the United Kingdom. After a British submarine is sunk, apparently by the Chinese, tensions start building between the two powers. It's up to Pierce Brosnan to prevent things from boiling over.Judy Dench as M has Bond in mind for this mission because it turns out that Mrs. Pryce played by Teri Hatcher had been Bondified a few times back in the day, but the relationship has long cooled down. Dench knows that Pryce is involved some way and she wants Bond to find out how even if he has to 'pump' the wife to do it. One of the man lines of innuendo that pepper this and many other a Bond feature.The Chinese also have an agent working on the same lines in the person of Michelle Yeoh. Brosnan and Yeoh are forced to work together on this one and each proves to be something of a savior of the other.Tomorrow Never Dies shows Brosnan off to good advantage and also shows why the public demand for him to play 007 was almost irresistible. I don't understand why he still isn't doing it. "},{"Title":"Good action movie, but it can't beat an old bond movie!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the film last week on VHS and found it to be a nice action movie. Just like GoldenEye and The World Is Not Enough. I like Pierce Brosnan as James Bond(he's better than Timothy Dalton, but he can't beat Sean Connery or Roger Moore). The only problem with the newer Bond movies (this started with Moonraker) is that grand special effects and decors are more important than storyline. Jonathan Pryce is a good Bond bad guy though. He's not like all the other badguy who do it all out of revenge or simply want to posses the world(why one would want that I cannot imagine...). Maybe this movie should be an hommage to Desmond Llewelyn(Q), who sadly died short after this movie... Conclusion A good action movie, but not a real bond...  "},{"Title":"Brosnan is better, but this movie isn't","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TOMORROW NEVER DIES was OK. The plot was same-old, same-old-World Domination, and Elliot Carver even annoyed me more with his media obsession. The car scene in this was great, but the movie itself was OK. This has tons of action, but the plot needs a lot of work, if you like Bond, then you might like this. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Love this film","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Really love this film apart from the villain Elliot Carver who is just rubbish and possibly the worst Bond villain ever. That said there is a lot to like about this film. Pierce Brosnan is at his best and I personally prefer the way he portrays Bond to Daniel Craig who looks more like a builder than a Spy.007 is on a mission to avert war between china and the West that Elliot Carver is manipulating to sell more news on his global media empire. On the way Bond meets up with his former lover, played by the beautiful Teri Hatcher who is now Carver's wife. Bond joins forces with Wai Lin played by the amazing Michelle Yeoh and the Motorbike chase is better than most car chases in certain other films I can think of. the action is fantastic.Only down side is the ending which seems a bit of an anti-climax, but overall another brilliant Bond film by the amazing Mr Brosnan. "},{"Title":"Good but forgettable","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is a good Bond film but at the same time a forgettable Bond film. The biggest positive of the film is that it sticks to the minimum and doesn't commit to anything too excessive like Skyfall. The plot is straight-forward and easy to follow, allowing you to sit back and enjoy the film without having to overthink or discuss every minute detail. Action scenes are not absurd nor are they stretched out and tiring. Tomorrow Never Dies is one of those films where you just sit back and enjoy the action without having to overthink. However, because of the simplicity of the plot, the film is also forgettable. "},{"Title":"Electronic Bond...","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" **Warning! Spoiler Information Inside!**After the amazing revival response to Goldeneye(1995),James Bond reappears in the updated globalized spin off Tomorrow Never Dies(1997).A small crisis is brewing in the south china sea. Alarm is raised when a British naval ship wanders off course. Further concern is raised when the crew is found murdered. There is a newspaper who seems to know things well before the rest of the world. Coincidence? MI6 thinks not.This was a targeted script aimed at updating the political presentation of the Bond Franchise to bring it into a more 90's setting. Pierce Brosnan is everything we expect form his Bond styling. The support of Michelle Yeoh (Wai-lin) and Vincent Schiavelli (Dr. Kaufman) is great. The Remote control car is especially enjoyable. A well written script(Bruce Feirstein), fuels the tight camera-work and direction of Roger Spottiswoode (Air America). The opening sequence is very well done.Possibly , the best of Brosnan's eraFour stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"Quite a good film but nothing that we haven't seen before","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After its excellent predecessor GoldenEye, this film fails to make anywhere near the same impression and was a little underwhelming, I'm afraid. Pierce Brosnan is still as charming and as charismatic in his second appearance as he was in his debut but the film offers little that we haven't seen before.However, the concept of the villain being a media mogul is a strong one. Elliot Carver &#x96; played well by Jonathan Pryce though the performance isn't up to his usual standard &#x96; is essentially Robert Maxwell or Rupert Murdoch as a Bond villain. It's not terribly subtle, it has to be said, especially with the cover-up for Carver's death being that he drowned after falling off his yacht being the exact manner in which Maxwell was killed. He makes for an interesting villain in that seeks to control the world not through weapons or ideology but through newspapers, television, radio, etc. and the historical parallel with William Randolph Hearst occurred to me before Carver mentioned him. However, the character is perhaps a bit too over the top and the fact that he has giant posters of himself everywhere was a far too obvious sign of megalomania, though at least they proved relevant to the plot during the escape from his Saigon building. Michelle Yeoh's character Colonel Wai Lin is one of the few aspects of the film which I felt lived up to the new era of modernity introduced in GoldenEye. Wai Lin is a great character played wonderfully by a gifted and underrated actress. She is extremely capable and resourceful, providing an absolutely invaluable ally for Bond in his fight against Carver. Far from a shrinking violet, she is certainly well able to take care of herself in a fight, defeating her male opponents with relative ease and no small amount of style. Her scenes are more physical than those of any of her predecessors and she does most of her own stunts. Yeoh is also very good in the romantic scenes with Brosnan. It's a shame that the planned spin-off film series about Wai Lin never materialised. Teri Hatcher, who will always be Lois Lane to me, is very good as Carver's ill-treated and ill-fated wife Paris Carver, one of Bond's many old flames. Brosnan has been lucky with all of his Bond girls when it comes to chemistry and Hatcher is no exception. Although initially cold and distant due to the circumstances of their last meeting, Paris once again succumbs to Bond's charms and agrees to betray her husband at the cost of her life. Hatcher plays the role very well but the character is basically just Domino Derval, Andrea Anders and Lupe Lamora all over again. The most interesting thing about her scenes with Bond is the revelation that he left because they were growing too close, which hearkens back to the far more extensive exploration of Bond's psyche in GoldenEye.Afforded more screen time in her second appearance, Judi Dench is effortlessly brilliant as M who, in spite of the fact that she made her views on Bond's cavorting very clear in the previous film, sends him to reignite Paris' passions in Hamburg. Samantha Bond is once again extremely good as Miss Moneypenny, even if her liberated woman of the 1990s vibe from GoldenEye is less apparent. In his 16th and penultimate appearance as Q, Desmond Llewelyn plays the role with the same skill that he has displayed since From Russia with Love and I liked the fact that he appeared to be far more exasperated with Bond than in the previous film as it was more nostalgic. Cast against type, Dench's As Time Goes By co-star Geoffrey Palmer is excellent as the unsympathetic, pig-headed, short-sighted and not terribly bright Admiral Roebuck, whose thinly veiled contempt for M earns him the audience's ire and makes him appear more and more foolish as the film progresses. In his third and final Bond film, Joe Don Baker is once again extremely good as Jack Wade, who I would have liked to have seen more of. The towering Götz Otto is suitably intimidating as Stamper but far still less so than Jaws or Necros. Although he does occasionally act, magician Ricky Jay makes for a rather odd casting choice as Henry Gupta and fails to make much of an impression. I'd also have preferred it if the usually very entertaining Vincent Schiavelli hadn't played Dr. Kaufman with a cod German accent. Colin Salmon makes a good impression as Charles Robinson in his rather brief appearances in the film.The locations, sets, action sequences (the best being the motorbike scene), gadgets and music are all up to their usual standard but the nuclear war storyline is rather uninspired, seeming like a rehash of earlier and better Bond films with the only major difference being that the United States and the Soviet Union have been replaced by the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China. With the threat of nuclear war on the horizon, the main participants don't seem terribly important in the grand scene of things. Overall, this is a good, rather enjoyable and well made Bond film but a somewhat underwhelming one. I suspect that I'd have enjoyed it a great deal more if it was the first Bond film that I watched rather than the 18th and not that's even including the unofficial ones. "},{"Title":"Bond shows tomorrow never dies!","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is Pierce Brosnan's second movie as James Bond 007. Here, Agent 007 is after media tycoon Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce), who wants to complete his global media empire and start a confrontation over British and Chinese waters. Bond teams up with Chinese agent Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh) to stop Carver, but things are complicated by Carver's wife Paris (Teri Hatcher), Bond's former lover.There are plenty of nice action sequences and thrilling stunt scenes, as Brosnan and Yeoh make a spectacular duo playing two agents working together to catch the bad guys. The story is fresh and the plot is fast-paced. Yeoh takes the role of a Bond Girl to a whole new level, making it a butt-kicking, swift and daring, beautiful but dangerous partner to Bond. This is perfect since Carver plays a lead villain that you would really despise. And, it was nice seeing Teri Hatcher of Lois and Clark and Desperative Housewives fame in the film, providing great chemistry with Brosnan. Brosnan, I think, did a better job in this role, bring back some of the charm and suaveness to the character.Overall, it is a pretty good Bond entry and is what I think the best one starring Brosnan.Grade B "},{"Title":"Great action, great Bond girl but a poor villain","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When two Chinese MiGs fly over a Royal Navy frigate in the South China Sea its crew aren't amused as they are in international waters... or so they think. Somebody has sent a false GPS signal sending them miles off course. Before the issue can be resolved a 'sea drill' torpedo is launched at the frigate from a stealth ship; the same ship then downs one of the MiGs. It looks like there is going to be an international incident when the admiralty sends the fleet to the site. M believes the location error could be linked to an anomalous signal sent from a satellite belonging to Elliot Carver, owner of the Carver Media Group Network. Bond is sent to the launch of Carver's new global TV station in Hamburg where he hopes to use his prior relationship with Carver's wife. Here he manages to steal the device Carver's tech-expert Henry Gupta used to send the frigate off course. Comparing its settings with the correct settings he is able to find the frigate's last location... in Vietnamese waters.After parachuting into the sea from high altitude Bond dives onto the ship and discovers one of its nuclear armed missiles is missing. He also bumps into Chinese agent Wai Lin who he first met in Hamburg when she was claiming to be a journalist. When they return to the surface they are captured by Carver's henchman Stamper and taken to Carver's Saigon headquarters. Naturally they manage to escape and learn of the stealth ship... now they just have to find it and expose its presence before Carver can use the stolen missile to start World War Three and become the worlds number one news provider.This, the second of Pierce Brosnan's outings as Bond, has some fantastic action set pieces; the pre-credit sequence quickly grabs the viewer's attention as Bond steals a plane carrying nuclear missiles from an arms bazaar while somebody is trying to garrotte him and a missile is on its way to destroy the site!! The main story opens well with the attack on the frigate; the 'sea drill' torpedo is a particularly inventive weapon. Things weaken however when we learn who the villain is... Carver is just a media mogul trying to be the first with the news by creating it himself and his henchman Stamper is the sort of meat-headed Euro-muscles that seemed de rigour after 'Die Hard'. Jonathan Pryce is a good actor but I don't think he was right for a Bond villain; the character was clearly just insane and only dangerous because of those he employed. The best of the bad guys was the short lived Dr. Kaufman; Vincent Schiavelli put in a delightfully unpleasant performance in the role. All Bond films need Bond girls and Michelle Yeoh was great as Wai Lin; she made the action look easy and her character more than held her own alongside Bond, Teri Hatcher was also good we Carver's wife although she had far less to do and was dead before long. We've come to expect 'witty asides' during these films but here some of them were embarrassingly bad with the sort of sexual innuendo that might make schoolboys giggle but just seemed forced and crude to me.Over all this isn't a bad film and despite its faults the superlative action makes it well worth watching... just hope you don't have to explain the 'cunning linguist' joke to a younger viewer! "},{"Title":"Action packed finale, mix of good jokes and bad...77.5/100","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 19th of 23 Bond movies (18th of 22 official Bond movies) A pretty solid effort for Pierce Brosnan's second movie as secret agent James Bond. The finale was action packed and humour was injected some more into this movie...sometimes it worked, other times it spluttered.Exotic locations Germany and China (the latter has some picture-esquire island scenery).Plot Media mogul Elliot Carver needs some content for a new 24 hour satellite news channel. So, he thinks starting World War III would be good for ratings. For Australians who remember sketch comedy show The comedy company, Carver's media group will be reminiscent of Bastards Inc.! In that sense, this aspect of the story is initially overplayed and arch. Some aspects of Carver and his life resemble that of ex-Australian media mogul Rupert Murdoch...perhaps more parallels have occurred since the movie came out...so I'm not sure if all the parallels are intentional. Anyway, using high technology, Carver plans to get Britain and China into a war with each other by fooling them into thinking that each has been attacked by the other. There may be a credibility gap here...can you believe that Britain would go to war against a country somewhat larger than Argentina? This is perhaps the first Bond movie to have social commentary at its heart...commenting on the role of media mogul's in society.Franchise clichés Pre-title sequence - The gun barrel sequence drops the techno music that marked Brosnan's debut in the role and brings back the Monty Norman theme, without the part carrying the immediately identifiable bass lick. The sequence proper is good, concerning a terrorist arms fair on the Russian border.Theme song - Features Sheryl Crow. Possibly has the best accompanying visuals of the franchise to this point.Q - Check.M - Check. She has some good sexual innuendo comments with Bond.Moneypenny - Check. This character is back to being wallpaper. In the previous movie - GoldenEye - Moneypenny had something to say. The last time she was remotely interesting before then was with the greatest Bond movie of them all...On her majesty's secret service.Silly female character names - Out of fashion...again.Wine buffery - Teri Hatcher's character - Paris Carver - utters the immortal but seldom used phrase Mr. Bond will have a vodka martini. Shaken, not stirred. At the time of writing Hatcher had made a mark for herself as a long standing cast member of night time soap Desperate housewives. Here she plays Elliot's wife and...a former love interest of Bond.Sexism/misogny - Hmm...I wonder when the last time I filled out this section with content was.End teaser - No. In fact, there are no end credits at all, to speak of, I think...unless the television network here cut them to make more room...for ads. The only credit you see is In loving memory of ALBERT R. CUBBY BROCCOLI Cubby was the producer involved in this franchise right from the very first Bond movie, with Sean Connery...Dr.No.Watch for * a naval ship which has control buttons marked PEACE and WAR. Hmm! * Bond learning Danish...would that all language lessons like that! He also speaks German. I'm sure that Bond could command any chair in any school of languages at any university. He's pretty much got all the languages down pat! * Not sure, but there may be an obvious stunt double in one fight scene.* Bond finding a magazine called Sex spiele in a safe. Just used Google's translation service to arrive at the English translation...sex games. Hmm...I wonder what George Lazenby's Bond would have done with it! * Good twist in humour with a scene between Bond and a man reprising his role in a David Cronenberg movie! * Has a leading contender for one of the silliest scenes in a Bond movie...the electric can opener type device on Bond's car...hmmm.* Got a definition of HALO jump here High Altitude Low Opening jump. Not sure how realistic this scene was...you're meant to open your parachute around 200 feet over the water...it looked like it opened just a few metrest above water. Not qualified to comment on the accuracy of the representation...don't try it at home in any case kids! * One character is part of the Chinese People's External Security Force...not sure if this is a real organisation. Bond mentions that the Makarov 59 is the standard issue Chinese Army pistol. Wikipedia confirms this assertion.* When Elliot Carver isn't being a total pantomime character, he does deliver one of the great lines by a Bond villain The distance between insanity and genius is measured only by success. Sure, not as pointed or narky as Sir Hugo Drax's comments to Roger Moore's Bond could be, but still quotable! * A good one liner delivered by Bond after one henchman's Chakra spiel.* For those who remember the British sit-com Mind your language, there is a scene in this movie where Wai Lin pretty much does an impression of the Chinese woman's usual spiels in that sit-com...but tongue in cheek.* Elliot Carver quoting US media mogul William Randolph Hearst You provide the pictures, I'll provide the war when speaking to a photographer in his employ. I've just done a very superficial search of this phrase on Google...the quote may be apocryphal.* It's not exactly clear, but there does seem to be some subtext when a Chinese character in the movie has a Walther gun and wrist watch in their possession. Some connection with Q, perhaps? * Just by the by, contrast the countdown to potential catastrophe in this movie to that in Octopussy (with Roger Moore playing Bond)...the latter had real time, whilst this movie has heavily dilated time. "}{"Title":"Comments about the movie","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I begin to watch the movies of Bond with Tomorrow Never Dies in 1997 and I think the movie is very exciting, the scenes are very explosives. The locations are interesting (Vietnam, Germany and Russia at the beginning of the movie). This movie has relation a little with Spy who loved me for these reasons 1. The henchmen of these movies have in common are very dangerous (Mr. Jaws and Herr Stamper) and unstoppable. The difference is Mr. Jaws kill with his deathly iron teeth and the other guy Stamper kill with his guns. Stamper is more intelligent than Jaws.2. The final fight in both movies is inside a machine in the sea of course in Tomorrow is in the South China Sea and the other one is in the Adriatic Sea if I don't wrong.3. The main villain are mad men who want destroy the world but the villain of tomorrow Carver wants create chaos and war in order to having the right of broadcasting of the new of the war for 100 years and the other guy (Stromberg) is most direct because he wants to create a world around the sea. "},{"Title":"Simply does not work","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The second Bond film of the Brosnan era is nothing compared to the first.The film as a tremendous look and feel about it, more so than any other Bond film.  However, looks are very deceiving. Jonathan Pryce looks the part of a Bond villain, but does not pull it off.  Teri Hatcher looks the part of a Bond girl, but is lifeless and boring.  Michelle Yeoh breaths some life into the movie, but is ultimately unappealing.Overall, a fairly interesting story is destroyed by poor writing and uninspired casting choices.  "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Bond Films","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is one of the best James Bond films, certainly the best one starring Pierce Brosnan in my opinion.  I found this movie to have everything a good action movie should have.The film is filled to the top with great action sequences.  One of my favorites is the scene where Bond, utilising a new remote control for his car courtesy Q, is literally being a back seat driver!  The scene is full of explosions and gadjetry, all accompanied by thunderous music.  Definitely one of the best scenes of the film.The girl for this film is my favorite of all the Bond girls.  Although she may not be the best looking, Wai Lin is a dangerous action heroette. Some may argue that Agent XXX from The Spy Who Loved Me already was this, but really, XXX did nothing during the climax.  All she did was sit there tied up by the villain, waiting to be saved by James Bond.  Wai Lin also doesn't have a suggestive title like XXX.After Evita, Jonathon Pryce was looking for a role that was less serious than the one he just played, and so he turned to becoming, a Bond villain. Elliot Carver is the evil owner of a big news empire which finds it's news, by creating it.  This might not seem bad, if it weren't for the fact that bad news is what sells.  Elliot loves creating plane crashes, floods, and in this case, World War III simply so his empire can be the first to cover the stories.  We can really see how crazy and mad he is when he orders his own wife's death.Tomorrow Never Dies is fast moving, action packed, and humourous, and I recommend it to anyone who loves a good action flick. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Bond turns into a typical action film.  How the mighty have fallen.","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts well.  Someone manipulating the GPS satellite system throws a British naval ship off course into China's waters, then from a mysterious stealth ship launches an attack on both sides with their opposition's weapons, sparking an international incident.  Your pump is well primed for some ultimately evil villain.You can turn off the pump now.Jonathan Pryce plays some sort of Rupert Murdoch/Ted Turner gone insane, using his copious monetary holdings and his control over mass media to create this incident and start World War 3.  And why is he doing this? (This, by the way, isn't revealed until well into the story, leaving you even more confused.)  Because he wants to obtain exclusive broadcast rights in China for his network.  Now I'm laughing, since the war he's starting will undoubtedly destroy China anyway, and the remaining folk probably won't have TVs.Sadly, this is only the beginning, as Bond (Pierce Brosnan) from there traverses a series of all-too-easy break-ins, break-outs, and villain encounters that probably could have been left on the cutting room floor without losing any plot.  But, of course, they have to fill two hours, so there they remain.  It degrades into a 90 minute pyrotechnics fest with the final battle being your cliched race-against-the-clock villain-gets-maimed-in-the-end type of ending.There's nothing of meaning once you get past the first plot point.  Bond's relationship with Paris Carver (Teri Thatcher) seems to have been thrown in for no reason other than to give Elliot Carver (Pryce) a reason to go after him.  Carver's cronies (until the final scene) are bumbling and far too easily removed.  And despite the supposed time bomb waiting to explode in the South China Sea, you never actually feel any sense of danger or urgency in the situation.  The movie just merrily floats along to its cliched climax.This movie is all the fault of bad writing and a total lack of plot.  They tried much too hard to create a good story and ended up ruining it by losing focus and coherence.  Of course, they put on a good enough show that you probably won't notice until the end, which leaves you wondering where the second tape is to fill in all the plot holes.  Or, if you watch a lot of films like myself, you've noticed it long before and you've given up on this completely contrived story.  I could make a lot of suggestions that would keep the same general plot but dramatically improve the flow and enjoyment of this story.  But it's obviously much too late for that.In contrast, the actors' performances are solid, enjoyable, and true to their roles.  I still think Pierce Brosnan has a lot of promise as Bond, but sadly, he doesn't get much of a chance to shine in this movie thanks to the script.  The other characters suffer equally.Also, David Arnold has produced yet another stellar musical score, easily on par with his (John) Williamsesque Stargate and Independence Day scores, but with its own unique style that mixes symphony and synth with an old school Bond sound.  Unfortunately, you can't hear it most of it over all the explosions and gunfire.  If you appreciate movie soundtracks or Bond at all it'll be worth your $15 to get the soundtrack from this film.But those good points aren't nearly enough to make up for the script.  I'm glad this was only a 99-cent rental.  I would have rather watched Goldeneye again.Rating 4/10  "},{"Title":"007 Classy","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is what I call a fun Bond movie to watch over again. I really like Pierce Brosnan as him playing Bond. The movie is enjoyable to watch and the action sequences are fun also. What seems to make this as a unique Bond film is the different types of weapons and gadgets that are shown in the movie. The story line is also makes the movie fun. I think this Bond movie is probably one the best Pierce Brosnan 007 movies. The movie is not so long and the scenes move at a fair pace. Prior to Goldeneye, this sets off a new type of Bond formula. I think this 007 movie is probably better than the Bond movies with Daniel Craig. I wish Pierce Brosnan was still playing James Bond. "},{"Title":"I owe you an unpleasant death, Mr. Bond.","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It should be obvious from my rating that I'm not the biggest fan of Pierce Brosnan's second outing as James Bond. It's not that Tomorrow Never Dies is terrible, but compared with the best of Bond (even compared to the best of Brosnan's Bond films), it's just not that good. There's very little that I would call original in the script. It's strictly Bond by-the-numbers. The same tired formula is used with little in the way of a surprise thrown in. Beyond the lack of originality, I've got real problems with Jonathan Pryce as super-villain, Elliot Carver. A megalomaniac news-mogul intent on dominating every news outlet in the world just doesn't instill the same level of fear in me that most of Bond's other adversaries do. And haven't we already seen guys like this? Ted Turner &#x96; Rupert Murdoch &#x96; anyone? And really, what's the point in Carver's whole plan? First, he's obviously already one of the most powerful, wealthy men on the planet. I mean, he owns a news empire that stretches across the entire globe, save for China. Not too shabby. Second, if you've got the resources and wherewithal to build a stealth ship and no one, including the world's intelligence community, knows anything about it, how much more is there? Finally, what kind of name is Elliot for a man bent on world domination? Elliot is a guy who hands you your soft-serve at Dairy Queen &#x96; not some evil genius.The highlight of Tomorrow Never Dies is easily Michelle Yeoh. I know, it's a predictable statement, but she really is awesome. From the motorcycle scene while handcuffed to Brosnan to her fight scene in the secret hideout, she totally rocks. If she could have just seen fit to give old Brosnan a good butt-kicking, I might have rated this movie a lot higher. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan's second outing as Bond","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A notable film critic's review I read directly before seeing Tomorrow Never Dies described it as a mess. Well I thoroughly enjoyed it. The film seems to be more lavish than Goldeneye and has all the components of a James Bond film.For starters I loved the powerful rendition of the James Bond theme over the gun barrel sequence by David Arnold. Pierce Brosnan manages to be even smoother than he was in Goldeneye. The teaser sequence is exceptionally strong with Bond airborne chasing a rogue missile. I especially liked seeing Geoffrey Palmer's Admiral Roebuck locking horns with Judi Dench's M -- it gives the film a charge. Jonathan Pryce is effective as Elliot Carver and has a beautifully unpredictable moment with Wai Lin. A scene stealing performance from Vincent Schiavelli as the Doctor -- he is very funny and quirky.The film though is made for me by Michelle Yeoh -- she is excellent and really is Bond's equal. She has a very strong presence throughout and I especially like her walk down the wall-- it made me want to applaud! "},{"Title":"Absolutely NO style at all","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"    This, the second Bond film to star Pierce Brosnan, is where the Lethal Weapon-style excess really gets out of hand. Obviously in updating Bond for the '90s they forgot about Bond's Martini-swilling, licence-to-kill persona and all we're left with is some Schwarzenegger-type mercilessly machine-gunning his foes. I hear critics and Bond purists echoing the chorus of best Bond since Connery everywhere I look but Tomorrow Never Dies bears absolutely no relation to those great films. The plot is lifted directly from The Spy Who Loved Me and, let's face it, Wai Lin was a joke, because Bond girls are not meant to be kung fu'sters who can overshadow the great 007. Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) is not a classic example of a main villain (Randolph Hearst wreaking world havoc?). The only things I liked about this film were Bond's BMW and Dr. Kaufmann (Vincent Schiavelli). Thankfully, the producers put the style back into Bond in his latest film, The World Is Not Enough. "},{"Title":"Brosnans Second Best After Goldeneye","Date":"17 September 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tmorrow Never Dies is Pierce Brosnans second best bond movie after Goldeneye 1995 & there are reasons for it.starting Jonathan Pryce,Pierce Brosnan,Michelle Yeoh tomorrow ever dies 1997 is enjoyable for bond fans as well as non bond fans if they see it.bond is on a mission to stop a media tycoon names Elliot carver who is planing to create war between Uk & China.the story,action,direction,Music Ost & acting all is top notch .specially the chase scenes are classic.i enjoyed watching it & pierce brosnan is best bond he proved in his bond era.Terry Hatcher as bond girl slaps bond in the party that scene made me smile as it came unexpected & he goes ouch .this movie is to enjoy only just leave your brain behind & watch it to get entertained & you might love it & enjoy it.This is better then Casino Royale & Quantum Of Solace those are worst movies & worst bond actor Daniel Craig in it.all bond movies are best except Daniel Craig's.Tomorrow never dies came in 1997 with titanic & became a instant hit.go for it.My Rating is 10/10 A Must Watch Best Movie "},{"Title":"Bond #18 Bad news","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The first 9 minutes consist of a great opening sequence, Bond saving the world from a nuclear disaster, and that's just the little appetizer before the titles. Due to the success of Goldeneye, the expectations for the second Bond with Pierce Brosnan were high, but - after the mentioned opening sequence - couldn't be 100% fulfilled. Tomorrow Never Dies gives away very early who the villain is and what he wants (there is no news like bad news), and after that, Bond just has lots of fights and chases, but there is neither much suspense nor unexpected twists or turns. Jonathan Pryce isn't one of the most impressive villains during the series. So the best thing about Tomorrow Never Dies is Michelle Yeoh who had so much more to offer than just good looks, namely her huge experience with fight scenes in countless movies; I strongly recommend Chao ji ji hua aka Supercop. Some footage for Tomorrow Never Dies was shot in my hometown, must say it looked more like product placement for their hotel than a great location. Anyway. Not a bad Bond - an average Bond. "}{"Title":"tomorrow never dies","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" a perfectly made film and superb actors and actresses. it has the makings of a golden movie and will be remembered and loved well into the future. family safe. i loved it when i first saw and and still do. another brilliant bond film. Pierce Brosnan really out does himself.this is yet another fantastic bond movie with all of the thrills and action of the rest. pierce Bronson is drawing up to being as good as Sean Connery and roger Moore. i am however disappointed he didn't continue doing the bond movies. his witty lines and stupid actions make a great comedy/action film packed with everything.its guarantied to get you hooked onto the other movies. it is bonds 2nd best film next to die another day with Hallie berry. (its a must see to.) "},{"Title":"Action Film Director Can't Direct Action","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan made a promising debut as Bond in Goldeneye, and he isn't too bad in this one either. But the choice of director is a great miss.Once you get into the film you notice that Roger Spottiswood cannot create exiting action sequences. Why is the action shot from below and edited into music video speed? Why all the close-ups in the fights? One does not get a clear picture of what's going on. In the car chase in the garage for example, I can't appreciate what is going on because I don't have a decent conception of where the car is driving and where the villains are. Inept editing and filming!Why did they hire someone who doesn't understand the basic principles of film making to direct a Bond movie? And this guy still gets work in Hollywood... This is a mystery.Tomorrow Never Dies is the only Bond movie that sucks, and it stains the splendor of a great classic series. Don't see it, please don't.  "},{"Title":"The real flop among Bond movies","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a big fan of the Bond films, but with Tomorrow Never Dies the series hits rock bottom.The story is trying to be hip and controversially new, but it is weak. Jonathan Pryce does his best with his media mogul Elliot Carver and is at his best convincing. But the story does not focus on Carver trying to start World War III by creating headlines in his news paper and Bond doing his best to stop this evil act. No, the story is all about director Roger Spottiswoode playing around with his FX team, trying to make one effect more louder than the other. This really spoils the film and gives it a mediocre Hollywood-action-hero-touch, which the series has been able to prevent until this '97 flop.The most positive thing about this particular film is Bond's sidekick the Chinese secret agent Wai Lin, played by Michelle Yeoh. Finally Bond meets his equal of the opposite sex. But naturally Spottiswoode fails to use this in any larger scale.Brosnan is a perfect Bond, but he has had the disadvantage of starring in two really bad Bond films. Tomorrow Never Dies and 99's The World is Not Enough. Let's hope, for at least his sake, that EON Productions gets a new and better grip on the series. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, good action, likeable stars","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are two things that appeal to me in the latest James Bond installment.  Pierce as James Bond the very suave, sophisticated and incredibly good looking spy and Michele Yeoh.  It was nice to see a Bond girl who could really fight, even better than Bond himself who seems to run away from trouble rather than Yeoh who seemed to attract it.  Teri Hatcher was a waste of space, it was a poor role, made worse because she was in it.  Jonathan Pryce was a great villain as the media mogul, was he based on anyone in particular?  I think So!  The product placement was a bit much, although i'm sure it provided most of the funding for the film.  Bonds gadgets were great but the story was a bit stupid.  I guess they are a little stuck for ideas since the Cold War ended.  Still it was fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Welcome back Bond!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"32 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has made up for all the recent bad Bond movies made.Brosnan changed his look for this one and leared from his mistakes in Goldeneye.Very well done with regards to action and special effects.The direction and cinematography was also splendid.The producers have also finally found a proper 90's atmosphere for Bond.This film has set the standard for the new Bond formula.Complaints about the unrealistic storyline is unfounded.Wake up nay sayers.How realistic can DR. No and Goldfinger be?Both mentioned films being considered model Bond movies.The unrealism must be eclipsed by great entertainment and innovative fim making.The Bond movies are a great vehicle for innovative action film making and given this,Tomorrow Never Dies delivers.Another annoying complaint by others is that the villain here was not menacing.Once again,in other Bond classics,the big boss is not required to be a physical specimen.Many versions of Blofeld and even Goldfinger himself were menacing in other ways.One more comlaint I did not like was that there was too much Rambo like shooting.In other classic Bond films,there are a lot of shootings galore.The difference is that in this film,the shooting scenes were more graphic and there is nothing wrong with that becouse it is time the Bond films took it to the next level in these scenes.Why should the Bond films get left behind in this area when it is the pinnacle of all action films?Yup!Brosnan was lighting it up with that rapid fire weapon and it was done the right way!James was never handled this way when he was given a weapon like that before and it was about time he was portrayed with little compromise this way.This film is not better than the best of Connery and Moore but this one rates among the best Bond films all time.I'm so happy Brosnan grew into it.I hated his weak portrayal in Goldeneye but I still knew adjustments here and there would fix it.Tomorrow Never Dies realised my desire for Brosnan's Bond.I knew he could do it this way ever since I saw him in the old Remington Steele TV series back in 1983.I knew he had to toughen up physically and get a haircut.He did both and became Bond. d "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, if strictly by-the-numbers, James Bond outing","Date":"1 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan's second Bond movie is not quite as good as GoldenEye, mainly because it's so derivative of previous Bond flicks and brings little that's new to the table the play two superpowers against each other plot comes straight out of You Only Live Twice, the antagonism-turned-to-attraction relationship between Bond and his leading lady follows the pattern of The Spy Who Loved Me and Moonraker (complete with a scene where Bond plays around with his counterpart's gadgets), the chase in narrow and overcrowded exotic streets is reminiscent of Octopussy, etc. It feels as if the Bond producers, anxious to solidify Brosnan's position as the new Bond after the success of GoldenEye, decided to play it safe this time and stick to the formula. On the bright side, this is a formula that (usually) works, and the film is fairly consistently enjoyable. Brosnan is Bondishly Cool action, fights, luxurious living, flirting with the ladies, emotion, humor, wits - there is hardly an aspect of the role that he doesn't pull off. Michelle Yeoh is also terrific as the main Bond girl; she is gorgeous and nearly unstoppable physically, although her character barely appears during the film's first hour. Jonathan Pryce is more hammy than menacing as the villain, and his plan is not the most sound one (a media baron igniting WWIII just for the ratings?), but he has his moments. Most of the other roles are fairly brief, though credit must go to Vincent Schiavelli for the memorable Dr. Kaufman, and to Judi Dench as M (back in the day where she wasn't in nearly every scene, like it's happening now with Daniel Craig's films). To sum up a formulaic Bond flick that the capable leads and some admittedly spectacular stunts (like the motorcycle jump over the helicopter) get you through with no problems. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"smooth, cool update of a proven recipe","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is a successful update of the classic James Bond formula. It achieves a tenuous balance between gritty realism and outrageousness that characterizes the best of the Bonds, and it does so with an understated, breezy style that belies reported behind-the-scenes problems during its production. There are a few flaws that detract from the fun usually excellent character actor Vincent Schiavelli is more laughable than threatening as a quiet psychopath; the drilling weapon and tilted helicopter stunt seriously fracture believability; and the Bond car has a few too many hokey gadgets. Otherwise, it's a smooth, enjoyable ride. Despite the movie's unbelievable elements, it's the most realistic of the four Brosnan Bond films to date.Pierce Brosnan coolly embodies all the best characteristics of his predecessors. Jonathan Pryce as a villainous CEO hams it up without quite going overboard, putting a modern spin on megalomania. The beautiful, reserved, and formidable Michelle Yeoh is superior as the only Bond woman who's a flat-out equal partner for Bond. Götz Otto plays it straight out of the Red Grant and Oddjob school of henchmen, and Teri Hatcher adds a splash of brave, fatalistic sultriness to the mix. The title song and credits drip with a trippy melancholy that evokes her character's tragic theme.Bruce Feirstein's writing balances wit, genuine drama, and mostly straightforward action, with a whiff of cautionary sociopolitical commentary thrown in. Except at the film's end, when the clatter of gunfire draws on too long, Roger Spottiswoode's direction is tight. The opening sequence is one of the best in the series, and the obligatory mission briefing scene soon afterward crackles with urgency as Bond and the MI6 crew exchange rapid-fire dialogue in a speeding car. All told, it's a treat!  "},{"Title":"Ambivalent","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This review may contain spoliersTomorrow Never Dies is the second film in the Bond series and it is also Pierce Brosnan's weakest.  Brosnan puts in a good performance as James Bond but the movie lacks suspense.  For example, Elliot Carver is formally introduced as the villain at the beginning of the movie and therefore Bond doesn't have to do much investigative work.  The plot may be believable but it contains an abundance of grandiose elements.  Carver uses a drill to sink the HMS Devonshire.  But wouldn't it have been better to use a Chinese torpedo to fuel a war between Britain and China.  One feels that the drill was only included to provide a method of death for Carver.One successful element of the film is its use of humour.  Brosnan can effectively use one-liners without engendering parody in the film.  The role of M fits Dame Judi Dench like a glove and she should have been given more of a role in this film.  The music in this film is generically disappointing and is very un-Bondlike.  The title song is diabolical and fails to emulate either 'Goldeneye' or 'The World Is Not Enough'.  I do not like the gunbarrel sequences in Brosnan's Bond films.  The computer generated graphics fail to impress and Brosnan's shooting stance seems nonchalant and woodenly.  This movie is certainly watchable and is sandwiched between two outstanding entries in the Bond series. "},{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan is not as well bright as Sean Connery, Roger Moore and Timothy Dalton but it is all the same a good film !","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  007 face an emperor of the media, ready to provoke a major conflict to benefit from the exclusivity of the media coverage. The nineteenth episode of a series which contents henceforth with drawing from its attic, recycling infinitely ideas and accessories. But as all this do not lack either a rhythm, or waterfalls, or humor, one does not fortunately miss. "},{"Title":"Bond's getting better","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another strong showing from Brosnan in this, his second Bond film.  Although I think it lags somewhat in the middle, 'Tomorrow Never Dies' holds up well enough.  I particularly liked the sadistic Germanic villain Stamper, although his henchman, ably played by Jonathan Pryce, was also very good. The Bond revival continues.  "}{"Title":"Great Bond Girl; So-So Villain","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Rupert Murdoch gone mad! At least, that is what happens in the latest of the Bond franchise. Appropriately sporting a British accent (though Murdoch's actually Australian) Jonathan Pryce is Elliot Carver, whose obsession with managing his own headlines also recalls Hearst. Oooh, I'm scared! Newspapers are so deadly! I also keep expecting him to stop and try to convince Mr. Bond to trade in his Mercedes for an Infiniti! Gee, I miss those mad scientists and communists who wanted to rule the world. I guess that's what you get when the Bond franchise is 35 years old. But there is new life with chop-socky action lady Michelle Yeoh, whose Wai Lin was able to mop up the floor with bad guys. I like a Bond Girl with a tough and intelligent attitude (the best since Barbara Bach's Soviet officer in The Spy Who Loved Me). She made a great sidekick for Pierce Brosnan. And no kissy-kissy till the very end, when Carver and his headline-cranking sub have been appropriately blown sky high (always have the bad guy's HQ go up in a Bond piece). Gotz Otto as the main henchman Stamper was appropriately ruthless, but he'll never make me forgot such top hatchetmen as Odd Job and Jaws, even if he did have a throwable hat with a metal brim.  "},{"Title":"Bond is Back!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am an avid follower of the Bond films, and Tomorrow Never Dies is carrying on the legend that is Bond!Pierce Brosnan will never be Sean Connery, but he has become Bond in the full sense of the word.Despite some flaws in the film, ie. a dodgy bad guy and the pathetic appearance of Teri Hatcher as a Bond girl, Tomorrow never Dies is carrying on the tradition of 007.Can't wait for the next one!! "},{"Title":"Bond has become a very English animal, nowadays.","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Derivative, yet great fun.  At times TND feels like a 1990s re-tread of 'The Spy Who Loved Me'.  Nothing in the whole series grips quite like the first-ten minutes. There's one first-rate SPX of a cruise missile flying over the Hymalayas.  But the climax onboard a sleath ship feels too much like the finale of most Bond films. Bond has become a very English animal, nowadays.  In 'GoldenEye' he saves the Bank of England being robbed.  In 'TND'  he prevents a war between Britain and China.  Most of the movie was filmed in Heretfordshire and at Pinewood, too. The car chase was shot in Brent Cross Shopping Centre, not a Hamburg hotel car park. The USA appears to have been reduced to a minor supporting role. Jonathan Pryce (a superb actor in the play 'Comedians' and the movie 'Carrington')is an ineffective media mogul - the role requires the sort of epic screen villainy we've seen from Alan Rickman or Gary Oldman.  Is the character supposed to be English or American - falls somewhere in the mid-Atlantic London composer David Arnold's score deliberately attempts to evoke memories of John Barry's best and it works gloriously too. In truth, the current 007 movies are better than they ever were whatever impact the early movies made in the l960s, now they look like period pieces in terms of technology, attitude and filmmaking styles.  "},{"Title":"Good to see a new-age Bond movie.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It was good to see this Bond flick reflect some of the themes of the 1990s, balancing this with the traditional Bond formula. To have the villain as a media mogul was a good idea, while finally a Bond girl in Michelle Yeoh who can hold her own against Bond, rather than be an accessory. You really felt they weren't working together so much as competing against each other, and you would give her a fair chance of cracking the case before 007 did.Time to hand out more kudos Judi Dench as 'M' is incredibly funny. The remote-controlled car chase in the parking station was the best part of the film. Pierce Brosnan, while never looking shaken let alone stirred, is more than acceptable as Bond. And what about the opening sequence. Breathtaking.I'm too young to have seen much Bond at the cinema, and I've only seen snippets of a few others on television. But this one makes me want to catch the ones to come. 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"6 - Decent","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is more of an action film than a spy film. Lots of bullets will fly, motorcycles will rev up and the main characters will iconically rappel down a giant building tearing down the banner. It features some of Bond's best gadgets, including a remote controlled BMW stocked with plenty of features. Chases and other action scenes are quite thrilling. Pierce Brosnan's performance in this movie is slightly darker than Goldeneye but he still keeps his cool and charm.The plot is paper-thin, the villain is a bit cartoonish and his plan is far-fetched even for a madman's standards. A Bond film about yellow journalism is a definitely a unique direction, but I feel like the story was a wasted opportunity. At the end of the day, it's a fun action movie. Oh, and it has Dr. Kaufmann in it too. "},{"Title":"Very impressive Bond film One of the all time greats","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What can be said about Tomorrow never dies? For sure one thing it's one of the best movies ever made. Pierce Brosnan did a very good job. Also the villain (Elliot Carver) is brilliant, not to mention his sidekick Stamper, who plays the role as sidekick how it should be played. Also the two women in the film (Way Lin & Paris Carver) play an important role. Also the storyline is very well thought out. I especially like the way the mass media is used to try to conquer the world.Also Q plays an important role, as this film brings some great gadgets along with it (the best is of course the 7 series BMW). But also the gadgets in Lin's Chinese office deserve a mention.Also this film doesn't lose it's excitement, as it keeps the spectators on the edges of their seats from start to finish. Some other Bond movies (especially the older ones) tend to get a little boring because of their written out plot divergences, whereas this Bond film doesn't have a single boring period in it.That said, I think this film is the best one we've seen Pierce Brosnan in. One of the best Bond films and an all time Bond classic. "},{"Title":"Decent Bond flick.","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There's a couple of things I liked about classic Sean Connery Bond. A) he was smart. B) he let you know it. The other thing I liked about the classic Bond films was that there was a kind of credibility to them. You knew it was all comic book fun, but they were grounded. Pierce Brosnan could have been one of the great Bonds, but he's given precious little dialogue. We're essentially seeing a well crafted action flick from frame one. Bond films always had action, but this film seemed heavy on action, and little of what Bond knew, what he was all about, and how we knew he was capable of doing the things he did.That's pretty much my critique. A lot of money went into making this film a big blockbuster smash, and it delivers for what it is, but I didn't get a sense of Bondness, so much as I got a sense of a film wanting to be a James Bond film. Still, it's decent enough for what it is, an action film, but isn't Bond more than just an action hero?I think the technical stuff has gotten a lot better over the years of the Bond franchise's existence. But when you went to see a Bond film in the 60s and 70s, you didn't just go to see bullets flying, nor the Bond hotties adorning the screen, you went for the story and character. There's a fine plot driven film in here, but little else. And, true to big budget blockbusters needing bad-guys, we have a hint of Nazis in working for the evil boss that Bond must confront (although he himself may be one). I don't have much else to say about it other than I think that there's a better film in here. Yes, you heard me right. With all of the money dumped into this thing I'm still not satisfied that I saw a James Bond film. But, that's neither here nor there, I suppose. If I had shot it I would have cut back on some of the pyrotechnics, asked the Royal Navy to spare a frigate and a destroyer or two to fire real rounds instead of relying on my SFX team to drag a model through the water tank on the back lot while shooting it in slow mo. There's a lot of superficial adornments in this film to make it a Bond flick, but there isn't much Bond in it. I would have directed a different film. But again, that's all Monday morning quarterbacking. Still, it's a film, and a kind of popcorn fun film with some cross international romance involved, and maybe a bit of social engineering going on, but otherwise a decent watch.Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Action packed but nothing extraordinary","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If it's action you want then this Bond film will suit you. But it has nothing different to offer apart from conventional Bond stuff. In TND,Bond goes on a mission to expose a psychic media tycoon who wants to incite fire between UK and China and start World war 3 for his own selfish ends, and whose wife also happens to be Bond's ex girlfriend.The film is made well &#x96; Good story, direction, fast paced action with plenty of stunts, cool gadgets, dialogue delivery. It sure is enjoyable.There are a few unwanted scenes which is what I did not like. But there is nothing different in the film, unlike Daniel Craig's Bond films. "},{"Title":"Sorry, not my favourite, but still good.","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" So there it is I revealed my least favourite James Bond (EON) film. Some people liked this more and some people didn't. For me it had action, a bond girl, a pretty good story, but it seemed fake. I think it was 3rd last on my list. Too bad Paris Carver dies like an hour or 50 minutes through the movie. I honestly thought she would last at least an hour and a half. last on my list was Diamonds are Forever but I'll get to that on my Diamonds are Forever review. sorry for posting this so late i was so busy the rest of the time. So 7 out of 10 good. As I said not my favourite. Check out some other reviews. Goodbye, i like James Bond movies. "},{"Title":"An exciting and entertaining Bond thriller","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" James Bond (Brosnan) investigates a TV media man who is linked to a possible war brewing in the Chinese sea between the Chinese and British.Pierce Brosnan reprises his role as the famous British agent after a great start in the critically acclaimed Goldeneye. Expectation was high and Brosnan doesn't disappoint as once again he dons the suit and tie as James Bond in another classic action thriller, if not the strongest in the series.With a fantastic opening surrounding the criminals in the weapon market, Tomorrow Never Dies sets the tone for a high octane adventure and the hero enters, delivering another great opening line, punching a smoker and giving viewers that wonderful pun that only Bond can do.Unlike many Bond films, the villain is revealed almost instantly and the film centres around Bond trying to unravel the case and find out what media man Elliot Carver is up to.As good an actor as Jonathan Pryce is, there is hardly any doubt that his character Carver is one of the worst villains of all time. Unscary, too relaxed and easy to watch the Newspaper man does simply have that ruthlessness to create that essence of evil that has created so many good Bond villains in the past. Blofeld with his cat, Goldfinger with his laser and so on. Carver with his newspapers simply does not match up and the film falls short because of him.Teri Hatcher is very good as Bond's former lover but Michelle Yeoh is disappointing as Chinese agent Wai Lin. Yeoh's kicking action as the agent is good and fun to watch but the character does not contain that exciting and different prospect that other Bond girls have had and the ending feels almost completely clichéd because of it.Despite that faults in supporting characters the plot with it's terrific action sequences make for a gripping watch. From driving a car with a remote control to driving a motorbike over a helicopter, this film has created some astonishing and memorable moments in the action genre. The remote control car is an ultimate fantasy and is action packed adrenaline not to mention humorous at points as well.The plot is consistently intriguing with its issues on foreign pride and war, not to mention the different cultures between the Chinese and British government.Tomorrow never dies fills Bond fans dreams with top notch action sequences and an entertaining and issue driven plot. "}{"Title":"A potentially good Bond film brought down by a horrid villain.","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow never dies is one of those OK Bond films that has every mechanic a Bond film should have... cool gadgets, slick one liners and of course women.But what makes a giant Bond fan like myself give it only a 6? The Villain... awfully portrayed by Jonathan Pryce, it is not so much that his acting is bad it is just that the whole premise of a villain that as his only motivation is to get the news first is just awfully generic.Everyone besides the above mentioned did a fine job in the movie, no idea with all the great ideas I can think of off the top of my head why they picked this sort of plot and villain.At least its not a Daniel Craig Bond. (Sorry! I cant help myself) "},{"Title":"Let the Mayhem Begin!","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With James Bond firmly re-established after the success of GoldenEye, the producers bust the door open in grand fashion with the next installment. The result is a tight, classy, explosive film that is definitely one of the series strongest. Never before has a Bond effort been so efficient, the hallmark of great modern action. Never before has the villain been as good, either.That man is Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce), the world's most powerful media baron. Carver is a megalomaniac, but the difference is the film's reliance on powerful characterization, not outlandish schemes, to define him. Constantly making pompous self-references, at one point comparing himself Caesar, Napoleon and God; Carver is so full of himself his ego juice evaporates from his every pore. The difference between genius and insanity is measured only by success, he declares. He enjoys punctuating his sentences with unusual adjectives like delicious or outstanding, words that describe the movie well.Some Bond fans have taken up arms over the speed of the film, asserting it goes too far. What they forget is the way Bond's popularity fell in the 80s at the hands of superior competition, not to mention how quickly he was forgotten in the early 90s. Changes needed to be made in order for Bond to survive in a new era. In the end, he is more exciting than ever, despite complaints about the changes, which began in the Dalton era anyway and are more superficial than the outcry suggests.True, Tomorrow Never Dies is kinetic, but it never forgets its characters or neglects the story. It maintains its pace yet still creates and develops interesting people, which has not consistently been a strength of the franchise in the past. The two preceding films did a superb job with their characters, but this one manages to top even them. The plot is in fact unusually intricate for a Bond movie, or any action film. It is well fleshed out and clearly explained, so the diligent viewer will not have any trouble following it. Both changes are most refreshing.The story involves ascending tensions between Britain and China, beginning with the sinking of an English battleship in the South China Sea. The captain gives his final position in international waters, and M (Judi Dench), the head of British intelligence, soon suspects that Carver deliberately led the ship off course. While all doubt about the culprit's identity is quickly removed, the how and the why prove much more complicated. During Bond's investigation, he meets Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh), a Chinese secret agent investigating Carver from the other end, and Paris (the lovely Teri Hatcher), a former mate and now Carver's wife.It is difficult to become involved in a Bond movie without an affinity for Bond, and Pierce Brosnan engenders that as well as anyone. After a very solid, but not exceptional debut, Brosnan now possesses all of the swagger, cool confidence, and toughness needed. He also continues his practice of making Bond more human, which leaves the character more likable than he often was in the past.A paramount element of any action thriller is the villain, and Jonathan Pryce's shoots a bullseye with every arrow. He understands Carver's complete amorality, and takes command of the role with fire and spirit. He deftly avoids making the mistake of taking his role too somberly, as he provides several chuckles for the audience with his captivating performance. That task is not an easy one. He combines his talents with those of writer Bruce Feirstein and director Roger Spottiswoode to create the splendid opponent for Agent 007.Götz Otto also leaves a lasting impression in his role as Stamper, Carver's muscular, psycho-blonde Chief of Security. Stamper becomes the most imposing henchman since Oddjob, and that is a powerful statement. Unlike many of Oddjob's successors, however, he is not invincible. Vincent Schiavelli also makes a brief appearance as a self-absorbed doctor of death in one of the film's best scenes.As for the Bond girls, Spottiswoode breaks the tradition of casting for skin only. Instead, he chooses one who is athletic; she can take care of herself almost as well as Bond can. Yeoh shows almost no skin, but leaves an indelible impression with her stunts and fight scenes.If the villain is not the most vital element in a Bond film, then the action is, and Tomorrow Never Dies delivers in pure adrenaline. It has four major action segments starting with Bond's daring raid on a confused terrorist camp, an ingenious pursuit through a parking garage with Bond literally backseat driving his gadget laden BMW and an incredible motorcycle chase through Saigon.The fourth comes in the climactic battle as hundreds of bullets shred and sunder the interior of Carver's catamaran, not to mention more than a few bodies. This scene has shooting, dodging, running, diving, aiming, chaos, strategy, cover, and desperation abundantly. Legendary stunt coordinator Vic Armstrong's choreography is peerless and the set is covered so well that we feel like we are in the boat, covering the event like one of Carver's newsmen. Spottiswoode understands that the great directors do not try to be innovative, but let the quality of the production speak for itself. As in GoldenEye, the melees are bone crushing, but are photographed so the movie can maintain its PG-13 rating.Tomorrow Never Dies proves that after 35 years, Bond is still bona-fide entertainment, and far from brainless action. If some of the naysayers have discouraged you from seeing this, cast aside your doubts and enjoy. After all, Gene Siskel gave it a thumbs-up not because of the action, not because of Brosnan, but because he liked the supporting characters, and that is only part of the fun. "},{"Title":"Brosnan keeps the ball rolling.","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan picks up where he left off in another really good turn as James Bond.The plot was different as we have a mad media mogul so hungry for headlines that he decides to create his own by stirring up trouble between England and China.I found this to be a fascinating and captivating story and very well carried out.Jonathan Pryce is particularly good as the villain here,though he doesn't quite rank up there with the most memorable of Bond villains.Worthy of note is the film's opening sequence which is very exciting and will no doubt have you biting your nails all the way up until Sheryl Crow's title song.This is definitely among the better Bond films and worthy of your time. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's second best Bond Film","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When someone wants a quick look at my home theater systems (I have a DLP HD front-screen projector with Dolby Digital/DTS sound and a 10' screen), I usually play the tornado sequence at the beginning of Twister (when the tornado sucks Jo's dad out of the storm cellar), or else I play the pre-title sequence from Tomorrow Never Dies. The photography is beautiful and the sequence is action packed, and the DTS 5.1 channel soundtrack is one of the best I've heard. Once the pre-title sequence is done and the opening credits roll, Tomorrow Never Dies settles in and delivers 2 hours of good entertainment. As Bond battles media mogul Ted Turner.... Ahhm, I mean Elliot Carver (hey, if Jimmy Dean really played Hugh Heffner instead of Willard Whyte in Diamonds Are Forever, then it is safe to say Elliot Carver is really Ted Turner and I kind of like that idea), he travels to Vietnam, Germany and lots of exotic locations. As for women, James tangles with Teri Hatcher, thankfully for only a brief amount of time... but the real Bondette is Michelle Yeoh and she is fabulous. Played as nearly an equal to James, (much the same as Jinx in Die Another Day), this film ranks in the upper 50% of Bond adventures. Since there has never been an outright 'bad' James Bond movie (at least out of the official 21 Enon films), that makes for 2 great hours in front of the screen. "},{"Title":"The villain that comes from the TV","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Use a TV as a control device is not such a new thing. But see Bond kicking the Flatt ass of a rich nasty and cocky business man is just lovely and great! Brosnan is both funny, serious and very professional in this movie (he really was worth for that Saturn award)and the Q devices get better with that remote controlled car (shame they didn't do more for the merchandising). It's also a very exotic movie, with the Asian environments and the actress Michelle Yeoh, this time introducing the new style of fights with the martial arts (again, this is a pre-matrix action movie). Apart from that there is a lot of gunshots, many explosions (they are cool, the explosions) and lot's of chasing sequences (I mean lots, with vehicles or on foot). And the ending is like a roller coaster. Why it has so low vote? Jonathan Pryce. I am sorry, but this guy is not solid as a villain. Other villains like Gotz Otto or even Vincent Schiavelli (saw in Young Frankestein) are better villains than that TV man, obsessed with bad news, kills, murders and the end of the world reported in High Definition. "},{"Title":"Teri Hatcher...You are the weakest link. Goodbye!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies would have been a perfect film, with the exception of one cast member Teri Hatcher.Now don't get me wrong. I happen to like Teri Hatcher very much. Her role in this film, however, was a total waste. But I'll get back to her in a moment.Bond (Pierce Brosnan), is sent by M (Judi Dench) to investigate the disappearance of a British battleship in the South China Seas. This leads him to Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce), a media mogul (Think Ted Turner with a British accent). Carver knows about the problem of the battleship because he was the one behind it Because the Chinese government doesn't want his presence in their country, he decides to create a war between the British government and the Chinese government so he can make his media empire totally global (Man, does this guy have a huge ego or what?).This is where Teri Hatcher comes into play she plays Paris Carver, former flame of Bond, current wife of Elliot. Her role just becomes wasteful, if only to show Bond feeling guilt over her.There is another Bond girl, the very beautiful Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh), who is a secret agent of the Chinese government, and can take very good care of herself.Cool stunts in the film (Like Bond and Lin sliding down the side of a skyscraper, handcuffed), and the gadgets are cool(Don't you wish you had a car like Bond's?). However, this villain compared to others is rather weak. All in all, it was still a good film to watch. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A step down from Goldeneye, but definitely better than the two most recent Bond films, Tomorrow never Dies sees Bond coming up against a media psychopath after the disappearance of yet another ship. Bond travels to China and eventually teams up with Wai Lin, a Chinese Agent also sent to investigate. It seems Carver is intending to become to top, and only media boss on the planet, gaining 100% viewer coverage of every event, and will stop at nothing to achieve this, killing all who try to stop him. As the Chinese are the only people who stand in his way he intends to start a war between them and the British. Along the way, Bond meets an old flame Paris Carver, who ironically is now married to the jealous maniac. Bond tracks down Carver's headquarters and attempts to bring down Carver, thus saving the day again.The emotional content of Goldeneye is almost lost here, only the relationship between Bond and Paris (played by Hatcher) holds this theme up. The score at times works well, but this is a return to a more simple Bond formula- Bond must stop villain, no time for women in his life. Pryce puts in a strong performance, but his character is a pastiche of all who have come before. His henchmen are strong, but nothing marks them out like Oddjob or Jaws. Yeoh is very good as Lin, matching Bond at every turn, and doing most of her own stunts. In truth it is the action that is foremost here, and there is plenty of it. The motorbike chase and the remote car are both good, as well as the final encounter. All of the stunts are executed well, and Brosnan retains his charm proving he was perfect for the role. The story may lack the spark of Goldeneye, but it is still very watchable and believable in the modern age.7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Spoilers","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING There may be some spoilers in this review!As a die-hard Bond fan i am often criticised about the choice of my favourite Bond film ever. Some will say 'Dr. No', and then there are others who claim that 'Goldfinger' is the best. However as far as i am concerned, this is the best Bond film. This does get lot of stick from many fans and critics, but i will try and place all the really good points within this review.Firstly, Brosnan is far more at home in this movie in the role of Bond then in 'GoldenEye'.Secondly, Jonathan Pryce is fantastic as the villain. This is a new type of baddie for the Bond series, and is a very clever character. Pryce plays it well in all of the scenes, whether he is Bwa-ha-haing down Bond's ear or ordering the execution of his wife.Thirdly, Teri Hatcher is wonderfully tragic as Paris Carver, the doomed sacrificial lamb of the film, and also very attractive. The scenes between her and Bond are also very well written and shot.Fouthly, the music. David Arnold does a good job in scoring the film in a very John Barry style, starting with Classic Bond, followed by Techno Bond, and finally by Asian Bond.Fiftly, the final shoot-em-up on the Stealth Boat is exciting and memorable. The action is well-filmed, and the final deaths of Carver and his German heavy, Stamper, justly disgusting!There are a few minor problems. I'm not really a big fan of Michelle Yeoh, though she does kick bottom in several scenes. Joe Don Baker's character, though funny in 'GoldenEye', is not really necessary in this film. Finally, maybe there is a bit too much action in the last few moments of the film.Still, this is a worthy and brilliant entry in the series, and my favourite of all!!9/10  "},{"Title":"Second Brosnan 007 Outing Fast-Paced, Though Generic...","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While the success of 1995's GOLDENEYE was gratifying for Eon Productions (particularly after a six-year layoff, and the replacement of virtually all of the 'key' players of the franchise), there was still an air of uncertainty over the future of the series; could Pierce Brosnan sustain his audience over several films, and could the filmmakers continue to make fresh, original films from a 35-year old 'game plan'?TOMORROW NEVER DIES would not provide a satisfying answer to either question. While the 45-year old Brosnan looks more believable as Bond in his second 007 appearance (with shorter hair, deeper 'character' lines in his face, and a slightly thicker torso), he still lacked a certain depth in his characterization, and, for a spy that M considers nearly 'renegade', he seems far more a 'company' man than either Sean Connery or Timothy Dalton. One critic made a 'classic actor' comparison that was quite telling (If Sean Connery's Bond were 'Clark Gable', and Roger Moore's Bond, 'Cary Grant', then Pierce Brosnan's would be 'Fred MacMurray'...capable, but not charismatic...). While younger audiences quickly accepted the 'new' Bond, older fans were still not convinced, and TOMORROW NEVER DIES would do little to change their opinion.As for 'fresh' ideas, the concept of a villain being an international media mogul (a la 'Ted Turner'), using billion-dollar technology to bring the world superpowers to the brink of nuclear war to create higher ratings was 'new', if farfetched...unfortunately, the film became a routine 'by the numbers' generic 'action' film by the climax, little different than the Die Hard or Lethal Weapon films. The Bond formula had yet to have been shaken, not stirred.  There were some good elements in the film, however; the pre-titles sequence, offering 007 mayhem at a weapons bazaar, complete with 'John Barry'-like music by David Arnold, is rousing; Judi Dench (returning as M), Desmond Llewelyn (the ancient but lovable 'Q'), and Joe Don Baker (back as Felix Leiter 'replacement', Jack Wade) are all wonderful; Jonathan Pryce, as the villainous Elliot Carver, gives a wryly intellectual 'spin' to his performance that lifts it from routine; and, best of all, the remarkable Michelle Yeoh, 35, makes a spectacular 'western' film debut as Bond competitor/love interest Wai Lin. While Teri Hatcher's performance (as Bond's 'lost love', now involved with Pryce) is amateurish, Yeoh is beautiful, competent, and more than an equal to 007, displaying the astonishing martial arts prowess that would help make CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON, released three years later, so unforgettable. Her scenes with Brosnan are by far the most enjoyable of the film.While reviews for TOMORROW NEVER DIES were mixed, the box office totals were excellent, with the film breaking into the 'Top Ten' list of US releases for the year, much to the pleasure of financially troubled MGM/UA. Clearly, 007 still had an audience!And the next production, THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH, would bring all the pieces together, for both Brosnan, and the franchise... "},{"Title":"Brosnan's second Bond is the business","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan's second Bond film is brimming with confidence. Goldeneye ,although great,was a touch uncertain,forgivable as the filmmakers were almost starting from scratch. Tomorrow Never Dies,however,is terrific,and,while the precredits sequence featuring another crazy plane stunt is fine,it does not overshadow the rest of the film as Goldeneye's one did.The plot manages to be both mad and topical with it's media controlling villain,and the pace never stops,in fact this may the fastest-paced Bond film,and maybe the one with the most amount of action. There's a car chase with Bond's car being remote controlled,a long motorbike/helicopter chase,loads of fights Bond kills more people in this than probably any other Bond film including one on an assembly line,a shootout in a ship,this one is packed,and even the mission briefing is carried out on the move,in a car. There is a case for saying the film is too frantic,too packed,and amazingly it's the shortest since Goldfinger! There are some effective quieter moments though,especially between Bond and hurt ex-lover Teri Hatcher,although Hong Kong martial arts mistress Michelle Yeoh almost steals the film from Bond in places.Visually the film is a little drab,it lacks the glamorous look of most other Bonds,but with a fine Barryesque score from David Arnold and two good theme songs,this is as sheerly entertaining as a Bond film should be. Be warned,the UK version is missing Yeoh throwing a ninja star yet several were used in You Only Live Twice,go figure. "}{"Title":"One of the best Bond movies ever","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Very very nice, 10/10. The chinese girl is great in her role, Brosnan is better than ever (definitely the best his film), good chase scenes, good villains, etc etc.Far better than The World is Not Enough, or any other recent Bond flick.  "},{"Title":"A lesser Bond film","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tommrow Never Dies is a lesser Bond film due to the fact it's really slow. But when the action sequences do come they are pretty stylish. Pierce contuines his show as a good Bond and Michelle Yeoh makes a worthy sidekick. The only thing that saves the film from being a total stinker is the sex appeal of Teri Hatcher. "},{"Title":"Best of Bond...","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is my favourite Bond film. Pierce Brosnan has settled comfortably into the role of the legendary James Bond following 1995's 'GoldenEye'. He now seems to handle the role with fluency and ease, making him my favourite Bond of them all.'Tomorrow Never Dies' is, in my opinion, the perfect Bond film. Suave one liners, a variety of set pieces, good music variety, and a strong plot. We also get to see certain aspects of Bond's past, in the form of Terri Hatcher's character. This makes the film seem more realistic, and improves it greatly.8/10 "},{"Title":"If there's nothing else to watch...watch something else.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I watched Tomorrow Never Dies, I wondered to myself if this was James Bond or Rambo. Why did they try to cram so many action scenes into this movie? Hardly 10 minutes goes by without someone getting blown up or shot. James Bond is supposed to be about subtlety and class, wit and grace, not grabbing machine guns and shooting everything and everybody.WARNING This post contains spoilers!In the opening sequence, a British Admiral fires a cruise missile at a terrorist camp in Afghanistan (!). Soon afterwards, he realizes that one of the planes in the camp is armed with nuclear weapons, and the cruise missile cannot be destroyed. Can Bond, who is in the camp, find an interesting and clever way to escape, and stop the nukes from exploding? The answer is no. What does he do? He grabs the nearest automatic weapon, heads for the plane, and kills almost everybody (making the cruise missile useless), jumps into the cockpit, and flies away with the missiles. Pierce Brosnan, who looks at home playing baccarat in a Monte Carlo casino, has his talents wasted in this movie as he turns into a philandering Rambo.Not to mention the whole plot is ridiculous. Someone's going to start World War Three over a newspaper? Wow. He'll make some more money. He's already obviously fantastically rich already, so it becomes a Goldfinger-type plot where we wonder why he does what he does, because no motive is given. If he was going bankrupt or something, that would've been a little better, but as it stands, there's no strong reason for him to want to nuke Beijing!In the same vein, the whole concept of starting World War 3 has been done to death (pay no attention to the bald man with the Persian cat), and not only that, it isn't even done well this time around. Tensions between China and Britain weren't especially high when his movie came out, so starting a war between them wouldn't be very believable. On top of that, both countries obviously know that they are being set up (since they've sent Bond and Wai Lin out to investigate), so once Bond and Wai Lin report back (which could've been done before they jumped onto Carver's stealth boat), wouldn't everybody know that the jig is up?Given that Eliot Carver is a pretty empty and shallow character, Jonathan Pryce overacts way too much, almost to Shatnerian proportions. It's cool to watch him make speeches with this glazed look on his face, and to watch him mutter delicious whenever something goes his way, but other than that, the character of Eliot Carver is pretty stale.Wai Lin is also a flawed character, it seems that the writers couldn't decide whether she was supposed to be a tough, independent woman or a hopeless, frail Bond bimbo (much like Tiffany Case). Towards the end, she seems to depend on Bond for her survival from one minute to the next.To top it off, there's Jack Wade. Not even he knows what he's doing in this film.While this isn't the worst Bond movie, it is pretty awful, and I really did find the first draft of the script to be a much more believable and well-written story. There are many Bond movies that are remakes - this is a remake of The Spy Who Loved Me (which is itself a remake).  "},{"Title":"PIERCE DOES IT AGAIN","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the success of Goldeneye I had high hopes for Tomorrow Never Dies and I'm pleased to say that I was not disappointed.The pre credits sequence in the weapons market was just fantastic and real edge of the seat stuff. Once again, 007 jetted round the world, battled all the usual psycho's and there was no shortage of gadgets either.If you think about it, the plot is very similar to The Spy Who Loved Me and You Only Live Twice but I'm not complaining.Michelle Yeoh makes a great Bond girl and Jonathan Pryce plays one of the most interesting villains in Bond history.That's all I can think of to say. If you're a Bond fan, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Preposterous plot","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Having read the plot of the new Bond movie, I realized that the plots of most of them are preposterous.  In this movie, Elliot Carver starts a war in order to get ratings. That makes about as much sense as Roger Ailes, the head of Fox News, orchestrating the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon so he could overtake CNN.   "},{"Title":"Slam bang action fest","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is my favorite James Bond. I am not a great fan of the saga, I always found the James Bond pictures to aged and based on the cold war. But this movie revives the whole concept, converting it to the 21st century. Everything is modern and new the enemy is a media mogul, the weapons and cars are recent and beautiful, the special effects are spectacular, the title design is just great and Brosnan is a better Bond than in Goldeneye. Roger Spottiswoode, inconsequential director of low-key action comedies has the kudos in orchestrating the operations here. A great Bond movie, which satisfies fans and creates new ones as well. If only all the upcoming Bond movies were like this one... "},{"Title":"Top-notch '90s action flick even if Ian Fleming's James Bond is starting to resemble Bruce Willis","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Warning, this review may contain spoilers for this and other Bond films. In the world of James Bond movies, certain films could easily have a subtitle to them MOONRAKER(The Outer-Space Bond), THUNDERBALL(The Underwater Bond), YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE(The Japan Bond), LICENCE TO KILL (The Edgy, Dark, Realistic Bond), ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE(The 007 Gets Married Bond), DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER(The Las Vegas Bond). If TOMORROW NEVER DIES had a subtitle it would be The Non-Stop Action, Cuts, Explosions Bond.  Essentially scriptwriter Bruce Feirstein took the stories of 2 previous Bonds(YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE and THE SPY WHO LOVED ME)fused them together, streamlined them for a late 1990s movie audience that likes the aforementioned non-stop action, cuts, and explosions ladled out with the subtlety of a sledgehammer and cares little for characterization, suspense, or dramatic tension. Not to say TOMORROW is a bad film. On the contrary, of all 3 of the 1990s 007 flicks, TND is the one I enjoyed the most on my initial viewing of it in the cinema. My immediate response after seeing it the first time was to give it ***1/2 out of ****. When I saw it a 2nd time, my initial enthusiasm for it tempered somewhat. Nonetheless, after even multiple viewings, I still give it a solid *** good rating. TND contains many positive ingredients. Although Pierce Brosnan's debut Bond GOLDENEYE featured a stronger story and a more alluring heroine, TND still  improves over its predecessor in many ways. For one thing, Roger Spottiswoode's direction has a fluidity that Martin Campbell's lacked in the previous film. Also the editing of scenes together is smoother and less abrupt than in the previous entry. Perhaps the most obvious improvement of all, was the replacing of Eric Serra with David Arnold, the best Bond composer since John Barry. Arnold's work incorporates the classic James Bond theme over and over that was so conspicuously absent in GOLDENEYE as well as nicely scoring both the action sequences (especially the pre-title sequence) and the love scenes between Brosnan and Teri Hatcher. Arnold's end title song Surrender is a real show-stopper with a classy Diamonds Are Forever-type feel to it(very interesting that Don Black  provided the lyrics for both tunes).Brosnan gives a much more self-assured and confident performance as Bond(Of course, having just come off a $350 million plus megahit should bolster the confidence of anyone.) He seems to grow more comfortable with the role each time he plays it. As for the new regulars(Judi Dench as M and Samantha Bond as Miss Moneypenny) both actresses seem more comfortable in their roles this time around as well. The same sadly can't be said for Joe Don Baker as CIA man Jack Wade. Although Baker was reasonably amusing as Wade in GOLDENEYE (as well as having portrayed a villain in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS), in TND he comes off as more obnoxious than J.W. Pepper. Thankfully, his screen time is short and he did not return in the next Bond epic THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH. Hopefully, we have seen the last of Wade and the Bond producers will bring the real CIA agent/Bond ally Felix Leiter back instead. Jonathan Pryce plays Elliot Carver in the mode of Charles Gray's Blofeld from DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER. Like Gray, Pryce(BRAZIL) is a fine actor and amusing to watch but doesn't provide 007 with any real physical threat(like Robert Shaw in FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE) or provide the kind of intellectual duel Bond had with villainous greats Goldfinger, Scaramanga, or Sanchez. Michelle Yeoh portrays the athletic heroine competently but her Wai Lin character too obviously replicates THE SPY WHO LOVED ME's Triple X (female superspy from a Communist superpower who initially rivals then allies with 007).The Bond/Wai Lin relationship never gets to develop in an interesting way as the Bond/Triple X one did in the earlier film thanks to TND's over dependence on action at the expense of the storyline. To Feirstein's credit, Wai Lin doesn't make the mistake that her 2 immediate predecessors(Natalya in GOLDENEYE, Pam in LICENCE TO KILL) did by falling for Bond after a quick introduction and one action sequence. Instead, Miss Yeoh(in the tradition of Ursula Andress, Honor Blackman, Jane Seymour, Jill St. John, Barbara Bach, Lois Chiles and others)  makes Bond work his charm on her first before succumbing to the obligatory clinch. In fact, the Bond/Wai Lin relationship is the most platonic one Bond has had with a woman since his relationship with Melina/Carole Bouquet in 1981's FOR YOUR EYES ONLY. Like Melina, Wai Lin doesn't even let Bond kiss her till the end(and  in TND its to save her life from drowning).Although Miss Yeoh survives to the end, the real love interest for Bond this time is Teri Hatcher as Paris Carver, the villain's wife and the woman who got too close to 007. The chemistry between Miss Hatcher and Brosnan is incredible starting with their witty repartee (How about the words I'll be right back) at Carver's party. Their sparks intensify with their love scene which is the most intensely romantic one Bond has had with a woman since Kara in THE LIVING DAYLIGHTS.  Later, when Bond discovers her murderedbody in his bed, Brosnan shows a genuine sadness reminiscent of the final scene in OHMSS where Bond's wife is killed. It's sad that Miss Hatcher(who would make a worthy Bond heroine as her work on TV's LOIS & CLARK proved, is given so little screen time as her Paris character gives TND the film's best non-action moments such as the one where Bond sits alone in his hotel room with his drink and his gun waiting for Paris to come to him. The idea of Bond running across a former lover and her having to chose between him and the villain is a good one and I hope reappears (better developed and with more screentime of course) in a future film. Spottiswoode stages the action sequences spectacularly. The standouts in this area include the pre-title teaser sequence involving a terrorist bazaar with MI6 personnel watching Bond's adventures on a large video screen and a delightfully over the top motorcycle/helicopter chase across Saigon with Bond and Miss Lin handcuffed to each other (Hitchcock fans will easily see how TND stole this idea from the classic THE 39 STEPS). Despite its many entertaining aspects, TND is not without blemishes. The credits loudly proclaim Pierce Brosnan as Ian Fleming's James Bond,  but with the exception of the scenes with Mrs. Carver and her murderer Dr. Kauffman there's little of Ian Fleming's creation to be found(such as Brosnan saying such PC statements as Never argue with a woman. They're always right or referring to smoking as a Filthy habit. The real Bond would never say those things). Also, there is something fundamentally disturbing about a film's politics that lets Communist China(one of the most oppressive dictatorships on the face of the earth)off the hook yet vilifies Rupert Murdoch(in the guise of Carver) who provides one of the fairest and most informative news networks in the world. While the action is all spectacularly staged, the gunfire, cuts and explosions go into overkill after a while. If FOR YOUR EYES ONLY had the most underwhelming final conflict to a Bond flick, then TND wins the opposite award for the most overdone as Ian Fleming's Bond turns into Pierce Brosnan's version of Bruce Willis in DIE HARD. While this cuts/explosions approach is done to attract younger viewers weaned on MTV, its sad that so many new Bond fans will watch TND and then complain how true Bond classics that more accurately reflect Fleming's works and characters(such as Terence Young's FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE and THUNDERBALL) are boring by comparison because they were made in a era when scriptwriting, wit and style were more important than explosions and cuts. Complaints aside, TOMORROW NEVER DIES makes for 2 hours of mostly satisfying action entertainment though I'm glad its sequel THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH put greater emphasis on Bond's humanity and brought back some traditional Flemingesque elements.  "},{"Title":"Forget 'GoldenEye', Bond really returns in this film!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit when I walked out of the cinema back in 1995 after watching 'GoldenEye', I was a bit disapointed about where the Bond series was heading. Sure, they had to make some changes for the 90's, but what really worried me was 'GoldenEye's lack of exotic locations, cleaver gadgets, and I guess just the lack of a feel of classic Bond films. But I saw 'Tomorrow Never Dies' when it premiered on TV a few weeks ago, and I must admit, it totally restored my faith that Bond now is bigger than ever.'Tomorrow Never Dies' is a HUGE improvement on GoldenEye, as it totally restores the classic Bond elements, which I seemingly thought GoldenEye overlooked. Teri Hatcher has good chemistry with Brosnan, and the film just rolls along smoothely and as entertaining as the classics. Thailand is always good for an exotic location, and the backdrops are used supurbly here. Some of the best gadgets in the whole franchise are used, nothing can surpass the remote controlled car, or should I say, finger controlled car! And the great action sequences, like the motorbike and helicopter chase, really kept me watching. It still may not be good as some of the earlier Bonds, but its a dam good effort - really enjoyable entertainment. I can't wait to see 'The World is not enough'! "},{"Title":"for once a bondgirl who isnt a complete imbecile","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favourite bond movies for mostly that reason. Most of the other bond movies are nauseating with stupid chics needing to be rescued at every turn. It was also interesting to see the power that media can hold, as it is the only access we have to information that we do not see with our own eyes. "}{"Title":"Back in business","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film captures the best of the feeling that the older James Bond movies had, and places it in a modern context. Hell, there's even a grand villain out to start the third world war. Perfect.There are scenes in this film that makes it VERY enjoyable - when Bond drives around in and out of his BMW in the garage, and the chopper-bike-chase through the slum. Good job, good script and great performances. "},{"Title":"Worst Dialogue Ever","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Look, I see people making good comments about this movie, but I'm sorry, it is impossible the get past the worst dialogue ever in a movie.  I look back, trying to remember the good parts of the film, but all I hear is the worst Bond one-liners ever coupled with some of the worst dramatic lines ever as well (What  was it. . . did I get too close?  Did I get too close. . . for comfort?)  Now, I'm sure some people will say, hey, Bond is supposed to have cheesy dialogue and one liners.  This is true.  But this movie was hundreds of times worse than the other bonds.  I just saw The World is Not Enough last night and the one-liners were not at all annoying in that movie, nor was the overall feel of the movie anywhere near as cheesy.  And by the way, although I think he is a great actor, Jonathan Pryce sucked  as the bad guy. Definitely the worst of the Brosnan bonds. "},{"Title":"Weak film, but had it's moments.","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TND is a nice Bond film retaliating GoldenEye.  Action intense, but long, and characters well-rounded.  But it just didn't stick to my head as well. Hopefully in The World is Not Enough, they get the right formula... "},{"Title":"Bond back with a bang","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan really stamps his authority on the Bond character in this fast paced, thrill a minute, smack bang up to date espionage adventure where 007 must stop a global disaster after evil media mogul Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) tries to pit the worlds super powers against one another. This film has everything you expect from a James Bond flick and is one of the best in modern times. After a good 'welcome back' opener with GOLDENEYE, Bond is most definitely back on form in this action packed and very enjoyable romp.  "},{"Title":"Looking for a little peace and quiet?.......I didn`t think so!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The latest Bond adventure sees Pierce Brosnan return as Bond. The 18th Bond film is perhaps to some people the greatest Bond Movie of all time........I am sadly not one of them, yes it is a great film and I enjoy watching it, but it does not have what Goldeneye had, but DO NOT ask me what that is because I don`t know!!Teri hatcher appears as James Bond`s ex-lover from a while back, and ends up sleeping with Bond, like she wouldn`t!!It may be the 18th but it sure does back a punch, and look out for the new BMW that Q brings Bond, it`s remote control, as well as manual!!!I give this a 6 and a half out of 10. Look out for the 19th Bond film The World Is Not Enough "},{"Title":"Should not have killed the villain!","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite what many people are saying, this was not a bad Bond film! In fact, It has the most up to date and realistic threat to the world than any previous film so far. Pryce is fantastic as the baddie and could have become the next Blofeld. Brosnan again fills the role of Bond as if it was tailored for him. Add all this and throw in a very wonderful, beautiful, and exciting Michelle Yoeh and you have a great Bond film! "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the dismal Goldeneye, I was hoping for the better, I was wrong. Tomorrow never dies is a weak entry in the excellent Bond series. Bond does no spying what so ever, he doesn't even try to stay undercover(Elliot- Perhaps I should commission you to write a novel. Bond-I'd be lost at sea, adrift) and the ending is the worst, where Bond runs around with two guns, where's the danger, where's the excitement? I'm hoping #19 will be the ultimate Bond, but because of this one, I doubt it. "},{"Title":"Iam Fleming Wouldn't Recognize Him","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The action is not stop in this high-tech, high-gloss, roller coaster ride. Never mind the plot, or for that matter the characters, just buckle up and go, go, go.The movie is all that one expects, unfortunately I just wish it wasn't a James Bond movie.  Call the guy something else, not Bond...James Bond.  I miss the old Bond with the casinos, baccarat, some actual spying, seduction....but alas no more.  It's good, but its not Bond. "},{"Title":"Good but unintelligent film","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film was good, but did anyone really notice a good spy scene?  Sure, Bond did some snooping, but that just isn't the same.  Bond used to be able to get in and out without being noticed and walk away with some information. Also, the increasing political correctness of the series is driving me nuts. I'm interested in a Bond film, not a FAMILY FILM!!! "},{"Title":"TND is slight step backwards after Goldeneye","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the awesome debut of Pierce Brosnan and the return of 007 in the thrilling Goldeneye, Tomorrow Never Dies is clearly a step in the wrong direction. Yes the gadgets were good and some of the action scenes were very well done (particularly the chase in the parking garage), but plot just was not up to the level of typical Bond flicks. I just couldn't take Jonathan Pryce seriously as a villain for one second. Overall this movie was really no different than any other action picture churned out by Hollywood and that's the problem, because Bond films should be a cut above those other films. TND sadly does not meet the 007 gold standard. "}{"Title":"Up with the best of the Bond flicks...","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan leaps into action as Agent 007 in this spectacular thrill ride of death-defying stunts and amazing high-tech gadgetry. In the most electrifying Bond film yet, the unstoppable action hero must prevent a tremendous global disaster ripped from tomorrow's headlines. Boasting stunning special effects, powerhouse action sequences including a wild motorcycle pursuit through (and over!) Saigon and exceptional performances by Jonathon Pryce, Teri Hatcher and international martial arts star Michelle Yeoh, Tomorrow Never Dies is a thrilling action-adventure.ONE OF THE BEST...  "},{"Title":"Excellent Bond thriller lacks originality.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  TOMORROW NEVER DIES has many very good aspects acting, direction, music, production design..., making it an excellent Bond thriller. Pierce Brosnan is definitely the new James Bond; Michelle Yeoh is a feminine Bond while Teri Hatcher is beautifully romantic and sad. Jonathan Pryce could have been a more threatening baddie (his intentions are frightening but I barely saw him being dangerous onscreen) but his team is convincing. David Arnold is not John Barry but his music is appropriate and efficient. And Roger Spottiswoode directs skillfully.The main flaw I noticed in TOMORROW NEVER DIES was its lack of originality almost any scene, any situation, seems to be directly inspired by an analogous scene or situation in a previous Bond movie the breathtaking precredits sequences looks like that of OCTOPUSSY; the underwater scenes reminded me of those from THUNDERBALL or FOR YOUR EYES ONLY; the final scenes onboard the ship come from THE SPY WHO LOVED ME (etc, etc)... But after 18 movies, how can a Bond film still be original?However, on the whole TOMORROW NEVER DIES works quite well, thus showing that what Bond needs is efficiency above all. James Bond will never die! (9/10) "},{"Title":"underrated, although the villain is very forgettable","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie has a lot going for it.. unlike Brosnan's last two outings as Bond there are no rubbish cgi effects sequences and everything looks pretty realistic. This was also Brosnan in his prime, he looks as he did in Goldeneye before he became older and slightly heavier Michelle Yeoh is also absolutely brilliant (as usual), and could quite capably take on the movie herself. This is before she went on to star in Crouching Tiger, and she looks gorgeous and very fit Teri Hatcher's character could've used more screen time as we never really learn much about her previous relations with Bond The one thing that spoils it is the villain who really is probably one of the worst Bond villains ever, some really cringe-worthy deliveries and overall a very forgettable performance.. normally it's a pity when the villains die, but when this guy got mangled I was overjoyed. If you were to take a great villain from a less good Bond movie, eg. Christopher Walken (View to a Kill), and put him in this it would be one of the best Bonds because it is otherwise very solid Overall Tomorrow Never Dies is a way above average Bond movie and deserves a higher rating. At 6.4 it rates as one of the worst Bonds which is just not the case, it's easily as good if not slightly better than The Living Daylights or For Your Eyes Only for example. Recommended "},{"Title":"Nice Action Makes This Worth Viewing","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) *** (out of 4) Pierce Brosnan's second attempt at James Bond has him going up against an evil media mogul (Jonathan Pryce) who plans to make China and the U.K. go to war so that he can get exclusive global coverage. TOMORROW NEVER DIES is a film that I actually enjoyed more than GOLDENEYE but I think it has very little in common with most Bond pictures. This film really plays out more like a mindless summer blockbuster as the story we're given is light to say the least and I also think it's one of the weakest in the series. Not to mention the fact that I had a very hard time believing a single inch of it and there are so many plot holes that I guess the producers didn't even try to bother explaining how all of this was going to be done without China and the U.K. seeing what was happening from a mile away. I guess if you believed the story then perhaps you'll enjoy the film even more. With that said, I found the film to be rather entertaining simply because it wasn't overlong like many in the series and I thought we were given some terrific action scenes. The opening sequence is a winner as they always are but there are a couple other bigger highlights. One deals with Bond and his helper (Michelle Yeoh) going down the side of a building and this is followed up by a pretty exciting motorcycle chase. The highlight of the film however has to be the sequence involving the driver-less car. Brosnan is certainly at comfort in the role as he delivers a winning performance. Pryce seems to be having a lot of fun in the evil role and Yeoh makes for a good sidekick. Teri Hatcher and Joe Don Baker are also good in their brief roles. Again, TOMORROW NEVER DIES isn't going to win any awards for brains but I think for an action film it was a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"You always were a cunning linguist, James","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's funny how the Brosnan Bond films, which I thought were genuinely cool when they were released, now kind of feel more dated than the ones with Sean Connery that were made more than 30 years earlier. That being said, Tomorrow Never Dies passes the time, despite containing some of the worst dialogue and/or puns the franchise put out pre-Die Another Day.After a rather badass opening sequence and a top-tier theme song by Sheryl Crow, this is basically the average bond fare, although the plot, where an unusually megalomaniacal media mogul, played by the ludicrously cartoonish Jonathan Pryce, aided by his unusually bland henchman Mr. Stamper (Götz Otto) is trying to start a new world war so that he can get exclusive TV rights in China, or something, makes me longing for the old Spectre days.If the plot and the sometimes poor writing drag the film down, the excellent set pieces keep it at a reasonable high level. Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh), who is one of the coolest female characters in a Bond film, provides a really good martial arts fight scene, and there is an exhilarating motorcycle sequence that belongs to the top chases in the series. Bond's remote car gadget is also put to great use in an extended garage segment. Pierce Brosnan might be one of my least favourite Bond actors, but those scenes are enough to make Tomorrow Never Dies my favourite film starring him as Bond. "},{"Title":"Erractic 2nd effort for Brosnan","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is the 2nd Bond flick to feature Pierce Brosnan. While Brosnan solidifies his role as a very strong Bond, the story around him is inconsistent and does not live up to the expectations after his premiere in GoldenEye. The story involves Bond investigating a series of military challenges between China and the UK which heightens tensions and could begin World War III. His investigations lead him into the world of multi-media mogul Elliot Carver (played by Jonathon Pryce in an obvious send-up of Rupert Murdoch). Along the way he meets up with a former lover, now Carver's wife (played by Terri Hatcher) and Chinese agent Wai Lin (played by Michelle Yeoh). Yeoh is fantastic as the Chinese agent and a perfect balance to Bond. The partnership they eventually form is well done. Hatcher is her usual mediocre self as a femme-fatale and Price parodies the extreme view of Murdoch in an over-the-top way which makes him less diabolical and more comical. The plot itself is reasonable and based somewhat in fact (a media giant trying to start a war for sales of his media- both Murdoch and Hearst could be rightly accused of it). The story also plays to the more espionage side of things rather than the super-agent stuff and the fight scenes are enjoyable to watch. Unfortunately, the stereotyped henchman (the big blonde, ueber-strong German and the pseudo ex-Nazi evil doctor) are bland and iconoclastic. The pacing is also off, and what little sombre emotions are meant to be developed get lost in false sentimentality rather than true sentiment. The relationship between Bond and former lover could have been done much better. While the plot is within the world of believability and the action is definitely there and exciting, the film's pace does not flow... too jumpy, hectic and violent to too quiet and too serene. The movie is an okay Bond film and, if you are into the Bond Films, it will not disappoint, but one is left after viewing(s) with the feeling that it could have been much better with a little effort. "},{"Title":"The Bond film of Bond films!!!","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I never knew the Sean Connery Bond. He was before my time. I grew up on Roger Moore and I will always remember those Bonds fondly. I know this will upset the Connery folk, but in my opinion Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond there will ever be. His look, his mannerisms, his delivery of those corny Bond witticisms, everything &#150; Pierce Brosnan is the ultimate James Bond and 'Tomorrow Never Dies' is the ultimate Bond Movie.The opening scene is better than most action flicks' finales. There is just enough build up and plot development for the viewer not to get bored &#150; coz when you go to a Bond film, you expect action from start to finish.The writers took the classic Bond formula and, without updating a thing, moved it into the 21st century. We have Jonathan Pryce as Eliot Carver, a media mogul with aspirations for World Domination. He has a child-like self-absorption and stubbornness.The henchman, Stamper, hasn't really got the eccentricity or charm of, say, Oddjob or Jaws, but this is made up by his mentor, Dr Kauffman (Vincent Schiavelli) &#150; Mr Bond, I am a professional. I could shoot you from Stuttgart and still create the proper effect. Unfortunately he is killed. I think this is a shame because I would have loved to see him as a regular in the franchise.Terri Hatcher is a memorable Bond girl, with a connection to Bond that gives him depth that is quite uncommon in these movies.There was a rumour that Michelle Yeoh (Wai Lin) would have a spin-off series (the same rumour was thrown around for what's-her-name is 'Die Another Day'). Her character, Wai Lin, is sexy, strong, and more than holds her own against Bond.The usual suspects are all here. Dame Judi Dench as M (please never leave us), Desmond Llewellyn as Q (may he rest in peace, and Samantha Bond as Moneypenny (God, she's sexy), all deliver Oscar worthy performances.The extras on the special edition DVD are good. The commentary is informative, but it is sorely lacking a 'Making Of', which is unfortunate. It is definitely worthy of anyone's collection no matter what their taste in movies.I regard this as the best Bond movie so far. If you've never seen a Bond film before (where have you been) this is the one to start with. It is the Bond film all Bond films should be measured against. "},{"Title":"More of an action movie than a James Bond film","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is the second outing for Pierce Brosnan as 007.This time around Bond has to prevent a Media Mogul from starting a war between Britain and China for ratings. As always Brosnan turns in an enjoyable performance, but Pierce will always be more Remington Steele than James Bond, and will never measure up to Sean Connery.The story is simple and less believable than most of the 007 plots and that is saying something. Yet the film is helped along by many exceptional action sequences, such as the pre-titles scene, the remote control car and the motorbike chase through Saigon.The villains are simple and one-dimensional as opposed to the previous more complicated Bond Villains.The Bond Girls in this picture (though not unattractive) are two of the worst characters in the franchise.I have seen every single James Bond film and this is not up to the standard of the average 007 flick. Tomorrow Never Dies is more of an action film than a James Bond film, and the script would have been better used as the next XXX film.If you are a fan of the series, do not put your hopes on this picture, but if you are a fan of fast,expensive, explosive action sequences this will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Better than Goldeneye, but marred by a terribly soulless final quarter.","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   After re-invigorating the Bond franchise with Goldeneye, Pierce Brosnan's next outing as 007 was Tomorrow Never Dies. The film is generally-speaking an improvement on its immediate predecessor, In fact, for an hour and a half or so, it is right up there among the best movies in the series, but the final quarter disappoints because it is played as cartoonified, comic-book heroics (more akin to something from a Stallone movie). 007 investigates the sinking of a British warship in neutral waters, apparently at the hands of the Chinese Air Force. He discovers that someone tampered with satellite tracking geographical equipment, making the Chinese think that the vessel had strayed into their waters when actually it hadn't. A newspaper group called Tomorrow seems to have an unnatural interest in the story, and 007 soon realises that the head-man at Tomorrow, Elliott Carver (Jonathan Pryce), may well be manipulating events so that he can generate some juicy exclusive headlines for his newspaper. But with Britain and China on the brink of war because of his games, will Carver stop before he has pushed both nations beyond the point of no return? The early scenes have a cool style and mood quite unique in a Bond movie, with some great, noirish scenes in Hamburg, and a ship-sinking sequence which is reminiscent of the start of The Spy Who Loved Me (only better). Midway through, there is a truly eye-popping motorbike sequence set in Vietnam which will leave you utterly breathless. Brosnan has an easy-going charm which suits the role, though frequently Pryce's villain seems to have unsuspectingly strolled in from some end-of-term pantomime. The weakness with Tomorrow Never Dies is definitely the climax. Having shown Bond to be vulnerable in earlier scenes, and having set up a suspenseful dilemma, the closing sequence goes so far beyond escapism that it becomes insulting, and the sense of real suspense is replaced by mindless spectacle. Still a good film, but such a shame about that last bit..... "},{"Title":"Unenjoyable romp","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The better the Bond villain, the better the film it seems. This is where Tomorrow Never Dies founders. It's not simply that actor Jonathan Pryce offers a pantomime turn as media mogul Elliot Carver (if you want to see a better performance in a similar role, remember Ed Harris as Christoff in The Truman Show). No, the problem is that Carver is meant to be a world famous media mogul, but we've never heard of him. We don't expect to be aware of villains like Dr No, Red Grant, Sanchez or Alec Trevelyn when they appear. But to have a supposedly well-known but fictional media figure as chief nemesis undermines credibility from the start. When exactly is all this meant to happen? Elements of Bond's world are fantasy, but he's not supposed to inhabit a totally alternate reality. Of course, Carver's world famous newspaper Tomorrow doesn't exist either. So Bond's mission is rendered largely hypothetical.Despite director Roger Spottiswoode's attempt to make Tomorrow Never Dies a standardised, gritty Hollywood blockbuster, the absence of a realistic premise means that it all comes across as an Arnie B-movie (Spottiswoode actually went on to help Arnie's lacklustre The Sixth Day). That said, the faults are a contrast to those of GoldenEye. Pierce Brosnan's debut had two standout action scenes and some interesting changes of location, but was too self-conscious and hampered by lame dialogue - little more than a series of soundbites strung together. Tomorrow Never Dies is more streamlined, but throws Bond out with the bathwater by being just another Hollywood action film. The colour tone seems to be grey-light blue throughout, with none of the vibrancy of films like Goldfinger, Live and Let Die and For Your Eyes Only (this is a problem with all the Brosnan Bond flicks). And all in all, the humour and fun just isn't there. The 40-year baggage that comes with being James Bond means he lacks the built-in believability of a first-time action hero (eg Bruce Willis in the first Die Hard). You can't make a Bond outing like a standard Hollywood thriller - the same rules don't apply. Factor in that the villain obviously doesn't exist, either now or in the near future, and it all adds up to fairly unenjoyable romp. "}{"Title":"Come back Timothy Dalton - please!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, Goldeneye was Brosnan's first so I was willing to let him work himself into the role. However, TND is his second effort and he demanded a script re-write so he really has to carry the can on this one. I like Brosnan; he is handsome, personable, and has a nice line in self-parody.Unfortunately, he is not James Bond. He has no air of physical danger, no ruthless eyes and a rather cruel mouth (Ian Fleming's description. Remember him? He wrote a few books about Bond.) Brosnan goes through the motions of sex and action - but where's the spark? Even my dear wife (whose idea of a classic film means a Doris Day musical) remarked He's not much of a Bond.To get Bond back on track we need to rediscover the toughness and unpredictability of Timothy Dalton's portrayal. Without this the films will slip back into the Roger Moore trap of spectacle without personality.(By the way, at one point Bond makes a quip about Carver's edifice complex. Paul Newman makes the same remark to William Holden in 'Towering Inferno'. I suppose great minds think alike....) "},{"Title":"Peirce Brosnan's second stab at James Bond.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let's face it, Peirce will go down in history as the best James Bond. Tomorrow Never Dies is now, thanks to The World is not Enough, the second best Bond film. The top three Bond films are all with Peirce Brosnan, coinsedence? I think not. This time around, 007 is joined, literaly, with the beautiful Michelle Yeoh to defeat Elliot Carver and keep WWIII from breaking out between the Brit's and the Chinese. This movie was filmed just at the peak of Teri Hatcher's (T.V.'s Adventures of Superman)career. She is as beautiful as ever in her role as Elliot Carver's sexy wife, Paris. by the end of this movie you will be on the edge of your seat, and if you can find a better helicopter/motorcycle scene in any other film, please e-mail me. "},{"Title":"Oh grow up, 007!","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is back, carrying the license to kill for thesecond time as one of the best 007's there are. In TomorrowNever Dies, James Bond is assigned to eliminate a maniacalmedia mogul named Carver (Jonathan Pryce, whose as nutty as hewas in Brazil) who wants to start a huge world war by creatingsensational international hoaxes, and also to make better newsstories. With the help of a Chinese secret agent named Wai-Lin(Michelle Yeoh) and a sultry ex-lover of his (the hot TeriHatcher), Bond lays waste and saves the world. What else is new?Though not good as Goldeneye, this Bond flick is still goodand satisfying, using nice elements such as a chopper/motorcycleduel in the streets of Saigon, and charming performances byBrosnan and Hatcher. But it didn't really float my boat asGoldeneye did. I was shaken, but  "},{"Title":"the most un-original James Bond movie in the world--ever!","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye was good. The plot wasn't very strong, but then after 16 previous Bond excursions we must have been getting used to it. But after waiting 6 years and being served a reasonably good film, and thinking that all Bond's troubles were over (off-screen, obviously), then came along Tomorrow Never Dies.Um, well, what can I say?PLOT - mad business tycoon wants to start World War III for personal gain (Come on! We've seen this at least 3 times before, and I think James Bond must think there's a conspiracy theory against him or something.)CHARACTERS - James Bond, the suave, sexy secret agent (immortal by the looks of it too); Wai Lin, his tough, PC sidekick (has a pretty good pair too); Elliot Carver, mad, ruthless, delusional, low IQ (thinks he can kill Bond); M, James Bond's commanding officer, always finds James Bond annoying; Stamper, a cut-down Hans (remember Hans - he's the big, blonde, muscular, silent, Nordic bloke who James Bond had a little tiff with near the end of You Only Live Twice).PRE-CREDIT SEQUENCE - James Bond rudely interrupts a terrorist bring-and-buy sale. (Pierce Brosnan is the only person who gives a good performance here, Judy Dench is quite bad and everyone else is bad!)JOKES - the first joke bad. And they just get worse, until, finally we think we've heard them all and at the end Bond makes the worst pun ever.Q - James Bond's scenes with him are the only ones worth watching.Oh I give up. Just don't watch this. Better was yet to come. "},{"Title":"An excellent return to the fun action movie series with enjoyable acting, great effects and an awesome music score.","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is an excellent Bond movie where the action doesn't seem to stop.  Mr. Brosnan is in perfect form filling the role easily.  It has more action than emotion but that doesn't make it a bad movie.  In fact it makes it a very fun movie. Jonathan Pryce plays a great villain along with Gotz Otto who is a very memorable goon-villain.  Teri Hatcher and Michelle Yeoh are sexy and beautiful Bond babes who each fill a different role that makes the movie fun. I especially enjoyed the music score from David Arnold much better that Eric Serra's score from Goldeneye.  Mr. Arnold seems to know exactly where the Bond theme need to go and when.  He is a perfect composer for the Bond Series.  Excellent Movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining?  Yea that's for sure.  Best bond film?  Not even on the top 10","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm quite surprised to see the amount of praise for this film.  After Goldeneye, one with a solid plot but slow action (still however a pretty good Bond) they wanted to get Bond back into the Roger Moore era with a lot of action and even more gadgets.  This isn't exactly a bad thing, I mean For Your Eyes Only and The Spy Who Loved Me are some of the best of the series.  But what is bad with Tomorrow Never Dies is that they forgot to get an actual plot and even worse, they forgot to add any suspense at all.This will probubly be the worst of the Pierce Brosnan films (he still has at least one more coming).  Pierce himself is fitting into the role nicely even though his one-liners still aren't delivered nearly as good as Sean Connery.  The action scenes are it's main ingrediant.  It has a really good opening (to me they just seem to get better every time), a car chase that's killer, and a motorcycle scene which is also kick ass.  And they are fun to watch, but Bond was never put in the slightest bit of danger, he got his way out of everything like it was nothing and he hardly even got a scratch on his face until the end of the film.Next up are the women.  Goldeneye had two very fine looking Bond girls but this one seemed to forget about that.  Teri Hatcher?  Come on!  She looks descent but she's not at all exotic or sexy like all of the previous Bond girls.  And then we got Michelle Yeoh who I love to watch in action but would defintly not think of her as a Bond girl.  Honestly, did anyone who saw The World Is Not Enough even remember these women in Tomorrow Never Dies after they saw it?  All the women at the casino in The World Is Not Enough blew these ones away, not to mention Denise Richards.But now there's the plot.  And it's the worst of just about any of them.  A media guy in charge of a tv program/newspaper?  AGAINST JAMES BOND?  Does that make any sense to anyone?  We got James taking out people left and right like Oddjob, Dr. No, Jaws, and who could forget the assassin on the train in From Russia With Love.  But now he's going up against a wimp who only has one big henchman who never puts away his gun.  This was a very poor idea, especially one following Goldeneye.Overall it still is a James Bond film.  By that I mean it's very fun and entertaining to watch.  It's not as bad as Moonraker or A View To A Kill but it's in the lower 5 I feel.  For a good Brosnan film, rent Goldeneye.  For an outstanding Brosnan film, go see The World Is Not Enough.  "},{"Title":"SURRENDER","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  T.N.D. is the best Bond in 30 years.Not since the majestic You Only Live Twice has there  been such a successful cohesion of performance,plot,music and action to bring 007's exploits to the screen.After the moderate but average Goldeneye,Pierce Brosnan made the Bond role his own.One more performance like this in as great a movie as this and he may well eclipse Connery. A pre credits sequence of exceptional bravado launches 007 into one of his most spectacular adventures as he battles media tycoon Elliott Carver,played with just the right touch of megalomania by Johnathan Pryce.The female lead is Hong Kong action heroine Michelle Yeoh who almost steals the movie with her commanding presence.She holds the screen just by being still,never mind the impact of her dazzling kung fu moves. Rightfully though,the film belongs to Brosnan,witty,sardonic and athletic he is the essence of Bond;like no other since Lazenby he handles himself beautifully in the action scenes,particularly in the almost Wagnerian excesses of the big climax in Carver's stronghold.Here we get what we want and need from a Bond finale;fistfights,gunbattles,big explosions and confrontations and finally Bond and the heroine floating to safety on a boat whilst all hell breaks loose around them. The only thing that detracts from this splendid movie is the absolutely appalling title song by Sheryl Crow.You could hear this a 1000 times and not remember a thing about it.Not so,however,with k.d.Laing's explosive finale song Surrender.This is a big,powerful piece that punches home like a right hook from Mr.Kiss,Kiss,Bang,Bang himself.After this,the world is not enough! "},{"Title":"formulaic, but then so are the Haydn symphonies...","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sure the Bond movies are formulaic, but what a formula! Tomorrow Never Dies continues in the well-established James Bond tongue-in-cheek tradition of absurd heroics, over-the-edge technology, over-the-top action, villains you love to hate, women you'd love to love (sorry ladies; you're probably not interested in these 'guy flicks' anyway), explosions that are just short of nuclear, state-of-the-art chase scenes, exotic locales, world-threatening crises, ribald double-entendres, and self-lampooning dialogue that have made the 007 films of Albert R. Broccoli R.I.P. such an ongoing hit over the years.No one will ever replace Sean Connery in my book, but Pierce Brosnan is as worthy a successor as we're likely to get. 'Q' - he must be 120 by now - puts in his usual grumpy bit (Oh, grow up Bond). In this post-Cold War era it's always a challenge to come up with new villains and in this story it's - surprise! - international media conglomerates, with Jonathan Pryce as an obvious stand-in for Rupert Murdoch. A lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better.","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Bond Franchise is given a 130 million dollar kick up the backside, and it shows. Spectacluar in every sense. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After seeing the Jackal last week, and hating it I went to see Tomorrow never dies as you can usually rely on the bond films bringing you two hours of good action.  That's exactly what you get with this latest edition and more.  The stunts are absolutely incredible, the acting is good and the BMW car can do just about anything.  The only down side, if you could call it that is the story line was a bit far fetched.  As for everything else though, no complaints.  I though Pierce Brosnan has grown in the bond role and play's the part superbly, and will definitely not be replaced for the next film.  Anyway to the plot.  A British boat is sank off the coast of China while in international waters, or so they think.  Actually someone had tampered with the satellites and the British boat was actually in Chinese waters.  While the Chinese were threatening to fire at the ship an invisible stealth boat under the command of media tycoon Jonathan Pryce fired at the British ship so they would think that the Chinese had done it, retaliate and therefore world war three would break out.  Your asking yourself what would someone want to create WW3.  Well it's simple enough.  He has the newspaper rights to every country in the world, except China who will not sign.  So by creating WW3 China will be turmoil and he can bring in his own leader, General Chang who he has as a deal with to head China and get the newspaper rights for the next hundred years.  Some people are never satisfied.  So M played by Judy Dench is given forty eight hours to investigate what is going on, by sending in 007.  He goes from place to place causing havoc wherever he goes and along the way teams up with a women from the chinese national party (Michelle Yeoh), who also has the same objective, to stop WW3.  Teri Hatcher (superman ) plays a small part as Jonathan Pryce's wife and an old friend of 007.  This film will keep you glued to your seats for two hours guaranteed.  I give this film an EIGHT out of ten.  "}{"Title":"Best of Brosnan","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Perhaps not the best Bond but the best of Pierce Brosnan. The story reminds me a bit of the 007 golden days in the cold-war, now the confrontation is not between West and Soviets but West and China but behind the whole thing is the crazy media-mogul. The story is going smooth forward and the action is presence in a way it only can be in a Bond-movie. The characters are also quite good, especially the professional killer Dr. Kaufman is great and also hilarious. I think the Bond-girls are now a bit more in the background but it doesn't matter so much. Connery and Moore are the best Bonds but this is definitely Brosnan's best 007! "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I received every movie in the James Bond DVD collection (the one with seven movies) for my birthday except for The Man with The Golden Gun, there were three movies in the set that I hadn't seen. The first one I checked out was Tomorrow Never Dies, and I loved it. Our piece of trash DVD player kept freezing, but I managed to watch the whole thing to the end. The movie kicks off with Bond investigating a terrorist arms market somewhere in Russia and has to escape being blown up by a missile launched by a ship at sea. This scene is great, and after the cool animations and the pretty good theme song by Sheryl Crow, things really start to heat up. Media mogul Elliot Carver, played excellently by Jonathan Pryce, is bent on starting an entire news network that reports nothing but bad news. Carver is trying to get Britain and China to attack each other and start a new world war. All this is great, but there are a few disappointments. For one, I think Paris Carver should have been given more time in the movie. Her character could really have played a great part in the end. There also should have been another action scene or two sandwiched somewhere in the movie. However, this is a still great movie that I recommend. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Oh my god !","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Mm, I actually looked forward to seeing this movie. Well now after I´ve seen it I can´t do anything but laugh. We are talking Bond movies, but this is a not a Bond movie it´s just a boring action movie that makes no sense at all. Pierce Brosnan really sucks as James Bond Well U know I love Bond movies except this one and Goldeneye. these I just can't stand. So if you are thinking of seeing a  Bondmovie then see the best of them For your eyes only(1981) with Roger Moore (the best) Tomorrow Never Dies is a 0/10 in points  "},{"Title":"Bond...You Know the Rest","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I love that! )Anyway, I must say that this is so far the best of the Brosnan pictures and one of the most exciting ones in the series. The gadgets, the babes, the humor, the action, it's all here! Except a good villain and henchman. Regardless that is not missed. 4(****)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"A two hour long commercial","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is possibly the worst Bond movie in the hitherto (in my opinion) highly enjoyable series. Although I own a BMW, I quickly got sick of seeing the BMW emblem emblazoned on each possible item in the movie. It was completely ridiculous. At certain points the camera shots were so obviously centered around a certain brand that towards the end it seemed like one long commercial. Whereas before, advertising in the series was more subtle (Rolex and Smirnoff) now it has become the big star in the movie instead of Pierce Brosnan.I enjoyed Goldeneye immensely, but this was a flop. The only good thing about the movie was Michelle Yeoh (but the martial arts cinematography did not detail the action as well as a Hong Kong cinematographer would). Dismal. Completely dismal.  "},{"Title":"Irredeemably dumb","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies manages to top Diamonds are Forever and J.W. Pepper as the dumbest thing to happen to Bond's cinematic incarnation, until Die Another Day came along, that is. It's blisteringly, unrelentingly, unbelievably stupid from start to finish. Yes, I've heard the defenses it's a Bond film, what do you expect? seems to be a popular one. What's even sadder is that certain people relish this stupidity, and wish that this was how most Bond films were.I hate to say it, as he is a friendly and intelligent person and based on what those who are properly acquainted with him say, a remarkably professional and careful director, but Roger Spottiswoode's work as director here is poor for the most part, with the exception of the one truly great sequence in the film- the chase scene with Michelle Yeoh tied to Bond on a motorbike (probably thanks to a second-unit director anyway). It's not a confidently directed movie at all, and only looks somewhat good thanks to Robert Elswit's photography.I wish the direction at least was good, as it is hard to compound how atrocious this script is. The vast majority of the dialogue is among the most ridiculous you've ever heard (no, seriously, take a Michael Bay film and dumb down the worst scene then you've got Tomorrow Never Dies for basically its entirety). What's most insulting about this script is that Bond barely features in it. Oh, sure, Bond is present in most scenes, but for all he actually does and says it could have been just about anyone in the scene. He speaks strictly in short sentences the writer thought were witty or clever (boy, was he wrong), or partakes in action scenes. I've always defended Brosnan's Bond, but I realize now that I am defending his better Bond, and not the terribly-written and lazily performed version present in this flick and Die Another Day. What's going on here? Let's end this with some positive comments The score is good. It's much, much better than the GoldenEye score (oh why couldn't they have hired David Arnold for that movie?), and relies heavily on Barry-like arrangements of the Monty Norman theme, but the original parts are nice too. There are a couple of solid action scenes, and the motorbike chase really is terrific, but this movie is too dumb and too awkwardly-directed for it to work on any level.3/10 "},{"Title":"Brosnan's second Bond outing somehow falls flat","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With so many James Bond movies out there, it can be hard to keep them straight. TOMORROW NEVER DIES is the second one to feature Pierce Brosnan as 007 and is the eighteenth Bond film overall. It's the one with the evil news media empire, the motorcycle chase through Saigon, Teri Hatcher, the printing press, the secret Vietnamese headquarters, Michelle Yeoh, the stealth boat base, and the hi-tech remote-control talking BMW.Pierce Brosnan is back with all of his MI6 buddies from GOLDENEYE (1995). He's joined by Michelle Yeoh as a Chinese agent who knows a thing or two about the espionage racket (and kung-fu). Joe Don Baker reprises his role as CIA operative Jack Wade. Teri Hatcher plays Bond's old flame, now married to the film's chief villain. Jonathan Pryce plays the megalomaniacal media mogul who shapes world news in a bid for global domination.For whatever reason, this Bond adventure has never really stood out for me. It just falls flat somewhere. The action plays out like a video game escape the pursuers, make the jump, defeat the henchmen, plant the bomb, reach the checkpoint, destroy the enemy base, etc. The climax on the stealth boat is especially clichéd and video game-y. I wasn't crazy about the master villain, either. (A nerd plotting to start World War Three in order to secure exclusive broadcast rights?) Occasionally I found the film unintentionally silly and the added romantic moments did not work for me. Some of David Arnold's sweeping orchestral score seemed out of place.I don't know. I guess this film's just not one of my favorite Bonds. Sure, there's plenty of larger-than-life action, fun spy gadgetry, and signature cheesy dialogue (all James Bond staples). The way it's all handled just doesn't work for me. Everyone has his or her preferred James Bond films. Personally, I'd look elsewhere for my Bond fix.There are a couple exciting sequences, like the showdown between the motorcycle and the helicopter and the parking garage chase, and I thought Michelle Yeoh did a good job as a competent female counterpart for Bond. (I like when Bond allies himself with female agents who can take care of themselves.) But I was underwhelmed by the film overall. The messy climax, in particular, dropped my rating.With over twenty 007 movies to choose from, TOMORROW NEVER DIES is one of the more forgettable installments.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Best Bond Movie with Pierce Brosnan","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I had written a review earlier saying it was the best Bond Movie but I should have said with Pierce Brosnan in it. This is by far the best of his Bond movies. Most People think Goldeneye is the best because of its more complex plot. I think that may have made a problem because the movie was very slow paced in areas. Tomorrow has a much more simple plot and it has two great Bond Girls. Teri Hatcher who plays Bonds ex-girlfriend is extremely sexy. Michelle Yeoh who plays Wai Lin is not as sexy as Teri hatcher but she is a lethal bitch (She is Bond's equal).Tommorow features some of the best action scenes and the best gadgets in a Bond Movie. Also, the best car since the Aston Martin in Goldfinger. Overall, TND is a well paced, well planned Bond movie and its Brosnan's best. The other two dont come close to it, well TWINE is very good and also well paced but D.A.D. is just a ripoff of I dont know how many classic Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Can the success continue?","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the tremendous success of Goldeneye, could the producers continue moving the franchise in the right direction? YOU BETTER BELIEVE IT! Just when you thought Goldeneye delivered all the excitement and true essence of BOND you could have ever hoped for, we get something that, depending on your tastes, is far more exciting than its predecessor. WE get Tomorrow Never Dies. Pierce plays the role far more confidently in this film, and it shows. This film has so many great moments, It's really hard not to list them here. Bond's BMW is unbelievable! The cast is excellent and there's a cool aura surrounding this film. From the cleverly placed Bond theme, to the traditions you've grown to love, its hard not to enjoy yourself while watching this film. The Brosnan Era was a golden age for the franchise. Each film gave us something new. Something grand. Never cheap on Action, excitement, suspense, humor, or beautiful ladies, these films are the representation of what makes JAMES BOND the icon he is today. The all important fun factor is on full throttle here, and honestly, what's missing in the new films. "},{"Title":"Probably the best James Bond movie","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie takes us through a wide range of different places, such as Germany or China. As it's usual in James Bond's movies. The soundtrack could have been more active in certain sequences, but all in all it was pretty acceptable. This is another excellent Hollywood action flick. That's why Hollywood is so successful.The fantastic car Bond learns to drive in five minutes is a good part of this entertaining movie. Although the best leading role is Michelle Yeoh, no doubt about it! She is a gorgeous Chinese woman who has the ability of making every movie a worth-see. That's why I decided to purchase this movie. And also because of another gorgeous American actress, Teri Hatcher, whose eyes makes you dream in fantasy.The rest of the movie can be pretty unbelievable, but the important thing is that you enjoy your pop-corn while cheering for James Bond! And celebrate he finally takes the girl ( Michelle Yeoh) "}{"Title":"A Run and Gun Movie........... and Nothing More","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a good movie and all but this isn't a James Bond like movie. You take a war plot....... with an Sylvester Stallone gun fights and you just add bond into it. Brosnan does a good job here.......... you cant notice his age and he doesn't shove the one liners down our throats like Moore. I think the bad parts of this movie were the useless henchman who gets little buildup and doesn't do anything but stand around and look tough. I hated this air thin plot because the main villain completely destroys it. The villain should do something evil or have a nice background and buildup but this villain is just irritating and boring. Michelle Yeoh is OK here but you can tell that she doesn't have any chemistry with Brosnan and you barely know what shes doing. I enjoyed the remote control car sequences (including the hilarious part with Q). The best part was the the car chase with Bond using the remote control to drive. I was a little surprised at how they changed Bond to using machine guns and killing people without a heart or hesitation. The theme song was good as were some of the action scenes, It just doesn't feel like a Bond film. "},{"Title":"Though Ms. Moneypenny says, You are a cunning . . . ","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  . . . linguist, James, this Bond is more of a boy who cried wolf. As Hollywood's Charles Foster Kane stood in for real-life Sociopathic media mogul William Randolph Hearst, TOMORROW NEVER DIES dresses up actual Fox News tycoon Rupert Murdoch in Steve Jobs' duds, and calls its megalomaniac Murdoch clone Elliot Carver. Carver plots to put his pawn in power in China to boost the world-wide ratings for his Satellite News Network. Polls show many if not most Americans feel that Murdoch conspired with his plant in the White House to orchestrate the 9-11 attacks to boost ratings for Fox News and Fox shows, such as 24. Seen in this light, TOMORROW NEVER DIES was released much closer to its projected 2001 doomsday year than George Orwell's 1949 alarm bell novel, 1984. But, as America turned a deaf ear toward Britain's Orwell (who was tarred and feathered as Un-American by ACTUAL fascists in Congress), the U.S. was equally oblivious to the underlying warnings embedded within TOMORROW NEVER DIES. As a direct result of this ostrich-like behavior, the promise of brighter Tomorrows died for the United States. One might blame this unfortunate turn of events on American naiveté, its tradition of bullying Truth-sayers, or it's addiction to what Republican President Eisenhower labeled the military\industrial complex. Just don't blame James Bond for saying I told you so. "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For the first half of its length this is a terrific Bond movie fast, funny, clever, exciting, glamorous and full of intrigue to keep everyone happy. Moreover, its commentary on the power of media and its abuse of public consciousness is cunningly and caustically composed, played like an Oliver Stone conspiracy theory. And then, in a sloppy and perfunctory second half set in Vietnam, the whole falls apart with indignity. Direction becomes discomfited, the script is written on foot, the action succumbs to horrid slo-mo and dull martial arts derring-do, and Bond himself gets to deliver some of the worst one-liners in the series. A missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"One of the best action-intensive Bond films","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is directed by Roger Spottiswoode. The film stars Pierce Brosnan and co-stars Jonathan Pryce, Michelle Yeoh, Teri Hatcher, Ricky Jay, Gotz Otto, Joe Don Baker, Vincent Schiavelli, Judi Dence, Desmond Llewelyn, Samantha Bond, Colin Salmon, Geoffrey Palmer, Julian Fellowes. David Arnold contributes the film's score and Sheryl Crow sings the title song. K.D. Lang and Moby also make contributions. Following a mission to an arms bazaar, in which he successfully stops a potential nuclear disaster, James Bond is given another assignment. Elliot Carver, one of the most-renowned media moguls in the world, has recently published a report on a disaster in the South China Sea. However, M becomes suspicious when his publications all get their information suspiciously fast, so Bond is sent to investigate. Teaming up with a Chinese agent, Bond pursues this new threat, who is ultimately trying to turn the east and west against each other, and start another world war. Tomorrow Never Dies is a far cry from other James Bond films, because it's more of a straight action film, with far less emphasis on espionage. What's even more surprising is that this change of pace still makes for an enjoyable film. It's not quite the masterpiece Goldeneye was before it, but it's still one of the above-average entries in the series. Once again Pierce Brosnan is excellent as Bond. Easily one of the best actors to play the role, he wins the audience over in scene after scene. Whether he's trying to woo over Carver's wife to get information out of her or in the midst of a motorcycle chase in eastern Asia, he gives another great Bond performance here. And yet again, the supporting cast is brilliant. Jonathan Pryce does a great job as Elliot Carver, James Bond's latest nemesis. I'm not sure how best to describe his performance or character, but I'll put it this way - this is one of the more memorable Bond villains of recent years. Also great is Michelle Yeoh, who portrays Bond's Chinese ally in the battle against Carver and his schemes. As tough and daring than Bond, she's a great character and steals the show in every scene she is featured in. Some brief but still memorable roles include Joe Don Baker reprising his role as CIA agent Jack Wade, and Vincent Schiavelli as an assassin hired by Carver. Great cast, need I say more? As far as action scenes go, this film offers more of them than a good many Bond films, and these are some of the finest around. Amongst the great scenes are its pre-credits scene with Bond attempting to stop a nuclear disaster, a motorcycle chase through an Asian village, and of course, the final battle in Carver's ocean hideaway. You'll never take your eyes off the screen. The only real weakness with this film is its plot. The whole turning two nations against each other to start another world war thing essentially carbon-copied from You Only Live Twice - Carver is trying to do the same thing Blofeld tried in that earlier film. Likewise, the tomorrow's news today thing is nothing new. Still, there aren't enough issues here to derail the film. This was the first James Bond film to be scored by David Arnold, now the regular scorer of Bond films. Unlike the experimental and often ill-received Eric Serra score from the previous Bond outing, Goldeneye, Arnold's score is vintage Bond. He borrows heavily from John Barry's style and, of course, reprises Monty Norman's classic Bond theme. He puts his own unique spin on things as well, giving this classical-styled music a modern twist. The multi-talented Sheryl Crow performs the title song, one of the best Bond opening themes of recent years. Equally impressive is the film's closing credits song, Surrender, performed by K.D. Lang. And also not to be overlooked in the music is a remix of the James Bond theme done by Moby - which is better than you might think! There is a lot of great music here, adding to an already-great film. Ultimately, Tomorrow Never Dies is a success. It's not the most plot-intensive Bond film out there, but that doesn't matter. This is an above-average Bond film with action scenes galore, and a memorable cast of characters in every scene. Easily one of the best post-eighties Bond films. Thumbs up This film, like all of the other official EON productions, was remastered and reissued in 2006. Be sure to get one of the new remastered versions, because the frame-by-frame remaster job is incredible. "},{"Title":"Not a Goldeneye, but a good film.","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I loved Peirce Brosnan's first film as James Bond. It was such an awesome film with edge of your seat action and it was sexy. Tomorrow never dies is Brosnan's second film as Bond. This time, it's not quite as good. It's not a bad film either, it's got plenty of fun and entertainment for a Bond film, but something is not quite there. I don't know what it is. Michelle Yeoh is sort of silly as the Bond girl. In my opinion, Johnathan Pryce isn't that evil as a villain. His plan is somewhat evil but he doesn't seem that evil. Well, the bastard does kill his own wife so he's not that good. I'm sorry for saying that.Tomorrow never dies has all the thrills, action, and fun of a Bond film. But something about it seems missing. The last half hour is really cool. I give it a thumbs up, but the film isn't the best. Alright, there is nothing really wrong with the film. I can't state any reasons for what I said. so there is nothing really wrong with the film, I just didn't think it was as good as Goldeneye. I am not blaming the movie, I am blaming myself.Tomorrow never dies***/**** "},{"Title":"Not a patch on Goldeneye","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I remember seeing TND in the cinema and at the time I was rather impressed. That was 12 years ago and I have grown up considerably since then. Now every time I watch it I despise it more. TND had so much potential, the opening sequence was rather good(but not as good as Brosnan entry sequence in Goldeneye). After the first twenty minutes it all goes downhill and the rest of the movie is too over reliant on action sequences(in particular the scene with Bond and the girl on the motorbike). Then there is Jonathan Pryce who hams it up as media baron Eliott Carver. There isn't even a good henchman and we as the audience have to settle for a pouty schoolboy named Stamper. Bond movies have always been known for sexy Bond girls in the case of TND never dies there is Terri Hatcher who looked phenomenal(shame they had to kill her off so soon in the movie). TND is my second favourite Brosnan Bond movie, which isn't exactly a compliment. "},{"Title":"Tomorrow Never Dies - Brilliant Bond Film","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I only watched this bond film for the first time very recently, and i must say, my feelings to actually initiating viewing the film were mixed. these mixed feelings were caused by the rather horrible the World is not Enough, and Quantum of Solace which was just a major disappointment in all respects. But then there was the captivating and thrilling Golden Eye and Casino Royale which ushered in the new James Bond with a sense of all encompassing coolness. and now Tomorrow never dies. i took a gamble with this film and it really payed off. Tomorrow Never Dies is thrilling, very, very funny at times and the Brosnan bond is at his very best. Most of the supporting actors/actresses were top notch, and the directing spot on. One aspect of this film is the Bond gadgetry used. It must be said that bond gadgets were not used very frequently in Golden Eye, which may have been a good thing ,it helped put more focus on the thrilling plot and bond himself. In Tomorrow Never Dies, one does get the impression that there is a focus on gadgets, which is welcome, the gadgets aid the plot with creating a sense of a truly super cool bond.Another aspect that must be mentioned is the humor. From all the other bond movies i have seen, maybe its just me, but i got the distinct impression that bond has no sense of humor. That was one of the biggest surprises when i first viewed this film. Humor in some action films, however, can take away the action and the thrilling suspense. In Tomorrow Never Dies, however, the humor emphasizes that bond is very cool.This movie is Bond at his most brilliant . If you haven't seen it, watch it. You will not regret it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"007 Tomorrow Might Die!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Plot A deranged media mogul is staging international incidents to pit the world's superpowers against each other. Now 007 (Pierce Brosnan) must take on this evil mastermind in an adrenaline charged battle to end his reign of terror and prevent global pandemonium.My Spiel I have to say I really enjoyed this movie, it is my favorite Brosnan 007 movie. Not sure why but I just liked the style, enemies, and vehicles. Tomorrow Never Dies from beginning to the end had it all it was full of thrill's that I could get behind. Granted it had some cheesy parts but its all fair in a 007 movie when they are thinking up the impossible. But the part that made me wonder was the main villain media mogul Elliot Carver would even be near let alone in the stealth sub, If I were as rich and powerful as him I would be far away from any of that. But hey 007 has to get his man. But don't let what I say spoil the movie. This was a blast to watch and clocking in at around 2 hours its a enjoyable watch.007 Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) Review 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good follow up to GoldenEye","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Unfortunately I never got to see this at the cinema. I did rent it out though once it was released (back in the days of VHS!!). On the first viewing as an 11 year old I liked the film but I didn't like it as much as GoldenEye (that had been my first ever cinematic Bond adventure and I loved the N64 game). These days I see it has a classic Bond adventure, its got the gadgets, the diabolical villain, and the best Bond since Sean Connery, though it lacks a classic Bond girl, has Teri Hatchers role was very small (though I did love the scene in the hotel room, classic Bond moment there) and Michelle Yeoh was not a Bond girl in any sense, but I did love her part as it brought something different to the franchise. The actions scenes are top notch (and over the top but thats the fun of watching a James Bond film). The car chase and then later on the bike chase are fantastic scenes, and Pierce Brosnan is just so suave as 007. There's two types of Bond adventures, the classic Bond (GOLDFINGER, THE SPY WHO LOVED ME for example) and then the more gritty Bond (CASINO ROYALE, LICENCE TO KILL, FROM Russia WITH LOVE). This falls into the classic Bond. I do like both types, as it always keep the Bond series fresh as it changes over the decades. If your a Bond fan who doesn't like the classic Bond then this isn't a film for you, your best sticking to the (FOR YOUR EYES ONLY, CASINO ROYALE) gritty Bonds. But if you like a good old classic James Bond adventure then this is for you. 8/10 "},{"Title":"There are worse films in the franchise, but this installment brought it downhill again after Brosnan's first","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the second Bond film of four starring Pierce Brosnan, the fifth actor to play the role in the official movies. It's also the eighteenth installment in the franchise. Brosnan's first stint in the role, 1995's GoldenEye (the first of the 90's films in the franchise), perhaps turned out to be the best Bond film since the 1970's. However, after that film, this 1997 follow-up showed the franchise taking a couple steps down again. While Tomorrow Never Dies is better than a number of its predecessors, especially Roger Moore's last couple ones, its lack of consistency makes it a little weak.Elliot Carver is a powerful, megalomaniac media baron whose broadcasting can reach the entire world, with the exception of China, where it is rejected by the country's current leaders. Determined to reach China so he can feed his ego, he plans to start a war between China and the United Kingdom, to put an end to the current regime in the eastern country! After a British battleship goes under in Chinese waters, evidence suggests that Carver was behind it, so James Bond is sent to investigate. On the mission, he meets a former lover of his, Paris Carver, who is now married to Elliot, and attempts to get information from her. Eventually, Bond meets Chinese agent Wai Lin, and together they must stop Elliot Carver from carrying out his evil plans, before it's too late! This eighteenth official Bond film has another action packed opening sequence. The opening sequence of this particular film makes it look promising, but after that, it seems to go downhill rather quickly, and doesn't pick up again until later (if it didn't pick up again at all, I couldn't rate it higher than 5/10). An example of a dull moment is the romantic scene between Bond and Paris Carver. Teri Hatcher doesn't put on a very good performance as Paris, and it's probably a good thing the character isn't in the movie for very long. There is some humour here and there, including a scene with Bond and Q (no surprise there), but that's not enough to make up for the lack of excitement. I found that the film finally picks up again when Bond and Wai Lin start fighting off enemies together (they make a good pair). I'm not sure why, since there is some action beforehand. After that started, I think I found the rest of the film pretty exciting, but this was a while into it.While some don't like Pierce Brosnan as James Bond, I think he was a fine choice for the role, but just because he can play the part doesn't mean this is a very good film. Sometimes in the franchise, a good film can come, but then the next one can turn out to be a significant drop from that one, and unfortunately, I think that's the case with this one coming after GoldenEye. Tomorrow Never Dies is certainly not the weakest Bond film, as I've already mentioned (it's not like Roger Moore's last couple ones, which I think I found to be almost frustratingly tiresome, good thing the franchise improved after those), but it's sadly inferior to quite a few Bond films that came before it. For some excitement and humour, I have to give this movie some credit, but you could find that there's not as much of those things as you would hope for. "}{"Title":"Pierce Brosnan Doesn't Disappoint in His Second Outing as James Bond","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies doesn't qualify as the best James Bond movie ever, but it easily ranks in the upper five of the franchise. Indefatigably adventurous, this supercharged 18th entry in the long-running United Artists series has shaken up those vintage Ian Fleming plot elements again without stirring the surefire 007 formula. Indeed, Tomorrow Never Dies lavishly maintains those sterling Bond standards. Bodacious babes, stupendous stunts, exotic locales, and audacious adversaries make Tomorrow Never Dies a tour-de-force escapade. And then there is 007. Reinvented for the 1990s with Pierce Brosnan as the intrepid troubleshooter in director Martin Campbell's GoldenEye, Bond re-emerged as infinitely resourceful, incorrigibly impudent, and rudely pugnacious. Vulnerability and guilt, however, complicate the Brosnan Bond and made him less remote and more humane. Bond offers some interesting confessions about himself, such as his belief to never argue with women.Global communications tycoon Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce of Brazil) ties to ignite World War III between Red China and England. He wants to exploit the war to christen his new 24-hour satellite news agency as well as bolster his television news ratings. Carver and his techno-terrorists hack into a GPS navigation satellite used by the Royal Navy. One of their ships strays into Red Chinese waters, based on the bogus coordinates fed by Carver's henchmen. Stamper (Gotz Otto), Carver's other henchman, appears on the scene in a super-secret stealth ship. Deploying a torpedo with a giant, triple-headed sea drill, Carver's men sink the British frigate, murder the ship's survivors, hijack a cruise missile, and destroy one of the Chinese Mig jet fighters. More than that, Carver's henchmen make things look as if both sides exchanged shots.Rattling their sabers, the Admiralty ship the navy off to China. They would rather fight to defend their honor than exercise caution. Meanwhile, M (Judi Dench of Mrs. Brown) wants to dispatch Bond (Pierce Brosnan of Remington Steele) to investigate. A high-ranking Minister gives M only 48 hours to avert World War III. 007 flies into Hamburg to attend the opening night gala ceremonies of the Carver Media Group. M suspects that Carver may be at the bottom of all this mayhem. She wants Bond to rekindle an old relationship with Paris Carver (Teri Hatcher of Desperate Housewives), Elliot's wife, and 'pump' her for information.British Intelligence knows that Carver's electronics genius, Gupta (Ricky Jay of House of Games), has acquired a stolen U.S. satellite encoder. The evidence shows that Carver's satellites relayed tampered information, too. Before Bond can save Paris, Carver's henchmen assail him. When the hero and the villain clash as early as Bond and Carver do in Tomorrow Never Dies, you know the writers has done a splendid job of sparking the dramatic tension that exists between the hero and villain.Written by GoldenEye co-scripter Bruce Feirstein, Tomorrow Never Dies contains a tightly told tale. The story covers less than 72 hours and various deadlines generate a palpable air of tension. Clocking in at two hours, Tomorrow Never Dies qualifies as one of the trimmer Bond outings. Air America director Roger Spottiswoode keeps the action moving at a breakneck pace. There is a superfluous moment. Everything in the story contributes to the forward momentum of the plot. At times, the filmmakers keep you clued in by having a character comment on the meaning of the action. This is film-making at its finest. Of course, if you've seem one 007 extravaganza, you've seen them all. Bond movies represent a Rubic's Cube of scenes that the filmmakers juggle to suit the newest plot.Tomorrow Never Dies constitutes only the third Bond epic since You Only Live Twice and The Spy Who Loved Me to use the World War III plot. In those previous Bond outings, 007 has to avert a war, and he donned his British naval commander's uniform to accent the military aura. In his second jaunt as 007, Brosnan shows greater mettle and authority. Lighter than Sean Connery and Timothy Dalton, but darker than Roger Moore and George Lazenby, Brosnan should be identified with the role by the time he makes his third Bond.Jonathan Pryce makes a wonderfully sinister villain. Not as murderously sadistic as Christopher Walken's fiendish brute in A View to A Kill, Pryce's Carver is reminiscent of the salad days of 007 when stylist actors like Donald Pleasance and Charles Gray played Blofeld respectively in You Only Live Twice and Diamonds Are Forever. They were nefarious but never as vicious as, say, Robert Davi's Sanchez in License to Kill. Pryce savors his share of good lines, such as, Let the mayhem begin. Loosely based on today's media barons, Carver compares himself to William Randolph Hearst, who helped foment the Spanish-American War back in the 1890s. Pryce even has some fun, especially when he mocks Wai Lin's martial arts moves. Michelle Yeoh is suitably tough as James Bond's counterpart in Chinese Intelligence and she has her own bag of gadgets. The downside is Carver has to die. If O.J. could get away with murder, surely Carver could have proved himself innocent of charges that he fanned the flames of a world war. Too bad. The Bond pictures need another resilient villain like Blofeld, and Carver seems like a gifted candidate.Inevitably, Fleming purists will argue the assets as well as debate the debits of Tomorrow Never Dies. Some will love it, and others will loathe it. Meanwhile, Tomorrow Never Dies will do nicely until James Bond returns for The World Is Not Enough. "},{"Title":"Pump her for information...","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 007 now lived in a woman's world.He was commanded by a woman, assisted by a woman and needing to engage another woman as his contact, only to be saved by a fellow female secret agent. Sounds like a pretty good Bond film to me.A great Brosnan vehicle, 'Tomorrow' set the tone for the sequels to come, more so than Goldeneye. The producing team at Ion was set after Cubby Brocoli's passing, the unofficial heir to John Barry's throne was found in David Arnold, and the rest of the pieces still fit today, from opening titles to production design.Brosnan was able to work a script tailored towards his style, and did it well. His 007 seamlessly assimilated the styles of those Bonds before him, yet made it all his own.The opening montage surprisingly surpassed that of Goldeneye's, standing as one of the best in the series, and set a pace that the following sequels have closely imitated.Storywise, it's nothing we haven't seen before, but brought all together, it makes for a great Bond vehicle, and perhaps Brosnan's best Bond work as a whole. As is true with many of the better Bond films, the 'I guess that really could happen' quality is ever present.Not quite as epic as it's predecessor in scope, definitely up there in popcorn movie Bond lore. "},{"Title":"Best Brosnan Bond.","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies is my favorite James Bond with Pierce Brosnan. Bond must stop Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) from generating a fictitious war through his media empire in order to make a killing on stock prices in weapons. For help, he finds Wai Lin (Michelle Yeah) to stop this nefarious plot. Along the way, we have good chases, great gadgets, and Teri Hatcher. This one has it all. There are two great Bond women who bring out strength and sexiness. Also are gadgets that are not over the top. Another strength is Brosnan who hits his stride as someone who combines the suave, sexy, and sophisticated agent with the ruthless assassin he is. What I really liked about this one was that Bond has a very interesting nemesis. Instead of a megalomaniac, we have a media mogul who wants to control all the information in order to propagate a false war. He does this to get rich. In a day and age when writers need to find new enemies for Bond, this one was the most creative since Christopher Lee played Scaramunga, the man with the golden gun. In any case, this was an excellent action movie and Pierce Brosnan's greatest outing. "},{"Title":"An Action Packed Bond Extravaganza!","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The 18th James Bond movie has it all girls, gadgets, cars and plenty of action.Pierce Brosnan is back as Bond along with Michelle Yeoh (who kicks ass in this), Jonathan Pryce (a truly great Bond villain) and the regulars M, Q and MonepennyThe gadget laden BMW is a beautiful looking non sports car.The motorbike chase through the streets of Bankok was awesome.The pre - title sequence was great.Overall 10 out of 10 It left me shaken and stirred for more!For those of you who didn't know, the original title of the movie was Tomorrow Never Lies it was changed to Dies by a typing error on the final script. "},{"Title":"High-tech Bond.","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This high-tech sequel Bond entry has Bond up against a media czar. Pierce Brosnan once again portrays the suave and slick secret agent, but it Jonathan Pryce, as the villain Elliot Carver, that steals the show. Pryce plays the textbook villain character in a deliciously evil manner that fits the comic book nature of Bond seamlessly. Not many Bond villain actors have been able to capture that quite so well. Also the villains premise is rather interesting, he is not a bad-guy with an army, but one that can persuade armies to do his bidding. The words as weapons idea is also frighteningly relevant with the internet media craze that was, when the film came out, pushing inexorably to where it is now. Only here, a bad-guy owns it all, or at least, that's his goal. As result this entry seems up-to-date unlike Goldeneye that, despite being a great Bond film, seemed unable to place Bond in a world without the USSR. Surprising, since a few of the Roger Moore films and more recently, Licence to Kill, did just that rather nicely.The gadgetry has been seriously amped up from Goldenye's rather limited and practical use of gadgets. Here not only does Bond have a standard issue Double-O car complete with all the usual refinements, it's remote controllable and has self re-inflating tires. He matches wits with a Chinese Secret agent who's a Bond girl (one of few) that can really kick it. In addition the bad-guys have their own set of high-tech tools and weapons. The pyrotechnics may seen a bit out of hand during a few sequences with some serious destruction being caused. So much that it can feel forced in order to get yet another thrill from the audience. However, despite that this is a strong entry in the ever-likable Bond franchise. The villain is fresh, the action great and there are some new edges given to the Bond girls that previous films haven't quite seen. --- 8/10Rated PG-13 for violence and intense action. Ages 13+ "},{"Title":"BOND#18 the Media Goes Berserk Tomorrow","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" MASTER PLAN trick Britain and China into a war, gaining exclusive broadcasting rights to the whole mess. The teaser is a little too cute, rather than impressive. The title song, by Sheryl Crow, has a moaning quality to it, but grows on you. Brosnan's 2nd Bonder has a slightly more flippant tone compared to the previous one, Goldeneye, which was fairly serious throughout, and creates an uneasy impression of falling back to the worst Roger Moore Bonders, where he was smirking in half the movie. Thankfully, it doesn't get as bad in this one and Brosnan is actually more relaxed in the role, but the villainous plot is something out of a mediocre comic book. If you think about it for more than a few seconds, the main villain's motives make no sense he, Carver (Pryce), is patterned on real life media moguls such as Rupert Murdoch and previous super-wealthy megalomaniacs such as Zorin (A View to a Kill) and Goldfinger. He's already very rich and, as demonstrated in an early comic book-style scene of media manipulation, already has his grubby fingers on most of the controls that rule the world. He already has the power and the underhanded schemes he employs before his master plan in this film would probably have never gained the attention of entities like MI6 and Bond. Why start this crazy fracas? He really has very little to gain besides a little extra dough (I guess) even if completely successful in this new scheme. Maybe he had some fixation on China, where he plans to gain exclusive broadcasting rights. Or, maybe, as Bond says outloud at one point, he's simply mad. The actor, Pryce, certainly plays him as an over-the-top bonkers geek, as if he gazed at too many numbers one day and snapped. He spends his time creating headlines rather than reporting them, printing the news before everyone else and gleefully clicking his personal console as reports of disasters & scandals reach his throbbing ears. He's a walking cautionary tale of channeled information distributed in a deranged manner to the unsuspecting masses - but it's presented as so much dark farce, it's hard to take him too seriously by the time Bond decides to permanently end his career aspirations.Bond teams up with a Chinese agent (Yeoh) in this one and she's pretty much the best thing about this picture. Yeoh plays this straight, with no quirky mannerisms, and her martial arts scenes are expectedly energetic. Former TV Lois Lane and future Desperate Housewife Hatcher fares less well in a brief role as the villain's wife and former Bond flame. She's a competent TV actress here, no more. Bond's usual allies (M, Moneypenny, Q, CIA liaison Jack Wade) are all back, though in briefer roles. Bond does get a new automobile (a BMW 750-it's no Aston Martin, but apparently its windows can take sledgehammer hits), which he puts through quite a few paces, mostly in a big parking garage, though he spends most of his time hunched down in the back seat, operating it via remote control - it's different yet a bit too cutesy. The mission takes him to Hamburg, Germany, where there's a tense scene of him getting beaten up before turning the tables and then Saigon, where, after an exciting escape down the side of a building, there's a lengthy motorcycle chase. It ends up on some 'stealth' boat in the middle of an ocean, where the villain spends way too much time bragging about his incredible plan. There's yet another tall blonde Aryan henchman to deal with (see also For Your Eyes Only and The Living Daylights and etc.). Despite the overly flamboyant villain, this is not a very memorable Bonder; you remember the motorcycle stunt over the helicopter, but not much else. On a recent viewing, I was struck by how emotional this Bond gets when he loses an ally - say, a female one - it's too emotional for my taste, since if he gets this way each time, he wouldn't last long in this game (Connery had figured that out - he would go on after a shrug). On the other end of the scale, Bond's confrontation scene with 'the doctor' henchman comes across as a parody of the usual spy stuff. Overall, this uneven tone plagues much of this Bonder. Also, curiously, the song by KD Lang at the end credits is better than the singing over the beginning ones. Bond would return in The World is Not Enough. Bond8 Villain6 Femme Fatales8 Henchmen7 CIA6 Fights7 Stunts/Chases8 Gadgets7 Auto8 Locations7 Pace7 overall7 "},{"Title":"Brosnan's most atmospheric bond film","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I think this is Brosnan's best, purely because it is so easy to immerse yourself in the brilliantly crafted atmosphere. The stunning colours and action sequences used make this film stand out from his previous (and later) attempts at being Bond. His debut with Goldeneye gave a sour aftertaste as this, and The World Is Not Enough, are both more monochromatic in a sense. There is a more depressing aura to them. His role in Die Another Day was bizarre and focused on nothing more than CGI and refined camera shots which lose the gritty Bond charm that makes Tomorrow Never Dies so brilliant.The dialogue is great in this film as are the action sequences (especially with the remote controlled BMW and the motorbike sequence). These action sequences are quintessential Bond and do not just seem to be a vehicle to create 'action'. It is all done brilliantly. There are also a few funny moments, such as the scenes with Dr Kauffman and the film has a great musical score.I think the only thing missing from this film is the classic Bond girl. Of course, Teri Hatcher was a great choice but I felt her character was a little off, and almost created simply to fuel a little more anger towards the protagonist, who is classically clichéd. Michelle Yeoh was a relatively good choice for her role, but this new edge to the butt-kicking Bond girl also caused problems for me.Still, this is by far Brosnan's best Bond performance with an original and believable (well more believable than Die Another Day anyway) plot. "},{"Title":"You always were a cunning linguist, James.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The best-moussed Bond ever to play baccarat, the smashingly photogenic Pierce Brosnan is back again with some gorgeous women to save the world. Gad! I almost sound gay in my description of the best Bond in the series.Brosnan is supported by the music of David Arnold; that lovely housewife Teri Hatcher, who is unceremoniously killed by her husband, the evil Jonathan Pryce (Governor Weatherby Swann); and the best partner ever, Michelle Yeoh (Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Memoirs of a Geisha). Hopefully, we will get to see her again next year in The Mummy 3, after they cut her scenes from Jet Li's Fearless.This film also features one of the best character actors ever, homeboy Vincent Schiavelli as the hit-man who offs Paris (Hatcher).Joe Don Baker, Judi Dench, Desmond Llewelyn, and Samanth Bond return to assist Bond.There is always a Bond movie on TV, and this is one you want to see. "},{"Title":"More lesson in how to make a witty comic thriller with Mr. Bond.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Take It's briskly paced and entertaining that you dare not mind its flaws. Tomorrow Never Dies is just as good, if not better than,Goldeneye, and it was a much better effort than Pierce Brosnan's final role as Bond, Die Another Day. The plot is simple. Media mogul Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) plots to create worldwide panic by creating real-life disasters and displaying them in his headlines. Bond is sent to stop him before he uses the world's forces against each other.The plot is very much the stuff TV serials involving megalomaniacs on prowl for world domination. But the film is very well done with style, that it's hard to disagree. Brosnan's performance is an exquisite combination of the suave and the tough. Pryce also delivers an top-notch performance as the maniacal Carver. As far as it goes, it has a great touch of realism, combined with a similar over-the-top, switch-your-mind-off action we have grown to love from the popular series.TOMORROW NEVER DIES is a suave, slick and entertaining comic thriller that returns to the sort of James Bond movie of THUNDERBALL and YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE, the sort where the Bond matches brains and brawn with a megalomaniac who simply wants to take over the world. Don't expect much of a logical explanation. It's so busy and fast, there's no real time for that. But do expect some strong action, crisp dialog and, of course, Bond, James Bond! Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Just one quick comment.What is this with some of you commenting that the bond girl has to be equal than bond??? For all that don't know, James Bond is the epitome of MACHISM. And that is a GOOD THING. He is the MAN and doesn't need any PC director or writer to come and make female equals to him. Just remember how he finishes the first book Casino Royale.Other than that Wai Lin was wonderful. Strong but in the end still a girl to fall into Bonds arms.And I have to say that this is the best of Brosnan movies. The locations are good but I would have like to see a little longer finale with Bond just relaxing and enjoying the hot Chinese Colonel "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was one of pierce brosnan's better bonds (actually to tell you the truth i pretty much like all his bonds but more than others, of course with golden eye being number 1). The character development was good with carter and Michelle yeoh but was so-so with Teri hatcher. Michelle yeoh did well in this movie in that she was acting more like a spy/ government agent than a bond chic that just goes in bed at the drop of a dime. It was also cool to see the Chinese government's array of weapons and gadgets compared to Britain's(the fan was sweet). Of course Jame's bond's gadgets were creative as well as the BMW car scene (that was crazy). It was also a plus to bring back the original music but i had no problem with golden eyes music either. The story was good with a stealth boat and the radar concept. The problem i had is with the main villain/villains. Carter was insane sure, but a media guy? Not that impressive. Dr. Kaufman seemed like a interesting character who didn't seem to live up to his hype that he created for himself. No depth at all to his character. The other one is Teri hatcher, she had some history with bond but the movie didn't really go that much into it. You have to admit though, if you were carter and found out that an ex boyfriend just had your wife last night you'd probably kill her off too. I just wasn't expecting Teri hatcher to be axed off so quickly. Overall though, the movie was good, not to many low points of the movie. "},{"Title":"3rd best of the 4 but with one redeeming feature..","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I know that this film has it fans but for me this is Brosnan's 2cnd worst film as Bond....Goldenye being the best followed by TWINE..Die Another Day...mmm well like this one the 1st half is good but goes terrible in the 2cnd part...anyway..The story is lame & i'm not convinced at Price's performance as the villain but this film does contain one of the best scenes ever filmed for a bond movie....The scene is when Bond is waiting in the hotel room..tux and all drinking straight vodka..then Paris turns up...it really is worth getting the film for this scene alone...Don't get me wrong i like the movie but they wasted a great start to the movie with a silly finish...1st half good drama & action...2cnd turns into a poor b movie action film....... "},{"Title":"Lacks Punch","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Is it a generational thing? Do Bond films get worse as one gets older? Is possible Pierce Brosnan can be so ill-suited as 007 not only in comparison with Sean Connery but plummy old Roger Moore? Do shoot-outs become less entertaining as one discovers the meaning of real violence? Do sex scenes become less titillating as one realizes the diminishing likelihood of ever getting in a clinch with the likes of Teri Hatcher or Michelle Yoeh?All questions aside, I liked Tomorrow Never Dies. Not loved it, the way I did some truly lame Bond thrillers from the 1970s I grew up with like Diamonds Are Forever. 'Tomorrow Never Dies' is a solid movie, with a creditable performance from Brosnan, nice assistance from Hatcher and Yoeh as two very different types of Bond girls, and a fun concept for a chief villain carried out with campy aplomb by Jonathan Pryce. I really liked Stamper, too, the hard-chinned Aryan muscle man played by Gotz Otto who treats knife wounds like mosquito bites.You also have some terrific moments, especially in the first half, which after a strong opening sequence where Bond breaks up a terrorist arms bazaar, the storyline shifts to Pryce as the unfair and unbalanced media mogul Elliot Carver, who is stirring up a war in the South China Sea in order to launch his new global news network with all the inside dope on the world's biggest story. It's not an accurate depiction of what Rupert Murdoch's about, but its funny satire, especially when Carver starts making for Ms. Yoeh.Two moments in the first half stand out. One is an exposition scene that Bond has with M inside a limo speeding through London. Bond and M throw back some whisky while sunlight casts intricate patterns through the car's interior. It's a stylish way to present what would normally be a dead scene, and the interplay between Bond and Judi Dench's M draws you in.The other scene is Bond's confrontation with evil Dr. Kaufman, played by the always quirky Vincent Schiavelli. Kaufman has the drop on Bond, but like everyone else in these movies, can't quite just shoot him without bragging first. The dialogue here is funnier than you expect, and well-served with just the right amount of menace and drama to keep the scene grounded. Some other goons tell Dr. Kaufman they are having problems breaking into Bond's car. Have you tried the auto club? demands Herr Doktor.But the movie takes a dip shortly after, as Bond plays around with his remote-control BMW in a high-rise garage. Technically, the scene works well enough, but Bond's motives are confusing and there are too many silly moments of convenience, like the way the car manages to cut a high-tension cable the bad guys string up.It is a good film after that, just not as good as before. Carver's big scheme seems a bit dopey the more you think about it (and the film gives you plenty of opportunity to do that.) There's a chase between a motorcycle and a helicopter that's a little too busy and untethered from the rest of the film. I like Brosnan's chemistry with Yoeh, but this is one time the final romantic clinch comes across as tacked on; they're more like partners than lovers. The way Carver's plot comes unglued at the end is entirely too easy.But for all that, I keep coming back to the moments I like. Desmond Llewelyn's final solo turn as Q. Brosnan's quippier moments, like when his BMW starts to talk to him in a stern female voice I think we've met. (Too bad Brosnan seemed to lose his sense of humor as Bond after this.) Most especially, I admire the score by David Arnold, thrown up amazingly well despite the lack of opportunity for post-production work. It's an exciting blend of old Bond themes reworked around fresh orchestration that updates the sound of 007 with clever familiarity.At times, Tomorrow Never Dies succeeds in updating the look and feel of 007, too. But not enough. Like Carver might say, it lacks punch. Maybe that's because while tomorrow never dies, time does pass and we all grow up. That's one thing you and I have over James Bond, for better or worse.  "},{"Title":"The last really good Bond&#133;.","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Whilst not being the best of the series, Tomorrow Never Dies is an excellent Bond movie for both Pierce Brosnan and the series as a whole.Although this does return to more familiar territory for Bond movies (megalomaniac causes havoc etc) it does it so well that you are more than happy to sit back, relax and watch throughout.The action sequences are well scripted and presented although I did feel the motorcycle chase was a little overlong. The bad guy (Jonathan Price as the press baron and media mogul Elliot Carver) is wittily written and a perfect pastiche of many of the overblown media moguls (and software giant bosses in one wonderful quip) with strong witty lines and fun dialogue.Michelle Yeoh as one of the strongest Bond girls of the series also puts on a good performance and it's a pity we have not seen her character return, I would rather have her high kicking Wai Lyn than the awful Halle Berry character from Die Another Day any day.The supporting cast sees the return of Jack Wade (all too briefly) and Tanner with the new arrival of the excellent Colin Salmon as as Robinson. Judi Dench and her real life husband Geoffrey Palmer as the admiral of the fleet (or was it First Sea Lord?) exchange excellent quips and there is a decent collection of inept henchmen with the classic line 'It's a soundproof room Mr Bond, nobody hears you scream' an absolute classic.Key to this films success is the quite simply excellent Barry-esque soundtrack from David Arnold who based the musical cues on the k d lang song over the end credits that was supposed to have been the title song rather than the slightly dubious Sheryl Crowe effort we did wind up with. A tip &#150; ensure that you get the full version of the soundtrack CD &#150; there is one version out there with only half of it, alternatively enjoy the isolated soundtrack on the DVD &#150; you won't regret it!Poor aspects &#150; Terri Hatcher was a complete waste of space, after the publicity hype surrounding her appearance in this film, she is only in it for a matter of a few minutes and she is terrible too boot!Overall the last really good thoroughly enjoyable Bond film made &#150; The World is Not Enough had its good points but was overally disappointing whilst Die Another Day was simply mind numbingly awful!  "},{"Title":"Number 7 brings luck!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Number 7 brings luck to Commander Bond. First, because of 007 -and the franchise is still alive after more than 40 years...Second. Look at the release dates of You only live twice, The spy who loved me and Tomorrow never dies what do they have in common? These movies were all released in a year with number 7 (1967, 1977 and 1997). These Bonds are quite similar -risk of a Third World War led by a paranoic man, lots of gadgets, very huge sets, Bond with a British Officier Army uniform, explosions and missiles. And these films are, for me, among the best in the 007 franchise. Maybe not very close the litterary Ian Fleming but full of action, jokes and entertainment. Well, the Bond we love the most!  "},{"Title":"Greatest Bond Film","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film was by far the most clever of all the bond movies, including Goldfinger and R. No and the early ones.  Also, this movie is not based on a book.  I was very entertained by this movie, especially the big action scenes (the sequence with Michelle Yeoh and Pierce Brosnan handcuffed is one of my all-time favorite chase scenes, and the parking garage scene too). This movie definitely deserves more credit than what it has.  What a fun movie!  See immediately if haven't already. "},{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable Bond escapade.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I happen to be one of the biggest fans of Pierce Brosnan's Bond films so it is a foregone conclusion as to my opinion of this film. It was the first Bond film I watched on the big screen and I love it, is is enjoyable, has many a great action sequence and Pierce Brosnan, in his second role as 007, shows a confidence in getting into the role. Like all of his Bond films (GoldenEye, The World Is Not Enough and Die Another Day), the writers here develop a more character development trait within the film's plot. Here we have the wife of the villain, Paris Carver, played by Teri Hatcher, be revealed to have been one of Bond's former girlfriends, a relationship that was quite intense. We gain an emotional insight into the character as wee see how much he loves her by offering to protect her, but alas she is killed by her husband, Elliot Carver (played with wonderful relish by Jonathan Pryce), and we get an unusual emotional moment, something more akin to Bond's that are lesser considered in the public consciousness like Lazenby and Dalton. Here Brosnan can juggle many of the elements that we associate with Bond with a fantastic dash of style. We have ruthlessness, humor, humanity and an ice sense of cool that he really jumps upon. He is undeniably the heir to the throne of the best Bond on screen, and with him successfully continuing to play the character in two further films that were even stronger, he is, in my opinion, the best Bond there has ever been.Tomorrow Never Dies is not the best Bond film that Brosnan has done (that honor belongs to The World Is Not Enough), but like other 'second' Bond films like From Russia With Love and The Man With The Golden Gun, it is a hugely enjoyable action thriller mixing a fun, if somewhat far fetched plot, with a great wealth of fun and entertainment, as well as some of the silliest, but funniest, puns to grace the screen. Making this tasty cake even more so is Jonathan Pryce's villain, Elliot Carver. Pryce, one of the best actors to come from Britain, is one of those maniacally over the top villains that ends up becoming so much fun you end up liking him. Michelle Yeoh is a great Bond girl, setting in stone the foundations for later films that the Bond girl has to be equal to Bond himself. Her performance is charming and her chemistry with Brosnan great fun to watch. Teri Hatcher is good, I suppose, but then again her much hyped appearance in the film amounts to little more than a glorified cameo appearance that, while memorable, doesn't ensure her to be the Bond girl that she could have been.Featuring a fantastic music score from David Arnold (on a par with John Barry's work) and the most far fetched, but undeniably entertaining, car chase in recent years, this is undoubtedly one of the most fun Bond films that you will get a chance to enjoy. I loved it. "},{"Title":"TOMORROW NEVER DIES (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  James Bond...you love it or hate it, simple as that and apart from some terrible Roger Mooremovies from the 70's I like the concept a lot. Always nice to see what new gadgets there are...this time it's a sophisticated BMW that can drive via a mobile telephone and the car has everything a special agent has to have when he is chased by some killers, and believe me the chasing scene with the BMW is brilliant. And the story...well this time Bond has to rescue Mother Earth for another time from World War III, as that's the dream of a mediaboss (one of the most evil personages that ever turned up in a Bondmovie, so thumbs up for Jonathan Pryce...who now stars in The Pirates Of The Caraibean). With the help of a sophisticated system that can manipulate satelittes he can evoke a war between China and the UK...if only there wasn't Bond!!! And in this movie he is helped by a Chinese Bondgirl, a lovely role from Michelle Yeoh. Brains at zero??? Less than zero in fact, but it's damn good entertainment!!! "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best Brosnan bond movie. it's big and banging on action and bonehead on plot, exactly the way bond movies are supposed to be, right????.If u are looking for an intriguing, thought-provoking and mind churning thriller then forget this one. This is not the Matrix its James Bond.The franchise doesn't take itself too seriously and so why should you. All bond movies have balls-out implausible action and mad hot chicks and this one's no different.Anyone who tries to proove himself smart by criticizing a Bond movie is as dumb as the movie he's tryin to criticize. So no more crap, I'll appreciate the movie for all its worth Awesome action, a killer car chase sequence, and a blazing bike chase which although unbelievable still makes your octane flow.Cool gizmo, Bond and ericsson with a finger print scanner, a lock pick and an inbuilt car-control mechanism. Check this one out only for comical action and think of it as no more than a real life cartoon. Then maybe you can enjoy it the way its intendeded to be. "},{"Title":"why the low rating?","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  i've been watching the bond movies in reverse order it seems... i saw die another day as my first bond movie (yes i know i started late).  but i really love pierce brosnan as bond.  so far i've liked all the ones i've seen.  i don't know why people are all bashing this movie though.  the action sequences were great (especially the chase scene with the BMW). the plot was good too.  i do agree that there wasn't much chemistry between brosnan and michelle yeoh (she has a terrible accent too!  couldn't they have found an asian girl who speaks english?  how bout zhang ziyi??).so other than that... i really enjoyed this movie!  Die Another Day is still my fav Bond movie, maybe because it was my first? so i give TND 8/10.   "}{"Title":"A very good action movie, but it does not feel like Bond!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very good film. The other 007 films had a lot of spying, women with tricks up their sleeve and villains with class, but the characters in this one were dumb and the plot was somewhat boring. Fortunately, the exciting action and suspense makes up for a lot of this. The scenery is beautiful, taking place mostly in Germany and Vietnam (the Vietnam scenes were really actually filmed in Thailand). The villain, Elliot Carver, shoots down two Chinese fighter jets and sinks a British submarine, making the two sides blame each other and trying to start a war between Britain and China so that Carver will get media broadcasting rights in those countries. So now, only Bond can prevent World War III from breaking out so he pulls out guns and shoots his way to the top. The movie is full of some of the best action sequences I have ever seen (especially the car chases and the air-battle at the beginning). A great film, no doubt, but lacking the classic Bond elements. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments.  "},{"Title":"Seconds anyone?","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Real good movie, I'd say it's the best Bond besides Goldeneye.  Not sure Goldeneye will ever be beat.  As for Pierce Brosnan, he's done it again.  He has that cool that everyone wishes they had.  Perfect 007 demeanor about him.  And of course the dry Bond humor is very well executed by him.Definitely the best Bond I've seen other than Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"Great Film.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The film does very well. Brosnan is a very good choice for a bond. Many say he's become more wimpier. Thats untrue. Bond is a character that remains calm in any situation. He doesn't need to resort to using typical Hollywood tough guy talk when he has a gun to his head. Only an idiot would annoy a terrorist like that. The film is entertaining and doesn't disappoint me at all.I do agree with Silverzero when he said about the characters not being very memorable anymore. that maybe why alot more people don't seem to like the films as much. Fans and other people like to see a bit of effort and thought go into any film and we all like to see new ideas for characters. The only thing they need to be careful of is making them too unrealistic (ie. A man with a rocket launcher arm would be a bad idea for an enemy)Alot of people complain that the bond series uses the same formula but so do most Hollywood action films. ALL action films use the same formula so why complain when the bond series does. The only difference being that the bond series put them into a series based on the same MI6 character and Hollywood action films use a different actor and a different character each time. Do you see what i'm saying?The bond series only does what its meant to and thats to entertain me. 10/10 for this film "},{"Title":"one of my favorite movies...","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is definitely one of the greatest James Bonds of all times. It has an excellent plot which is boosted by the outstanding performance of Eliott Carver. Pierce Brosnan is clearly much better than in the much inferior Goldeneye, having added some pounds and worked out at the gym. Overall this is a stellar example of a perfect Bond film with girls, gadgets, and an outstanding villain--a well deserved 9/10-- "},{"Title":"Some great action. . .","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There is some great action in this movie, but other than that it'snothing special. It's not got the level of suspense or sheer fun thatmost of the best Bond films do. Brosnan is great as Bond, and thevillain is interesting if kind of dorky, and it's good. Michelle Yeoh isa terrific new character, and the film was fun to watch. I give it a 7/ 10. "},{"Title":"A Bond film worth a watch.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I recently re-watched this film and I have to say it was one of the better of the Pierce Brosnan films. Plenty of action and gadgets and girls. But it didn't get too silly apart from the scenes with the helicopter hanging nose down and slicing up the streets in a gravity-defying way. That was stupid.Jonathan Pryce was also a bit pathetic as a villain, though and I have to say the star of the show was really Michelle Yeoh.I also got a bit of wry amusement out of the stealth-boat. The producers obviously wanted something futuristic that looked stealthy. Naturally they chose a catamaran that exists in service today as a car ferry where I used to live. It does look the part and has a surprising turn of speed - 30+ knots. However, even if it were covered in radar absorbent materials it wouldn't be in the slightest bit stealthy since you can hear it coming from two miles away easily. But it does look evil!Anyhow. A Bond film worth a watch and infinitely better than Die Another Day. "},{"Title":"The best cinema sound demo","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The usual James Bond fare, but worthy of comment for its opening sequence, set in a weapons bazaar in the tribal lands of the Pakistan/Afghanistan border. There are shots of a cruise missile, and of a Czech L-39 jet trainer which show off a home cinema sound system better than any sequence I have ever heard. "},{"Title":"this is the best James Bond that ever been","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  i watched it with my friend in 1997..i didnt ever know that much about the 007 series. i fell in love with the movie! so much memorable sences and such a great characters! i think this one is better than goldeneye. i really recommend it couse as i look now this is the best movie to date and even got the best soundtrack. hope you will enjoy it like me! i give it 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best so far","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow never dies is Pierce Brosnon's best Bond movie so far. It has a faster pace then Goldeneye and is smarter and better acted than The World is not Enough. All of Bronan's are good and this is a supirieor example. The opening sequence is as sensational as any I have seen and TND has two of the best Bond villians. Elliot Carver is an insane media baron who wants to start WWIII and then have media rights in China and more to report on. And Mr. Stamper is the best hard man since Jaws. He is so cool, he just grins as bond sticks a knife into his shoulder and he dosen't seem to feel anything. As for Bond girls, Wai Lin is one of the best. She is extremely tough being a martial arts expert and extremely beutifull. Then there are the one liners, with my favorite being Filthy habit after punching out a man with a cigaret and they'll print anything these days after knocking a man into a printing press. "},{"Title":"Bond is Back","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan's second fling as James Bond starts off with arguably the best James Bond pre-credits sequence EVER! This sets the pace for the whole movie. Tomorrow Never Dies has officially brought the Bond franchise back on it's feet. With the modern day bond villain Elliot Carver, a media tycoon, James Bond has entered the modern world. Tomorrow Never Dies brings to the table everything that Goldeneye did not. It goes back to the original James Bond formula. A villain, his evil henchman, and the illustrious car chases that make Bond famous. The car chase in Tomorrow Never Dies will have people talking for a long time. Wait, EVERYTHING in Tomorrow Never Dies will have people talking. See this movie, you will not regret it. "}{"Title":"this one makes my top 5 bonds","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  in a nutshell, TND great points terrific, sharp humor. bond's chinese counterpart actually steals the show in some action scenes... a nice change. let's not make it too often. michelle yeoh's character should be revived in a future bond. very nice intro action scene. nice bond women. bond's matured very well himself (the charachter). brosnan's played it well.TND cons very weak plot. plot has too many holes, Goldeneye had a beautiful plot, and so did On Her Majesty;s S.S. overdramatization of the villian.all time top 5 bonds entry. Ash. "},{"Title":"Way too heavy-handed","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked the first Bond-movie with Pierce Brosnan in the lead role, and looked forward to the second installment. Sadly, my expectations were not met. If this is the way Bond-movies of the future will look like, count me out.First of all James Bond is NOT John Woo-material. In this film, the kung-fu action is way, way over the top, and everything else you would expect to find in a Bond-movie is either reduced to a minimum, or removed all together. Where's the light-hearted, humourous Bond-touch? Where's the Bond-atmosphere of charm and luxury. Gone! What we're left with, is a kicking, screaming, machine-gunning run-of-the-mill action movie. A Bond movie is NOT supposed to be like any other action flick. If that's what you want, go rent John Woo instead. Let us keep the cavalier, smooth Bond-style, not this heavy-handed, humourless disappointment. Other drawbacks Michelle Yeoh is dull as the primary Bond girl, doing way too much karate kicking, and being far too unattractive to hold any interest. The other Bond girl, beautiful Teri Hatcher gets all of what - five minutes screen time? - before she's gone. Pity! The main villain, Jonathan Pryce, is unconvincing at best. Maybe some of it is due to his far-fetched motivations, but still...not a memorable Bond villain.The few upsides to this movie are a much improved soundtrack, with a genuine Bond feeling to it; and an interesting henchman (Mr. Stamper). A few funny gadgets (such as a remote-controlled BMW involved in a parking house car chase) also improves the overall impression.Being a Bond movie, this is a disappointment. Being a standard action movie, I guess it delivers the goods. I give it a weak 3 out of 6 on my dice, and hope for some major improvements in the next Bond flick.  "},{"Title":"Bond Will Never Die","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Of the three Brosnan Bonds this one is the best.  After waiting six years for Goldeneye I was kind of disappointed.  I was missing the exotic locations, the BMW Roadster (2 minutes of screen time really doesn't make it a Bond-car), the Bond-music (this has got to be the worse Bond-soundtrack, apart from the title song), ... Don't get me wrong, I still liked it.  Hell, I'm such a big big Bond-freak that I can even enjoy the worse ones (being on top of that list 'License To Kill').  And then came 'Tomorrow Never Dies'.  We were back on track.  First, I liked the fact that 007 was spending a lot of time in Europe, making it a very European Bond movie.  It gave the film a very old style, very chic feeling.  And he wasn't even visiting a casino!  I think the plot was great and very believable. Jonathan Pryce was a bit overdoing it in his mad villan gig.  Less would have been more for Mister Carter. Michelle Yeoh is for me the best Bond-girl ever, equaling my previous favorite Bond-girl Barbara Bach as Triple X in 'The Spy Who Loved Me'.  Finally a Bond-girl that doesn't need 007 every five minutes and who knows how to kick ass!  The remote control BMW-scene is one of the best Bond-cars scenes in ages. And why is everybody complaining about the Sheryl Crow song?  I love that song!  It's action packed, it's old James Bond style, it's fun!!! (but she did look like Emma Peel in the music video).  Okay, the KD Lang song was better, but I still loved it.  David Arnold's score is phenomenal, going back to the John Barry area.  The only thing is wasn't crazy about in 'Tomorrow Never Dies' was Terri Hatcher.  Although I love her as an actress, I think she was wasted as a Bond-girl.  Why, Oh Why, did the producers tell Sela Ward she was too old for this part?  Were those people blind?  I hope she gets another shot for the fourth Pierce Brosnan Bond.... "},{"Title":"Spy or Sci-Fi?","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When you watch a Bond film, you expect to see superhuman skills, unbelievable concurrences and sex in the end. This is a part of a genre. But does anyone know why the stealth boat in the finale looks twenty times larger inside than it is outside? "},{"Title":"Good action, good acting, idiotic one-liners, a bonehead story, and James Bond at his most reckless.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers) The traditional opening sequence of Tomorrow Never Dies is excellent. Especially when compared to the horrendous opening of the awful film that followed this one, The World Is Not Enough. When we see James Bond steal the bombs from the Nuclear Arms Bazaar in Russia, overcoming every obstacle (including an overdone gunfight), we expect an awesome film to follow, but to a large extent we are disappointed. I'm willing to accept the suggestion that a fighter jet could be piloted, at least temporarily, with the knees, if the pilots hands are busy trying to prevent the co-pilot from strangling him. I actually liked that scene, but for him to also be able to fly right underneath another jet (I won't even go into the fact that the pilot of the other jet didn't seem to notice this) and eject the co-pilot into the co-pilot seat of the other jet, thus blowing it up, is just too far. Still, the opening scene, ending with Bond victoriously asking where the recovered bombs should be delivered, leaves the audience with a smile and the hopes of a quality action film to follow.The story involves a high-powered media mogul who intends to instigate World War III in order to boost his ratings and make him ridiculously rich. Although, from the looks of his &#145;office,' he already IS ridiculously rich. No, this isn't original at all, but at least the scriptwriters were courteous enough to put the quote that they stole and made a movie out of right into the dialogue (William Randolph Hearst once said, `You provide the pictures, I'll provide the war.'). There you have the entire plot of the film. The famous quote `Good news is no news' is another stolen item that can be found in Tomorrow Never Dies, thinly disguised in the clichéd line, `There's no news like bad news.' As Bond first takes on his mission impossible, there is a good scene where he introduces himself as a banker to Mr. and Mrs. Elliott Carver (the offending media mogul and one of Bond's own past lovers, respectively), but he revealed himself far too soon when he not so subtly make a comment about Carver's crimes. Sure, they have to get the movie going, but if he hadn't been so ham-handed in that scene, he might not have wound up in that sound proof room. Speaking of which, Elliott Carver, the media mogul, makes an extremely unimaginative villain for this 007 installation, and although he seems effective enough at first, he soon reduces himself to an annoying character who badly misuses his own power, leading to his own violent death in the spinning wheels of the horrendous exaggeration that was one of the tools he used to instigate his artificial war.Probably the best part of this whole movie is the unintentional comic relief. As I watched Tomorrow Never Dies, I found that I burst out laughing more often than I found myself on the edge of my seat. When Bond parks his car in the parking structure, after having stolen the decoder device, a bunch of bad guys arrive, tow truck and all, to break into the car and retrieve the decoder. It was funny enough when one of them tried the door handle, only to be given an electric shock, but when another one of them tried the other side, with the same result, I found myself in hysterics! And then, just to make sure that Tomorrow Never Dies is not confused with an action movie that is to be taken seriously, a THIRD guy tries the door, receiving the obvious electric shock, after sledge hammers and machine guns had failed to provide entrance to the car. Which is weird, because the windows were shot out readily enough in the car chase that soon followed which was, by the way, the best action sequence in the entire movie. This is more of an action comedy than anything that Jackie Chan or Chris Tucker have ever done.The murders that James Bond commits in Tomorrow Never Dies are also fairly uncharacteristic. While they were stealing quotes to form the foundation of this film, one of the writers should have added in Arnold Schwarzenegger's line from True Lies, `Yeah, but they were all bad.' Bond drops a guy into the spinning gears at a Carver newspaper press, with bloody results (and the obligatory cheesy one liner &#150; `They'll print anything these days.'), he shoots a guy in the face at point blank range, and he moronically endangers the lives of innocent people as he drives his car, remote controlled, of course, through the wall on the roof of a parking structure, raining large chunks of asphalt and a huge chunk of BMW down on the sidewalk below.The scenes that were more or less done right were very rare but it was good to see some miniscule bit of realism allowed into this otherwise extremely unrealistic movie. The car chase scene where Bond drives from the backseat was hideously exaggerated but it was also effective. The skydiving wasn't completely screwed up like it was in movies like Drop Zone and Moonraker, but it was still badly flawed. There needs to be a little more thought put into these movies, because even if James Bond is enough of a badass to ride a motorcycle (BMW, of course, this IS a 2 hour commercial, after all) like it had wings, no helicopter in the world can fly nearly inverted like the one near the end of the film did. But this is just the kind of nonsense that is commonplace in 007 movies, and after Tomorrow Never Dies, the James Bond creators manage once again to slap world audiences in the face and the wallet with another idiotic action epic, The World Is Not Enough, which comes off even worse than this installment. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, this is more action than plot. But is that a problem? There IS a plot, and it's far more complicated than in most actioners, the characters are far more developed than in most actioners, and the acting is far better than most actioners. And most importantly, the action is better than most actioners. This is absolutely loaded with intense destruction and violence - NOT JUST REPETETIVE SHOOT-OUTS. There are car/motorbike/helicopter chases, fist fights, airplanes, missiles, ships, martial arts, everything than you could possibly want. And it's throughly exctiting and satisfying, with proper HEROES who you can root for, who deserve to win over evil.We've all seen Bond movies now, so TND cranks the explosive action up to 110% and let's it off in the viewers face. You've seen Terminator 2, right? This is the same sort of thing. Massive, intense action, far and away better than any other Bond movie, and up there with the greatest action movies ever made. Don't let other reviews fool you; this is superb entertainment.  "},{"Title":"At last, Bond is back.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan makes a great Bond, let's get that out of the way first off.Secondly, the series is back on track by casting great actors in all theother parts- Jonathon Pryce is the baddie, and he's a great one. JudiDench is a supporting role- what a waste! And Michelle Yeoh makes agreat counterpoint to James. All in all, a delight, right down to theSheryl Crow theme song. I'm happy to report that the Bond series shouldlast another 20 years!       "},{"Title":"007 takes a walk on the dark side and it isn't pleasant","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the adventerous Goldeneye came blasting on to screens they quickly rushed into the terrible overdone TND. The stunts and effects were better in Goldeneye and that only had a budget of 65 million, this over-the-top wanna be cost almost as much T2. They should have thrown the hole china thing out, they need to stick to their regions back in russia, england and the states. sorry but its just not to good, this will end up like Never Say Never Again. The forgotten one. "},{"Title":"And Bond won't die either...","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Of all three Brosnan-Bonds, this one is the best.  I like Goldeneye but found the movie a bit too dark and depressing.  Where were the exotic locations?  The Bond girls in bikini?  The gadgets?  And last but not least when would he use that fabulous BMW Z3 Roadster?  I had to wait almost until the end of the movie to see the car... for 10 seconds!  James Bond didn't even do anything with it!  Shame. But then came Tomorrow Never Dies and Bond was really back.  The story is original, the villan hilarious (like we like them), the locations glamrious, the music as Bondesque as it can be, etc.... But the best thing in this movie is the Bond-girl of all Bond-girls Michelle Yeoh!  Wow!  007 has finally met his match with this Chinese agent.  We hadn't seen such a strong Bond-girl character since Agent Trible X, alias Barbara Bach in The Spy Who Loved Me.  She a Bond-girl that doesn't have to be rescued by the British agent.  She stands an her own feet.  I loved it.  The only negative point I have concerning this movie is the fact that they are trying to make Bond human.  Please!  Skip that! The whole scene with Carver's wife in Bond's hotel room is really anti-Bond.  Bond is a super hero and there really shouldn't be space for an emotional 007.  I thought they had learned their lesson in this movie but they even went further in The World Is Not Enough.  In that one Bond falls in love.  Okay, I can deal with that.  But falling in love right after he sees a picture on a computer screen? No no no.  Well, I could go on and on about that subject about Bond and his feelings but I guess I'll have to add a comment under The World Is Not Enough. "},{"Title":"Live or let die?","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) is a media mogul newspapers, satellite TV-channels etc. He´s  creating his own news and wants to provoke a 3rd  world war. It´s your turn, 007...I must admit, when I watched Tomorrow never dies the first time I was a little disappointed. The whole time of the movie I thought about Goldeneye.  At that time, the action scenes were a little predictable to me - maybe because I had already seen  the best scenes in the trailer. But that was 3 years  ago! Recently I watched it again and with another  attitude. I think I´ve got to change my opinion now!  There is  still one thing that bothers me. Maybe  because the atmosphere was a little different -  I don´t know, but it felt strange at first. But fact is that Michelle Yeoh steals the show! And  David Arnolds score is far better than Eric  Serra´s composition in Goldeneye. Altogether,  Pierce Brosnans 2nd 007-flick is a little bit  weaker than Goldeneye  - but still worth watching!  "}{"Title":"Long live James Bond!","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Mad media man Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) wants to start the world war III to win the ratings.There's only one man who can stop him.Need I say who that is?You guessed right.It's agent 007 again in another adventure.Teri Hatcher makes a visit in this movie as Paris Carver. Michelle Yeoh is Wai Lin with martial arts skills.Desmond Llewelyn is still the same old inventor genius Q the second last time. Judi Dench plays M who used to be a man.Geoffrey Palmer is Admiral Roebuck.Samantha Bond plays miss Moneypenny.Joe Don Baker is Jack Wade.Tomorrow Never Dies from 1997 is a good Bond film with great action.This was Pierce Brosnan's second James Bond adventure and the man really was meant to be Mr Bond.It's impossible to get bored with Tomorrow Never Dies.It has unbelievable chase scenes with motorcycle and cars.It's not the best James Bond movie but it is very enjoyable flick. "},{"Title":"Too fast-paced...","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow lacks the solid pacing and plot of Goldeneye and The World Is Not Enough and seems a little too remiscent of the over-the-top theatrics of the late Connery/Early Roger Moore eras. Unlike the spy in the other Brosnan films, the Bond in TND is more of a ramboish character, spinning from location to location. The Gadgets are overused a little bit too. Don't get me wrong, TND is a good film. The stunts are amazing, and the action scenes are well-done. David Arnold's score is fantastic. Dench and Bond(As in Samantha Bond) put in proper performances as always, but the Q scene is too short, with most of the cool inventions appearing in Yeoh's base instead.However, it seems empty. Michelle Yeoh seems to have been put in the film simply to capitilize on the popularity of asian action films, and Jonathan Pryce makes Steinberg,Drax and Zorin seem quite sane. The henchman isn't really that threathening, and most of his lines seem too much like your standard Bond villain lines.Teri Hatcher wasn't that great either-it seems some actresses are chosen to be Bond girls simply by how much they've been downloaded. TND is a flawed Bond film-watch the other Brosnans instead... "},{"Title":"Aiding A Hurting wound that I made on my last comment","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the movie tomorrow never dies again, it wasnt bad. IT SUCKED!!!!!! Teri Hatcher sucked. Teri was probably in this movie to look like Lois Lane from Superman. Wai Lin was the only good one. Is this a Superman movie or what. This is just a movie about James bond who is changing faster than the original Bond can pull out a cigarette. Brosnan's character doesn't smoke. He has already got a new gun, Walther P99. Where is the PPK. Bond has just gotten a wound in the back because of Brosnan. Kevin Spacey(as well as being rumored lately as the next Bond villain) could be a better Bond because he looks a lot like Connery though no British accent.Tomorrrow Never Dies sucked and expect more films to suck as long as Brosnan is around. 0 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Bond lives!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  From a disappointing effort from Timothy Dalton's movies, and an average opener for Pierce, I was lead to believe that Bond was going downhill.  Tomorrow Never Dies had resparked the Bond series with awesome action, stunts and gadgets and a cool story line with some good humour.  At this time, I had still not accepted Brosnan as Bond, but I can honestly say he did not fail to entertain.  "},{"Title":"A James Bond Movie involving a media company. What has James Bond come to?","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the most horrific James Bond movie I have ever seen before. Pierce Brosnan is to keep the series going. Although the fact, the James Bond series has taken a fall in the new times. I think they should get a more realistic plot to more Bond movies now. Newer viewers will like Pierce better, but I am 12. I certainly like older ones better. Back to the point. The idea of having a Bond movie that invloves a media mogul trying to take over the world is just hilarious. Jonathan Pryce is just a huge joke in this movie. Another thing, how can James drive that car with his Ericcson telephone like that?There were some good things about the movie though. Michelle Yeoh had a good performance as Wai Lin (the first chinese Bond girl since Ling in You Only Live Twice. That only lasted 50 seconds though.) Teri Hatcher had a good supporting role. I thought she should have stayed around longer.If you want Bond, watch Goldfinger. If you want Pierce Brosnan, watch Dante's Peak or the Thomas Crown affair. If you want Jonathan Pryce, watch Ronin. If you want Teri Hatcher, watch Running Mates. I rate this * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Not Good Bond","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has been the source of some great arguments between friends and I. I firmly contend now what I did when I first saw it; it's not good Bond.Oh sure; it's a good action movie. Guns, girls, and explosions; what more could you want? But as a Bond movie it falls flat. The action scenes are great but the movie starts to get all fast-paced and crazy and that's just not what Bond's about (as near as I can tell; I could be wrong ^_^). He's always been Mr. Suave, the Gentleman Spy, etc. etc. Since when does he blaze around like Jackie Chan on Pixie Stix? It's worth a watch if you like Action movies, or you're a Die-hard Bond fan. The Average Joe like me might get a little bewildered though. 6/10 on My Personal Scale. "},{"Title":"A good, if not perfect Bond film.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond film isn't perfect (it's a pity it follows on from the near-perfect Goldeneye, or it might look better.) The pre-title sequence is incredible, and Carver is the best Bond villain since The Man With The Golden Gun. 4 star out of 5. It's still not perfect. "},{"Title":"The worst Bondmovie ever! Boring script and no Bond-feeling what so ever!!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"                               **Please excuse me for some spelling misstakes**                              James Bond in ''Tomorrow Never Dies'' is great! Brosnan is without a doubt the                               best 007 since Sean Connery. Too bad that he will have to be here. This movie is                               just as un-Bond as it could be. Where did the true Bond-feeling go?                              Why is this movie so bad? Let me explane... First of all No Bond-movie ever                               needed sneeking, and cheap commercials stuffed in it. BMW, Ericsson just for an                               example. And second What the hell is all this shooting for? This is supposed to                               be Bond not Rambo. Im not saying that I am against actionmovies but I would                               like to remind everyone about that this is an Bondmovie, not some Van                               Damme-s**t (I can see actionmovies but I HATE Van Damme over everything                               else)!!!                              The bad guy is not as great anymore. A really boring character. More of Jaws,                               Oddjob, and Mayday please! The ''Bond-girls'' are not as good as before either.                               If you want to know what Bond really is all about go and watch ''From Russia                               With Love'' or ''Goldfinger''!  "},{"Title":"Movie C+  DVD  A+","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies  C+/A+	(Special Edition)	4.12.00	2.351/5.1 	Previously Viewed	Anamorphic WidescreenDefinitely not my favorite Bond movie, mostly I think because of Jonathan Pryce's Elliot Carver (the bad guy).  He played way to far over the top.  But the Special Edition DVD (now out of print) is as good as DVDs get.  Great picture and sound and tons of good extras.  "},{"Title":"The sad fall of a once-great character","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The James Bond series has degenerated into typical American action fare. The wit, sophistication, and, CLASS have all been stripped away.  Cliches, gimmicks and unwarranted brutality are now standard issue. Didn't anyone else have a problem with Bond mowing down innocent Russian soldiers during his escape in Goldeneye?  Isn't Bond supposed to be more clever than that? Certainly the screenwriters should have been. Check out the most underrated Bond film, The Living Daylights, for what could have been.  I don't blame Brosnan, as he is doing the best he can with inferior material. "}{"Title":"3rd best Bond film","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  3rd best Bond film, behind TWINE and OHMSS. This movie though has the best action scenes in any Bond movie (the remote control car chase in the garage, the motorcycle chase, Wai Lin's fight scene). It has the best graphics in the opening credits than any Bond movie (very disappointing in TWINE). It also has the best car (the remote controlled BMW). However the characters are a bit ordinary. They are fine and don't ruin the movie but when you compare them to Elektra King and Tracy they are a bit uninteresting. It is however the easiest to watch over and over again due to its high action and it has an easier plot to follow than most Bond movies. "},{"Title":"Gripe about inaccuracy","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I would just like to make one gripe about an inaccuracy in Tomorrow Never Dies.  One of the movie's set pieces is a motorcycle chase throughout Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon) in Vietnam, which was actually shot in Thailand.  During the chase, James Bond and Wai Lin pass many billboard signs.  Due to decades of French occupation, the Vietnamese language is written in the Roman alphabet (the same alphabet that this commentary is written in).  However, all of the many signs seen in the chase scene are written in either Chinese pictographs or Thai script. Isn't it strange that -- in all of Vietnam's largest city -- there wouldn't be a single sign in the Vietnamese l "},{"Title":"Tomorrow Never Dies - A Great Film","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is a great movie and one of the best films of the series. It puts the petal to the metal from start to finish. Pierce Brosnan is great as Bond and the rest of the cast, especially Jonathan Pryce as Elliot Carver, is excellent as well. The film pits 007 against Pryce's Carver, a media mogul who plans on causing wars and dominating the world by manipulating the news. Carver is aided in his quest by muscular henchman Stamper who, of course, gets into a rather entertaining altercation with our hero at the end of the film.Michelle Yeoh and Teri Hatcher are both good in their roles. Yeoh plays Wai Lin, a Chinese agent who eventually teams up with Bond to stop Carver. Hatcher, ever the attractive woman, plays Carver's wife and also happens to be a former flame of Bond. Contrary to what others have said, I felt her scenes with Brosnan were very good.As for the action scenes in this episode, they are nothing short of phenomenal. They include a car chase involving a remote control BMW supplied by Q, an awesome motorcycle chase through the streets of Saigon, and a shootout aboard a stealth boat. In conclusion, Tomorrow Never Dies is a great movie and not only one of my favorite Bonds, but one of my favorite movies of all time. It's a furiously entertaining thrill ride filled with gadgetry and beautiful women, and laced with humor.Out of 4 stars - 3.5 "},{"Title":"One of the best since early Connery","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan is the best film Bond overall since the glory days of the early Sean Connery films.  He brings the best contributions of all three major screen versions--the physical toughness of Connery, the wit of Moore, and the coldness of Dalton--to the screen.  Like Connery, he is believable as someone who could kick your butt.  When someone close to him is killed, his Bond will take revenge as coldly and hatefully as Dalton's.For this film, Brosnan has a firm grasp of his vision of Bond, and so do the writers.  The writing is sharp, the best since Goldfinger.  The pacing is consistent, and the film never slows down.  Brosnan's Bond probably fires more bullets in one minute of this film than Connery's did in 6 films combined.  Despite that, the action sequences are exciting and well directed.The best part of the film was the decision to have a Bond girl who functioned as a work partner for Bond, not just a bed partner.  Michelle Kwan is one of the best Bond girls, because she is an equal to Bond and her character could star in a film series as easily as he can. "},{"Title":"Not a classic Bond, but still amazing!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  First things first, if your into classic Bond movies (Goldeneye, From Russia With Love, etc.) you won't give this movie more then an 8/10 at best. Tomorrow Never Dies isn't a classic Bond, but still worth watching. From the stunts, to the gadgets to Teri Hatcher! This was a good movie to make to start a new, more modern breed of James Bond fans. Pierce Brosnan, once again, has a brilliant performance in Tomorrow Never Dies. You just can't stop this man, he's on a role. But yet again, I am worried that he will be permanently labeled as James Bond for the rest of his life, and the people will not give this man a chance to be something else other then 007. With just one more James Bond to go for Pierce Brosnan (After The World Is Not Enough), we'll see what happens. "},{"Title":"A good movie for teens and adults","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The thing is that Pierce Brosnan plays good in this action movie the thing i liked most about this movie is that the talking car and the car chase in the hotel as this movie talks about the continuing adventures of James Bond who is so popular since before I was born so I have to say live on James Bond I also found Michelle Yeoh Also did some good scenes. "},{"Title":"Formulaic, but what a formula!","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All the classic Bond elements are present and correct Megalomaniac with domination fetish; said maniac's hi-tech H.Q. (which of course gets spectacularly trashed); beautiful foreign agent who joins forces with Bond; Moneypenny, M, Q (astonishingly still played by Desmond Llewelyn), plus gadgets, guns and exotic locations.On one level it all works very well. Brosnan is a convincing Bond - not as good as Connery, but better than Moore and Lazenby (and as good as the unfairly underrated Dalton). Pryce is great as the villain, the effects are mainly very good, and the pace is about right - not too manic, not too talky. The script even had some wit Pryce as a lunatic media mogul creating his own 'news' is an accurate pot-shot at the equally loony global 'media' industry. Also Brosnan is nicely ruthless -when the assassin in the hotel room pleads futilely for his life by saying 'I'm only doing my job' and Bond responds with 'And so am I' before pulling the trigger you know Bond is a man you don't mess with. Connery was like this, Moore wasn't.But... But... Yes, all the familiar elements are there, and that's the problem - it's as if Bond films come in a box like a plastic model kit; all you have to do is glue the bits together, give it a lick of paint, and there you are. At one point (the motorbike/helicopter chase) I simply couldn't get involved - the whole Bond thing is so formulaic you know they're going to escape and that their pursuers will come to a sticky end; instead I started looking ahead of the motorbike and wondering where the special effects technicians had planted the charges to simulate the missile explosions! (This also probably means I've seen one too many of those 'The Making Of...' documentaries.)But I guess I'm taking the whole thing too seriously. This is a great action film slickly put together. Worth watching for Bond fans and non-fans alike.I didn't like the title song much, though...  "},{"Title":"Great Movie. Awful theme song.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In my humble opinion this is one of the best Bond movies in many a year. Everyone's entitled to their opinion, but those critics on this page who moan about implausibility, the dumb plot etc. should remember that EVERY Bond movie since Dr. No back in 1962 has required MAJOR suspension of disbelief on the part of the viewer. TND is no different. Bond movies are all about a larger-than-life hero sorting out megalomaniac baddies in grand style, with lots of shooting, explosions, gimmicks and gadgetry. It's escapist entertainment pure and simple, and therein lies its appeal. My main beef with this otherwise very entertaining film is that Joe Don Baker and Desmond Llewellyn only get one scene each, and the very beautiful Terry Hatcher is given very little to do apart from slap Our Hero and briefly flash her stockings & garters before being killed off early on in the film. The one truly awful thing about this movie though is its opening theme song performed by Sheryl Crow. Let's face facts - the girl can't sing and absolutely murders this song - surely the worst ever Bond movie theme song performance, worse even than Aha's The Living Daylights, and that was scraping the barrel. One can only assume that she landed the job by virtue of the fact that for some reason she's regarded as a fashionable '90s artist. It certainly wasn't because of her singing abilities, because she doesn't have any! The song played over the closing credits on the other hand - Surrender (Tomorrow Never Dies) by K.D. Lang - is absolutely superb and in the very best traditions of Bond movies. Right up there alongside Shirley Bassey and Tina Turner in my books. Relegating this song to the end credits and making the talentless Miss Crow's appalling ditty the main theme really takes some defending. "},{"Title":"The worst Bondmovie ever! Boring script and no Bond-feeling what so ever!!","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  **Please excuse me for some spelling misstakes**James Bond in ''Tomorrow Never Dies'' is great! Brosnan is without a doubt the best 007 since Sean Connery. Too bad that he will have to be here. This movie is just as un-Bond as it could be. Where did the true Bond-feeling go?Why is this movie so bad? Let me explane... First of all  No Bond-movie ever needed sneeking, and cheap commercials stuffed in it. BMW, Ericsson just for an example.  And second What the hell is all this shooting for? This is supposed to be Bond not Rambo. Im not saying that I am against actionmovies but I would like to remind everyone about that this is an Bondmovie, not some Van Damme-s**t (I can see actionmovies but I HATE Van Damme over everything else)!!!The bad guy is not as great anymore. A really boring character. More of Jaws, Oddjob, and Mayday please! The ''Bond-girls'' are not as good as before either. If you want to know what Bond really is all about go and watch ''From Russia With Love'' or ''Goldfinger''!        "},{"Title":"Brosnan's worst Bond film","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is just the opposite of GoldenEye its predecessor. GoldenEye had the action and was weak as a Bond film. Tomorrow Never Dies was weak on the action, but a very good portrayal of Bond by Brosnan. All in all the film is Ok although it lies just under A View To Kill (one of the best) and just above Octopussy (a so-so Bond film)  "}{"Title":"Rolercoaster Bond","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad for a Bond, though I thought that Brosnan did a better job in GoldenEye. Problem with this film is that there's no time for any groundwork. Once you are in the rolercoaster, there's no exploring or talking, you just sit back 'till the ride is over. The writers touch upon the fact that being a secret agent is a lonely job, but they've could have give it more thought and work it out a bit more. But nonetheless, not bad.P. "},{"Title":"Shaken and Stirred","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Right from the start you can tell this was going to be a good Bond film. The opening sequence is great, if not predictable and we get an early peek at some one-liners......'Back seat drivers.' Pierce Brosnan really comes into his own in this film and although not the best Bond, he still has time to reach Connery's level. Disappointing though were the Bond girls. Michell Yeoh is great for action but we need beauty aswell in a Bond girl and she just didn't have that 'come and get me' feel that some of the earlier Bond girls did. And Terri Hatcher was wasted, although she did give birth during production so her part was cut. It remains to be seen whether she could have gone on to better things. Carver was an average bad-guy and how long was he waiting for the sea-drill to chop him up at the end? But I liked the idea of him starting a war for ratings. It proves that you don't need to blow up the world to control it like Blofeld and Drax. Henchmen.....well the fight scene in the sound room was excellent, the chase through the press factory was exciting and the car chase was a bit cheesy. But I just felt the baddies weren't putting in as much effort as they used to be. Carver's men were always on top in numbers yet failed to take the advantage (although it is Bond we are talking about). Mr Stamper had the potential but failed to live up to it. It seems as though the main bad guys in the last 5 or so films have not been getting the right people to help. First of all I hate women henchmen like MayDay and Onatop in Goldeneye. They lack the physical contact. I'd prefer it if we went back to the old style henchmen like Oddjob, Jaws and Red Grant. Hopefully we'll see a better one in the World is Not Enough (Renard I believe).TND is a very good Bond film, although like many of its kind it is filled with gadgets and action scenes. What about that wire-cutter that appeared from Bond's car to slice the metal wire that had been tightened across the road? That was cheesy.9/10 though. A must for Bond fans and I don't see how anyone can claim it to be otherwise. It is far superior to Goldeneye, both the Dalton films and many of Moore's efforts (not including AVTAK). Bring on the next Bond. "},{"Title":"Solid Bond Flick","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a solid entry in the series overall. Pierce Brosnan is a little wimpy for my tastes (he ranks third on my Bond-ometer, after Sean Connery and the underrated Timothy Dalton) but he's watchable enough. What makes it work for me are Jonathan Pryce as a Rupert Murdoch-like press baron, and the stunning Michelle Yeoh- I've never been a fan of Asian action flicks, but I may have to start looking for some of her other stuff. "},{"Title":"Return of Bond","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a great combination of Bond elements, but can't be watched more than a couple times. This takes action, suspense, espionage, and lots of non-stop thrills that we've come to expect from James Bond. The thing that makes this movie not very watchable more than a few times is that the plot is deep enough watch twice, but you really understand the plot well, even the first time you see it. This is first movie in years that I consider Ian Fleming quality. The last movie I saw this good was The Spy Who Loved Me. One thing that this movie excels in is the ship load of characters that it boasts. Elliot Carver, in my opinion is the best megalomaniac since TSWLM's Stromberg, or Moonraker's Drax. Q's part in the movie gets frustratingly boring and is a the kind of humor that's only funny once. My favorite of Carver's hench men is Dr. Kauffman,...a professor in forensic medincine... who can, ...shoot you from Stuttgart ant still create ze proper effect. Pierce Brosnan really plays 007 good. He almost is as good as Connery was in classics such as Goldfinger and You Only Live Twice. TND is an exceptional movie with few drawbacks, but then what movie doesn't have problems "},{"Title":"Overly commercial and badly edited.","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Good, but not great - a definite decline from Goldeneye. Good points some nice little fight sequences, like in the sound studio. Bad points the HUGE amounts of product placement compared to previous films (Smirnoff? I don't think so), the second-rate John Woo slow-mo gunplay near the end, generally unrealistic stealthship modelling, and bad editing mistakes (Jonathan Pryce had enough time to sit down for a cuppa and some chocolate bikkies before the end came) not seen since the Connery days. A more minor quibble just because Judi Dench is 'M' (and a very good 'M' too) doesn't mean that her old crony Geoffrey Palmer has to make an appearance as the Admiral. Not that there's anything wrong with him, but the pairing is a bit like Matthau and Lemmon - it detracts from the suspension of disbelief. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Tomorrow Never Dies was a very good movie.  The plot was interesting, and it always seemed to get better and better.  I thought it was neat how the villain wasn't the usual crazed general or dictator wannabe, but a man who simply wanted to control the world through the media. Tomorrow Never Dies is one of the best Bond movies in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Fantastic stuff","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A classic Bond movie - great Bond in Brosnan (although slightly too nice and not dangerous enough), great action, great plot (although it's almost identical to that of The Spy Who Loved Me), great bad guy, great sets, great car, great jokes, great name! It's not perfect though. Michelle Yeoh is miscast as Wai Ling - Bond girls are supposed to be extremely attractive - and she isn't very convincing either. Brosnan is a little too bland as Bond, and he hasn't got that awesome laid-back self-confidence that made Connery and Moore so good.Also, we see 007 using a machine gun, which he really shouldn't, a machine gun is too bulky and clumsy for Bond.The obviously I-want-to-be-John-Woo style guns and martial arts violence has no place in a Bond movie. And the title theme by Sheryl Crow is lame. But it's still easily one of the best Bond movies. And it's got Teri Hatcher in it.  "},{"Title":"Welcome back 007, but where is your sharp tongue?","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a well done return to the former great Bond formula, but I really missed the sharp, clever dialog of old.  This Bond just doesn't have much to say! "},{"Title":"Action-packed thrill ride","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A great bond movie with great special effects and excellent action scenes. It moved quicker than other bond movies and I think Pierce Brosnan did an excellent job as bond.  Maybe, not the best bond movie, but up there with Goldfinger and Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"getting the right combination","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It seems with the last few Bond films lack crucial pieces to make it really a great Bond film. This movie succeeds in 1. a tough Bond Girl ..Michelle Yeoh 2. a few good action scenes..although there are too many 3. good special effects 4 a moving plot...although recycled. 5. a decent bad guy..not as bad a Walken in VTAK What it need to be so desperately improved on is 1. more talking...more script..please.. 2. less action..this is 90's way out of having real acting 3. more depth..I thought Teri Hatcher was a waste..what was her purpose.. 4. product placement ..James Bond doesn't slam shots of Smirnoff..that's just too trashy. 5. more MacGyver tricks..less gizmo's and more brains. Now this only a start on the right track, I think Brosnan has the right stuff to be a great Bond. He's more suave then Moore and Dalton that's for sure. Hopefully we'll see this in the next Bond film. "}{"Title":"Bonds a sidekick","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Since when does the female lead appear in more action scenes than Bond. You cant even tell this is a Bond movie. I miss the day when Bond was the man not a sidekick.  "},{"Title":"Better than Goldeneye that's 4 sure!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah this was way better than Goldeneye. It was full of action, stunts, and humor. I think Pierce Brosnan does a great James Bond! 9 out of 10. Rated PG-13 for intense action and violence, and for some sexuality. "},{"Title":"Brosnan tries - and fails.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Brosnan is not, and never will be James Bond. Read Ian Fleming's stories if you doubt my word. For those of us who saw all of the Bond films theatrically, beginning with DR. NO, he just won't do. Take away the product plugs and the marketing campaign and there simply isn't much here. Maybe it's the fact that the cold war is over. Times have changed a lot.As M put in in DR. No, That Beretta of yours has had it's day.So has James Bond. "},{"Title":"Same old formula but quite well-done","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Chubby Broccoli's formula never varied nor does it do so in this last tribute to his name. Quite well-done despite being formulaic. Good action scenes and photography. Humor more acceptable than some recent Bond's. worth seeing "},{"Title":"When is a Bond Film not a Bond Film anymore?","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When is a Bond Film not a Bond Film anymore? I'm not sure I like the way the Bond films are heading. While GoldenEye belongs near the top of the Bond ladder and was certainly in harmony with the rest of the series, this latest effort by disagreeable director Roger Spottiswoode feels more like a run-of-the mill action film than a subtle, intelligent espionage thriller. It has some very mundane, over-long action scenes, and in terms of the traditional Bond elements, the producers have got it all wrong. The female members of the cast are, on the whole, undesirable, and the Wai Lin character looks like she just stepped out of another film, and seems to me to be ridiculously out of place. Sure, the uninitiated have claimed that she is Bond's equal, a woman who can look after herself, and doesn't shout James! Don't leave me! every time she's in trouble. This was done to better effect in The Spy Who Loved Me, where Bond was teamed up with Agent Anya Amasova (Triple-X). Instead, here, Michelle Yeoh has no charm, no sex appeal and makes a pigs ear out of her role. She is clearly not in Bond's league She tries to gain entry to a top secret room using the (alarmed) door, setting the alarm off and putting both her and Bond in extreme danger, and she's supposed to be good at her job. Yeah, right. A lot of what we see in the rest of the movie is conveyor belt popcorn, and the plot is laughably thin. In terms of villains, Jonathan Pryce is too camp to be a threat to Bond, and Gotz Otto as Mr. Stamper would make a better living doing Calvin Klein ads instead of trying to be a vile henchman. While it's nice to see Desmond Llewellyn back again, he'd be far more sensible to use his technical know-how to design a chairlift for himself, instead of building cars for James Bond. Niggles aside, there are some decent moments in the film. The teaser, although nowhere near as good as GoldenEye's, is reasonably exciting and cleverly introduces us to some of the main characters The only thing that allows this film to rise out of the sub Die Hard genre is the outstanding car chase in the multi-story parking building. This short scene is accompanied by a thumping soundtrack by The Propellerheads and summarises everything we have come to expect from a Bond film- thrills, excitement, gadgets, some great stunts, Bond outwitting his captors and escaping, and a satisfying pay-off. This very weak entry into the series is not enough to make me lose my faith in Bond just yet, but if the Producers attempt to bring us more of the same with the next Bond film, i.e. numb the audience with banal action, and attempt a pastiche of Con Air, I might think again about my loyalty to Her Majesty's Secret Service. "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat action","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Although a very entertaining film, Tomorrow Never Dies appears to be a remake of the classic Bond Film The Spy Who Loved Me. There are many similarities in the basic plot of both movies. For example, both movies have leading ladies who are secret agents for other countries. Tomorrow begins with the hijacking of Battleship, while The Spy begins with the hihacking of a submarine. Tomorrow Never Dies offers good, action-packed entertainment that will leave the audience gasping for breath.  For comparison sake, you won't want to miss The Spy Who Loved Me.  They're both very entertaining movies. "},{"Title":"Bond is Back","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Just when you thought Bond had finally died a miserable, undeserved B-movie death, he is back. After the abysmal Goldeneye I had decided to quit watching Bond films (me, who generally watches Bond-films the first week) and then this A Bond film with a real Bond. For the first time you get an actor in this role who almost (almost!!) compares to Sean. He even changes his behaviour (remember the scene with Paris) and returns from being this politically correct version in Goldeneye to the Bond we all learned to love and hate. In Goldeneye Brosnan was the nice chap living next door, in TND he is the agent with the license to kill (for this, watch the scene with Dr. Kaufman). We also have a good baddie (Let the mayhem begin) who again wants to start something big, not just destroy the financial world of London (Hey, we had baddies in the Bond films who wanted to destroy the earth and then this guy in Goldeneye just doing a little financial scam), we had a Bond heroine with a sting and we had great music. Definitely one to watch, I now am back on track and am looking forward to the next one. "},{"Title":"Love Affair?","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is too busy.  Aside from all the action scenes, even the talking scenes are noisy.  Bond is briefed by M and Miss Moneypenny in a moving car, he meets Q at the airport, Carver's party is noisy, Bond talks to Wade in an airplane.  One of the quietest scenes is when The Doctor explains to Bond how he's going to kill him.  (That really was funny.) Basically, there was too much action and not enough talk. And count me in for not understanding the title.Pierce Brosnan and Teri Hatcher made it seem as if their characters relationship was somehow more meaningful than the average Bond romance, but I didn't see it.  Bond meets a woman whom he supposedly cared about but he broke her heart and now he's going to kill her husband.  Yet does he feel guilty about what he did?  Is she worried that Bond will break her heart again?  No,all they can think about is having sex.  Even if Paris had lived, if she wanted Bond back, she'd have to get in line.  Brosnan's Bond alone left Caroline (the girl sent to evaluate him), Natalya, the Danish professor and apparently, Wai Lin.Sheryl Crow's song says, Martinis, girls, and guns/ It's murder on our love affair.  But James Bond doesn't have love affairs.  To him, women serve two purposes 1)sex and 2)to help him save the world.  Bond is like a knight; he slays the dragon and he saves the fair maiden.  After that, it's on to the next dragon and maiden.  In Goldeneye, Natalya asks Bond if he cares about her.  Of course he does, until the next movie when he'll have forgotten all about you.On another note, I found it totally unbelievable that Carver's computer expert realized that Bond's banker dossier was fake.  During WWII, British intelligence cracked the German codes, arrested every German agent that landed in England and turned them, invented a network of bogus agents and sent spies all over Europe.  These people can fake a dossier.I can see why the James Bond films appeal more to men than to women.  Even as a lover, he doesn't do much.  In the sex scenes with Paris, they weren't even in bed together.  If you like meaningless action scenes, and I did like the motorcyle sequence, Tomorrow Never Dies is a good movie. (I didn't like the car sequence and that wasn't even Pierce Brosnan's thumb).  Otherwise, it left something to be desired. "},{"Title":"More than adequate","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm happy to report that Tomorrow Never Dies is the best Bond movie since For Your Eyes Only; I just wish that were a ringing endorsement. Certainly, it's an improvement on Goldeneye, which was a watch-checker of a movie if I ever saw one, and it at least distinguished itself from the films that came before. Props go to Michelle Yeoh, a Bond girl who's actually allowed to do something; Teri Hatcher, who actually manages to steal some scenes here; Jonathan Pryce, having a ball as the villain. It's a bit too teched up for its own good, but it keeps the action coming, and has a surprisingly hard edge in places which almost (almost!) make me forget the Roger Moore films ever existed. A step in the right direction. "},{"Title":"Crowe or Lang?","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Don't know if Crowe is 007, but she definitely is good. Lang's song, on the other hand, was as lame as any runner-up used in recent years.But by that time the audience is on their way out. Still, this habit of ending a 007 movie with a wimpy song is definitely not a good move...TND has more than its predecessors, true, and it is shockingly refreshing to see Dench's M gaze on Bond with (is it motherly) love and national pride, but the former elegance... That remains to be conquered. The love scene between Hatcher and Brosnan is the high point of the movie, a real knock you off your feet emotional tour de force. Yet for all its lack of blasts and petroleum explosions Goldfinger yet today exudes a superiority to the entire field.Is it that hard to make lightning strike in the same place again? Is it so necessary to follow in the footsteps of True Lies to hit big at the box office? I wonder...  "}{"Title":"Although with some good scenes, it was quite disappointing.","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As far as I see it, the best part of TND is the opening sequence. Even though it is a bit long- taking 3-4 mins to get into the real action- it does provide some stunning explosions and inventive action scenes. The cruise missile strike does top all movie explosions to date -totally annihilating everything in it's path- except Bond of course. But surprisingly, this is the down side to the film. This spectacular sequence forces the rest of the film to be better than it.......which doesn't seem to work. The rest of the film was very disappointing, for me, because after waiting 2 years for the film (a film that i thought would be better than GoldenEye, which was awesome!) i walked out of the cinema dissatisfied. Jonathan Pryce's portrayal of Elliot Carver (said to be Rupert Murdoch on steroids!) bored me. He didn't have the wit and power that some previous villains had- such as Goldfinger, Jaws, and Blofeld. Michelle Yeoh's character was a pointless idea......maybe just to make TND longer (even with her character they were just pushing 2 hours). Roger Spottiswoode's direction is the worst I have ever witnessed in a Bond film. He has used some stupid expressions and camera angles that make the action look somewhat insignificant. He has also adopted some of Martin Campbell's directions from GoldenEye (much of Q's scene, Bond's smart comments, and Carver's monotonal speeches). The sexual innuendos were over the top in TND, every few minutes there would be another sexual joke of some sort. Despite all this bad stuff, there were some good scenes- the car chase, the bike chase, and when Bond and Wai Lin are brought before Carver in his Saigon tower. Overall, TND could've been much better, and I really hope that Bond 19 will be the ultimate adventure. But let's not get our hopes up. "},{"Title":"No News Like Bad News","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A hero is only as good as its villain. Bond films rely on having capable and memorable villains for them to live on like they have. It only makes sense when the villain make sense within the context of the story. Tomorrow Never Dies, like many other Bond films, struggles to ever lift off because of the lackluster baddie. Not at all to the dismay of Jonathan Pryce, who I like in many other things, just isn't given enough to work with here. But make no mistake, Tomorrow Never Dies is an entertaining ride.As much as I haven't been a fan of the Brosnan films so far in my re-watching of every Bond movie before Spectre, his films have benefited heavily from the updated special effects and CGI. I feel as if you put his performance in one of Connery or Moore's films it wouldn't have the same appeal because those films work on levels other than the CGI and action sequences. Nevertheless, Brosnan does at least make for a believable James Bond, though he's nowhere near his predecessors. In this movie, he goes after the leader of a proposed new global network, played by Pryce, in which you get tomorrow's news, today. Which if it weren't for his World War 3 hopes, would be a strange person for Bond to go after. The problem is that I understand this is someone who Bond would go after, but why does Pryce's character want there to be a World War 3? Just for media domination? There was a point where the character was framed to be the next Steve Jobs and compared himself to Caesar, Napolean, and I think even God, but then all of a sudden he wants WWIII. He never seemed crazy enough to do something like that. I like Jonathan Pryce but I think they needed someone a bit more crazy than that. The good thing is that the film contains a ton of action and a very good Bond girl. At the very least, this would be a good cable watch if you were bored one night because the action is great, the film just isn't that intelligent or intricate. On the other hand, Wai Lin, played by Michelle Yeoh, is one of the better Bond girls the series has had in my opinion. Sure, there is an eventual romance, but it's not immediate or forced like so many others. Plus, she can handle herself in the field which makes her all the more bada**. So overall, Tomorrow Never Dies is fun to watch, but there's nothing to ride home about.+Great Bond girl+Solid action-Nothing intricate about the story-Strange structure to the villain5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Flawed but enjoyable Bond outing","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Bond Review. Title Appropriately Bond and actually has meaning with the plot.Pre-Titles Bond is sent to foil a terrorist market on the Soviet border with his MI6 superiors watching on. Before a Royal Navy launched missile hits the area he escapes with one of the planes. This is an extremely exciting opening with some really dynamic action. It's always fun to see Bond fight, while the stunt work is great and there is a genuine tension as to whether he'll escape.Theme Song Sheryl Crow does an okay job with the theme, but it's the arrangement that makes it great. Crow's rough vocals aren't anything special, yet the composition feels like classic Bond with a rockier edge that works well. The instrumentation is really impressive and even the lyrics are catchy.Plot Media mogul Elliot Carver wants global media coverage and plants to create war between Britain and China at sea to achieve it. Bond is sent to find out what his scheme is and races against the clock to stop it. The story is very far-fetched, but in fairness it is something different. Carver's plot is much more contemporary than many other Bond plots and it's nice to see a villain with different motivations. With that said it's hard to believe in such a crazy plan, things get a little too complicated and it is difficult to see what Carver would really gain from creating another World War.James Bond Pierce Brosnan is at his most comfortable in the role here. He's really charming and likable as he's enjoying himself, but he also has a more ruthless edge here that adds intensity to certain scenes. He looks the part and handles the more light-hearted material fine, with only some poor dialogue letting him down.Bond Girls Michelle Yeoh does a solid job as Bond's Chinese counterpart Wai Lin. It's nice to have a tough Bond girl and Yeoh is an enjoyable presence, but there isn't much chemistry with Brosnan and the character is never developed. Teri Hatcher is dull as Bond's old flame Paris. It's an interesting character, but Hatcher looks bored with the material and the role should have been done better.Villains Jonathan Pryce is hamming it up as Carver and normally I wouldn't mind, but with such a grounded villain it doesn't work. All of the dialogue is corny which doesn't help, Pryce goes over-the-top whenever he gets the chance and he never seems to be a threat. If he was more subtle and menacing then it would have worked much better. Gotz Otto is decent as the towering henchman Stamper, but it's just another Red Grant knock-off. He's a good physical threat and looks intimidating, but he's just really boring and has no exciting traits.Support Joe Don Baker returns as CIA agent Jack Wade and is enjoyable once again bring some warm humour. Judi Dench also puts in another solid performance as M, continuing to add layers to Bond's stern boss.Action The action looks great, but is hit and miss. While in Hamburg we get a fight in a paper factory that is exciting and intense. We also get a car chase in a parking lot featuring a remote controlled BMW, this is an entertaining piece and has a unique edge. There a motorbike chase with a helicopter that is ridiculous but good fun and features some great stunt work. We get a few cool fist- fights throughout too. The climax on Carver's ship is a bit of a mess however. It's just a massive shootout with explosions and bodies flying everywhere, while neither villain puts up much of a fight.Score David Arnold provides an excellent score. It has a sound that calls back to the original John Barry scores, while many compositions are packed with energy and bring a real drive or subtly to the appropriate scenes. The closing song by k.d. Lang is fantastic too.Production Values Visually the film is very impressive and is one of the slickest looking films of the series. Everything looks high- tech without being excessive, as both the action and dialogue driven scenes are shot very well. The stunt work is truly spectacular at times and there is an excitement to the film that can't be denied. The writing is the biggest stumbling block and this is very much a film of two halves. The first half up until Bond leaves Hamburg is fantastic, everything flows well and it feels like we're getting a classic Bond. The second half in China is just dull, nothing interesting really happens and the pace gets painfully slow. Many of the characters are set-up nicely and could have been really interesting, but there isn't much development or smart dialogue for them. Hamburg makes for an attractive and glamorous location, but China isn't utilised all that well.Conclusion When it's all said and done Tomorrow Never Dies is a thoroughly entertaining entry to the series. The issue I have are mainly to do with the writing. The potential for a truly great Bond film is here, but the characters are done wrong, the story is too illogical and there's a lot of inconsistency in the pacing. It has its good points with Brosnan being solid, some outstanding action and a wonderful score. But the weak villain, iffy Bond girls and that dull second half harm it. There also is a little too much trying to blend the realistic with the absurd that doesn't quite work. Yet the good aspects are really good and this is an entry that is frequently easy to enjoy. "},{"Title":"passable Bond movie","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan continues his cold detached smirky version of the iconic 007. This time the bad guy is crazy media mogul Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) who intends to start a war between Britain and China. He uses the GPS system to fool a British warship to enter Chinese waters. To investigate the incident, the Chinese sends in secret agent Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh) while Bond uses Mrs Carver (Teri Hatcher) who is actually an old flame.This one has a silly bad guy, and an unconventional Bond girl. They have to give Carver a reason to do what he does. How can we believe all these people are willing to start WWIII for nothing more than money? They have to give him a purpose for revenge. How could he guarantee that this thing doesn't spiral out of control into a nuclear nightmare? It's a dangerous plan for somebody who could lose everything just as easily as gain.The Bond girl is as iconic as Bond himself. Teri Hatcher would be a barely passable Bond girl, and Michelle Yeoh is throwing the concept completely overboard. Michelle Yeoh is necessary for the story and is pretty good for the purpose. I would probably pick somebody more exotic than Teri Hatcher.The action is good. The story is convoluted. In short, it's a Bond movie. As such, it has watchability but it's not in the top ranks of Bond movies. I would pick GoldenEye over this one. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Ones","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the 18th entry in the series and the second with Brosnan, a media magnate ensures he has the exclusive on breaking news stories by creating the news stories himself. After several lackluster entries in the series, including Brosnan's debut in GoldenEye, this one benefits from scaling back the special effects a bit and focusing more on old fashioned action and adventure. The result is the best entry in the series since Octopussy. Brosnan proves himself to be one of the better Bonds. Hatcher is alluring, but her role is too small. Yeoh is one of the toughest Bond girls, but there are no romantic sparks between her and Brosnan. "},{"Title":"(4.5) Contains one of my favorite action scenes in a Bond film","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Two years after Pierce Brosnan's first Bond film Goldeneye, he returns for his second Bond outing in Tomorrow Never Dies. Though not as sharp as Goldeneye, this Bond film is still strong and probably Brosnan's second best Bond film. The story behind Tomorrow Never Dies actually felt somewhat original. Stories seemed to become a rehash lately of previous Bond films, all focusing too much on world domination and Russia always somehow being involved. An insane maniac known as Elliot Carter wishes for that similar world domination, but in a unique style. In successful attempts at pitting China against Britain in hopes of starting a third world war, Carter's secret attacks from his stealth ship enable him to write tomorrow's news today - and broadcast world wide along all forms of media. The clever and twisted results would give Carter fame and glory, as well as richness beyond belief, while watching the world tear itself apart around him. Technology has made a proufound impact in this Bond movie, between Carter's media and his stealth ship. The technology made this Bond film quite up to date, and felt fitting. Tomorrow Never Dies has a decent list of characters. Brosnan seems like the same Bond since Goldeneye - not a tremendous performance, but complete none the less. Carter is an original villain with his clever ways, but still can't compare to some of the more famous classic Bond villains. Carter's henchman is a fine choice, having the look of another ex-KGB brute, and like past KGB villains, giving Bond an excellent final fight. The Bond girl - Michelle Yeoh - is actually my favorite Bond girl. She does just about as much as James to get the mission accomplished. And the best part is - she knows martial arts. If you are familiar with Michelle Yeoh, you may have seen her in Crouching Tiger or Jackie Chan's Supercop. She is no stranger to excellent martial arts, and gets a couple of great fights here. The best part of this movie is a tremendous action scene that I love. It involves a motorcycle chase down the streets of Saigon. Both Bond and Wei (Yeoh) are handcuffed together on the bike, outrunning cars and a helicopter. They drive everywhere - on tops of building and through them. The best part of the chase is when the helicopter turns vertical, using its blades to tear up everything down the street. People are running while the chopper chases down the bike in the crowd. Its quite amazing to see a chopper in that position. Overall, this is a great Bond film. Not the best, but one of the better. It won't go down with the classics, but it has some fun characters, an original story, and some great action to keep it very entertaining. Acting - 4 Action - 4.5 Characters - 4 Story - 4 Overall - 4.5 "},{"Title":"4.5; a strong Brosnan outing","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies in a strange way feels like that other Bond movie since to many people, the first 90's revival film, Goldeneye, was very well-received and brought a classic Nintendo 64 game with it. This film, Pierce Brosnan's second outing, is a bit more stronger in terms of pacing and its action sequences though it doesn't have that reverence the previous film did which is a shame. Sure there's some elements, like all Bond films, which don't quite make it perfect, it's got plenty of bullets, quips and babes for any Bond lover to be entertained by. A British naval ship, the Devonshire, had drifted too close to Chinese waters and the event leads the Devonshire sunk and a Chinese fighter destroyed. But a third ship, a stealth ship owned by media mogul Elliot Carver, used technology to fool both sides and the result creates a possible start to World War III. 007 James Bond is sent in to investigate Carver's plans and with the help of Carver's wife Paris (and an old flame of Bond's) and Wai Lin, a Chinese agent, Bond tries to stop 2 powerful governments from declaring war on each other. I'm going to get the negatives out of the way so it doesn't sound like I'm complaining too much. For one, the lack of a strong villain kind of hurts the film and though we have acclaimed actor Jonathan Pryce (Brazil) playing the role, he seems more like a man behind the scenes playing with toys than a threat. And the plot isn't exactly new and Carver's whole reason for doing it is kind of ...wha?. However, this film has some of the best action sequences of the Brosnan era, from the pre-credit fighter jet scuffle, to Bond literally backseat driving as well as my favorite, when they drive up and all around a city on motorcycle. This scene is right up there with the tank chase in Goldeneye or the boat chase in World is Not Enough. Acting-wise, there's not a whole lot to nitpick about, aside from the villains. Carver's muscle Mr. Stamper is kind of laughable and M. played by Judi Dench nearly loses her strong confidence she exerted last time but she's still a nice foil to have around. Brosnan, the fifth Bond, is starting to get more and more comfortable in his role which is sad since the series started to get more laughable and a bit silly but his charm and wit combined with handling the rifles and fight scenes works very well and special kudos to Michelle Yeoh for doing probably the best Bond girl. Tomorrow Never Dies, complete with one of the few Sheryl Crow songs I can tolerate, is probably the last good Bond before it went into decent-ish followups and I'd recommend checking it out. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as others say","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies was the 18th Bond film produced by EON productions and for the second time starred Pierce Brosnan as James Bond. I can't quite put my finger on it, but there is something different about Bond in this. The film isn't as bad as other Bond fans say it is. The story is the usual 'villain wants to take over the world' storyline, but this time is from a different approach. Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) is an interesting Bond villain as he doesn't have the looks of a Bond villain, plus owning a newspapers company isn't really a villains profession, but once the action picks up, the character does become very menacing.The other characters also have a change of pace. M (Judi Dench) seems more involved with Bond, as does Moneypenny. The two Bond girls in this movie also are different. The main Bond girl, Wai Lin (Michelle Yoeh) is probably the most action involved Bond girl out of any of the previous ones. The romance between a Bond girls happens more with Paris Carver (Teri Hatcher) but her story is cut short through the film, when the character is killed off.The music is superb and David Arnold really brings a new feel to the soundtrack of Bond, which hopefully would retain him in place as composer for many more films in the future. Although it's not as long as the other Bond movies, with it's running time at less than 2 hours, it's still action packed with a fantastic explosive car chase through a car park being the highlight of the action.James Bond will return in The World Is Not Enough "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With the surprising success of Goldeneye, it was apparent that James Bond had successfully entered the post-Cold War world intact and as popular as ever. Pierce Brosnan seems to be more assured of what he is doing in many scenes and he is more into the Bond character's mindset as shown in many scenes in particular the scene in the hotel room when he kills Kaufman and in the scenes at Carver's building in Saigon. He also seems a more fit in the film's action sequences, particularly in the fight sequences at Carver's HQ in Hamburg. There is little at fault in Brosnan's performance as he does well in the action scenes, his one liner delivery, and the emotional scenes with Paris Carver. The Bond girl of the film, Michelle Yeoh's Wai Lin, is another great character. This character is truly every bit the agent Bond is and more then once she manages to out do Bond in the action sequences. The character is a truly original one and though the character may be a bit too tough for a Bond girl, it is other wise a perfect example of what a modern Bond girl should be. Michele Yeoh's performance in the film is another highpoint in the film as she manages to practically steal the scenes she is in. It is true that she falls into the Bond girl cliché of needing to be rescued by 007, but Bond does not actually rescue her. Wai Lin is the Bond girl for the modern era. In the form of Jonathon Pryce's Elliot Carver we get something we haven't seen in a while a truly well written and performed megalomaniac villain.. Carver is, next to License To Kill's Franz Sanchez, perhaps the most realistic villain of the series. Carver could easily exist in the modern world of 24 hour news that seems to have more influence in influencing governments then the actual events do. Carver is also a very intelligent character who is far from stupid. He is a strangely funny and for the most part likable character during his scenes in public and behind the scenes he is what many of us fear to be true of those in power evil enough to make events go their way for their own dark agenda. This is what makes the character and Pryce's performance all the more interesting. Pryce pulls the character off without a hitch and manages to give off a virtually flawless performance in the film as he is so convincing one might to begin wondering if media moguls are really like this in real life. The rest of the cast is one of the better supporting casts of the Bond series. Teri Hatcher is splendid in her small but pivotal role of Paris Carver, the old flame who comes back into Bond's mission and his life. Thought he character is ultimately a sacrificial lamb of the film, her demise is made all the more meaningful due to her relationship with Bond in the few scenes she is in. Judi Dench returns to the role of M and while one might go in expecting the same M from Goldeneye, but they come out with a different impression. This M has apparently been impressed by Bond enough in Goldeneye that she is more towards the M of old who, while disapproving of Bond's style, knows that only Bond can get the job done and this is quite refreshing. The scenes with Q and Moneypeny return for some of the best scenes of between the characters and Bond in years. In particular, the phone conversation between Bond and Moneypenny and the Q's introduction of the BMW in Hamburg stand out as highlights in the film. The action sequences in the film are a problem. The teaser sequence manages do something that is rare among action sequences it manages to be both suspenseful and exciting at the same time. The scenes where the stealth ship sinks the British warship is a well staged and suspenseful sequences. The same can be said of the fight scenes at the Carver HQ in Hamburg. But the film's best action sequence is the car chase in the Hamburg parking garage. Featuring the novel idea of a remotely operated full sized car with all the gadgets a Bond fan can ask for, along with some terrific music from David Arnold, this car chase is easily the best sequence of the like to appear in a Bond film. But the rest of the action sequences in film after the suspenseful dive on the warship fall flat, minus the Wai Lin fight sequence. Both the motorcycle chase and the battle sequence on the stealth boat are reminiscent of similar sequences in other Bond films that were done much better in those films. There is also the issue of the storyline. The idea of Carver building a stealth boat, sinking a British warship, shooting down a Chinese fighter plane, nuking the Chinese and causing the sinking of British fleet for only exclusive rights to air in China is all but laughably ludicrous and only causes the films over reliance on action to seem worse then probably is. David Arnold's score manages to bring some classic Bond score elements into the film and at times it s hard to believe that Barry didn't compose of the music. The music accompanying the teaser sequence is reminiscent of some of the classic Barry action music of the early Bond films and the music manages to play incredibly well into the scenes were suspense is most needed. Despite the good acting and the top notch score, the films over reliance on a over the top storyline, action sequences, and two week major supporting characters, hurts the film considerably to the point of dropping down from a well above average Bond film to a below average Bond film. "},{"Title":"Not a great effort","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the weakest Bond movies in the series. It has the usual gadgets, girls and gimmicks but the story is pretty far-fetched even for a Bond flick. I mean, really. A megalomaniacal media mogul tries to start a war to boost the circulation of his various enterprises. Jonathan Pryce is a little too over-the-top in his portrayal of Eliot Carver and Teri Hatcher has little chemistry with Brosnan. Michele Yeoh is about the only bright spot in this dismal production. Considering some of director Roger Spottiswoode's other work (Turner and Hooch, Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot) it's not surprising that this turned out as it did.  "}{"Title":"A great action movie; a moderate Bond movie","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilersTOMORROW NEVER DIES was the first Bond film to be made after the death of Albert R. Cubby Broccoli. Next to Desmond Llewelyn, no other member of the original Bond team has remained on the series as long as he has and will be remembered for always. Because of his death, his children Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson were left as the sole producers of the Bond franchise. Perhaps their father's death was the cause of the problems of this film.TOMORROW NEVER DIES looks like an ACTION film, it feels like an ACTION film, and is a good ACTION film, but Bond is not JUST an action film. He has suspense. He has the thriller/spy element. He has romance. He has drama. He has crime. Bond films are in their own genre, the Bond genre, and this film doesn't fit into that category. It is just an action film. Pierce Brosnan has matured into the part of James Bond from GOLDENEYE and gives a better performance. But it is still too Connery for my tastes and the compassion Bond has with his leading ladies is unbelievable for the character. Speaking of which, both Paris Carver and Wai Lin are excellent. But Wai Lin's falling in love with Bond is uncharacteristic for her, and again, Bond's emotional attachement to Paris is uncalled for. I like women with personality, but they shouldn't over-do it and try to give Bond a true love again. It's an insult to Fleming and OHMSS in particular. The MI6 staff returns doing a fantastic job, but Bill Tanner is left out, instead filled in by Robinson. He does a good job. Jack Wade also makes a welcome return. The villains have the worst problems. Elliot Carver is a one-dimensional, power-crazed, pure evil megalomaniac with no characterization. His age makes his confrontation and death by Bond very dull. Stamper is a stereotypical henchman. The only amusing villain is Dr. Kaufman, who describes doctorine in murder with excellent humor. The film has real-life stunts and incredible action, but that's all it focuses on.With it being an action film, not a Bond film, being the quickest way to summarize my complaints, this film gets a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the poorest Bond movies yet.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is one of those Bond films which adds absolutely nothing new to the series. The enemy and the Bondgirl are as unmemorable as they come.There is very little else to say about it. After the brilliant Goldeneye this is a very dull followup. Go watch one of the better ones like A View To A Kill or You Only Live Twice. So, unless you're a drop-dead James Bond fan, avoid,avoid,avoid. "},{"Title":"Inventive but flawed Bond movie","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The second instalment of Pierce Brosnan's adventures as James Bond, Tomorrow Never Dies may well be seen to be one of the most innovative and topical of the Bond movies, featuring as it does a media mogul villain, but it is also the most flawed of the recent Bond pictures as some of the action is lacklustre and many of the film's attempts at comedy fall short of the mark.Bond is sent to investigate the mysterious disappearance of a British submarine in the South China seas.  In the process he uncovers a plot by demented media tycoon Elliot Carver(Jonathan Pryce) to start World War III, in order to boost the ratings for his new satellite network.  With the aid of a high-kicking Chinese agent(Michelle Yeoh), 007 sets out to stop him.In terms of the acting, this one is something of a mixed bag.  Brosnan has clearly settled into his role as the charming but lethal secret agent.  Unfortunately some of his one-liners come off as a little crass at times(They'll print anything these days, muses Bond as a henchman meets his maker in a newspaper press.)The other regulars such as Judi Dench's M and Samantha Bond's Miss Moneypenny don't fare much better.  And while its nice to see old Desmond Llewellyn back as Q, here posing as an Avis car representative, all he does is spout off his usual cliches (Grow up, 007!) then go home.On the other hand, Michelle Yeoh makes a formidable Bond girl and the film gets a terrific villain in Pryce's Elliot Carver.  Unlike previous bad guy Sean Bean, he wouldn't last two seconds with Bond in a fight, but Pryce compensates by delivering his every line with a gleeful relish that is hard to resist.  Teri Hatcher has an underrated role as Carver's wife, an old flame of Bond's, and Vincent Schiavelli is hilarious as Carver's chief assassin.Special effects and actions scenes are largely on par with what has gone before, although the finale could have been staged a little more spectacularly.  Highlights include a motorcycle chase through the streets of Hamburg and, a first for the Bond films, a kung-fu fight sequence.To conclude, Tomorrow Never Dies, in spite of its flaws, is still an above average and very watchable Bond movie. "},{"Title":"Never Say Die.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another one of those watchable Bond films that ends up being a major disappointment by the end. Pierce Brosnan returns and tries to figure out what really happened to a doomed British warship as it was sunk in Chinese waters. It seems that media mogul madman Jonathan Pryce (loosely based on Rupert Murdoch of FOX fame) is attempting to finish his worldwide empire by getting the rights to broadcast in China. The Chinese are suspicious of all this and send Michelle Yeoh to investigate and she and Bond begin a long journey to figure out what is really going on and to stop Pryce's diabolical plan. Pryce is really good here, but he chews up the scenery so much that everything else seems only fair at best. In the end the whole production ended up only being average. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Average Bond movie","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies has some nice elements to it but suffers from a paranoid plot, several stereotypes and action that's typically too unbelievable.  The plot centers around Bond's attempt at stopping media mogul Elliot Carver from creating a war between China and England for news ratings.  The idea of media manipulation is not a bad plot point but looks ridiculous on this grand a scale.  The stereotypes exist in abundance.  Michelle Yeoh makes a nice, active Bond heroine and, of course, is the stereotypical Asian martial arts expert.  Gotz Otto as Mr. Stamper makes a nice Bond villain and is, of course, ridiculously German.  Jonathan Pryce has some decent moments and is a fun actor.  He's typically apocalyptic and insane as the main Bond antagonist.  Vincent Schiavelli gives a very entertaining and yes, extremely stereotypical, performance as Dr. Kaufman and Teri Hatcher helps move the plot in the early stages as an ex-acquaintance of Bonds who just happens to be Carver's wife.  The action is of the 'Bond takes on the entire enemy army and wins' variety.  It goes beyond the unbelievable as even Bond wouldn't be that lucky.  He also seems to handle much of the action with ease.  The movie is interesting with a lot of high tech machinery and the pace is solid and flows well.  Not an awful effort but extremely ordinary.6.4/10     "},{"Title":"pitiful","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear, what a mess. I grew up with the Roger Moore movies, and for me he epitomizes what Bond is all about. Class, wit and sly cunning.Where to begin ? The casting is just plain awful. The oh-so-scary main villain and his teenaged henchman are utterly laughable. Did anyone find them *remotely* threatening ? Love interest Teri Hatcher is wooden and unconvincing. Not even Q, wheeled out for the token gadget scene, can rescue this dud (a gadget scene, incidentally, that shamelessly pushes product placement to new levels). And, sorry, but Brosnan simply doesn't convince me in the lead role. His bland, blow-dried good looks put me more in mind of a car salesman than a ruthless assassin.Like other reviewers, I'm bothered by the brutality of this movie. Bond murders an innocent security guard after he breaks into the newspaper offices, and machine-guns some 20-odd extras in the tedious climax.And I can't finish without mentioning the alleged 'witty' dialog between Bond and Moneypenny. Her 'cunning linguist' and 'pump her for information' comments are so blunt and obvious it's painful. This is Bond, so I'd expect the odd double entendre - that scene's just embarassing.Did I go on long enough ? Avoid this rotten excuse for a movie. "},{"Title":"The best Bond flick of the last 10 years.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Even though we haven't seen a great Bond movie on the lever of Goldfinger or For Your Eyes only in recent times, Tomorrow Never Dies is enjoyable as the best one to come up in the last 10 years. It's the funnest of the last 3 Bond movies, with a motorcycle chase that ranks up as one of the greatest Bond action scenes ever. The villian is one of the most origonal we have seen in a while, a media tycone who wants to start a war and use it to his benefit. It does have a few minuses as do most movies, it seems a little darker than most Bond films and it has a few weak plot aspects. I'm still waiting for the next great Bond movie and perhaps it will never come, but this is enjoyable never the less. "},{"Title":"An OK Bond movie.","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bags of action, and sod all plot. That about sums up this film, but it's still fun to watch. Until about half way through that is ... suddenly it gets seriously rubbish. The villain is pathetically un-scary, and that's really just not on for Bond.The other real downer is the dreadful whiney theme song by Sheryl Crow ... please, please, please, get someone with a powerful voice in future!  "},{"Title":"Bond is back!!!!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After Goldeneye I thought that Bond was dead. I thought that a character that is on the screen since '60s can be a little too tired for saving the world. Now, after Tomorrow never dies I have my hero back! The greatest spy of the world in this movie have the power, the charme, the technology and the abilities that he need! There's an evil bad character with an absurd and great plot to conquer the world, there're a lot of action scenes very well made and everything is mixed up with the right logic and cleverness. A good movie of 007, the best of the last 10 years. "},{"Title":"Michelle Yeoh","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  yes, Pierce Brosnan is gorgeous & plays a good Bond.  And of course you get to see Teri Hatcher die, and luckily pretty soon into the film.However.... Michelle Yeoh is the reason to watch thefilm, and I'd highly suggest seeing some of her other films, such as Wing Chun or 'the Heroic Trio where she truly gets to show off her abilities.I liked the motorcycle scenes, but this movie did not make proper use of her talents.  When you see her fight off several men, while pretending to be standing demurely behind her man (making it look like he's doing the fighting).  Or when she fights off several men while balancing food on a table with her foot/hand/ or a stick, it's quite impressive.  She's pretty and badass, or just pretty badass! ;) "}{"Title":"Best brosnan bond","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This one is alot better then brosnans first bond Goldeneye.It is also better then his latest bond Tomorrow never dies.I mean you cant beat the locations and the girls are awesome in this one.It is action packed all the time unlike  the other two brosnan bonds.The villians are cool in this bond too.If youre looking for a good bond get this one. 9-10. "},{"Title":"Bond is dead","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK, it's not that bad. Acting, plot and effects are good, but I miss the Bond I saw in the 80's. The 3 last bond-films (Tomorrow never dies,  Goldeneye & License to kill) have moved to far from the books and I consider them as good action movies (except Goldeneye who was trash), but not very good Bond-films. My favorite Bond-films are 1. For your eyes only (1981), 2. The Spy who loved me (1977), 3. Goldfinger,  4. The Living daylight (the last Bond-film),  5. Live and let die,  6. Octopussy,  7. You only live twice, 8. Thunderball. I wish they would make the Bond-movies more like this ones, but they probable won't. Tomorrow... get 5 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"Best Bond film ever (so far)","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My Age 13The HMS Devonshire was sunk apparently by Chinese MIGs, something which could start a war between the Chinese and the British.  The ship was really sunk by media mogul Elliot Carver, played by Jonathan Pryce, who wants ratings as well as the broadcast rights in China, which he needs to complete a global communications empire.  James Bond, played by Pierce Brosnan, is sent in by the British to uncover the truth. Wai Lin, played by Michelle Yeoh, is also sent to uncover the truth by the Chinese.This is definitely the best Bond film I have ever seen, the action is terrific, there is just the right amount of comedy, and the ending climax is terrific.  Pierce Brosnan is great as James Bond, as is Jonathan Pryce as Elliot Carver, who makes a fantastic villain.  There is not a negative thing I can say about this movie, it is just fantastic.  I highly recommend this film and am looking forward to the next James Bond film, The World is Not Enough.Australian Classification M 15+ Low Level Violence, Sexual ReferencesRating 89 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Best Bond film ever (so far)","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the best Bond film ever made. It's even better than my previous favourite License To Kill. It has everything except good looking female leads.But instead Pierce Brosnan is handsome and charming and full of funny one-liners. He's also the best Bond. HE IS JAMES BOND !! "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Ride","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My journey through Bond chronologically has taken me about 9 months but I am finally getting close to Skyfall. Here is Pierce Brosnan in his second outing as Commander Bond. The villain, Jonathan Pryce, is menacing in his scheme to start WWIII but pretty freakin' lame otherwise. His henchman wasn't much, either. But the action was great and Pierce has definitely molded himself into this character. Was weird seeing him in GoldenEye before this, but now quite comfortable in TND. Back is a great score, too, after the disaster in GoldenEye. That barely had the Bond theme but here it is included as much as it should be included (more than once) and we have a musical score that hearkens back to splendid past scores of the great John Barry. Overall, this is a slight step down from GoldenEye but still a thrilling ride.7.4 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener "},{"Title":"An OK Brosnan Bond, full of action","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rating-6/10Tomorrow Never Dies is a Bond that never lacks the ambition to go full throttle with the action but also show Bond's personal side off as well. With big gadgets and a plot that some may find straight forward but I found it to be well put together at most points, you shouldn't be bored by this second Bond film by Brosnan. Overall I felt it was firmly an OK movie, and here below is why I felt that about it.The story as said is a good plot, works well with a villain trying to create news stories for his own financial benefit, Bond in the story works his way adventurously thorough different countries and even the bottom of the sea at one point. It can be fast at parts then suddenly speed up and the story isn't done so well it deserves a medal, but OK entertainment nonetheless. I felt the end slows slightly and affects it but otherwise it is worth a watch and I feel some may really like this.Pierce Brosnan is back as Bond and he is good, he isn't the one who affects the film and he brings all the elements he had in Goldeneye back for this one too. He brings a Bond full of surprises and delivers some of the best quips of all time. Jonathan Pryce as the villain is well, not so evil looking but still his mind is completely crazy and he becomes one of those Bond villains who is able to mix insanity with a bit of humour too. Michelle Yeoh as the Bond girl is OK but maybe she lacks the certain things that some of the other girls can bring to the series.It is not written or directed particularly well but it isn't of care as you feel Brosnan controls the scenes and even if the dialogue is a little stingy, Brosnan does at times manage to save the film from utter repute. I like the gadgets, they are fun and what we expect from Bond, over the top as hell but still they are fun to see and without some of the gadgets used in this movie, we would be without some key and great action scenes.The film lacks a true substance, that is the main criticism here as the premise is not a bad one but the people behind this movie really fail to bring a good story out and a Bond who has met his match, it isn't good enough simple. You could also say this over uses action, if you look back after watching you kind of think about the constant explosions and when using his gadgets, the kind of useless action that isn't rationally needed.Bond series fans should enjoy it as it brings what Bond is again, some may dislike the constant action and even the more darker tones, but it shouldn't bother too much. For anyone looking for a humorous Bond, this isn't it as although Pryce is funny at times and Brosnan delivers some good lines in the line of comedy, there isn't enough and as said, overall it takes on a much more darker tone than say Roger Moore's portrayal of James Bond.Overall I give this a 6/10, it is Firmly an OK movie, I felt like being nice here, I could have said this lacks everything but watching it you can't help feel that Brosnan tries hard here and manages a good job out of it. Probably not the best of Brosnans acts of Bond but worth a good watch, if your watching all the Bonds in order, this one may let you down after Goldeneye, as a one off, best if those who enjoy much more action in a film see this one as it is jam packed with it all, guns are firing everywhere. "},{"Title":"Where Tomorrow Never Dies Stands","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is Pierce Brosnans second performance as agent 007 and could have been better. It is a very big decline since his first film being Goldenye, one of my favorites. This Bond film is good but doesn't feel like a Bond film somehow. Bond pretty much murders Elliot Carver, the villain, like a serial killer would! But again Pierce Brosnan makes the Bond character feel cooler and smoother. This is a good Bond movie but if I compare it to my favorites, it isn't very good. After watching it once and then watching it again there are some scenes you can look forward to.Elliot Carver by far is the strangest, but OK Bond villain of all time. Tomorrow Never Dies stands 19th on a list of mine where the 007 Movies have been ranked from worst to greatest. The film itself is good but The Bond Girl lets it down, as well as some of the fake action. "},{"Title":"One of the more underrated Bond films!","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It was really hard for the next Bond film to top Goldeneye, and it didn't. Although the plot was somewhat stupid, the villains were over the top and the acting was sometimes a little bad. The film did however offer slightly more entertainment... the kind of entertainment where you can just turn your mind off, and enjoy the humor, the gadgets, the action, the women, the fast cars, etc. In my opinion this is a slightly underrated Bond film, which deserves more credit than it has received. The plot is as mentioned kinda stupid, but that's kind of a trademark for the Bond films... most of them anyway. I actually thought that the movie was enjoyable and funny. A worthy entry to the Bond series... and I still think that!The movie is centered about this media mogul named Elliot Carver, who wants to launch a third World War, so that he can cover the whole thing with his network. So the movie starts out with a cool action sequence, where Bond is to destroy a weapon station for terrorists (I think that's what it is). It's actually a pretty good opening sequence. After the title sequence the HMS Devonshire is sinked by what appears to be Chinese MIG's. In fact it is Carver and his Stealth Ship. A pretty good plot actually, but the whole thing drags out, and it becomes kinda over the top.I think personally that Roger Spottiswoode did a fine job as the director of the piece. He captured the whole 007 feeling and he made some pretty cool action sequences. I also like the cinematography, the sound and the sound editing.Pierce Brosnan is formidable as James Bond. You can see that he is getting comfortable with the role. Jonathan Pryce as Elliot Carver is actually a pretty memorable Bond villain. Most because he looks and feels like Rupert Murdoch and Steve Jobs. He does a fine job, and delivers what the script wants him to. Michelle Yeoh is one of my least favorite Bond girls. I know many people will disagree with me, but I think that her character is boring and I don't really buy her acting. Teri Hatcher however is a beautiful woman, a great actress and has very good chemistry with Brosnan. My only regret is that she doesn't get much screen time. Judi Dench plays M with perfection, as always. Ricky Jay, Gôtz Otto and Vincent Schiavelli also plays pretty good and over the top villains.I found this movie quite enjoyable and funny. While it is over the top, it's not more over the top than the other Bond films. One of the most underrated and unappreciated Bond films of all time.7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent 90's Bond film","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) is so far the only Bond movie directed by Roger Spottiswoode. It is the second film in the series featuring Pierce Brosnan as 007. It is also the first Bond film I saw in cinema as a little boy.A British navy ship mysteriously sinks at the Chinese waters and a Chinese fighter jet is shot down. When media mogul Elliot Carver reports of these events in his Tomorrow newspaper faster than should have been possible, the British Secret Service becomes suspicious. M sends James Bond to investigate Carver, as Bond used to have an intimate relationship with Carver's current wife Paris. Along the way Bond meets Wai Lin, a Chinese spy also investigating Carver. The two become positive that Carver is trying to instigate World War III simply because it sells papers.After the GoldenEye brought James Bond successfully to post cold war world, it remained to be seen if the series would be able to remain as good. Tomorrow Never Dies is once again one of those Bond films that other people love and other hate. Personally, I belong in the former group. There's a lot of good things going for this film. The whole media angle in the plot is not only interesting, but also very believable way for modern day world domination. This movie also has surprising amount of action, with car chases and jumping down from buildings. The ending battle in Carver's ship brings The Spy Who Loved Me to mind. Yet the most memorable, and possibly one of my favorite action scenes, is the one where Bond and Lin, handcuffed to each others, ride a motorcycle through the busy streets of Saigon while a helicopter chases them.Brosnan pulls through the movie with same confidence he had in GoldenEye and he doesn't seem old news at all. Jonathan Pryce must have had fun playing Elliot Carver, a villain with an ego so big it would make Auric Goldfinger blush. He's definitely the life of this movie, just watching him being a gleeful evil bastard is a joy. Another great thing is Michelle Yeoh as Wai Lin. There's nothing much to her character, but having Michelle Yeoh kick ass in a movie is never a bad idea. The weak link of the cast is Teri Hatcher as Paris Carver. She's nice to look at but not right person to play sympathetic love roles. Judi Dench and Joe Don Baker return to reprise their roles from previous movie and give good support.Tomorrow Never Dies is not the greatest Bond movie in the series, but it's a real fun to watch and good follow up to the excellent GoldenEye. After this Brosnan's Bond era sadly started going south. "},{"Title":"Tomorrow is Today's Picture-It Never Dies ***1/2","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of the best action packed subject matter James Bond film I've seen in its long series. What made this picture so good was that it dealt with an important subject matter. That subject is the influence of the media. Jonathan Pryce's insane portrayal of a media mogul trying to provoke China and England into war so that his papers could sell in China was outrageous at best, but it gets us to thinking about the media's influence on events.The dialogue was crisp and there were some memorable lines. Dame Judy Dench as M uttered one by when she was told that she had testicles, her witty reply was that in her case she doesn't have to use them. The chase scenes were great as always, especially with the computer controlled car with Bond in the back seat and the motorcycle chase was phenomenal. "}{"Title":"Good James bond 007 movie.","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This another good James bond 007 movie it is not quite as good as goldeneye but it is still a good James bond 007 movie because of all the same reasons it has lots of action in it not quite as much as goldeneye but it still has lots of action in it it has a good screen play for it not quite as good as goldeneye but still has a good screen play for it pierce brosnan once again does a great James bond 007 the villains are good in it. I'm sure that you will not be disappointed with tomorrow never dies. I'm sure you will have fun watching it and will watch it over and over again. Great adaption of tomorrow never dies. So make sure that you buy or rent tomorrow never dies because it is a good James bond 007 movie.Overall score ******* out of ********** *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"The Best Bond Movie","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best Bond movie ever made. I like this one because it has a lot of action and both Bond girls are very sexy in the movie. The movie came out around the time that Titanic did and it did not do that bad it made over 100M. This movie is the second best movie of 1997 and it is number 17 on my top 100 films. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best Bond adventure","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was never very keen on Brosnan as James Bond. He always seemed like he was trying to be a smart-ass instead of a hard-ass. I remember when Goldeneye came out back in November 1995 the media were raving about it being a new Bond for a new era but to me it actually felt quite regressive.After the angry, extremely tough Dalton Bond we went back to big, dumb set-pieces, maniacal villains bent on world domination and crude sex jokes. Thankfully Tomorrow Never Dies was significantly better, though it's far from being brilliant.The main problem with TND is that it's clearly just a bunch of action scenes with a thin plot concocted to string them together. I guess this is acceptable since not every Bond movie has to be a 2-hour+ affair and it does feel very fast-paced in contrast to the slow, lumbering dinosaur that was The World Is Not Enough which followed two years later.Teri Hatcher gets to look pretty as Bond's former squeeze now married to Elliot Carver, a man who is very much insane and plans to take over the world with his tabloid newspaper that is so sleazy it would make the Daily Sport look like Dickens. Unfortunately, she's not got much to do after her husband finds out and has her killed. Then we're left with Wai Lin, a clumsy Chinese agent who isn't the kind of woman who instantly throws her helpless self into Bond's arms. I like tough women and there's a lot of fun to be had in watching her beat up random bad guys.It's a shame that Brosnan's scripts got even worse after TWINE. Die Another Day is affront to the franchise and among the rubble of three dull movies ol' Pierce only got to shine in this one.Dante's Peak was good though. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Flick in all 40 years of Bond legacy","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Im sorry but TND blew!! The plot was so retarted; MEDIA MOGEL TRIES TO START WORLD WAR 3 BY USING TV FOR RATINGS. Come on! Get real! Jonathan Pryce is a great actor but sucked as villain Elliot Carver. Carver is so weak and never fights Bond in hand-to-hand combat. Teri Hatcher did a horrible job as Paris. The script was dumb, The car (which always is a beautiful BMW) looked like a rusty pinto! The only good things about TND was the opening credits, Michelle Yeoh's suberb acting, Pierce Brosnan's acting, and the cool gadgets. The best bond film to me is GoldenEye, then Live and Let Die, then Dimonds are Forever, then For Your Eyes Only, and then The World is Not Enough. I give TND ** out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Martinis, girls, and guns... It's murder on our love affair.","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You don't review James Bond movies, you evaluate them, rate them according to how well they meet expectations. There are certain things one has come to expect, even demand of a Bond film and each individual effort either delivers or it doesn't. So, here are ten elements that make a Bond film a Bond film and how TOMORROW NEVER DIES rates on a scale of 1 to 10 Title TOMORROW NEVER DIES Poetic pretension aside, the Tomorrow in this case is the name of a newspaper. And the film's original title was Tomorrow Never Lies, a more mundane slogan, but not nearly suitable for a Bond film. 8 points.Pre-Credit Teaser Bond interrupts the sale of various illegal weapons and casually stops a nuclear disaster in the bargain. Another elaborate teaser with Bond escaping the bad guys at the last minute, leaving a bunch of explosions in his wake. Nicely done, I suppose, but old hat. 5 points.Opening Credits After Daniel Kleinman's debut work on the credits for GOLDENEYE, his graphics here are particularly disappointing. There is almost a generic quality to Kleinman's choice of images, reflecting the worst of Maurice Binder's prototypes. Worse, the disturbing shots of the female body made up of circuits and micro chips is rather creepy re- enforcing the clichéd concept of Bond Girls as mere objects. 2 points.Theme Song It may not be the all-time worst Bond theme song, but Sheryl Crowe's Tomorrow Never Dies, cowritten with Richard Froom, just might be the most sleep-inducing. Perhaps she is trying to imitate the great Shirley Bassey, but Crowe's drowsy rendition is listless and just downright dreary. A second theme song ends the film; k. d. lang's Surrender is somewhat better than Crowe's contribution -- but not by much. It's strange, but by this time the producers of the series are picking and choosing from multiple submissions from various noted artists, yet they still end up selecting themes songs that are, at best, mediocre. 2 points.Bond, James Bond As Bond, Pierce Brosnan seems to be trying awfully hard to not crack so much as a smile, thus when he does seem to be enjoying himself it's cause for applause. After the sardonic style he restored to the character in GOLDENEYE, it is disheartening to see him returning to the glum approach that Timothy Dalton took. 4 points.Bond Babes Somewhere between being Lois Lane and becoming a Desperate Housewife, Teri Hatcher added Bond Girl to her resume. Alas, she brought none of her proved gift for playing spunky heroines with a comic touch to the role; as the villain's depressed ill-fated wife, she may be the most morose Bond Girl of all time. But she is balanced out in glorious style by Michelle Yeoh as Wai Lin, a Chinese agent who teams up with 007, both on his mission and on some of the best staged stunts of the series. While sex and sexiness have all but faded from the Bond films, Yeoh personifies the evolution of the Bond Girl to that of a strong and dynamic professional. 10 points.Bond Villain Of all the villains James has faced, Elliott Carver just might be the most insipid. Though played by the very talented Jonathan Pryce, the character is a power-mad media mogul who hopes to start World War III, so he can have exclusive rights to cover it with his print and broadcast outlets. That is a lot of effort for such a meager pay back. Though prone to occasional temper tantrums, the owlish Carver is about as threatening as a junior high school principal who is upset about graffiti on the boys room wall. 1 point.Bond Baddies Vincent Schiavelli is one of those actors born to play a bad guy. With his sad, droopy Salvadore Dali face, he instantly gave character to any role just by his presence. Here, as assassin Dr. Kaufman, he is rather subdued, but he gives a nice comic twist to the character's dour professionalism. He is assisted by his protégé, Stamper, who unfortunately is played far less memorably by Götz Otto. Stamper is yet another cold, emotionless Ayran killer in the Donald Grant mold and, while he is a formidable opponent in battle, he is a dull character otherwise. 7 points.Sinister Plot There are just so many holes in Carver's dastardly plan that even the most far-fetched Bond action stunt is more believable. The idea that a publisher has to create news in order to have something to print is as old as yellow journalism, but there just isn't a whit of common sense in Carver's reckless drive to create a world war that would endanger, not expand his own media empire. Plus, what idiot would place in print stories about his own crimes, even before he committed them. He is just a stupid, stupid man and it is a stupid, stupid plot. 0 points.Production values The film's saving grace is the remarkable stunt work featuring Bond and Wai Lin handcuffed together and escaping via motorcycle from the villain's helicopter, through the slums of Saigon. Obviously influenced by the over-the-top stunts work of Asian cinema, it provides quite a kick to an otherwise lackluster film. 8 points.Bonus Points I don't know if it is social commentary or just motion picture showmanship, but once again we are treated to the mindless destruction of a poor Third World community. Though expertly done, the chase that runs amok in a crowded, impoverished Saigon neighborhood, terrorizing the poor and destroying their meager homes, all without a second thought, paints a vivid portrait of Super Power arrogance. We'll pretend it is meant as social commentary and add 5 points.Summary What this film does best, it does very well. But it's negatives far outweigh its positives. TOMORROW doesn't die; it's already DOA.Bond-o-meter Rating 52 points out of 100. "},{"Title":"A good movie, but far from excellence","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Roger Spottiswoode and produced by Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson, has Bruce Feirstein script and is the eighteenth film in the franchise. In this film, Pierce Brosnan plays 007 alongside Michelle Yeoh, in the role of Bond-girl Wai Lin, Teri Hatcher, on the role of Paris Carver and Jonathan Pryce, in the role of Elliot Carver. In this film, James Bond will investigate a mysterious act of war between Britain and China, allying to an agent of the Chinese secret services. Quickly, the two spies will focus their attention on a mysterious and egocentric mogul media, which doesn't look at ways to keep himself at the top of the audience.This is the second movie where Pierce Brosnan gives life to Bond and, as in the first appearance, he failed to surprise the audience. The actor is good and strives but failed to give authenticity to his Bond, even in action scenes, and convincing the public. Not to mention that, increasingly, advertising products will invade the film as if it were a plague. The plot, however, will help getting to forget such problems. In fact, the way the mass media influences the world thinking is still a concern for many people, particularly the anti-mainstream groups. Still, it's sad to see that, as happened with the previous film, this movie also has not sought a drop of inspiration in the novels of Ian Fleming. Another very positive point of this film is the excellent interpretation of Jonathan Pryce, in the villain's role. He managed to become truly relentless. The curious Q-branch gadgets back to deserve a positive note thanks to a BMW, which not only walks alone but also has a female voice. The opening theme of this film, sung by Sheryl Crow is, in my opinion, striking and worthy of being heard and appreciated. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's Best Bond Outing.","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) Dir Roger Spottiswoode / Cast Pierce Brosnan, Michelle Yeoh, Jonathan Pryce, Teri Hatcher, Ricky Jay Exciting 007 outing with explosive action and wit. Title regards the promise of a secure future with James Bond investigating a sunken ship that was attacked on International waters. Jonathan Pryce plays the villain who creates havoc to boost his news coverage. Teamed with Michelle Yeoh and aided with gadgets including a car controlled by pad. Interesting setup descends into high powered action handled effectively by director Roger Spottiswoode. This is a vast improvement after having directed the embarrassing Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot. Pierce Brosnan brings charm and charisma to Bond while Michelle Yeoh is excellent as the lady agent. Both find themselves within compromising situations where luck plays a factor. Jonathan Pryce portrays a delightful villain in that he has Bond's obituary written before he has the opportunity to kill him. Teri Hatcher is a memorable Bond villainess. She is the trophy wife of the Pryce character but she also use to be involved with Bond. It is through this where he seduces her thus leading to fatal consequences. Ricky Jay plays a techno terrorist who makes an escape early on with an encoder needed by Pryce. Entertaining installment paving the way for the 007 flicks of tomorrow. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"My second favorite 007 movie with Pierce Brosnan as Bond","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw this movie as a kid when it first came out in theaters I was blown away by how entertaining it was. I mean as a kid, watching a cool secret agent drive a car by using a phone as a remote control was just awesome. This is also the Bond movie that showed James Bond is not a smoker anymore. I mean Bond punches a bad guy after lighting his cigarette then says filthy habit. Watching it now, I do see it's flaws. It's still a solid Bond film, but the story and everything else is very narrow and by the numbers. In another words there really isn't much that makes this movie stand out from the other Bond films. There is plenty of action and that includes Michelle Yeoh doing her kung- fu thing. However the main villain this time around...Let's just say a he is not that intimidating but different. It's not a great action movie or anything like that but it's a solid Bond film in the franchise. With the action films these days going over the top with better special effects. It's unfair to compare the standards for the action movies these days to a action movie from the 90's. So I will say Tomorrow Never Dies is a solid action movie from the 90's. I think it doesn't get as much recognition compared the the previous Bond films. And that is because it lacks the memorable iconic scenes in few of the previous Bond films. Overall, this is a action movie from the 90's that is worth a watch.7/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting but not as good as Goldeneye","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Interesting Bond film but not one of the classics although that might not be its' own fault. The good? Nice opening scene although for the record you cannot make a Harpoon missile such as the one HMS Devonshire fires to strike a land-based target. Bond gives up smoking in these PC times although at least he still drinks alcohol (maybe that's next? Maybe he'll eventually become a vegetarian too?). As well as the opening sequence the great scene with the remote control BMW really stands out and the motorcycle chase/HALO jump are genuinely exciting. Wade is back in good form, M is good as ever and nice to see Colin Salmon as the MI6 back room boy get some decent screen time (but no Tanner?). Also nice to see stage magician Ricky Jaye who will play a similar role on 'The Unit', one of my favourite TV series. The remarkable Vincent Schivelli too, making great capital from a small role and Geoffrey Palmer portraying an extremely realistic Admiral. We have a very contemporary villain, a Rupert Murdoch/Robert Maxwell/Ted Turner style media baron but one who decides it's easier to simply create the headlines rather than wait for them to happen. He wants world domination but not in the sense of traditional Bond villains, considering control of the airwaves to be of more value than traditional forms of dictatorship. We also have 007 dealing with the threat of an emergent China and nuclear weapon proliferation, the Russians now Britain's allies in the 'War on Terror'.The bad? No offence to Teri Hatcher, loved her in 'Lois and Clark' and 'Desperate Housewives' but she's terrible here. Her pregnancy cuts her role short and stop any real emotional development between the two. Pretty forgettable Bond girl (much like the other Oriental heroine in 'You Only Live Twice') and the plot is overall fairly undemanding.So good but not a patch on Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"James Bond just does not seem to be the same","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I thought that the title of a movie would tell us something about the movie itself, like Terminator II tells us that the movie is a sequel and is about a terminator. What does Tomorrow Never Dies tell us? Possibly that it is about the future and, well, I don't know actually. All I know is that it is a James Bond movie and as I watched the movie, the title didn't seem to say anything at all.Okay, this is a James Bond movie so it is going to sell on that alone. Does it follow along with the tradition of the typical James Bond movies? James has more than one girlfriend during the movie; the bad guy is internationally powerful and uses advanced, almost science-fiction technology to fulfil his plans; the title screen has silhouettes of naked women dancing around, well it seems to be; and there are the typical Q-gadgets. Fair enough, this is still in the style of the original Bond. So this should appeal to a typical James Bond fan like myself, but it didn't.Pierce Brosnan plays James Bond in this movie, and he is not bad; much better than was Timothy Dalton, but he still does not shine like Sean Connery and Roger Moore. Sean Connery is James Bond, nobody can really take his place. Roger Moore did, and he did a good job at it, but in my opinion the era of James Bond has come to an end. I was told that Ian Flemming wrote thirty Bond stories in the fifties and that this was one of them. That is possible, but with all of the modern technology used, if it was then there was much adaptation done to it, especially the scene in Saigon.There was one particularly good scene in this movie, and that was the chase through the streets of Saigon. Actually, the chase went from the streets to the rooftops, and even to the balconies. What I liked about this was the layers of the city, the roof tops of the city were almost another layer to the city itself and so were the balconies that ran along the sides of the buildings. This was very much unlike the Western cities were we just move along the streets; this city had many layers in which one could travel along.As for this movie, well it is quite dry. I did not really enjoy it that much. I think James Bond is coming to the end of his life and we are watching his death throes. Bond has never been the same since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Even more so, it is degenerating into an action movie, which Bond is not. James Bond is a spy movie, which means that there is action, but not too much. This one has Bond running around with machine guns killing heaps of people. Somehow this is just not how I envisioned Bond. "}{"Title":"Bond Month #18 James Bond vs. Rupert Murdoch and Fox News","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After GoldenEye modernized Bond for the new age of cinema-goers, the producers and writers sought to take it in a similar direction by taking the issue of the dominance of media in the world and applying it to a nuclear war. Tomorrow Never Dies is one of those Bond films that really shouldn't work on paper, but somehow does in grand fashion.Well like I said above, the story involves a incident between the British and the Chinese, orchestrated by news mogul Elliot Carver (played by the always great Jonathan Pryce) He seeks world domination, media world domination. he seeks to start a war by twisting the facts and covering every single detail. It's basically Rupert Murdoch and Fox News doing what they are already doing today. Bond of course has to prove that it was all a huge mistake and that Carver is really the one behind the impending attack.Brosnan is once again great as Bond, giving us the thrills and something I now call suave humor. When he drives a car off a roof onto the street, he does so like he has created the perfect dinner dish, with a pieste resistance sort of expression. He's so good.But the two Bond girls is this aren't so much. Michelle Yeoh as Wai Lin is a bit more interesting than Teri Hatcher as Paris Carver, but both seem bland and not very well executed. Don't get me wrong, they're fine actresses and they get some good moments, but overall, you won't see me gushing over them anytime soon.Once again, the filmmakers were very smart for not going towards an over-the-top villain and and equally out of this world plot, it seems actually very plausible that such an plan could be successful, especially that people today rely very heavily on yellow journalism and blind reporting. With this said, Elliot Carver is easily one of my top favorite Bond villains, because he is so deliciously driven and camera-hungry that he would kill millions of people for the front page rights.The action scenes are very well devised, getting a motorcycle chase for I think the first time in the Bond movies, and it is exciting. But the action is relatively muted until the very end on the stealth ship.A lot of people see Tomorrow Never Dies as a weak Bond film, but I think its sort of misunderstood. It has some glaring flaws in the story and the climax, but overall, it's an enjoyable piece of escapist entertainment. But next we come to a film that I didn't really get or like the first time around, but now really enjoy, The World is Not Enough. "},{"Title":"Film without Bond feeling","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan is tough, sexy and has a twinkle in his eye, the third-best 007 after Sean Connery and Daniel Craig. But this movie is much worse than Goldeneye, his first Bond movie. Thin screenplay about a media moguls (Jonathan Pryce) attempts to control the world by creating a war between Britain and China so that his new TV channel have something spectacular to report.Michelle Yeoh is a colorful and cool Bond girl, but Teri Hatcher, from the TV series Desperate Housewives, does not add much in the role as the media moguls wife. Most boring of all, James Bond is so little James Bond, he is like any action hero out there. But at the phone manufacturer Ericsson they will party hard. The film's best scene is a car chase where 007 steers his BMW with the help of a remote control built in... well, you can guess what kind of phone. "},{"Title":"Just Another Day in the life of James Bond","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Goldeneye' marked the dawn of a neo-Bond. Its follow up however has returned to a more formulaic Bond, not short of the regular constituents like gadgets, cars, stunts and thrills but neither Pierce Brosnan nor director Roger Spottiswoode have driven an elevation of James Bond to new heights, just as 'Goldeneye' did. The opening sequence for instance, which sets the tone for any Bond film, was not as groundbreaking as its predecessor. Dare I say I felt the two seemed quite similar. The ideas behind the film weren't at all bad, they just weren't exercised to potential. The patchiness though of the movie was its principal drawback, it was far from the most invigorating Bond story at the best of times although the premise behind it was reasonably original and Bond-worthy.Again, Pierce Brosnan shows why his perception of Bond is one of the best. Compared to his first shot at the coveted title, he was more cheeky, never without a cynical and sly comment and a touch more lighthearted. He retained the swagger and brashness as well as an admirable slickness. But then again, we've seen that all before, whether from him or even Sean Connery. All the same, even if he didn't add a great deal from Bond's last outing in 'Goldeneye', he has still made the James Bond persona his own.A Bond villain needs to be intimidating whether in demeanour or personality and Jonathon Pryce just did not fit the profile. He was very unthreatening on screen, a commercial villain in every sense of the world. But that's not to say his performance as Elliot Carver was poor. On the contrary, he performed exactly the role that was scripted, albeit the fact that his character was not formulated well. James Bond is not the only one who keeps eyes glued to the screen. The notorious Bond girls have the same responsibility although they probably wouldn't have been overly successful this time being bland, uninteresting and devoid of any really useful part. Being stunningly attractive was not the modus operandi for the casting directors it seems. Something which unfathomably kind of departs from Bond lore.There were lots of meaningless fireworks and times where even usually exciting Bond mayhem can be passed off nonchalantly if it is just too much or without purpose. It remains exciting, but not incredibly innovative and awe-inspiring "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best Bond outing","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Brosnan's hugely successful debut as James Bond, 'Goldeneye', ensured that audiences were left with little doubt that Bond could still hack it amid a seemingly endless slew of Hollywood action blockbusters. For me, despite some nauseating flaws, the follow up would be Pierce Brosnan's finest moment in the guise of Commander James Bond.There are a lot of arguments for and against this movie for me, and I'll no doubt spend more time criticising it than praising it in this review. For those of you that haven't seen it, at least this review will serve to prepare you for the bad but hopefully it will also convince you that it is certainly worth seeing.There are three major hang ups I have with 'Tomorrow Never Dies'. The first, and perhaps the biggest, is the premise. While it does actually unfurl nicely as a plot, it leaves us with no hope of suspending any disbelief which, for me at least, is what makes the Bond movies great. In a nutshell, some media mogul intends to manipulate world events in order to start World War Three between China and Britain. The problem is that, according to the film, the mogul in question, Elliot Carver, is supposed to be a household name.Unlikely as most of the Bond scenarios have always been, it was always possible that Hugo Drax was hoping to start a new super-race in outer space, that Max Zorin was planning to wipe out Silicone Valley or that Goldfinger was intending to destroy all the gold in Fort Knox. If the events that take place in most Bond movies were ever to really happen, Joe Public would never know about it anyway. The problem here is that we all know that Elliot Carver is a made up character because, were he not, we would all know who he is and we would all, apparently, be watching his channels and reading his papers. Minor gripe, perhaps, but it leaves the film with no credibility whatsoever.Elliot Carver is also the crux of my second big problem with the movie, or rather Jonathan Price's grotesquely camp performance of him. I'm not sure whether to blame Price or the director on this one but, every second this supposed supervillan is on screen, I want to throw a chair at it. He is just plain awful, and easily the worst Bond baddie next to John Gray's embarrassing turn as Blofeld in 'Diamonds Are Forever'.The third problem is that there is little to no chemistry between Bond and his Chinese love interest, played by Michelle Yeoh. They both try hard, and the scenes between them are handled fairly well by the director, but if the chemistry isn't there, what can you do? Sadly, simply, the chemistry is not there.There are other gripes I have, such as the absence of Bond veteran Peter Lamont as Production Designer. The nature of the plot led the film-makers to go in a rather predictable pseudo-techno futuristic direction. The subsequent lighting does make for some great cinematography, but it all makes the film seem like it's trying just a little too hard. Sadly, the franchise continued in this direction right until the thoroughly appalling 'Die Another Day' before realising that it didn't work any more.For all my beefing thus far, you might be forgiven for thinking that I don't like this movie at all. However, what this film has in spades, and what more than makes up for its shortcomings, is swagger. This film has a set of balls on it like a Spanish bull. Brosnan struts through every scene like he owns Hollywood, in what is certainly the pinnacle of 'his Bond'. The action sequences are spectacular, without exception, and David Arnold lives out his life-long fantasy by penning the finest of odes to John Barry, without ever over-indulging.Other nice touches here include a back-story concerning an old flame of Bond's, which gives a new insight into the character for the '90s. There are some good lines in here too, but there are some pretty bad ones to go with them, including a few in-jokes delivered by Moneypenny which are dead before they hit the back of cinema.Even with all of the problems, this film does come through gloriously and is largely one the most enjoyable Bond movies ever made, in a sort of mindless way. It is a film that certainly values style over substance but, when you have this much style and you know how to use it, who cares? "},{"Title":"What to do when you wish this tomorrow would just die","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) is Pierce Brosnon's second outing as James Bond and the least memorable film in his tenure. Bond is assigned to investigate the disappearance of a British vessel in Chinese waters. Along the way he comes in contact with egotistical media baron, Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce), whose empire of satellite and cable networks cover the globe &#150; everywhere except China. Carver has decided that he will exploit his communications apparatus to launch WWIII &#150; just because he can. In the meantime, aware that the British ship contains valuable cargo, China dispatches its own undercover agent, Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh) to Hong Kong where she and Bond find themselves increasingly becoming the subjects of a murder plot. The film's narrative is somewhat complicated, though only superficially, when Bond realizes that his old love, Paris (Teri Hatcher) is married to Carver. The cast also include Ricky Jay and Gotz Otto as a pair of sadistic Carver stooges the sycophant Henry Gupta and muscle bound menace, Stamper.Despite a fairly cut and dry story, director Roger Spottiswoode really doesn't know what to make of the material he's been given. The first half plays more like a downgraded and retrofitted knock off of Se7en, with Bond investing far too much time in sneaking under Carver's radar and getting reacquainted with Paris. The latter half is more on par with the expectations of a Bond action/adventure. Yet, despite an adrenaline pumping motorcycle/copter chase the rest of the film's action sequences only come to life in fits and sparks. And then there is the issue of Lin herself; she's a Bond girl only in definition; meaning she's female and she's working with Bond. But there's no sexual chemistry. Worse, Lin seems to take over for Bond on more than one occasion, leaving one with the question &#150; is this a Kung-Fu flick with Caucasian testosterone thrown in on the side? There are no less than three versions of Tomorrow Never Dies floating around the marketplace;the MGM bare bones/movie only, the deluxe silver cased special edition that came out shortly thereafter, and a repackaged Bond Collection edition that contains most of the Special edition's special features.Transfer wise &#150; MGM has reissued the same transfer for these three separate occasions. It is anamorphic widescreen, with a sharp and pleasing visual characteristic. Colors are rich and saturated. Blacks are generally solid and deep. Whites are pristine. There is a definite grain structure to this film that is stylistic on the part of film makers, but on the whole works against the grain of smooth and slick film making that one has come to expect from the Bond franchise. Fine details are fully realized throughout. Minor edge enhancement does not distract from the presentation. The audio is 5.1 surround and very much an exercise for the bass of one's speakers. "},{"Title":"Action-packed and glitzy, but utterly shallow","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The huge success of GoldenEye ensured the future of the Bond franchise, and when Tomorrow Never Dies came along two years later it again did big business at the Box Office, confirming OO7's enduring popularity. Sadly, if falls a long way short of the standards set by its predecessor, sacrificing any attempts at plot or character development in favour of a non-stop succession of action sequences, flashy gadgets and hi-tech sets. The result is a film that is mildly entertaining but lacking in any real tension, threat or depth, making it one of the most forgettable and disappointing entries in the Bond franchise.One of the big disappointments of the film is Pierce Brosnan's Bond. After his excellent debut performance in GoldenEye, which presented OO7 as a well-rounded character, Brosnan is given a script in TND which requires him to do nothing more than go through the motions. He therefore does all the usual Bond things - the fighting, the seduction, the quips - but the depth that he brought to the character in GoldenEye is totally missing, as this film is only interested in Bond as action hero. There is one particularly cringeworthy scene where Brosnan wanders around wielding a machine gun like Arnie or Sly Stallone, not exactly the behaviour you would expect from Ian Fleming's gentleman spy, but certainly what you would expect from filmmakers whose only concern is to make as many dollars as possible.Brosnan's flat performance is matched by his co-stars. Jonathan Pryce's Elliot Carver is arguably the weakest villain ever to appear in a Bond film; he is not remotely threatening, and Pryce is so hammy in the role he just makes Carver camp and extremely irritating. As for the women, Michelle Yeoh's high-kicking Wai Lin certainly holds her own against OO7 in the fight scenes, but Yeoh is far from being either an accomplished actress or a great beauty, and Wai Lin is a forgettable and one-dimensional Bond girl. Teri Hatcher, as the doomed Paris Carver, scores over Yeoh in the looks department, but Paris is another character who lacks any real depth, and in any case she is disposed of quite rapidly. The film's lack of originality is also underscored by the appearance of yet another blonde, Red Grant-style henchman, who is about as unmemorable as you can get. The only cast members who really shine are Vincent Schiavelli as the comically evil Dr Kaufman, a classic talking villain, and Judi Dench as M; Q is also back once more, in an all-too-brief scene, in order to give Bond his fancy remote-controlled BMW.Rather like the characters, the plot takes second place to the action, although the premise of a media tycoon trying to engineer a war for ratings is at least contemporary, and if it had been fleshed out properly it could have been interesting. As it is, the story is just a peg on which to hang the action, and all it really does is retread the scripts of You Only Live Twice and The Spy Who Loved Me, albeit in glossier fashion. As far as the action sequences themselves are concerned, director Roger Spottiswoode undoubtedly pulls them off with flair, but for the most part they just feel formulaic and unexciting; indeed, there are points where TND feels more like a John Woo-style film than a Bond adventure. The look of the film is also very stylised and self-consciously modern, so much so that it will probably seem quite dated in years to come, more so than some older Bond films. It is another element that makes the film all style and no substance.In essence, TND is about as shallow as a Bond film can get. I did like David Arnold's Barryesque score, and Sheryl Crow's title song is quite good, but generally speaking the film is nothing more than mindless popcorn entertainment. There is nothing inherently wrong with that, of course, but Bond films can, and should, amount to something more, and for that reason TND is one of my least favourite in the entire canon.  "},{"Title":"One of the weaker Bonds","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is certainly one of the weaker Bond movies. It's strange to say that given that the story is probably one of the more believable ones in terms of the plot.Elliot Carver (Pryce) is the head of a huge worldwide media company. As such he has massive influence on the events of the world and a huge personal fortune. This is not that far from the truth at the moment, but  the plot never quite delivers. The acting is fairly weak throughout and the Bond girls are not really up to scratch here. As usual some of the stunts are quite impressive, but this is the weakest of the Brosnan Bond films to date. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Plummeting without your parachute","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After the rejuvenating charge of GoldenEye, the Bond took a giant nose-dive with the series.  They scrapped the mood and atmosphere of Brosnan's first act for a plethora of MTV, John Woo, overblown budgets, and terrible stereotypes.Once again, our politically-correct society is using the media as its villain (don't tell me you thought Jonathan Price was good all along) and supports that idiotic assumption by having Nazi-wannabes for henchmen. Is James Bond suffering from the very Indiana Jones genre that he helped create?Michelle Yeoh's character was not a smart move on the behalf of the producers.  In a Western culture so drowned out in Jackie Chan, Bruce Lee, and Chow Yun-Fat, they automatically assume that if you are oriental and on the screen, then you know kung-fu.  It's that simple.Furthermore, product-placement rears its ugly head here with the same junk that is now killing the franchise.  GoldenEye was ten times simpler and that's what was so effective about it.  They didn't make it look like a commercial for BMW, Kalashnikov, or even Visa.  If the writers are techno-illiterate, just admit it!  There's no harm in saying that you don't know what you're talking about.Overall, this goes in the bottom half of the series.  Action fans will hate me for my comments and final judgment, but that's tough luck.  I pity Jonathan Price for getting involved in this.  1 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Riding the new wave","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A confident, shallow Bond. Another good film in the new mould, here's a Bond product that fulfils criteria both old (tropes) and new (gaming spin-offs, new action-flick techniques). It's designed to kill at the box office in that opening weekend and via media retail.Conceit-twists aside the various tableaux are all the same as ever. The crucial difference here is that the fantasy of the storyline - the megalomaniac is a media baron and part of a wider culture gambling its investments rather than building them - is one that we recognise all too keenly a decade after it's release. Today (2012) the world's most famous press oligarch is on trial, if only metaphorically. Bankers who have bet on the next twist of fate have bet too much and that fatal twist (the credit crunch) has come because of it.This is the biggest inconsistency in a film in which there are a few. However, like the contemporaneous British Prime Minister Brosnan mirrors, the evenness is shrouded by the spin of his polished performance. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as Goldeneye, but still impressive enough","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After several years, the sequel to Pierce Bronsman's first run as Agent 007 comes out. But does it measure up to the outstanding Goldeneye? Not quite. The action scenes are way more impressive, but it falls down a bit in every other department. Bronsman is good here, but not quite as good as in Goldeneye. Even though he has the good action- hero sense, he isn't quite as suave. The writing isn't as good, the characters feel a bit underdeveloped. Also, Jonathen Pyrce's villain is rather annoying and childish, he was way better in the 1985 Terry Gilliam picture, Brazil. Another problem is Michelle Yeoh, who even though she could fight, she didn't speak English too well and her character was rather annoying. However, this film has rather high points. The action sequences, like Goldeneye, are original and innovative. The setting of Hong Kong, Germany, and China's seas are all beautiful and very sharp looking. Also, the henchman Stamper was brilliantly and mencanigly played off by the actor, of whose name I don't know. Even though the ending isn't as good as say the ending of Goldeneye, Tommorow Never Dies ranks as one of the better bond films. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Unfortunate Mistake","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Before I get full-force into my opinion, I would like to qualify this by stating that I consider myself a big James Bond fan.  That said, Tomorrow Never Dies is, to me, the one major blemish in the series (I haven't seen Die Another Day yet).  Before today, this is the only James Bond movie I had not seen from start to finish.  The two times that I saw it in the theater I fell asleep.  The two times that I rented it, I fell asleep.  Having purchased it a long while ago, I figured it was rather ridiculous that I hadn't watched it yet (particularly since it was the only Bond I hadn't seen).  So to make a long story short, I finally watched it and, not to be too harsh, I know why I fell asleep on previous viewing attempts.To start with, the opening sequence which is quite pivotal in setting the tone for each Bond movie, was fairly limp.  While it was somewhat interesting, it was better suited for the Playstation game.  It just didn't have the punch of any of the other opening sequences (such as the fantastic boat chase in The World Is Not Enough just to name one).The other major flaw was the poorly conceived Elliot Carver villain character.  A media mogul?  Yeah, lets just move on.  Jonathan Pryce (who is fantastic in the likes of Ronin and Brazil) flounders trying to do something with nothing.  The effort ends up as a cross between a mad scientist from a 50's cheese sci-fi movie and a spoiled rich boy.  In other words, he over-acted to an extreme.  This is the only Bond villain that does not have a single facet of interest for me.Terry Hatcher, while she makes a worthy effort (well, for her it's a worthy effort) to be the scorned former lover, is simply out of place for the James Bond world.  She's too bland.  And, as other users have pointed out, there is no earthly reason for her to marry Carver.  Well, there's the money.Michelle Yeoh (I hope I spelled her name right) is cool but, again, does not fit in the James Bond world.  She is not the type of actress that works in the swooning, strong until Bond comes along role.  And the chemistry between her and Pierce Brosnan was about as forced as it comes.  It would have been much more interesting if the writer had not forced the romance aspect.While there were some impressive stunts, I was again very uninterested. Impressive yes, attention holding, no.  The only mildly attention sustaining action portion was the parking garage scene with the remote control BMW. But that fell well short of its potential.  Point is, and I say this with no doubt in my mind, every other Bond film has much more exciting action sequences. Everything said and done, I only watched the whole movie in hopes that it would get better and am quite disappointed that I finally have to admit that there is a straight up bad Bond movie. "},{"Title":"Overall a pretty good movie but worst one of Brosnan's Bond films","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After six hard years of impatient waiting Pierce Brosnan jumped into the shoes of James Bond. Goldeneye was a surprisingly terrific return of the most well-known secret agent in the world. Unfortunately his second performance as 007 left me slightly disappointed. Well, actually I can't blame him for it. He played the part splendidly, it seems like everything else around him fails. Biggest problem was probably the director. It was a mistake to hire Roger Spottiswoode (the man behind Turner & Hooch and Stop! Or my mom will shoot) in the first place. I had my doubts about him even back when I first heard that he was going to direct Tomorrow never dies. Martin Campbell did an excellent job with Goldeneye, why didn't someone give him an opportunity to direct this one too? Or even better what ever happened to John Glen? He directed all five of the 80's Bond flicks, at least he had enough experience to do one more. In the old days a guy who proofed that he was capable to direct a good Bond movie got usually a chance to direct another one. I mean Guy Hamilton directed four, Terence Young and Lewis Gilbert both three ones. Where's that great principle now? Why a new bloke sits in the director's chair every time there's going to be a new Bond movie? What I'm saying is, Roger Spottiswoode certainly wasn't the best choice. His work resembles a typical, fast-paced but in the same time lifeless, senseless and confusing action film so-called big budget b-movie. Classic Bond has to be just a little more than that.Tomorrow never dies reminds me of Spottiswoode's more recent project The 6th day starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and that should already tell something. What I hate most about Tomorrow never dies is the use of slow motion in the action scenes. Truly a bad idea! This is a James Bond movie, why couldn't Spottiswoode find another time and movie to practice that kind of stupid childlike creativeness. Sheryl Crow's dull theme song was boring and extremely disappointing and one of the most trivial and emptiest ones in the history of the whole series, total let down after Tina Turner's fascinating Goldeneye. The use of k.d. Lang's excellent Surrender as a main theme would have been a fabulous and successful choice but no, they had to save it for the end credits. Michelle Yeoh wasn't my favorite Bond girls, she was somewhat annoying. This movie did also contain lots of good elements. Joe Don Baker makes his superb second coming as Jack Wade, character already familiar from Goldeneye. It would be quite nice to see him again in the future Bond films. Vincent Schiavelli was the necessary comical villain Dr. Kaufman. What a shame his appearance was so short, he was quite an amusement. Desmond Llewelyn was once again irresistible, oh lord I'm gonna miss him so much. Jonathan Pryce's Elliot Carver has a certain place in the Bond movie villains hall of fame. Motorcycle chase was spectacular and the plot and the basic idea of the movie was quite inventive and brilliant. I would like to complete my review by saying that overall Tomorrow never dies is not a bad movie. It has lot more flaws than Bond films generally and therefore I have to criticize it but in the end it's a pretty good and rather entertaining flick. Goldeneye is only two times better and The World is not enough at least four times better, that's all. "},{"Title":"Brosnan stumbles through Bond.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After waiting all those years to play Bond, Brosnan must have been disappointed at the dubious quality of his Bond films, which Goldeneye inaugurated and Tomorrow Never Dies confirmed. This film starts off decently, with heart and soul, but, beginning with the jump out of the skyscraper, soon slides right back into the lifelessness of previous Moore films. The rest is torture. The villain here looks like one of the nerds from Revenge of the Nerds, all grown up and exacting some sort of revenge on those who did him wrong, and, speaking of 1984, the oriental Bond girl here seems like the twin sister of Short Round from Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, with all his petty annoyances. ENOUGH ALREADY!  "},{"Title":"Best Bond Movie","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of ym most favorite Bond Movies ever. Pierce Brosnan really does a fine job of being Bond and really one of the best Bonds ever. Compared to the previous movie, Goldeneye, was quite sucky but Tommorow Never Dies is filled with explosions and riveting, exciting scenes. You have to see this movie, especially the motorcycle scene with Michelle Yeoh! "},{"Title":"That Chinese agent sure could hold her breath a long time","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Here's 007 at his raciest best as he shoots, punches, drives, rides, and boinks his way to glory while never getting the knot in his tie the least bit askew. Lots and lots of explosions, automatic magazines expended, kicking, chopping, bone breaking, and dead bodies. You know, same ol' Bond....no better, no worse. Must say I am a tad burned out with the 'chick cleaning house on about a dozen bruisers' bit. Really, this is getting old, old, old. I loved the scene in which Bond is driving his special car from the backseat he was obviously having a great time making fools out of the evil ones. "},{"Title":"Bond is really back! Smashing good!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Upon a second viewing, I have to say this is a darn good action flick. Have still not become a Pierce Brosnan fan; but I can change my mind quickly if he continues the level of excitement spent in TOMORROW NEVER DIES. Wow, Mr. Bond is back with a bang.Ego maniacal news mogul(Jonathan Pryce)manipulates the news in order to promote his multi-faceted news network. 007 must interrupt the plan designed to start a war between Great Britain and China; thus causing a collapse of the ill intended news service.Brosnan and Pryce projected their characters to the top. I wish that the beautiful Teri Hatcher could have had more time on the screen than she did. Michelle Yeoh is more athletic than actress or a looker. It is good to see Joe Don Baker in his small role. Judi Dench just plain annoys me.I especially liked Bond's getaway scene in his special BMW. The motorcycle chase was also neat. The explosions were of course obligatory. Excitement excels to a fever pitch...just the way we like it. "},{"Title":"Tired Action Nonsense","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bond films used to be good, they used to be atmposheric, they used to be intresting, they used to be cool...now its all about James Bond being John Rambo running around with a machine gun and iron gripped hair with a constant advert running through it.I didn't like this film, this is nothing like the Bond films of the 60s, 70s, 80s or even TWINE or GoldenEye, this seems to be something the producers did to make money.  The script is lifted straight from The Spy Who Loved Me and is turned into a B-Movie styled plot (the UK and China going to war thus causing WW3 - yeah right!)The gadgets are silly and are taken from Knight Rider thru to Dr.Who (the stealth ship which is tiny on the outside, yet massive on the inside).Anyway this is a BAD entry in the 007 series and isn't helped by untension filled stunts or stupid explosions, lack of credible dialogue nor the on screen presence of a Bond girl we can all at least like.This is a bad James Bond film, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Film of Recent Years","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has its moments of action, humor and emotion. Unfortunately it is the worst 007 film in the last 10 years. (GoldenEye was the best, and World is not Enough could have been much greater if Denise Richards learned how to act.)Well to start, the good moments includes the idea of a media mogul as a villain, Paris' early death, the funny doctor of death and his yaaahs, and Pryce's imitation of Yeoh and karate. Moneypenny also was quite funny you were also a cunning linguist and you'll just determine how much pumping is needed. (they were hilarious in context.) Of coure it also has its share of cool special effects like all bond films, the most notable of which was the Slide under the Helicopter and the jump off Carver Media building.Unfortunately, too much of this film takes place in dark media buildings or dark subways. It lacks the visual power of Goldeneye or WINE. Bond also seemed to hardly speak in this film. I don't understand it. Pierce Brosnan can play the charming suave agent competently enough, GIVE HIM MORE LINES!! Had the locations, visual effects and dialogue been better chosen and crafted, this could have been an 8/10. As it stood, its only a 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Goldeneye, but still a fine effort!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pierce Brosnan returns as James Bond for the 2nd time. James is joined by HongKong-actress Michelle Yeoh, which is one of TND`s strengths. The movie itself is an above standard James Bond movie, although this favours pure action, instead of the spy/action style of the old ones (including Goldeneye).  There are lots of interesting gadgets in this movie, which will delight many fans. 8/10 "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE, one of the worst Bond movies I've ever seen.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I totally hated this movie. I was looking forward to see this movie. I loved Golden Eye. The same people who made Golden Eye and many people from the cast made Tomorrow Never Dies so I was excited to watch it.The beginning was alright. It was like the beginning of Golden Eye. Then Terry Hatcher died at the first 2 minutes of the movie. A classic thing about James Bond movies is that they've always had a hot chick. When Terry Hatcher died there was no one left.I didn't like that Korean chick at all. The villain in this movie sucked. In an action movie it is vital to have a good villain. although there were good action scenes, that I can't deny.I didn't like how Pierce Brosnan acted. In action movies I prefer the cop to be tough and beat the crap out of the bad guys like for instance steven Seagal in Under Siege. I know James Bond has never really been like that but in this movie he's a little wuss.And now with this new Bond movie I hope they actually change a little. Honestly I think Pierce Brosnan should go. They should get a new actor for these movies. A pretty face with a euro-trash accent hardly qualifies for a James Bond character.I give this movie a * out of *****   "}{"Title":"A Step Backwards","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Goldeneye erased all painful memories of the horrible Dalton films.  It had a great story, great characters and the best Bond girl in decades in Izabella Scorupco.  Tomorrow Never Dies alas, is a giant step backwards. We get a half-baked retread of the plot of The Spy Who Loved Me, dumbed down this time (just as A View To A Kill was a dumbed-down retread of Goldfinger) and we are also given the worst Bond girl ever next to Tanya Roberts.  I found Michelle Yeoh completely unattractive and also an annoying pain in the behind with her over-the-top martial arts bits.  Indeed, my favorite moment was when the villain, Jonathan Pryce did a sarcastic imitation of her silly theatrics.Leaving aside the fact that the villain's plot is unbelievably ridiculous (this guy wants WWIII just for exclusive TV rights?  Please!  Give me a Blofeld or Stromberg who just wants money or the desire to remake the world in his own image any day), I also find it disconcerting to see that the producers of this film think that 007 ought to be paired up with someone from the Chinese side in an era when the Chinese are increasingly calling attention to themselves for their contemptible human rights record.  The teaming up with a Soviet agent in The Spy Who Loved Me at least made some sense during the detente era, but I see no reason for it this time.  If anything, the Chinese ought to be prime candidates for the bad guys now and it's a pity that there's still squeamishness about that.Alas, since Octopussy we have now had four misfires out of the last five Bond films.  Better luck next time in The World Is Not Enough (I hope). "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was somewhat disappointing. It isn't that it fails to deliver what it promises, it is just that what is promises is no longer very appealing to me.I have always been a Bond fan. I've watched all the movies and have them all on tape. But, I guess I'm just kind of getting tired of the same old, same old. I liked Connery, but my favorite movie was The Spy Who Loved Me with Roger Moore.Of course, anyone who knows Bond knows this movie was simply a recycling of TSWLM. I have seen TSWLM numerous times. I know TSWLM. And, believe me. This is no TSWLM.The temptation to recycle other Bond movies has become too common which contributes toward my present feeling about the series. I'm not sure I will bother going out of my way to see the next one. Heck, this one took me 2 years!If it was a movie made in 1989, it might have been well worth watching, but by 1999, it is too little, too late, too many times.  "},{"Title":"John Woo takes over the franchise?","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sure seems that way - how many martial arts sequences and two fisted gun-toting (Bond must have carpal tunnel syndrome like you wouldn't believe) do we need to see to get the idea that Roger Spottiswoode's favorite director is the Hong Kong master of the cinema?  Jonathan Pryce is mildly entertaining but over-the-top.  Teri Hatcher seems wasted here.  Michelle Yeoh is entertaining enough but seems to be emulating Woo's heroines. She's also curiously disassociated  unlike in Spy Who Loved Me, we don't get any idea of the organization she belongs to, or that she's a Chinese agent, other than that she keeps saying she's a Chinese agent and she has a few gizmos.  We need a Chinese version of General Gogol to establish this, and it never comes.That leaves us with Brosnan himself.  Ugh.  Brosnan still seems to think he's doing light comedy (watch his pantomime reaction when he triggers the flame-throwing dragon in the bicycle shop) sans Remington Steele.  He can throw off bon mots well enough, but when it comes to dramatic emoting (his sullen drunkenness when Paris shows up, his discovery of her body), he just can't pull it off.  Even Roger Moore could pull off betrayal/despair/ vengeance better than this.  Brosnan's a decent action-type, but someone needs to tell him Bond is more than Remington Steele with guns and gadgets.The plot?  Pit one side against the other goes all the way back to From Russia With Love, and it's been revisited several times over the years (Diamonds, Spy Who Loved Me).  It's basically a set-piece to set some action sequences on.Overall, I enjoyed TND more than GoldenEye, but Brosnan still refuses to rise above Lazenby as far as on-screen Bond portrayals.  Timothy Dalton come back - all is forgiven! "},{"Title":"Knight Rider on the big screen","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow never dies is re-recycled material from start to finish.This entry in the series consists of ideas from earlier Bond movies (plot from The spy who loved me, the sinking of the Devonshire reminds me of the sinking of the St. Georges in For your eyes only, etc.),of some of the oldest cinematic experiences ever (a truckload of fireworks that goes off accidentally could be from a The three stooges movie from the 30's or 40's, and most OFFENDING is the remote control car chase taken from TV's Knight Rider(!!!), the 80's TV show with one David Hasselhoff. In many reviews this car chase is mentioned as well done and typical Bond.Excuse me !!??    First the bad guys try to smash the BMW's window with sledge hammers which is taken DIRECTLY from Knight Rider, then Bond steers the car remote controled which is just as childish. I don't watch Hasselhoff on TV and I don't want to see this kind of kid's TV show in the cinema either. Only thing that's missing is that Bond talks to the car!The acting is comparatively poor; compare the scene where Brosnan finds Hatcher's body in the hotel room to the similar scene in Licence to kill where Dalton finds Mrs. Leiter's body and you'll know what I mean.Many reviewers mention the fact that the female lead role has EVENTUALLY been upgraded. They must have missed the last 22 years of Bond films; in The spy who loved me from 1977 Triple-X gets as much room in the movie as our hero, in the teaser of that movie the girl is introduced as a match to Bond and ALL the leading ladies have been that since (with the exception of A view to a kill and The living daylights).I'm a big fan of Brosnan's but I'm also still waiting for an acceptable Bond film featuring him as Bond. Tomorrow never dies gets 2 out of 10, one for Brosnan and one for David Arnold.  "},{"Title":"Worst Bond film ever made","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This Bond film plays on the weak assumption that mass media is king.  The villain of this movie's evil motive is to get broadcasting rights in China for 100 years (woop-dee-doo).  What's next for Bond? A twelve-year old Internet hacker from Amsterdam? "},{"Title":"The first Bond movie I ever watched","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the first Bond movie I ever watched. I think it's a great companion to a superb GoldenEye. While GoldenEye dismantled the character and questioned whether he fits in the post Cold War world this one proved Bond is still very much the thing with all the classical Bond tropes. The crazy villain with a crazy plan. Bond doing something Bondesque every five minutes and the famous theme kicking every time he does that. Bond learning a new tongue. The plot is about starting a WW3 so Elliot Carver could make a hell of a lot of money with ratings. He is splendidly over-the-top and he has to be-the plot is grander than life as well. Sure,this movie isn't as smart,sophisticated and well-though out as GoldenEye but it is an unashamed throwback at the classics like You Only Live Twice and The Spy Who Loved Me. All three films were released in years that end with 7(1967,1977,1997),they all feature plots about starting WW3 and they all feature Bond in a commander suit. This movie also features that wonderful British empiralism. While GoldenEye dismantled the character this one picked him from the ground up. The classic soundtrack that just screams Bond. It is a big,loud confirmation that Bond was truly back. This movie is generally looked as a not-as-good as GoldenEye but it's a great companion to it. It features all those so-well-known things that one expects from a Bond movie. also-I need to mention the scene that is undoubtly one of the best in the series-the one with Dr.Kaufmann. Dr.Kaufman is splendidly amusing and Bond is barely amused with his techniques. He kills him in cold- blood and the sets the things up so it would look like he committed suicide. it's brilliant. In the end-this is the very first movie I ever watched and it's always going to hold a special place in my heart. The scene were we see only Aston Martin at Oxford and then Bond practicing his Danish. Pure Bond. "},{"Title":"One of the best Bond films there is!","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Over the past few weeks I have been watching all the different James Bond films. Now, after having watched them all, Tomorrow Never Dies was probably one of the best. It had brilliant characters and a neat, simple storyline. However, for some reason, it did not reach the critics expectations.In my opinion, this film was not much different from the others in the franchise. It was humorous, action-packed, and best of all, entertaining. It may not have been as successful as the previous Bond film, Goldeneye. Nevertheless, this does not make it a bad film. It has a perfect Bond actor, (Pierce Brosnan) a good choice of actor for M and Q, (Judi Dench and Desmond Llewelyn) and an excellent James Bond villain, Elliott Carver, a partially mad media mogul. There were a few changes that made it not quite to Bond the story line, for example the Bond girl was a fighter which you don't see to often in the series, but that wasn't a bad change! After all, if you put that out the way it pretty much follows the bond storyline Starts with action, has a mad villain, and ends with the villain dying in some unusual way (razored by a bladed drill.) The movie line itself was fairly simple but not bad. The insane media mogul, Elliot Carver, is planning to create a war between China and the UK. He's doing this by destroying one nations property and making it look like it was done by the other nation. To do this he's also having to use some lethal and bizarre weaponry. Bond is sent out to stop Carver with the help of Chinese agent, Wai Lin.So, over all, it's up to you whether you watch Tomorrow Never Dies. But if you take my word for it, don't trust the critics. You won't regret watching this film. - Alan Hathaway "},{"Title":"Tomorrow may not die, but this film does, on its *rse!","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Eliot Carver is a man with a plan and that plan is to make the news so that he can then scoop the world for his news channel and for his newspaper, tomorrow. His latest idea is to create a war between the Chinese and the English (How's that gonna work? Their miles away? What they gonna do, fight in Australia?) Thus Bond is dispatched to find out what is going on and investigate Carver.What follows is one of the weakest Bond films of the bunch with a group of uninspired villainous characters who seem to be produced at the cliché factory. With such a feeble and uninspiring villain who seems relatively simple to beat and a henchman who is merely a tall thug, (Certainly nothing that Bond hasn't beaten before) it kills any real sense of tension and means that you just take in what happens without any sense of nervousness or worry that Bond could be in any serious danger. Even with a character like Bond you have to feel like there is some sense of danger, a feel that the threat is facing is somehow different this time, but here it just feel like Bond by the numbers.One of the other clear problems in this film is that many of the action set pieces feel like action set pieces, they don't fit into the film and merely feel like they have been thought up by a bunch of people who have been cooped in an office thinking What action set piece an we come up with to do this stunt? The script is weak and standard fare that compares to previous routine garbage like Man with the Golden Gun and the dreadful A view to a kill, and although Pierce was arguably improving as Bond, it still meant that Goldeneye was the better Bond Film, even though his performance was not as measured as it is here.The score by David Arnold is instantly forgettable with little sense of the triumphant work on both Die Another Die and Casino Royale both of which seem to mark a distinctive turning point in his work, with a real sense of awareness of what is required, rather than the music by numbers we have here.Overall this leads to a film that is a mere filler for later and greater things for both Pierce and Bond. This however is little more than drip-dry tosh! "},{"Title":"A Pile of Style,  but Substance in Absence.","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After one of the best, if not the very best opening sequence of all the post-Moore Bonds (with high risk, plenty of action, and a mistake Bond has to clear up to save the day, Tomorrow Never Dies degenerates into easily the least polished and most 'style over substance' of the Bonds. I think it's the worst of the lot and even now it's the only Bond I find physically hard to get through.Bond stunts have always been outlandish, but they were always meant to be possible, hence the use of real stunt men. Tilting a helicopter 70 degrees and chopping up a marketplace while hovering and not actually wrecking the blades, cartwheeling into a building, or accelerating forward out of control is not even nearly possible. It actually suggests that helicopters hover of their own free will and the blades are just there for show and to chop crap up. That doesn't make a cool stunt- that makes an insulting farce.One of Bond's mantra's has always been 'I work alone.' Kudos to the screenwriters for including a bond girl who can stand up for herself, but why show it through Bond going completely out of character and seeking her help, only for her to spit Bond's own line back at him? That doesn't make sense at all. That doesn't seem like Bond at all.There are other goofs that are so simple a child could spot them, yet they went unnoticed into the final version. Things like the torpedo having three giant interlocking gears- something else which is impossible- and a watercraft that looks streamlined and like a thin inverted 'U' on the outside, but on the inside somehow looks like a very large, very cube-like warehouse. The fact that the giant paper poster barely stops ripping under Bond and Lin's combined falling weight, yet holds fast as they recklessly flit back and forth to smash a window. Chains that hold fast while Bond somehow transfers breathable oxygen to Lin in a smooch, but part effortlessly once the point has been made. The way a seemingly insignificant single console in a dimly lit hallway will, when shot with a single burst, dramatically reduce the speed of the entire ship.Even at the very start, with a ballistic missile bearing down on Bond as he taxis a jet packing a nuclear warhead away from soldiers with illegal weapons of all sorts lying around to be used, not to mention a gattling gun mounted truck blasting away at him constantly, he still takes the time to run the plane all the way down the runway, turn around, and be surprised that there's another jet there waiting to take off in the opposite direction. Sure, he might have done that to make sure he took off into the wind, but it's hardly something you worry about when you're about to be incinerated, and besides, the other guy takes his plane off in the other direction and gets up fine, which demonstrates another character faux-pas for Bond The reason he survives all his stunts and chases is because he -like any self respecting action hero- has a keenly developed sense of what can be achieved with what he's got, when he's got it. The only reason he wouldn't have taken off straight away is if he didn't think he'd make it. The other pilot did. Already that gives some nobody shmuck a keener instinct than Bond.All they had to do was make some truck block the runway entrance, forcing Bond to go to the other end, and everything would have made perfect sense. The way they did it, it seems like Bond's watch must have frozen, so he decided to take his sweet time getting out of a potential nuclear ground zero. Way to go, Bond. Don't forget your receipt.They would have made it a much better story by just including the pre-credit sequence, the car park chase and maybe the newspaper plant investigating scene and throwing the rest out.The series just got more convoluted in TWINE. I'm glad they at least brought a bit of fun back in with DAD. It's ten times the movie this pile of crud is. For first-time watchers, when you get to the opening credit song, switch it off. Apart from the car chase, it's all downhill from there. "},{"Title":"Not a patch on earlier Bond efforts","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The Pierce Brosnan Bond movies lack character and come across as outrageously PC. Why else cast the atrocious old has-been Judi Dench as M? The role of M should be filled by some old English toff (male) with a cut glass accent. Why? Because that's how it was in the books and the proper films. Dench comes across as an irritating old windbag with less screen presence than a packet of rotting carrots! The 'modern' Bond films lack the charm of the older ones. They don't feel British. They actually feel very Hollywood. This film is not a true Bond flick. Brosnan ain't a bad Bond, it's just that the new writing team are utterly useless. The one-liners just aren't there any more. It's all so safe and desperate not to offend. The humour is much diminished. This movie is full of all the gadgets, but to be honest the sight of Bond toying round in a BMW is ridiculous. Where the hell is his Aston Martin? Oh, Ford wouldn't pay enough dosh eh. BMW would. So they destroyed the whole legacy of Bond. Appalling. As for the badguy, well he's some grey old tramp who can't act his way out of a paper bag. In Ronin he manages not to ruin the film, because it's good. In this, he sinks it without trace. Such a shame that they can't make good Bond movies anymore. "}{"Title":"It's about time Bond just goes all out action","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I hate James Bond for making film after film that is basically of the same thing. Idiotic bad guy has crappy plan to take over world, and Bond stops him some how. I've always hated Bond and have no idea why people get into these crappy films. So when I saw Tomorrow Never Dies in theaters, I was surprised that I liked it. Sure, the story once again is about a guy who wants to control the media and print false stories and start wars, but at least this Bond goes all out in the action department. Pierce Brosnan is my favorite Bond, which is not saying much because the four others are pathetic. I hated the other three Bonds Brosnan did, but at least this one entertained me for such time.What is nice about this Bond is that they decided to get Michelle Yeoh instead of generic girl who spells her specialty with her name (Pussy anyone?). She did a fairly good job in this as well, even though her English isn't perfect. Brosnan still remains the best Bond because he has that certain look to him. I never bought the other four and that's probably why the films didn't click for me. The bad guy played by Johathan Pryce was generic, but I still didn't mind his performance.But this Bond succeeds because it has nice eye candy from beginning to end, from some great car stunts to that great sequence on the stealth boat. I'm not saying that this film is great in all aspects, but it easily is the only way the Bond films should be done. Its a shame that Pierce is gone, because I thought he had the best run playing this part. But hopefully they learn their lesson and pick someone who actually is worth seeing on the screen.This is the only James Bond film I will watch because I know that it has enough throwaway action fun that the other Bonds seem to be void of. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Movie!","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Am I the only one or is this one of the worst Bond movies, except for The man with the golden gun of course. First of all the plot line was stupid, I mean come on a media mogul starting a war for ratings! Is it just me or are the screenwriters running out of ideas. The locations were just awful, like China ,for instance, how many times have we seen Bond there. The story only took place in like three places the arms bazaar, China and Hamburg. Also the Bond women were terrible especially Wai Lin. Did anyone else find her annoying, Don't get any ideas Mr. Bond. Michelle Yeon is a terrible actress. There were hardly any gadgets except the car which was pretty cool except for the fact that the car was a family sedan! In the previous Bond movie he had a BMW Z3 sports car. But I think that the worst thing about this movie is that there are hardly any action sequences. A motorcycle chase and one man task force, how many times have we seen that in a Bond movie.Please respond to my comment. "},{"Title":"Corny, but never made the heights","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the most annoying theme tune in Bond history, this film isn't all that bad - without ever really being any good.Featuring the famous Moneypenny line You always were a cunning linguist James, this was cornier than most other Bond films, and the interplay between Geoffrey Palmer and Judi Dench that works so well on the small screen did come across well on film also.In memory of Cubbi Broccoli, this is typical Christmas fare that you can watch without ever getting too much into it.  Pierce Brosnan is OK, but not anything special as 007.  "},{"Title":"Worst Movies of All Time !","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Bad Things=Pierce Brosnan, the plot and everything Good Thing= Q I´m a Bond fan. But these two latest movies are just plain bad though Goldeneye had it´s moments. But I just couldn´t find anything that I could possibly like about this movie Tomorrow never dies.And Pierce is so far the second worst James Bond (he beats Timothy Dalton with a millimeter)The only time that I could enjoy myself was when Q came in the picture and lifted the movie for a second. Total rating 1/10 "},{"Title":"Part 18 is better then first 17","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I like all the real Jame Bond movie. This is part 18 and it is better then all the ones that came before it. There are better ones that came after it . The world is not enough is better. Die another day is better. Sean Connery and Daniel Greg are great as James Bond. But Pierce B.r.o.s.n.a.n is beat James Bond. This is a great movie. It has great acting. A great story line. Jonathan P.r.y.c.e is one of the scariest Bond villains. All the Bond girls are good actresses. Michelle Y.e.o.h is one of the prettiest Bond girls. This is a great movie see it. It as a great sound t.r.a.c.k. It is a great movie. Great movie great movie great movie. See it. "},{"Title":"rubbish!","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The second worst Bond film-Die Another Day is the worst.. Totally predictble by the numbers Bond entry in what has become a dying series. This time out, our hero tries to twart yet another megalomaniac from starting yet another world war. The villain seems to be a composite of every previous Bond villain. The sinking of the British warship with the eating torpedo is such a poor example of FX that the scale model used resembles a 7 year old1s first attempt at building a model. The missle armed BMW is yet another laughable product placement item the automaker paid big bucks for the producers to include in this film. Bond is supposed to be Bond. How come an English car was not used.Terri hatcher looks good, but that is all she does. Brosnan as Bond has all the charisma of a figure in a wax museum. He is an absolute joke as Bond, and a complete insult to the franchise. I would give this abortion a zero rating, but since one star is the lowest rating, I have to go with that. A movie that neither entertains nor produces any decent thrills. Forget it and watch ANY Connery or Moore entry.Aother PU movie review from Lou! "},{"Title":"Weak, weak, weak!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The worst scripted Bond film of all time, and with the lamest Bond. Pierce Brosnan is utterly unable to carry off this part and proves for a second time that he should have stuck to the disease and madman of the week US TV movies he was doing before landing the Bond role. This movie reportedly cost 100million US dollars to make. On what was it spent? The only decent thing about it is David Arnold's music score. This is, quite literally, a film for which somebody forgot to write the middle section. It's got an OK-ish opening, then cuts immediately to the end. Wait a minute -- everyone knows Bond had an affair with Teri Hatcher's character, so he can just go and find out what he needs to know from her! What a good idea! Why bother having a movie at all? One of the key elements that defined the Bonds was the way in which the investigation lended plausibility to the story; it helped us suspend disbelief. In GoldenEye it was lacking, in this it just never happened at all. I've seen all the Bonds on the big screen, and I've read all of Fleming's Bond books many times. All I can say is that whoever was responsible for this has obviously decided that Bond should become a weekly 1hour TV show, because that is what the last two efforts have looked like. Neither of them have the grand sweep, the sense of going to interesting places and showing interesting things, that characterised the photography and helped dramatise the earlier Bonds. In the Brosnan Bonds, the world has truly become a small and dull place. The whole plot of TND takes place over about 48 hours and he travels around the world in that time -- and no stopping for customs officials! Maybe 007 should now become a costume-period drama, set in the 1950s and 60s, where he truly belongs, while new action-men, Rambo-like robots who can kill whole armies unassisted, become the norm because that is what 007 has become and it strikes me that in the transition something key has been lost -- the ability of the audience to identify with him. "},{"Title":"Another capitalist mogul harasses the world while our effeminate 90s Bond tries to save the day.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" So I finally got around to watching a Brosnan Bond film... I had great reservations about the 90s Bond as well as the actor who represented him - and I was right. Brosnan is by far the least masculine of the five Bonds; in fact, he is the only one who isn't masculine enough to play him. He even adds a new dimension to the character wimpy motions. There is a scene in which he rushes (with gun in hand) towards a metal door; he does this like a school-girl! Now, that's what I call poetry in motion! He hops toward the door like a 7 year-old girl plucking flowers in a garden. Besides, he lacks charisma. He never gets anywhere close to exhibiting the confidence of Connery or having the casual wit of Moore. His head is too small, his arms too thin, and he's got poetry in motion - which is fine for stereotypical films about gays, but I don't want to watch a limp-wristed man running around, trying to save the world.The other problem is the political correctness &#150; a disease that real reached new highs (i.e. lows) in the 90s. The new boss is not only a female but Judy Dench! She looks like someone's grandma! While some other people may prefer to watch old housewives bark orders to super-spies, I certainly don't! Then we have Dench making fun of an American and the fact that she doesn't have to think with her balls. How PC. And how lame. At least if Dench did a good job, but she's apathetic and wooden. Then we have the Chinese martial-arts expert who is built like a fashion model &#150; but this is forgivable; after all, in James Bond films almost anything goes (and recently, even poetry in motion).But I expected PC-ness and I knew about Brosnan being miscast. What I didn't know is how dumb the plot and the action got over the years (the latter to a lesser extent). Now, I know that Bond films are not there to be nit-picked upon; they've never been known for their realism, but what's too much is too much. The premise is utterly idiotic a media czar is prepared to start WWIII so his newspapers and TV station(s) can become leaders in up-to-date news and what-not! And then they criticize Moonraker for being over-the-top! The premise of the former is the single dumbest evil-guy-motivation-for-his-evil premise of all Bond films. The action is also more ridiculous than ever; while everyone has come to accept - and even love - the fact that Bond cannot be hit by bullets, this new 90s Bond proudly struts his ass - while surrounded by hundreds of flying bullets - and doesn't even try to duck them half the time! Half the time he just grabs a machine gun and confidently walks around killing off bad guys (like Rambo). Another really dumb scene is when he gets attacked in the fighter-jet by a guy sitting behind him. One question where the hell was that terrorist while Bond was killing his buddies and associates?! He waits for Bond to do real damage and then does he attempt to stop him! Was he asleep? Other flaws 1) Pryce is at times too animated and laughable as the bad guy, 2) the horrendous singing by Sheryl Crow; every time she attempts to hit that high note in the chorus, my ears start bleeding heavily, 3) the new Miss Moneypenny; square-faced and ugly, 4) Gotz Otto, who is nothing more than just another silly Dolph Lundgren clone.The movie, for all its flaws, at least doesn't have an ugly for one of the main two females; Hatcher is quite decent-looking, and the Asian girl is rather attractive as well. There is plenty of action, and the movie isn't dull. But the fact remains the weakest Bond film I've seen, and I've seen them all except the other Brosnan ones. Still, all in all, tomorrow has died for the Bond series.If you're interested in reading my biographies of Brosnan and other Hollywood intellectuals, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Ever. If The World is Not Enough doesn't not improve, this movie will be responsible for Demise of James Bond.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One characteristic of James Bond movie is high intelligence of Bond himself. He is a man who is not Rambo and dose not want to become Rambo either. However,if he has no choice he ends up using gadgets and other tricks to get out of sticky situations.I don't know why but the idiots who made this and one of the Dalton Bond movie, where he goes after drug King pin, want to turn this sophisticated genius, into a mad killer hound.He is a spy, not leader of Delta force.Tomorrow Never Dies is one of the most brain dead movies ever made. It has so many technical flaws that the whole industry should be ashamed of this movie.The villain is a loser. Not cool evil guy we are used to, but a real loser. His grand plan to start a nuclear war so people will watch his show, has to be dumbest idea ever. As a matter of fact he wants nuclear attack on China, so Chinese will tune in. I guess when  they hear someone launched nukes on them, their first reaction will be to pop some pop-corn and start a party.As if rest of the news crews of the world will not be able to get to it for an year. How brain dead can one be.Also the guy who always plays the villain's body guard and is also a killer with no scruples, is played by another loser who talks too (not the characteristic of other guys in that role) much is worse than the main villain.In James Bond movie the focus has always also been on art. I went in expecting that since Bond has gone to China, there will be thrilling sequences on the great Wall. Or there will be a hide and seek and hunt sequence in those 1000s of statues on that excavation site, which will provide excellent background for such. How about some martial arts? Most of all, I expected introduction to Chinese market scene, and exciting food served like cat and snake ( dragon dish ). Nothing!!!!He just drove around some stupid market, jumping from one roof top to another. The sequence was so poor that it was laughable. Rambo II all of a sudden seemed believable and realistic after seeing this crap.Then while world is at risk of nuclear war, even though Bond is in position to get help,  he decides to pull another Rambo on us, and he goes alone. In all other Bond, if he can get help, he does, because his mission is bigger than his ego. Not in this crap.The final sequence of destruction is probably the dumbest action sequence ever. The nuclear blast occurs, and Bond and his girl hold their breath, and then afterwards they pop back up and sit on the nuclear pile. This is entertainment for brain dead. At one time, Bond fires a missile inside the sub to take out a guy. Aaaaaaarrrrrrrrhhhh!The only reason dumb critics gave it high rating was that the girl was given a bit more to do, and there is less sex. Therefore it would have been a political sin to call this crap, crap.Let's hope that The world is not enough has something in it for people with a brain.  "},{"Title":"Read all about it Pierce Brosnan in another mediocre Bond fiasco!","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The pre-credits sequence to this Bond adventure, in which 007 (Pierce Brosnan) takes on international arms dealers while an incoming missile threatens to blow them all sky high, is an absolute blinder&#x97;so good that, for a minute there, it made me think that this one might more than make up for the disappointment that was Goldeneye. No such luck...Once the opening credits are over, Tomorrow Never Dies takes a nose-dive quicker than Bond in a HALO suit, giving us a lame villain in the form of evil media mogul Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce), an extremely daft plot in which Carver risks World War III for the sake of a newspaper headline, Bond driving an insurance salesman's car (a BMW 750i), some truly far-fetched action set-pieces (worst of all being the painfully idiotic remote control car scene), more product placement than you can shake a Sony Ericsson phone at, and Teri Hatcher, TV's Lois Lane, as perhaps the most forgettable of all Bond women&#x97;Vincent Schiavelli's hit-man did us all a favour when he bumped her off! "}{"Title":"An OK Bond film, nothing special","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Coming off of GoldenEye, one of the best Bond films, Pierce Brosnan's second film is nothing close to that film. The film's action is pretty good, the plot is all right, but it just has those dumb little moments here and there that just don't sit well with me. The best part of the film, by far, is Jonathan Pryce as the villain. Not only is he intimidating, well, when he's not faking karate, that is, but he has the acting ability as well, which as I mentioned in my Goldfinger review, is what ever good Bond villain needs. Aside from all of that, the film is extremely talkative and at times very slow paced, the worst being a party scene which seems to go on for about twenty minutes and also a scene where an assassin goes to take Bond out but talks to him forever. There is nothing I hate more in a Bond film when the film does this, but I do forgive it for Jonathan Pryce's performance and those action scenes. "},{"Title":"A film of 2 halves","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow never dies is a follow up to one of my favourite bond films which is Golden-eye. The film starts terrific, we are given and explosive opening action sequence, followed by some scenes setting up the plot and then BANG. We are given some great action scenes resembling which looks to set up the perfect bond film. The car chase scene with is remote controlled BMW was amazing and arguably the best car chase in bond history.However then the film just fall flat. Unfortunately Elliot Carver isn't a very interesting Bond villain and the action, while good, isn't exciting anymore because its all too similar to the ones before.Overall Tomorrow Never Dies is a good Bond film (for the first half) but then falls flat.My final rating 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"More waste of celluloid, but with two redeeming features","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I confess to not being a 007 fan at all; I think almost all the Bond movies are horribly bad, not to say stupid. Still, they have become a part of our shared cultural experience, not unlike Star Wars; whenever a new one comes out, it is an instant classic. If it's really bad, it will simply become famous for being really bad, but become famous all the same. Sigh.Anyway, the Bond movies do vary in quality. Connery's tend to be the best, of course, and personally I think the Brosnan ones are the worst yet. Most Bond movies are about a super-villain who wants to achieve world domination in some shape or form, and this concept is always taken to ridiculous and utterly unrealistic extremes (and so, of course, are the action scenes). Compared to your usual dime-a-dozen lower-budget action movie, Bond movies are not the slightest bit better. And so, because of their higher budget, they deserve even more criticism for being badly crafted than other bad action movies. However you look at it, it's clear that Bond movies are simply made to make money, always using silly stories with no real substance.And yet! Tomorrow Never Dies is a little bit different. For once it is not politically silent; it overtly warns us of the dangerous power that the great media conglomerates wield over our lives, and questions the wisdom of a near-monopolized media system. This is admirable, and raises this Bond movie to a slightly higher level than most of the others.The other good reason to see Tomorrow Never Dies is the presence of Asia's number one female action star, Michelle Yeoh. She is amazing, and has a large part here, being prominent in the entire last half of the movie, which is composed of watchable action, although it's drawn out somewhat, esp. at the end.Thus, while still a ways off from being a *good* movie, Tomorrow Never Dies is in fact one of the not-too-terrible Bond movies. It's still *pretty* terrible, though! My rating 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brosnan's best, even though that's not saying much (SPOILERS)","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" GoldenEye proved that James Bond could not only survive the Cold War, but can be updated for the current generation (Even though I personally feel this reinvention is unnecessary). So for the next film, originally called Tomorrow Never Lies, producers decided that they would continue down the path paved by Pierce Brosnan's first outing, amplify it, and add more Roger Moore innuendos. While this worked for his second film, later titled Tomorrow Never Dies and the next one, it all culminated in the disaster known as Die Another Day.Many critics have slammed Tomorrow Never Dies for having too many one-liners, too much action, and for being an all together bad film. True, while some lines are cheesy, there are some definite witty ones. The motorcycle chase, the kung fu fights, and the ending (which is far too clichéd) are pretty bloated, but everything else works fine. And the movie has an infectious energy to it, especially the early scenes, and even though it doesn't have the flair of The Spy Who Loved Me, it's first and foremost a Bond film.The movie puts a nice spin on the madman plans to gain power by any means necessary plot line and combines it with the start WWIII between two countries idea first used in You Only Live Twice. Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) is a wealthy, but obviously insane, media baron. He has the power to reach any one on the Earth, except China, who has refused him broadcast rights. To get to the Chinese, he sends a British ship, the HMS Devonshire, off course into Chinese Territorial Waters. Carver's stealth ship then sinks the Devonshire and destroys one of the two MIG's that were circling 'round the ship.Bond is sent in, and after poking around, naturally finds out that Carver was behind the attack and tries to stop the villain's next move, which is to launch a missile into Beijing, killing foreign heads-of-state, which would in turn guarantee a huge war. Then an ally of Carver would take power of the country and give him the airtime that he so desperately needs. All this sounds far-fetched, but it's handled in an interesting and unique way, not to mention it's clear and easy to follow.While the movie follows GoldenEye's example of action and humor, the dark realism is ditched in favor of a lighter, flashier, and more colorful atmosphere. This is demonstrated in the use of more gadgets, stunts, and jokes. None of this is inherently bad, like I mentioned before, but the final 45 minutes teeters on overload, and that's the part of the film where the fresh energy disappears and the plot becomes more and more frantic, as if even the filmmakers don't know how to top everything that came before it. This is partly true, because the script was actually being rewritten as the movie was being shot.Brosnan is much more comfortable than he was in his previous outing, but there's still the sense of trying to find his own identity. This can unfortunately be said of all his films, but for Tomorrow Never Dies, he brings us a competent Bond that also has some demons, shown in the scene where he drinks alone in his hotel room. Pryce chews up the scenery in an enjoyable way, but it's also hard to take him seriously as a threat to Bond, and we know that his fate will be decided by the end of the film.One standout performance is, ironically, almost a cameo appearance. Vincent Schiavelli, who plays Dr. Kaufman, lends a creepy presence to his one scene and his look would have been perfect as the central villain. Even Judi Dench's M is more tolerable, and stands as a strong authority figure, while Hong Kong star Michelle Yeoh plays Bond's love interest, Wai Lin, and proves to be one of the better Bond equals. Unfortunately, Götz Otto as Stamper and Teri Hatcher as Carver's wife, Paris, don't have a lot to do and don't leave a memorable impression in the Bond series.Continuing with the cons of the movie, the role of Carver's ally, General Chang, isn't clearly defined and it's almost as if he was forgotten about late in the shot. The martial arts, while capturing Yeoh abilities nicely, don't add to the plot and scream overkill. They don't seem to have worked in any other Bond film, and Tomorrow Never Dies is no exception. Finally, the second half loses focus when compared to the rest of the movie, with the last shoot-out aboard the stealth ship being fairly uninspired, even though the special effects are top-notch throughout.The movie can still boast David Arnold's best and most distinct score, hearkening back to John Barry's earlier successes . The gadgets don't call attention to themselves, being inventive and fun, while two action scenes, the pre-title sequence and the remote-controlled chase in the parking garage, are highlights of the series. All-in-all, the film is more fractured than the early classics, but the quick pace makes up for it, causing Tomorrow Never Dies to become an enjoyable film to watch. Don't expect From Russia With Love, but it's not A View To A Kill, either. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Pierce","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Disappointing follow up to Golden Eye pits Bond against a news magnate mad man, Jonathan Pryce, who's brewing up a war for his newspaper. Plenty of action and satire on the extent the media will go to make a buck, but never quite comes together.I've always felt Pierce Brosnan was a good Bond, but his films just don't measure up except for Golden Eye. Even Roger Moore had more to work with.Michelle Yeoh is a fun Bond girl though, and there's a menacing blond henchman to be dealt with, and Joe Don Baker is funny as the new CIA man who works with Bond (He didn't even say goodbye.). Teri Hatcher, moon lighting from her day job as Lois Lane on the now defunct Lois & Clark The New Adventures of Superman, has a cute cameo as an ex-flame of Bond. Don't miss a then 33-year old Teri being removed from her black dress with only her black panties (a sign of virginity long lost) to cover her 5'6 body. Well, actually I heard she was pregnant then so it may have been a different woman.  "},{"Title":"Worst Bond film of the modern era","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Coming on the back of Goldeneye, a fine film by any standards and Brosnan's best as 007, Tomorrow Never Dies was a complete dud. For once blame cannot be laid on the plot - which on paper is perfectly acceptable for a Bond film. But thin supporting characters (especially the villains) and poor direction for the majority of the film (bar some good action sequences) mean this effort is nowhere near the usual Bond Standard. Most problematic of all however, and the real reason behind the sour taste this film leaves behind, is the movie's ending. The representation of the 'stealth ship' was dreadful, even now I wince when I think of the tacky model they used. Worse still was how 007 stormed it like Rambo with guns a-blazing.When did James Bond become a gun-clip emptying, body-count embracing generic character stereotype? This is not the way Her Majesty's secret-agent should act! In the Connery, Moore and even Dalton eras, Bond usually had help from a bunch of anonymous 'good guys' when the crunch battle arrived - a far more believeable, entertaining and traditional way to signoff a 007 movie.  "},{"Title":"Better than some, worse than many.","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The only reason that this Bond film beats out The Man with the Golden Gun is because it doesn't get boring.  And it also beats Die Another Day, because everything was terrible about that Bond movie.  Other than that, this is one of the lowest entries in the series.I have several reasons why I dislike this Bond film, my primary reason being the bad guy.  Johnathan Pryce does the best with what he has, he would have made an excellent Bond villan if it weren't for his motivation; being the world's biggest and richest mass-media mogul.  I fondly look back on the old Bond films where the bad guys wanted to take over the world.  Now, the bad guys only want to broadcast the world being taken over...Neither of the Bond girls impressed me terribly, Hatcher's acting was stale, and Michelle Yeoh was the exact opposite of all other Bond girls (with the exception of Jinx, whom I dislike even more).  Most Bond girls are simply women, connected to the plot, who need help getting out of a bad situation.  But apparently the new producers had to break tradition and start making the Bond girls tough in themselves.All in all, the only saving aspect of this movie was the opening action sequence, where Bond hijacks a nuclear missle, beating the bad guys around the whole way. "},{"Title":"A lesser Bond film","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Tomorrow Never Dies is a lesser Bond film due to the fact it's really slow. But when the action sequences do come they are pretty stylish. Pierce contuines his show as a good Bond and Michelle Yeoh makes a worthy sidekick. The only thing that saves the film from being a total stinker is the sex appeal of Teri Hatcher. "},{"Title":"Good...but my least favorite Bronson Bond movie.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoy this movie like I said, but of Bronson's Bond flicks this is my least favorite.  There are reasons for this of course...I don't care for Terri Hatcher at all and I am not that wild about Michelle Yeaoh either.  The pointless plot point of Bond already having a relationship with Bond was just painful to watch cause Hatcher isn't the best actress in the world...she's good on tv, but not movies.  Michelle's problem is she just seems to be trying to upstage Bond.  Sorry but no one is supposed to be better than Bond.  The little Jackie Chan fight scene she had was stupid too.  I got the point she knew kung fu from previous scenes...her prolonged fight scene was not needed.  Other than that this movie has good action.  As one commenter said though some more spying could have been in order. "},{"Title":"Decent bond movie but not one best the best or worst in the series","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Tomorrow Never Dies (1997)I don't think this movie was no were near as good as the golden eye.That was one of best movie for me but I can't say the same for this movieIt had decent open scene , Felt the plot was far to weak for 2 hour bond movie.There were a few good action scenes and two memorable scenes , that stood for movie , which I thought wow! There was some parts of the movie were I thought the movie dragged now and again.Decent bond movie but not one best the best or worst in the series "}{"Title":"One of the better Brosnan Bonds","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I consider GoldenEye the best of the Brosnan Bonds, but this entry isn't half bad either. It has some terrific cinematography and locations, a great score and theme song, a good script and some excellent action. In general the plot is not too bad, the first half was gripping and plausible, however with the transition from Europe to Asia the film loses its way. Also I found Elliot Carver rather nonthreatening and somewhat pathetic as a villain though Jonathan Pryce did well with what he had. That said, Pierce Brosnan is excellent as Bond and Terri Hatcher is a great match for him. And the support of Judi Dench goes down well too. Overall, very good on the whole. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"worst brosnan's Bond movie","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This time, Bond must fight against Elliot Carver a megalomaniac press magnate that wants to detonate WWIII in order to be the first to give the news and earn lots of money in the way. With these great Bad Guy, who could be afraid? he is no warlord, no terrorist, he just manipulates reality and creates a stupid confrontation between China and the UK, so both send their best agent to fight Carver. Though probably is the most realistic Bad Guy of Bond's movies, the flavour of his movies is the fact that he is the great-guy-can-do-everything and, well, a press magnate is just too little for him, he doesn't deserve Bond attention, Bond is greater that him, just it. On the other hand, the action scenes are well done, as usual, but the fact the evil are so stupid steals thrilling to the scenes, they are just fireworks and nothing more, the movie is not able to catch you very much. Probably the worst of Brosnan bond movies, but well it is still Bond, it is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A letdown from Goldeneye","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While this movie had its strong points like Brosnan's confident performance as Bond and a villain whose plan seemed feasible, its weak points marred the experience. First there was the totally unnecessary martial arts scene with Michelle Yeoh. If I wanted to watch a kung fu movie I would've watched a Jackie Chan film. Second Yeoh's appearance is not glamorous enough for a Bond girl and Teri Hatcher though better isn't spectacular and also wasn't given enough screen time. As a villain Carver is not in the top tier, though to be fair he isn't dreadful either. Pryce is a good actor. I'm not sure anyone could add more to this blandly written character than he could. The blond physical baddie is something we have seen countless times before. They weren't even trying to come up with something fresh! On the plus side the pre-credit fighter plane sequence was exhilarating and I appreciate the technical execution of the motorcycle chase sequence. The shootout at the end, however, was yet more evidence of a lack of originality. Overall, 6/10. As an aside the Playstation game based on this movie was a disaster especially when compared with the Nintendo 64 masterpiece Goldeneye. "},{"Title":"Worst Bond Movie of all, miscasted bond girls, and very boring.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie just did not please.  First of all the film just didn't have much of the hilarious humor in the other Bond films.  Through most the film James Bond was being boring rather than humorous.  Don't get me wrong, he still said some of your average bond things but just not enough as the other Bond films. Much of the reason on why the Bond films shine is because of the bond girls.  They usually bring a shine to the story but sadly Michelle Yeoh plays a boring Bond girl while Teri Hatcher plays a bond girl who can't act and is barely in it.  Teri Hatcher plays the role of the evil bond girl but she isn't evil.  Neither Bond girl in this film is mysterious nor vibrant which really made this movie bad. There are a few very interesting action scenes but that is about all to mention.  Bottom line, your average Bond film with less humor and the worst casted and written Bond girls in any of the Bond films ever. "},{"Title":"A terrible excuse of a Bond movie","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me just get to the point. THIS MOVIE WAS TERRIBLE. There is not a single nice thing that I can say about this movie (the ONLY thing I can think of are the super attractive babes surrounding the villain at the party, just before Bond pops in, and that's it!!!). One of the worst Bond movies ever (the worst being The world is not enough). I don't have a problem with Pierce Brosnan, he is arguably the second best bond ever (and for all you reading this, pondering who the best Bond is; here's a clue, he's a 6'1 high ape descendant, although come to think of it, he's almost as hairy as the next ape; yeeeeees, that's right, you guessed it, Sean Connery - but of courssse!). Now, on to the trashing of this 007 fiasco.To begin with, I saw this movie yesterday and can hardly remember the opening scene, that's how big an impact it made.Next, Judy Dench is terrible as M. She just isn't cut out for the part and is quite annoying, showing lack of talent(the lame laugh she gives after supposedly suppresses Admiral Roebuck, who by the by is played by the same guy who starred (is married to) with Judy Dench in a popular British TV show; I guess the film makers wanted to show the couple can show their acting abilities in a Bond movie as well, therefore inserting this lovely dialogue Admiral Roebuck With all due respect, M, I don't think you have the balls for this. M Perhaps. The advantage is I don't have to think with them all the time. Believe me, it's SO lame when you see it.Teri Hatcher(although quite stunning) is kind of boring and I don't understand why she is married to the villain, definitely not because she loves him.Next, the action scenes are boring and show nothing new or even the least bit interesting, just the typical stuff. Also, I thought there wasn't enough man to man contact, just boring movie shooting with ammo that never runs out.   The car is OK, but I hate that BMW has a contract or I don't know what with Bond movies, since theirs are the only cars (and bikes; make no mistake - when Bond and the Chinese girl are running from the bad guys a range of bikes magically presents itself. But that isn't the bogus part; it's the bike they accidentally choose that reeks of propaganda because you notice the BMW logo on its side)that are, and will be shown. How lame.The villain isn't that bad, but is not very believable when it comes to a motive - POWER, what else, but that's so recycled and boring.Many mistakes; the worst being the scale of the undetectable villain boat, that changes with almost every scene.No fancy gadgets, just the boring watch and a car that talks.Again Judy Dench.And is it just me or were the film makers trying to change just about everything. The British headquarters look too computer-like and they ruined Moneypenny's character. She used to be flirty and attractive, now she's just a red haired bitch with a cell phone.   At first I thought that Goldeneye was junk, but after seeing it again I must say it's the Best Bond movie since Octopussy,with a great opening scene (sure it's not realistic, but it's great fun to watch), beautiful women and it possesses some of that old Bond movies charm. It has a weak ending, but hey, they all do. If you're wondering; my favorite Bond movie is From Russia with love, followed by Dr. No, Goldfinger, The spy who loved me...........This movie lacked charisma, memorable scenes(not even one memorable scene), credibility and that Bond atmosphere that could make even the worst of Bonds likeable.       I gave it a better grade that it deserves.         4/10 "},{"Title":"I give it  a C","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but average.  The story is not that bad, but far fetched, and done like a Diehard film.  They got too do something new with this series. One do all the Bond films need a count down in them? Do the vilians all ways never make sure Bond is dead?  Does everything have to explode in these films?  Its redundant!  If you are the makers of a Bond film here is a few pointers.  Maybe, have Bond hunted for a change!  Have him fend someone off in time for some help.  Make a harder edge to it and add some new style to it like in Snatch or Pulp Fiction.  The bad guys in this film where forgetable and not very scary.  That Blond guy give me a break!  M her, aid, and the Admerial drag this film, they annoy the viewer with tripe.  Roger Moore added humor and charm, Bronson had nothing to work with in this script.  Bruce Willis could have played the British Gentalmen with this script.  Its not a bad film, but if they want to continue with the series, they need some new blood. "},{"Title":"Anachronistic tripe","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, here we are thirty five years after the first Bond film, and not a lot has changed.  The baddies are still pantomime, the FX are sadly substandard, the real military hardware and combat situations remain resolutely fantastical, and the fantastical weapons remain farcical.  The acting and pacing are erratic, the dialogue cringeworthy, and the plot could be written on the back of an envelope.  The action scenes in particular are handled badly in this film, lacking any genuine urgency.Tomorrow Never Dies even complies utterly with the modern Bond conventions. Bond speaks eighty seven languages (seemingly), and the Bond girls are condescendingly allowed to be fairly competent.A few things have changed though.  You can't be having anything getting in the way of the FX, so Brosnan and Hatcher are utterly anondyne, lacking any kind of prescence or sparkle.  They have great faces for TV, but are well out of their depth on a big screen.  At one point, Bond pretends to be a banker; ironic, as he looks like an office drone rather than a super-agent. Surprisingly, Michelle Yeoh has both acting talent and physical prowess, avoiding the usual embarassing spectacle of stuntmen leaping head first into the furniture whenever a spindly, awkward mock-tough bimbo waves a well manicured fingernail at them.The biggest problem with Tomorrow Never Dies is that it was released post Austin Powers.   Bond can no longer just slay anonymous henchmen without the audience going Heyyyyy...!  This is an old fashioned film struggling to find a niche in a modern world. "},{"Title":"no plot Rambo IV","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie gets off to a promising start, but after the initial 15 minutes it becomes lost in a loop of meaningless events, and after an hour one might wonder if it is still the same movie that one was watching at the start. The plot is totally abandoned and not returned to until the last 20 minutes, by which time the movie has also degenerated into what seems to be the Rambo IV script. Bond single-handedly wipes out hordes of opposing soldiers without even breaking a sweat, and of course saves the day.At no time during the movie is there any sympathy for Bond or the other characters, they are as flat as they can be. Terry Hatcher is incredibly miscast and really could not have done her poorly written role any worse. Brosnan is horrible as Bond, with an air of superiority and a super-human aura around him that simply makes you sick. Where has the human touch gone that Timothy Dalton gave Bond so well? It seems it vanished, along with any reality in the plot. Dalton failed and made mistakes often enough, but the Bond in this movie should have been called 'John Rambo' or 'Superman' instead. Truly a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Bond yet again plagued by silly humor and unrealism You know the rest...","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this film has action...And yes, this film has limited PG-13-rated bedroom action...But no, this film does not have intelligence - as Bond films have continued, there seems to have been a gradual shift from the thought in storyline to one of general lack of thought...On the forefront is the issue of gadgetry - all of Bond's gadgets seem to becoming more and more specialized to the point of absurdity - the gadgets that Bond is given seem to be of use in only one single, highly-unlikely to happen situation...the BMW with miniature (2-inch) chainsaw is the best example...(the scene itself has to be seen to be believed)...The other main issue is the lack of freshness in storyline - granted, there are always bad-guys; and yes, there are always bad guys with massive funding in some form; but why does James Bond always get caught up in it?One other thing that has struck me recently is the aging process of 007 - it's amazing - in about 30 years of service, James Bond really hasn't aged a day!'Tomorrow Never Dies' was in fact the Bond-installment that led to my vow of never paying money again to see a new Bond film...3/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was the worst of the three Pierce Bonds I have seen.  A pathetic plotline with a Ted Turner type villian trying to create trouble just to get a news story.  It gets worse as the hottest girl in the movie, Terri Hatcher, dies before half the movie is over.  Then the lame stunts begin along with Bonds new partner, a girl I personally found repulsive.  I saw one user comment saying that this movie puts Bond films back on solid ground.  In reality, the complete opposite is true. "}{"Title":"Tragic addition to a tragic series","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know how the Bond series continues. This is by far the worst of all, I admit even the other Bond movies are terrible - you can actually bear to watch them, but Tommorow Never Dies is taking it to far. I don't know how they get funding to make so many of them. This movie takes up the same formula as many Bond movies - One man tries to have world domination, he has many weak henchmen, then he has his one tough henchman who is so strong and can take multiple stab wounds and punches to the head. It's a disgrace to make movies like this. I have no clue as to how the series continues. 0.5/10 "},{"Title":"Major improvement for Brosnan","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A major improvement over the previous ponderous outing.Bond Brosnan fulfills his promise in the second film. The stiffness is gone from his performance this time around, and he seems thoroughly at ease with both the action and the humor. While he still does not have much edge, he provides the polish and sophistication without the prissiness of Roger Moore.The villain Jonathan Pryce's thinly veiled snarky rendition of a Rupert Murdoch-type media mogul fomenting wars and then beating his competition to the headlines is truly inspired.The women Michelle Yeoh is one of the most enchanting of the Bond women. She is mature and sexy, able to hold her own with Bond and does not shy away from either comedic banter or action sequences. A truly memorable character who would be fascinating in a movie of her own. Teri Hatcher seems totally miscast as Pryce's wife and a former paramour of 007. She seems ill-at-ease and her role seems truncated, as if much was left on the cutting room floor.The film really knows what notes to hit. Brosnan is given ample opportunity to exert his rights on the Bond role and he does not let any pass him by. There is strong chemistry between the leads, exciting action sequences, a memorable villain and leading lady. Judi Dench, who (like Brosnan) seemed stiff and humorless in her initial outing as M seems to be enjoying herself in the role. Sheryl Crow provides yet another lackluster title track. "},{"Title":"I'm afraid its bad news...","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" By the numbers, join the dots, whatever euphemism you care to use, provided it means torridly pedestrian you can safely apply it to Brosnan's second Bond. The rationale was presumably that having re-established the character in the classic and it has to be said, mainly imaginary mode in which most post-modern remakes are forged (its the realisation of the clichés you see not the substance), then all that was required was the tried and trusted formula with a contemporary spin. In fact you can just see the original script with a post-it on the front reading just add jokes. It could have been fairly interesting, after all you're sending up Murdoch for God's sake and there's a wealth of comment there surely but Brosnan era Bond scribes Pervis and Wade aren't exactly Swift and Heller and they're banking on the idea that you do more gaming than reading so you wouldn't really be interested in a satirical edge in any event. There's no attempt at a real story here or anything approaching real characterisation. The tone is pure panto - comedy Germans, mindless Bond Girls and a wretched performance from Johnathan Pyrce as Carver who has nothing to do except ham it up and embarrassingly trot out lines like Let the mayhem begin! and theres no news like bad news. In short no-one, including Brosnan is required to do any more than would be necessary were they lending their voices to computer game characters. Everything about this instalment cries out old hat. Arnold's score is self-consciously Barry-eque but with none of the invention, in fact its more Austin Powers while Spottiswoode's rasion d'tre seems to be to pile on the action and hope that's enough. It isn't. Offensive product placement gives the producers the opportunity to up the budget and therefore the spectacle at the expense of everything else, the theme song is poor and worst of all the title, in a perfect mirror of the film it headlines, doesn't make any sense and is in fact a production error which went unchecked. The fact that when it was caught no-one considered changing it back to lies from Dies (presumbably because the latter sounded more hard edged and Bondish) tells you all you need to know about how much respect the filmmakers have for the audience. If they were in any other profession these people would be sacked for gross misconduct. Bad bad bad. "},{"Title":"Only Way Was Obviously Down.","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Quite annoying James Bond Movie, I think this was/are. Can't help it; It just never comes to me, how many times I ever try to absorb this movie fair and square.*Pierce Brosnan continuing his mission as James B. quite moderate, almost in a diminished way. He sometimes disappears in the exhibit of sponsor cars and cell-phones, occasionally seems to get in the more silly smiling Moore-way. (Sorry about that, Roger....) 5 out of 10.*To me, Jonathan Pryce might be the most annoying and demanding villain of the whole Bond Encyclopedia. As Elliot Carver, a widely rich publisher, who's thirst after breaking news gets unsound. Overacting like h*** when shouting out his devastating plans (to get total control over world media) to anyone who comes in his way. 2 out of 10.*Teri Hatcher's brief cameo does not do her talents right. Just playing the usual symbol wife to Mr. Evil, and happens to have some 007 past stories. 4 out of 10.*Chinese agent Michelle Yeoh is a partner to old Jimmy in the same political way we've seen before. One participant from both the threatened sides. (Does it quite fresh and in a nice way, by all means.) But some super hero stuff pulls the grade some downwards. 5 out of 10.*Sheryl Crow is a favorite of mine, who's musicality has given me much pleasure over the years since the arrival on the public scene in the mid 90's. Being a talented studio musician/singer for years, working with - among others- Michael Jackson, Rod Stewart and Sting, she wanted to try the wings of her own, which went out pretty well. With catchy music and good looks a woman can hypnotize the world, that's for sure.But this theme score I found kind of anemic back then, and it didn't matured over the years either. An easy forgotten tune in my ears. 4 out of 10.*SUMMARY The one - kind of - less good 90's James Bond. ( OK, there were only three of them...)There were some slight improvement to come in two years time, before the disastrous Brosnan Good-Bye in 2002. "},{"Title":"Less than average Bondian film","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Tomorrow Never Dies, 1997, Someone is pitting the superpowers against each other when a British warship is destroyed in Chinese waters and put's the world on the brink of World War 3. It seems a powerful news media mogul is behind this. Bond must join forces with his Chinese counterpart.*Special Stars- Pierce Brosnan, Judi Dench, Jonathan Pryce, Michelle Yeoh, Teri Hatcher *Theme- Media moguls could be the new international villains to damage world peace.*Trivia/location/goofs- The film made particularly heavy use of gadgetry. Dedicated to the memory of long-time Bond-film producer Albert R. Broccoli. Anthony Hopkins was cast as Elliott Carver and joined the production, but walked after three days because it was so chaotic and there was no completed shooting script. Ricky Jay, who plays Henry Gupta is also an acclaimed magician who holds a world record for the fastest throwing playing cards. The headline The Empire will Strike Back so admired by Elliot Carver when reviewing media reaction to the impending British attack mirrors a real headline run by Newsweek during the Falklands War in 1982.*Emotion- Ms. Hatcher seemed out of her league in being cast in this film as the villain's wife and X-Bond gal. The media super-villain, Mr. Carver should have been a stronger portrayal. The Chinese secret agent role was excellent and was a nice plot balance considering that some of the other lead characters were so flat and cookie-cutter boring. A routine less than average Bondian film, but has it's obvious character flaws. "},{"Title":"Empty-headed action movie","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm a big fan of Bond but for some reason never sat through this one all the way until yesterday - it just seemed too much like an empty-headed action movie, and whenever it came on TV I ended up turning it off with a headache.After watching it yesterday I have to say, what the hell is going on?! Pierce Brosnan was actually better here as Bond than in Goldeneye - he got a haircut, thank God - but the script he was given was just pathetic. Unlike others here I have no gripe with the villain or his scheme, but I definitely do have a problem with Bond mowing people down with machine guns the whole time.This is JAMES BOND, the English super-spy, not bloody Rambo! People get upset with Dalton's psychotic Bond in 'Licence To Kill', but at least he only kills the principal bad guys. 'Tomorrow Never Dies' must have the highest body count of all the Bond films; oddly Bond's behaviour reminded me of Max Zorin's in 'A View To A Kill' who machineguns his henchmen after flooding his underground lair - a scene Roger Moore publicly objected to.Another major quibble is that the action itself was confusing and filled with deus ex machina twists that are neither explained nor anticipated. How dis the chain-in-the-copter-rotor thing work? What was with the explode-the-detonator thing at the end? What was the thing inside Bond's watch that smashed the little jar and how did that set off the grenade? Where did Bond get it from - does he carry jam jars around just in case? Ironically this is probably Brosnan's best performance as Bond, but it is wasted in this asinine, confusing action movie that just doesn't feel like a Bond film at all. And can someone please explain the title? "},{"Title":"Lame script, lame stunts, lame villain","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The dull opening sequence of this does not promise too much; and indeed, the film fails to deliver much. With one exception, when Brosnan and Yeoh are handcuffed together and have to escape the villains on motorbike, a genuinely gripping sequence, the rest of the action is sub par, strictly generic by Bond standards. Much of the fault lies with a dreary implausible villain which seems to be the writers' thinly veiled attack on Rupert Murdoch. A media tycoon does not make a very good Bond adversary at the best of times, but here is so lazily written (and acted) as to suck any potential out of the character whatsoever. The usual Bond formula of beautiful locations, beautiful girls is eschewed too; here we have a brief fling with Teri Hatchett but the main female interest is Michelle Yeoh, a woman more of Chinese efficiency than sex appeal. Nor are the settings car-parks, markets and ships, very interesting to look at. One of the poorest outings for Bond in the tired franchise. "},{"Title":"Is it Bond or Discovery channel ?","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I had rather low marks for this film because 007 Bond franchise seem to become too dependent on gadgets and nothing innovative about story line seems to be forth coming. The bad guys are now three in a row about money and power, and all the actions are taking place within a well known city. 007 movies used to open up worlds not seen by average folks like me, and the treat was to as one critic said Go to a world that's little bit more brighter than our own while watching the movie. The magic and the charm has disappeared and Bond movie is now at the same level as the Discovery channel with endless digital equipment, and technical details and if you take them away, it's just another spy movie. I like Pierce Brosnan, but I think he looks little stressed as James Bond - like an old man trying too keep up with pace unlike effortless style of Connery and Moore Bond. Maybe a total renovation of James Bond movie is in order. "},{"Title":"Sorry, guys, but this film sucked!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Generally speaking, a Bond film's theme song is reflective of the film's quality, and the only exception to this law that I can remember has been Live And Let Die. A great theme song by Paul McCartney is mismatched with Roger Moore, the worst Bond ever. On Her Majesty's Secret Service has one of the best themes ever, a powerful instrumental that sums up the film without any vocals being needed at all. GoldenEye has one of the best themes ever recorded, by a woman who was just born to sing a Bond theme. If my voice is anywhere near as powerful as Tina Turner's when I get to be that age, I'll be a happy man. The World Is Not Enough even features a good song by an indie band, which is no small feat considering their usual pseudo-alternative drivel is only a step above (c)rap.Then there's Tomorrow Never Dies. I don't know who the hell decided that Sheryl Crow could sing a Bond theme song, but it is no surprise to me at all that she hasn't recorded a thing since Tomorrow Never Dies opened in 1997. It's as if she listened to her voice during the premiere and came to the shocking realisation that her vocals suck harder than a V-8 Powered Hoover. Adding insult to injury in this film is the closing number by K.D. Lang. Lang knows how to sing a song with class and style, even if her earlier work doesn't indicate this. Crow is clearly trying to give an operatic performance, and is way out of her depth, which isn't hard considering she has about as vocal much talent as my cat... oh, wait, my cat can actually hold a tune...Then there's the plot itself. Media mogul starts a war between China and the UK in order to sell more newspapers. Are they for real? Let's compare this with the plot for GoldenEye and The World Is Not Enough, shall we? GoldenEye features a mob of mad, ethnocentric Russian terrorists who steal an electromagnetic pulse weapon, with the intent of discharging it over England. The World Is Not Enough features an insane terrorist and an oil magnate's daugther who want to irradiate the world's oil supply for their own individual purposes. And then we have the media mogul who wants to start a war between two of the world's largest empires in order to sell more newspapers. Does that sound a bit lame by comparison, or is it just me?However, the worst part of this film is the villains. GoldenEye had a sex-mad helicopter pilot who derived pleasure from killing things, and a traitorous secret agent who is known personally to Bond. The World Is Not Enough featured a terrorist who, as implausible as he is, at least acted well enough to be menacing. Eliot Carver is, by comparison, a light warm-up. I could have walked in and torn his head off within the first five minutes of the film. Without Stamper as a bodyguard, he is quite literally nothing.Adding to these problems is the fact that the Australian release of this film appears to have been cut by the BBFC (at least on the DVD version), and a number of sequences fail to make any sense as a result. Sorry, gang, but this is the biggest dud in the Bond franchise since the entire Moore period. Maybe we could try an OHMSS-style film with Brosnan... heaven knows we need a film where Bond does more than exhibit the Rambo-syndrome. Eighteen films of it is more than enough.By the way, Denise Richards is one hell of an actress. She reminds me of an old girlfriend in every role she's played so far, which is an excellent quality by any standards. She was given one hell of a raw deal in comparison to Teri Hatcher, past Bond women like Carey Lowell, or future Bond women such as Halle Berry. At least Richards got past the overemphasised-voice-to-start-conversation school of acting. Seriously, what were they thinking in the Bond camp when they saw Hatcher's resumé? Let's get the most annoying non-actor to play the Bond girl and one of the most try-hard vocalists to do the theme song? Sorry guys, but lowering Bond to the standards of the pop media just doesn't work. A pity they did not learn this before Advertise Another Day basically killed the series for good. "},{"Title":"it's so awful.","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am Vietnamese and have been in Vietnam for over 20 years but I don't think Vietnam looks like what they show in movie. It looks a lot like China or somewhere else to me. Saigon isn't that rich and dirty and small like some sense we see in movie. Also we don't have many Chinese signs or Chinese letters in Saigon, unless in Chinese town but Chinese town isn't like that either. Saigon looked big when Bond just arrived but when some bad guys were chasing him it looked so small and so dirty. And Vietnamese people don't always wear traditional custom and rice hat. Also we don't have a big tall building with a picture of some American hang on it. Can't believe that Vietnamese police let foreigners chasing on the street with machine guns and helicopter. I am not saying VN police are good, but it never happens in Vietnam at least for 50 years. "}{"Title":"Possibly the worst Bond ever??","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Having decided to watch the entire series in time for the fiftieth anniversary this year, I managed to get this far before giving up. The World is not enoughmay be the best Bond yet, but if it's anything like this, then I've made a wise decision. Okay, Brosnan is probably the poorest actor to play Bond, but he's a lot more Bondian than Craig's pseudo-American tough guy type.I did actually like Goldeneye a lot. But this is just wrong. Jonathan Pryce is truly abominable, camping his way through a two dimensional character, and the less said about his muscleman helper, Stamper, the better. I know this is a film about technology and the threat of an Orwellian future is hinted at with Carver's global Empire, but we're bombarded by trendy gadget after gadget, and Bond is no longer a human being, he's just some guy playing one big video game. By this point, the series has lost the humanity, which used to combine well with the gadgets, and create a great storyline. Instead, mindless action sequences fill the screen, and are quite frankly pathetic in their attempts to create drama. My only praise for this movie is for Teri Hatcher as Paris Carver, and in the few minutes she is actually on screen, we get a look beyond Bond's pursed lips and his cocky smile. Shame she's killed off so quickly. Also, despite some terrible editing, the pre-credits sequence isn't too bad, although M's sniping gets irritating.( At least I don't think with them... Do me a favour...) So for me, anyway, GoldenEye is the last Bond worth watching, light years ahead of LTK, and TND is to be avoided at all costs. And in case you're wondering, my idea of a great Bond movie is OHMSS "},{"Title":"The Series Never Dies. Snore","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very tired series and I barely made it through this entry. The formula has not changed at all and it is worn to shreds. You end up not caring about any of the characters, including Bond. Is is just the same old action sequences you have seen a thousand times. The sound effects on this one were particularly bad. They used they same ear-piercing sound for everything. Did they have only 10 sound effects in their toolbox for this movie? I can't recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"WOW! This is Bond baby!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I had first saw TND I thought it was ridiculous. I thought it was boring and the action was a bit too over the top. When I heard that it was going to be the CBS Sunday night movie during a week in January, I decided to give TND another shot.I saw TND again and all I can say is that a few months ago I had never felt sooooo wrong in my entire life. I saw it again and I went crazy for Bond! People say that TND was 90% action, 10% plot. I think that they're wrong. There was a lot of the plot incorporated in the film and that there was a lot of drama and comedy in the film as well.The action scenes were fabulous. The motorcycle chase and the car chase were really enjoyable. I also loved the script. Bruce Feirstein and company made a great script with an interesting plot. It was a great choice from MGM to have Roger Spottiswoode as the director of TND. He had all the scenes made to near perfection. The acting had its good and bad points sadly. Pierce Brosnan was superb as always. He really wasn't relaxed in GoldenEye but in TND, he was as cool as ice. Elliot Carver has to be the most cheesy villian in Bond history. I thought Jonathan Pryce would knock some sense into Carver, but just made Carver even cheesier. Teri Hatcher was lame as Paris Carver. All she did was make Paris into a wimpy sex kitten.The best thing in all of TND had to be Wai-Lin. Michelle Yeoh steals the show in TND. She was the perfect Bond girl. She had class, style, brains (take that Kara Milovy!), beauty, sex appeal, and most of all she could give an ass whippin! She is my all time favorite Bond girl! She also had great chemistry with Brosnan.Please, please ignore my first comment on TND with I made a few months ago! I must have had a little too much of Grandpa's couch syrup.James Bond will return, hopefully with Michelle Yeoh! "},{"Title":"Tomorrow Never Dies.....Neither Does This Film - It Seems To Go On Forever","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Boy, there are a number of reasons I was very disappointment with this 1997 James Bond movie, starring Pierce Brosnan.(1) The previous Bond movie was very good and held promise that the next one would be a good one, too; (2) There was way too much action, with most of it being stupid Rambo-type stuff with hundreds of bullets fired from fairly close range and none of them hitting our hero; (3) The female lead, Michelle Yeoh, was unattractive. That is unheard of, for a Bond movie. (In fairness, I've seen Yeoh in other films and she looked a lot better than she did here. Her main quality in this stupid film was that she can beat up men, one after the other, no male can beat her! Who wrote this script? The wackos at the NOW? (4) There were three usages of the Lord's name in vain. That's three more than normal in a Bond movie and unacceptable. (5) Where was the humor? Usually Bond movies are loaded with it, but not here. Just a few of the normal sexual innuendos early on, and that was it.The best part of the film was watching the featured automobile in here, which was run by remote control. Of course, it was extremely ludicrous but still fun and typical far-out Bond-type silliness. There is a long chase with that vehicle. The action goes on and on. By the last 15-20 minutes, I just fast-forwarded to the ending. I just wanted to get it over with. The title is appropriate this FILM never dies, never seems to end! "},{"Title":"Back on Solid Ground","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It is with a sense of satisfaction that I report that our man in London has returned to the foal.  The franchise that has, through so many incarnations , wandered aimlessly (bending uncomfortably in the 80's to cultural whims and plots dependent on novelty cinematic effects, and in the early 90's spinning in circles in search of it's own identity) seems to have landed on both legs, solidly.TND is tight, moving along nicely in the spirit of the best cinematic realizations of our agent and his exploits.  It offers an almost perfect balance of story, character, action and effects to, at the very least, leave any Bond junkie with a sense of optimism regarding the future of 007 's exploits in the Cloak-and-Dagger field.Brosnan is no Connery, but he IS Bond.  Which is NOT to say Connery was not Bond, but it is to say that Brosnan's Bond is not Connery's, although it SURELY is Bond nevertheless.On another subject, Sheryl  Crow is NOT Bond.  k.d. lang, now THAT is Bond, all over, man, and does she have a set of pipes on her, or what?!  Am I wrong? "},{"Title":"Barely entertaining enough.","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Pierce Brosnan was one fine Bond, so it's a shame he had to play in two of the worst Bond movies, this one and The World is Not Enough. But of course even a bad Bond remains an entertaining one to watch, with lots of spectacular action, pretty girls and cool gadgets.The story always has been sort of secondary in Bond movies but this one takes the cake. The story is absolutely ridicules and far from well conceived and handled. The idea of an media-tycoon wanting to fully control and create the news for his own personal satisfaction is a totally unlikely but above all a ridicules one. It makes the story as a whole ridicules, even for a Bond movie. The movie is filled with implausibilities and the movie never succeeds in making the story work compelling or engaging.The movie handles lots of things wrongly, mainly things involving its story. I think this is probably due to Roger Spottiswoode's directing, who isn't exactly known as the best director or storyteller around. Lots of fine characters are wasted in this movie. Especially Teri Hatcher as the Bond girl, who Bond actually does have feelings for. Teri Hatcher plays the best and most interesting Bond girl in years but she only is in the movie for about 15 minutes. A real waste of a great and fine looking character, played by a great actress. Instead now were stuck with the bland acting Michelle Yeoh as a Chinese agent, who helps Bond on the mission. No offensive but Bond and Asians never worked out in the movies. There just is no chemistry and it helps to makes the character feel like an obsolete one.Also the villains, a important Bond element, are wasted in this movie. Jonathan Pryce is a fine actor and he plays a great villain but due to the ridicules story, his character never convinces enough. Jonathan Pryce deserved to play a villain in a better Bond movie. We don't that often see him as a villain but with this movie he shows his versatility as an actor and proofs that he can play cold-hearted, ruthless villains as well. The rest of the villains feel more like an obligation than they are needed in the story, with the exception perhaps of the recently deceased Vincent Schiavelli who always is great to watch in any movie.Thankfully some good Bond-regulars also show up again. Judi Dench is great as M and definitely a more serous one than the Bernard Lee M, who obviously mainly often served as a comic relief. They tried to change his character into a more serious one in the later Bond movies and replaced him with Robert Brown after Bernard Lee's death in 1981 and turned his character into a more serious one but none of them worked out quite as satisfying and powerful as the Judi Dench character. She gave the M character more personality and sense of power and control. A woman with balls, you may say. Other Bond-regulars in this movie are; Q (Desmond Llewelyn), Miss Moneypenny (Samantha Bond), Charles Robinson (Colin Salmon) and Jack Wade (Joe Don Baker).The movie begins great and spectacular in perhaps one of the greatest Bond openings. Unfortunately the movie never lives up to its opening sequence, ever again, later in the movie. Basically the opening sequence is the only truly great and memorable sequence of the entire movie. The movie further more is filled with lots of spectacular action sequences and they do entertaining but I simply prefer a good old fashioned fistfight above a machine-gun shootout any day. It makes this Bond movie feel sort of artificial and without any heart or true inspiration. It has all the Bond elements, girls, action, the usual characters and gadgets but still this movie doesn't really feel as a Bond. Also the end sequence, normally the best and most spectacular, are disappointing in this movie and help to make this movie an extremely forgettable one.Visually the movie is good looking and it has some fine cinematography in most of its sequences. Also the effects are good but it's a sort of unwritten rule that how more special effects are in a Bond, the worse the movie is, with some exceptions left out. The musical score by David Arnold is also fine and fitting for the movie. At first I didn't liked any of his Bond scores but they have grown onto me and I really start to appreciate and see the greatness of them all.It's a movie that does entertaining but it doesn't do this consistently throughout the entire movie. It's filled with implausibilities and unlikely elements which causes this movie to have some unfortunately weaker and extremely forgettable moments.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Tomorrow Never Dies","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the second appearance for Pierce Brosnan as James Bond. Basically Bond is at first assigned to retrieve a missing encoder that can control the positioning co-ordinates of submarines, and then he is assigned to stop the media obsessed and not very threatening Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) who plans to takeover all media types and bomb some cities. Joining Bond is Chinese agent Wai Lin (Crouching Tiger's Michelle Yeoh) and he has brief help from Jack Wade (Joe Don Baker). Also starring Lois & Clark and Desperate Housewives star Teri Hatcher as Paris Carver, One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest's Vincent Schiavelli as Dr. Kaufman, Götz Otto as Stamper, Geoffrey Palmer as Admiral Roebuck, Dame Judi Dench as M, Desmond Llewelyn as Q, Samantha Bond as Miss Moneypenny and Colin Salmon as Charles Robinson. James Bond was number 3 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and he was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Dame Judi Dench was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, she was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses, and she was number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor, and the film was number 13 on James Bond's Greatest Hits for Sheryl Crowe's Golden Globe nominated title song (they also mentioned K.D. Lang's Surrender). Very good! "},{"Title":"Fairly Good Bond Romp","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"16 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I`ve noticed that a lot of Bond fans dislike TOMORROW NEVER DIES but I don`t really see what the problem is . The plot often borders on the realistic which not something you can say about most Bond films . A media mogul conspiring to cause a war between Britain and China in order to get high news ratings ! Face it , it`s not impossible and there`s no doubt more than a few journalists in the real world are hoping for a war in Iraq so they can get a reputation as a go getting war correspondent . The production values are excellent , the visuals here are far better and slicker than anything you`d find in the Moore films . But the best aspect is the performance of Jonathan Pryce as Elliot Carver . Pryce is one of Britain`s finest and underrated actors and he really shows his joy on screen at being a Bond villain . And anyone who  Slimes  President Clinton is my kind of guy .Having said that however I still preferred GOLDENEYE , and I feel somewhat uneasy that the producers didn`t actually realise that this film should be called TOMORROW NEVER LIES   "}]