[{"Title":"Understated film; terrific chemistry between Willis and Hughes","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"64 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury Rising received a poor reception, a fate that movies of mixed genre's often received.  Audiences came in expecting an action movie, and what they found was a heartwarming film about autism.The plot of Mercury Rising is almost laughably thin.  An autistic child sees through a top secret code, and the government decides to kill him.  Enter the rogue FBI agent(Bruce Willis) with the heart of gold, and watch the testosterone take over.  A plot like this is something usually associated with Steven Seagal.The salvation to this movie is the relationship between Simon Lynch(Miko Hughes), the autistic child, and Willis redeems the movie.  Without falling prey to the temptation to preach on autism, it sketchs an accurate picture of the illness.  Hughes' performance is heartbreaking and accurate.Alec Baldwin maintains the movies tension with a chilling performance as an NSA agent who makes the decision to kill Simon.  Baldwin revels in the role of villain, pulling out every acting chop he has to make this role believable.Director Harold Becker manages to propel this movie beyond its thin plot, riding on the backs of the incredible talent within the movie.  "},{"Title":"What is really sad is the grain of truth in this story","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"99 out of 145 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury Rising is a very conventional government bad guys story about evil agents out to kill an autistic boy who can break their top code.  Of course, the premise of the movie, that the government would rather kill someone who can break their code rather than fixing the problems with the code, is incredibly stupid.  If one boy can break the code, isn't is reasonable that some other boy in Russia or wherever can also break it?  If it has a flaw that allows the kid to find the pattern, doesn't it need to be fixed?  Of course, not.  We just kill the kid and pretend nothing ever happened. But, what is really sad is that there is a grain of truth in this story.  It is the policy of the US Government that TRYING to break codes is illegal.  If you are smart enough to figure out that the DVD encryption has a major flaw, it's not the fault of the designers, it's your fault.  Researchers who have discovered flaws in codes, watermarks, etc, have been arrested.  This head in the sand policy has been around for a long time. So, next time you see this movie, just think how easy it would be to combine this attitude with someone a bit too gung ho.  "},{"Title":"Not your typical Bruce Willis film","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"58 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film was panned by critics when it was first released, and to this day, I have absolutely no idea why.Perhaps its because when you think of 'Bruce Willis' you think Die Hard, Action, over the top sequences.Well perhaps the 'critics' need to get a life and stop thinking in such narrow terms, Willis is an able actor that can do more than Die Hard and in Mercury Rising he proves it ably.I'm not going to go too much into the story as many others have, but the performance of Miko Hughes as the autistic 8 year old was fantastic. Having met a few autistic children, I'm not sure how Miko Hughes' performance wasn't singled out, which just further goes to show the naivety of the critics.Only thing I didn't like about the film is John Barrys score. This man is so typecast as the James Bond music man, whenever I hear music, thats all I can think of, as his style is so focused on a certain type of sound with the same instruments littering his scores.Every film he has ever done sounds the same.Mercury Rising is worthy of your time, and I am not surprised that people are finally discovering it and realising that its not the failure that critics would have you believe. "},{"Title":"Kids bring out the best in Bruce Willis","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"58 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess I am one of a few that really enjoyed this picture. For some reason I just felt the characters were very believable and the plot as well. I know it's just a movie but I wouldnt go as far as to say things like this don't happen. Bruce Willis is one of my favorites too, so maybe that is another reason I liked it so much. But anyone would have to agree that Miko Hughes, who portrayed the autistic 9yr old Simon, gave a performance just as touching and realistic as the young boy from The Sixth Sense. Mercury Rising had good action, good dialogue and good emotion. And Bruce Willis gave that certain touch to make it a 10 to me. "},{"Title":"S10 Reviews Mercury Rising (1998)","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Willis (Die Hard) stars in this excellent thriller as a FBI who specializes in deep undercover. But when his current infiltration of a militia group goes sour at a botched bank robbery he gets demoted to recording wiretaps. While on assignment Willis is ordered to help out with a missing child whose parents seemingly dies in a murder suicide. But all is not what it seems when the child is discovered to be autistic and to have stumbled onto solving the most important secret the NSA has&#133;Mercury, the unbreakable code hiding the identities of all the undercover agents worldwide. The project leader (Alec Baldwin) will stop at nothing to protect his code not even killing an autistic little boy.Mercury Rising is a solid novel adaptation by Harold Becker (Malice, Domestic Disturbance). The cast of this thriller nail all their performances. Willis always plays an excellent flawed tough guy in this role with it tailored just for him. Miko Hughes (Spawn, Pet Sematary) plays the autistic boy so well you almost thought he wasn't acting. It moves at a breakneck speed building tension along the way as various covert types try to put a bullet in Willis and companies collective head. Mercury is a solid thriller. "},{"Title":"Better Circa 2004","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"33 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watcehd this on DVD, loved it and was literally stunned to find that most people, in particular those that write movie reviews for a living slated this. Maybe its because in 2004, some six years after its original release we are seeing a revival of the action/thriller (Bourne Supremacy etc).So, what didn't I like, not much. I would like to have seen more made of the kids codebreaking, they could really have milked that and didn't, the opening scene was just to cliché in setting up Willis's character as were the characters of his big black boss and hard nosed chief. The very last scene was typical US syrup but was thankfully very short.What was good? everything else, I loved the idea behind the story, Miko Hughes is totally amazing to the point I had to check the next day to find out how the hell they managed to get a autistic kid to act (is isn't autistic but is a damn fine actor), Willis really does add vulnerability to a role that he has played many times before, with the movie underpinned fantastically with a John Barry soundscore and Harold Becker carefully crafts what for me was a very enjoyable movie watching experience and stands head and shoulders above many I have seen recently. 3/5 for me  "},{"Title":"Flawed, but it definitely surpassed my expectations","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Nearly six years ago, in the summer, I was camping and visiting some relatives at their vacation trailer, and happened to walk in one day while Mercury Rising was being watched. By that time, they were well into the film, perhaps more than half way through, but I watched the rest. I'm not exactly sure how much I liked it at the time, but didn't see anything severely wrong with it. Last night, I watched the whole movie for the first time. Knowing it wasn't the most widely praised film, and that I have higher standards than I did six years ago, I had fairly low expectations, but after that, I can't say I dislike it.A very complex code called Mercury has been created by the NSA, one which is believed to be impossible to break. However, the code has been put in a puzzle magazine as a test to see if this is true, and a nine year old autistic boy in Chicago named Simon Lynch, who likes to solve puzzles, manages to break it. The NSA receives a call from this boy, and the two agents who have received the call inform their boss, Nicholas Kudrow. Kudrow is afraid of the code being spread around, so he sends an assassin to kill the boy! The assassin comes to Simon's house and kills his parents, but cannot find the boy himself, and flees when he hears the police coming! An FBI agent named Art Jeffries is sent to investigate, and he finds Simon hiding in a closet. After taking the boy away, Art must protect him and try to keep him from the assassins, which will be difficult, as he doesn't have too many people on his side, and keeping Simon in one place in sometimes a challenge! I'm not sure exactly how to explain my feelings about this movie. Around the beginning, it seemed pretty much average, but it gradually got better. I was pretty shocked at the scene where Simon's parents are killed, and not in a good way. Some (probably many) people have criticised Mercury Rising for being so unrealistic and clichéd, and I'm not going to argue with that, but I can't say I think it's a bad movie. As usual, Bruce Willis puts on a memorable performance, this time as FBI agent Art Jeffries, a likable character, and then-child actor Miko Hughes is also impressive as Simon. Playing the role of an autistic character probably wasn't easy, but it seems Hughes managed to pull it off. For me, it was reasonably suspenseful seeing the two characters on the run together. The film has very memorable and touching ending as well, one which I remembered from the first time.No, this certainly isn't the most popular action thriller ever made, nor does it deserve to be, but worse has been done. I honestly thought I would have more critical things to say about Mercury Rising, but I don't, and it seems many of those who don't like it have given good reasons why they don't, probably better reasons than I can give for praising it. Since this 1998 action thriller is so polarizing, I guess there's no guarantee whether you'll like it or not, unless you don't like action thrillers in general, then you obviously wouldn't like it. However, if you're a fan of this genre, (you like good, though maybe mindless action), there's a chance Mercury Rising will do, as long as you're not expecting a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Killed by its own premise","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"36 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has one huge problem *its basic premise makes no sense at all*. Killing the kid is in absolutely nobody's interest. His codebreaking skill would be of immeasurable value to the very people who are trying to kill him, while safeguarding the code without killing him would be fairly straightforward. This is so obvious that it essentially ruins the whole movie.The rest of the movie is OK if you ignore that problem. The performances are generally good, and Miko Hughes is excellent as Simon. There is nothing here you haven't seen a dozen times before, but it's generally well done. It's not worth making any real effort to see this movie, but you probably won't have a bad time if you do. "},{"Title":"Probably for true Willis fans only","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was just a matter of time before Bruce hit a slump. 1998 was a bad year. The Fifth Element was good, but The Siege, Armageddon and Mercury Rising were stretching it for the star. Not that they are a complete waste, but they are for fans only.I work with children who have autism, so I naturally like the fact that they are featured and hope that it helps people understand the disease a little more. So, it was a good story for me, and Willis' acting with the boy probably got him the role in The Sixth Sense.Alec Baldwin plays the government official you love to hate as he is effective in displaying why we distrust the government so much. Hope that comment doesn't get me sent to Guantanamo.Maybe not entirely realistic, but good job by Willis and a good thriller. "},{"Title":"Breaking the code","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Imagine one of the most sophisticated codes ever invented ending up inside a puzzle magazine. The creators figured, incorrectly, no one will be able to decipher it. Leave it to young, autistic, Simon Lynch, it only takes him a few moments to solve the enigma code. Simon makes the terrible mistake to call the number given in the magazine and immediately, the power behind its creation wants to have this person, or persons, eliminated! At the same time, Art Jeffries, an FBI agent, has run into trouble as he mishandles a hostage situation and is demoted. When he is sent to investigate the death of the Lynches, he discovers little Simon hidden in a secret hiding place. Art, who suddenly realizes there is something more than just a homicide, takes the boy with him and embarks into an adventure in trying to solve the mystery. Nothing tells him why is this seeming innocent boy the object of revenge that will take him all the way to a higher up in the government in solving the puzzle.Harold Becker directs this thriller that was based on the novel, Simple Simon, written by Ryne Douglas Pearson. The screen adaptation was written by Mark Rosenthal and Lawrence Konner. While the film doesn't break any new ground, it's never boring thanks to the direction of Mr. Becker.The best thing in the film is the easy chemistry between Bruce Willis and the child actor Miko Hughes, who is convincing as the autistic boy. Alec Baldwin turns up playing a heavy evil man. Chi McBride and Kim Dickens make some valuable contributions to the film "}{"Title":"Mercury Falling >>>","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mercury Rising, was a loved/hated movie for quite a few viewers, especially the critics who were unapologetic in delivering a 'Razzie' award to Bruce for three films, that he was a part of in that same year. pretty harsh, well for one I feel that Bruce Willis always brings something controversial to any project he does...himself. Mercury Rising, I was happy with and entertained, which was what this government cover-up story was all about. As the sort of troubled outcast on somewhat good-terms Willis is a master. This is a lock-fit for him, he does it so well and on the other hand he slips out and accomplishes other performances with just the same skill. I.e. The Sixth Sense (1999) creepy-good story that he brings that Ole' Willis insight to and gives a leveled measure of believable acting that makes you say Wow. This given, I liked the original working title to the film, Mercury Falling would have worked well too. The autistic boy, (Miko ) is really outstanding at bringing in the over/under balanced brain of Autism to understated believability. He brought that character to it's living end. That is impressive for such young actors to have so much meddle that they can use in their craft. Then there is the one who makes 'hating heavies' a way of life, Alec Baldwin, who always can appear meaner that a bull- rattle snake. His F.B.I man is as solid and scary as the I would think the real mean ones come. All in all fairness, this lacked totally connecting everything for a perfect film, but if you watch it uninterrupted and settle in to enjoy what this is, you should get a lot of story entertainment out of it, no problem. There is a lot of garbage made these days, and it is refreshing to see a story that you can watch and take something else away, the next viewing as well. Bruce has the juice...(****) Recommended for Willis fans, but not limited to. "},{"Title":"Mercury Rising","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Willis is impressive (and softer) as an F.B.I. agent who protects an autistic boy who has cracked a major government code. Baldwin appears as the man who is threatened by the young boys' actions. Surprisingly good film with a more toned down type of hero for star Willis.  "},{"Title":"Hot on Drama, Hot on Suspense","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After I saw Domestic Disturbance, I wondered what other movies Harold Becker had directed. I looked him up and I found out he had directed Mercury Rising. I saw most of the movie last night and I finished it this morning. I thought I would like it, I loved it. I compared it to movies such as Firewall and 16 Blocks. I came to the conclusion that it was better than both of them. Bruce Willis does a very good job at playing the movie's caring and FBI hero. Alec Baldwin has a good on-screen presence as the villain who goes overboard when a government secret is exposed. Miko Hughes who I recognized from Full House does a great job as the autistic kid that the hero takes under his wing. Finally, Bruce Willis and Miko Hughes have a great on-screen chemistry together. After I finished watching the movie, I watched Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert review the movie. I thought at least one of them would have agreed with me. Then I read Ebert's full review where he talked about the villain's predictable death. The death involves him being wounded by the hero and then tumbling off the top of the building. He didn't complain when it was used in Hollywood Homicide because he liked that movie. I, however, love that cliché and welcome it with open arms. The film may have been overlooked by the critics, but it was not overlooked by audiences. I highly recommend Mercury Rising. "},{"Title":"Awesome Thriller!, That's Very Underrated!, With A Gripping Plot And 2 Amazing Performances From Bruce Willis And Miko Hughes!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an awesome thriller!, that's very underrated, with a gripping plot and 2 amazing performances from Bruce Willis and Miko Hughes!.All the characters are awesome!, and the story is excellent!, plus Bruce Willis and Miko Hughes are simply amazing in this!. Lindsey Ginter is the real main villain in my opinion as Alec Baldwin was absolutely terrible and barely to be seen!, plus i thought Willis gave one of his best performances here!. Miko Hughes is incredibly convincing as the Autustic kid in my opinion, and i feel this is treated very unfairly by critics and movie fans alike!, plus i loved the ending it was very cute and made me smile!. Willis and Miko Hughes had wonderful chemistry together, and i thought the opening was very memorable!, plus the finale is very exciting!.The helicopter sequence was great, and i still can't get over Baldwin's incredibly bland and terrible performance!, plus it's quite original and creative as well!. I expected this to be a great film and that's exactly what i got it's an awesome thriller, that's very underrated, with a gripping plot and 2 amazing performances from Bruce Willis and Miko Hughes and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is great!. Harold Becker does a great! job here, with awesome camera, work fantastic angles, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is amazing!. Bruce Willis is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is incredibly likable, gives one of his best performances (In acting too),had wonderful chemistry with Miko Hughes, is extremely charismatic, had a very cool character, had some awesome emotional scenes, and was just amazing overall!, no way in hell was he on auto pilot! (Willis Rules!!!!!!). Miko Hughes is also amazing here, he is incredibly convincing as the autistic kid, is extremely likable, is rather creepy at times, had wonderful chemistry with Willis, is one talented young actor, had an extremely cool character, and just impressed the hell out of me he was amazing! (Miko Rules!!). Alec Baldwin is god awful here, good god was he ever boring, not only that he was barely on screen!, and he's supposed to be the main villain??, give me a break he's a total joke!. Lindsey Ginter is the real villain in this!, in my opinion he was very menacing, and did an excellent job!. Kim Dickens is very cute and did what she had to do well as Stacie i liked her lots. Chi McBride is good with what he had to do, i rather liked him. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Saturnine Thriller","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" South Dakota Bruce Willis is disgraced after the FBI botches an operation to disperse a local militia and relegated to surveillance.Chicago An autistic boy, Simon, cracks the NSA super-code MERCURY upon solving a puzzle. Agent Kudro 'Cujo' played by Alec Baldwin wants the fact to be foisted and orders the expurgation of Simon's family. The parents are shot cleanly by an assassin and Bruce Willis stumbles onto the conspiracy trying to protect the boy from the megalomaniac ill wishes of the NSA Section Chief.The mot screenplay and strong paced story leads the movie to its depilatory end that is both expected and pernicious given the violence and Alec Baldwin's thoroughly convincing portrayal of the ruthless asseverate Kudro.Aside from the clichés of action/thrillers and American movies this is a highly enjoyable film that is consistent enough to lull the audience to its end. "},{"Title":"Bruce Rising","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure why this film is getting so much flack on here, i really just don't understand it, this is one of Bruce's better pictures and i've seen most of his work. The character development in this film is particularly good between Bruce and the little autistic boy. The plot was very good also, he has to protect this little boy from some super bad guys, led by Alec Baldwin's character the head of the NSA,, no such agency. There are some very funny moments in here, but the movie has lot's of action in it, filmed mostly in Chicago, but the important thing here i think is the relationship of Bruce's character and the little boy's character, the boys parents are murdered so Art has to take him into his care while he tries to protect him from the bad guys. Overall this is a very good picture, and deserves a higher rating on here. "},{"Title":"great enjoyment,","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i watched this movie as it was being shown on TV. this was a really good movie.I've always been a fan of Bruce Willis and i found his skill in his role in the movie as great as he has always been. it seems to me he works well with kids and you can see it done in this movie when he has to constantly look out for a child with autism named Simon (Miko Hughes).Miko Hughes was an extremely convincing actor does a good job.what happens to Simon's family because he could crack a new governmental code is sad...and also the fact the government are set out to kill him instead of fixing the problem. "},{"Title":"an interesting action movie","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie because i do like these kind of movies.Not to tell that i loved Bruce Willis as a child and i always liked to see the movies where he played.I believe his a one of the great actors that America can have and i also believe that in this movie he really played very well. It's surprising that i write here in this year2006,even if the movie had been done in 1998, i think it's one of the best Bruce Willis played. My idea is that Bruce Willis acted here best as in the others movies,as Sin City for example. i don't say that he does not play very well now,but he can better.. I really like Bruce Willis as an actor and in this movie he acts very well,we can see his sensitive way of acting. Mercury Rising is also an interesting movie because focus also on a theme that conscerns those children who have certain problems,as Simon in this movie.there are a lot of this kind of children all over the world. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis vehicle, autistic boy cracks NSA code, lots of action, decent story, rate 7 of 10.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury Rising was better than I expected. The DVD picture was very good, and the DD 5.1 surround sound was pretty exciting at the right times. Set in Chicago, an autistic 9-yr old solves a puzzle and phones in a response, not having any idea what is going on. He cracked the uncrackable code and NSA officials decide the only way to protect the code is to sacrifice this defective boy. Willis' character protects the boy after his parents are killed, bad guys chase them, on the freeway, in the train, downtown in the street, in the hospital, people close to the operation are executed. Lots of action but the good guys prevail in the end. Pretty decent story, very good acting, exciting special effects, about as enjoyable as the Mel Gibson Lethal Weapon films. Pretty good action film, 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Die Hard meets Rain Man","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" We really enjoyed this film in spite of its stereotypical elements and plot holes. If you accept the premise, it will grab your emotions and carry you away with suspense and sadness.The flaws are obvious, some easily corrected Why not use the boy rather than dispose of him? Very few folks in career US Government service would deliberately kill innocent US civilians for any reason. Kudrow's cover-up would make more sense as protecting his career rather than protecting an obviously compromised encryption system. Many details are wrong or unbelievable.Bruce Willis and Alec Baldwin perform competently with a weak story, but they have been typecast; we have seen them in these same roles (damaged hero and heartless villain) too often to tell whether they can still act.Miko Hughes' amazing performance made this film. He manages to act very believably unnatural throughout -- hard even for an adult actor. Simon is almost completely helpless as it is, *SPOILER AHEAD* he loses his parents and is terrorized by events that he is even less equipped to cope with than an ordinary child.If you have your own kids or have ever worked with special needs kids, the suspense is radically increased by your sympathy for the incredible suffering Simon endures and struggles with.If you are looking for pure action, or have a critical eye for believability, you may want to give this a pass. However, if you love children, this is one serious emotional ride. "}{"Title":"Bruce Willis the protector playing Simon Says","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a treat to watch if you like movies where people can exhibit eccentric intellect. The movie guides us by combining thrilling plot twists and fast-paced action. At times, you wont know what hit you.I saw this movie ages ago when it came out in '99, and must tell you that watching it again now is like watching it for the first time again, there's lots going on and we get moments of rest when Simon is guiding us.Overall I'd recommend this movie for your criticism or entertainment. Enjoy! ;) "},{"Title":"Mercury Rising (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's not my fault but I really adore Bruce Willis...ask me who the God of cinema is and along with De Niro, Willis is my man and so it happens that even in mediocre thrillers I forget it all.... This is such a thriller that is based on a very stupid unrealistic scenario (an autistic boy is able to read the code that is used by the USQ government to protect their agents in countries like Iracq). Apart from some thrillerscenes it is the effect of a tearjerker as Miko Hughes must have played the best childrole that ever was seen in a movie but Willis finds his fatherrole as therefore he was just a cold FBI-agent. Everyone who has seen the movie will have their own list of things that couldn't have been possible, I know but this movie works anyway if you're just willing to forget some things of real life. "},{"Title":"Never Sacrifice Mere Cleverness for Honesty","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Made in 1998, Mercury Rising showcases Bruce Willis as a compassionate champion of one against a monolithic NSA that, even 14 years ago, acted as if it knew better than the American people what we needed to know, a surreptitious shadow governmental adjunct that took Machiavelli's central idea, that The ends justify the means to a hideous conclusion. As in many of Willis' other films, such as Sixth Sense, Willis projects a strong, trustworthy male role-model for a troubled, albeit gifted, autistic boy of nine.What I enjoy best about this film, however, are the many intensely suspenseful turns, throughout the movie, almost like a cinematic flow chart, in which the survival of the protagonists is extremely doubtful. This is a film in which truth overcomes malignant power, a work of art which illustrates what Helen Keller insisted is true I may be only one, but still I am one. The American people, and the people of the world, who need to continue to cherish freedom and hope, and work to instill and maintain both of those values until they're ubiquitous, need many more such movies. "},{"Title":"Not a great film but a great performance by Miko Hughes","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are two great acting performances in this film. Bruce Willis plays Art Jeffries, an FBI agent with attitude. Miko Hughes plays Simon Lynch, an autistic savant with a gift for codebreaking. Both are believable but Miko Hughes is astonishing &#x96; one of the best ever screen performances by a child. The scenes between the pair of them are really touching and you can believe that Willis really likes kids. Perhaps he does.The US government's pursuit of Lynch in this film may at first appear overly far-fetched and scaremongering. Then you remember the US attitude towards the British savant, Gary McKinnon, who was accused of perpetrating the biggest military computer hack of all time by hacking into 97 US military and NASA computers in 2002. Well, they didn't kill his mum and dad, and hunt him like an animal. But after 10 years of attempted extradition, and speculation of a 70-year jail term, maybe this story is just an exaggeration of reality, and not quite as ridiculous as some commentators have suggested.It's not really a downside but if you come to this film expecting a shoot-em-up action movie, you may be disappointed. It's much more than that and consequently slower &#x96; it's a touching drama with action scenes, and so we can forgive, just about, the pace through the middle of the film. The writing is actually very good and Pearson, Konner and Rosenthal all deserve credit.I did find the score a bit distracting. Sort of 'too big' and too 'James Bond' for the film. Scenes without music were better. Though the music being played at the club Jeffries visits was really good and I would have liked to have heard more of Koko Taylor (now no longer with us) belting out some blues.I was finding it difficult to see where this film was going. When Wills is with a kid, like in 16 blocks or Die Hard 4, you expect a visible end point, and there wasn't one. There was a sense of going around in circles. Until the last 5 minutes. Ultimately that cost it a couple of stars and the score lost another one. So seven out of ten for this. "},{"Title":" Your eyes see, but they do not observe, ","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The novel 'Simple Simon' was written by Ryne Pearson and easily transferred to the silver screen, where it was directed expertly by Harold Becker. The movie tells the story of an autistic boy named Simon Lynch (Miko Hughes) who incredibly is able to decipher a top secret code created by the N.S.A. When the secret is uncovered, the top executive, Nick Kudrow (Alec Baldwin) believes his network of undercover agents and their identifies are in danger of being compromised and therefor orders a top assassin to execute Simon and his parents. The only defense for the boy is Art Jeffries (Bruce Willis) a burned-out F.B.I agent who despite his short-comings is a tough-as-nails individual who learns Simon is a very special child and soon bonds with him. Along the way and amid the encroaching danger Jeffries receives help from Stacey a coffee shop patron (Kim Dickens) and fellow FBI agent Tommy B. Jordan (Chi McBride) The film is a combination of intrigue, murder and suspense with excitement filling in all the gaps. Willis and Hughes give a heartwarming and endearing performance. Recommended. **** "},{"Title":"One of the Great Action Movies...with a lot of Heart","Date":"23 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never tire of this terrific film. It has it all! A truly involving, complex story that really moves thanks to director Harold Becker and the script based on Ryne Douglas Pearson's novel Simple Simon is enhanced by screenwriters Lawrence Konner and Mark Rosenthal. The superb cast is led by Bruce Willis, Chi McBride, Alec Baldwin, Kevin Conway, John Carroll Lynch and Camryn Manheim, but it is Miko Hughes whose astonishing performance as an autistic boy that carries the film. Story involves an autistic child who cracks a government code that is too complex to recreate, leading a government head to order the child to be terminated. There are thrills and chills and nail-biting moments in this gem. Excellent cinematography of Chicago cityscapes by Michael Seresin and a terrific score by John Barry. A highly underrated film that really delivers! "},{"Title":"He doesn't see things the way other people do","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I haven't read the novel that this is based upon. In fact, I didn't know there was one. This happened to be on TV, I had no set in stone plans, so I decided to give it a shot. I'm honestly not sure why this is rated so low. Sure, there are some clichés. Yes, the idea of the government putting out a hit(with rather sloppy killers, at that) on a kid for a code is silly(besides, what if another one cracks it? How high a body-count is acceptable, exactly?). Look past those aspects. I haven't watched anything else by this director except for Malice, which was also a nice piece of work. This is put together quite well, with the editing and cinematography building tension and doing a decent job of conveying Simon's ability. I've had experiences with Autistic people of different ages and varied severity of condition, and the depiction here is convincing and fairly respectful(do note that far from all who have the syndrome are as distant and/or helpless on their own as seen here), and this serves to explain and demystify it a tad(certainly more than I remember Rain Man doing). Miko researched for his role, and he does a great job. Willis is good(when isn't he?), and they do well together. Baldwin is as delightfully detestable as we know he can be. There is a nice amount of talent in the cast, if not all of it is allowed to shine. Granted, there could be more action. There is a little brutal, bloody violence in this. I recommend this to fans of thrillers. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Autistic but not isolated.","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie left me feeling like a lot was missing from it. I think it is because there isn't a lot of dialog. Bruce Willis plays a man-of-few words who has trouble fitting in with the politics of his organization; Miko Huges plays an autistic child (also of few words). Because they are hiding, all the conversations are short (even with other people), leaving you unsatisfied, and feeling like not enough was said, like emotional connections were never forged. And at the end of the movie, they show scenes showing that emotional connections were made. At first this bothered me. But then I remembered my own experiences, and I think the whole movie, crazy government plot and all, rings true. This movie isn't for everyone, but it is a must see if you have any interest in personality and learning disorders. "},{"Title":"Awesome one ( everyone should watch )","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw the movie and was pretty impressed the way the relation between Bruce and the autistic boy was depicted.The story molds into suspense and thrill as the movie progresses. In spite of bitter truth in the movie, the movie leaves a message how relationships between strangers strengthen up as per the situations we face in the real life.All that dominates the movie is the scenes between Bruce and the 9 - Year old autistic boy. Every one in the movie have justified their roles very well.Hope, you will definitely like this. "},{"Title":"Hughes delivers staggering performance in dramatic and tense enough crime","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When an autistic boy decodes a government national security code FBI agent Art (Willis) is assigned to protect him from assassination.10 years on from the first Die Hard film and Bruce Willis starred in a cop role once more as an FBI agent and whilst there is no swagger and humour in this film, the serious nature of Willis' character once more sees the actor on top form in a stunning crime drama.The opening sees Art undercover and after a confused result Art makes his feelings known which sets him on the way to be reassigned to detective work, which sets the drama rolling.A sentimental montage sees Miko Hughes' protagonist Simon coming home from school, making a cup of hot chocolate before going to bed with his father. It is very heart-warming without being cheesy as the nature of Simon's autism is depicted with sentimental understanding dialogue and appreciation of the disease. Obviously autism is a very delicate issue to tackle which the script appreciates. From Simon's constructed environment to the untimely departure from his family the script weaves around how uncomfortable it is for the young boy. His familiar surroundings are taken away as Art struggles to keep Simon out of trouble.Hughes is the catalyst of this film with a very powerful turn as Simon. The slow speech to the lack of eye contact is a remarkable trait of autism and for such a young person to comprehend and tackle such ideologies is staggering.Despite the nature of the drama encoded into this 1998 picture there is still plenty of action and thrilling suspense to generate that bold masculinity. A too close to call train sequence to the final helicopter showdown this is every bit as tense as the last Die Hard picture. And given the nature of the plot and the lead up to the conclusion, it is little wonder.Director Harold Becker is able to cement realism to the picture through careful planning but bold assertiveness. From Simon's dramatic walk on the edge in the end to the shooting of one of the team in his own apartment everything is thought out in real life motion. The wine scene in Alec Baldwin's cellar is a bit of an awkward arrival at confrontation but the knock over moment is vintage Willis bravado.It will take an exceptional script to knockout the character John McClane. Willis has his moments in cocky cheek in this picture and adds a strong drama to his protagonist. But if you're looking for the same spice as a John McClane epic, then this isn't it.This is in many respects better as we dive deep into an emotional journey of autism with still a strong crime fast paced script that spills with emotional value with just enough action and suspense to make it a very watchable and appreciable picture "}{"Title":"A surprisingly touching motion picture","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Somehow I must have missed Mercury Rising when it first appeared. Recently I purchased a cheap three movie DVD set of Willis films and was impressed by The Jackal but blown away by Mercury Rising. Anyone without tears in his or her eyes at the wonderful last scene has never worked with sick or autistic or injured or emotionally troubled children. Miko Hughes is astounding as the autistic child. Kim Dickens strikes so many points perfectly it is amazing vulnerable, normal, brave, frightened, kind, attractive, helpful. Bruce Willis is very good and Alec Baldwin is convincing as an intelligent man with an ethical system warped beyond human standards. For all the excitement of the chase movie, shoot 'em up, adventure, suspense parts (and they are well done) this is primarily a study of a traumatized agent and an exceptional and endangered child. Well worth watching! "},{"Title":"Watch it for Miko's acting!","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie and Miko Hughes' acting impressed me so much, I had to come online to check out his biography. The movie was okay, typical Bruce Willis action thriller, but it was Miko's acting that made it worth watching. His portrayal of a 9 year old autistic boy who becomes a target for assassins was so good, I think he should have received an Oscar for his acting. It made me cry throughout the movie, especially the scene where he comes home and calls his mummy but there is no response. It was heart breaking.I hope we will see more of Miko's performances in the future. Worth watching just for him! Bruce Willis also did a good job, and the suspense in the film was just right. All in all, a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"You'll understand autism better","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Was the film unbelieveable? Maybe, but if 1 person walked away understanding a little more about autism, then it was worth it. I have seen my 8 year old autistic son do amazing things. He gets into things on my computer and I don't know how, but when we asked him a hundred different ways why he was making himself sick at school, he had no idea what we were asking.  "},{"Title":"If you don't like it, you don't understand","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't watch this film without it having a strong effect on me. My brother is autistic to a slightly lesser level than Simon in the film, but watching it, I can see that this kid deserves an oscar for his performance. The rest of the film, average, the plot, average or below so, but the kids acting was *STUNNING*. I couldn't imagine a more convincing autistic role.If you have had a lot of contact with someone like that, you will understand. "},{"Title":"Somewhat underrated","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes this film has a very formulaic, clichéd, and therefore predictable plot structure but the formula is nonetheless executed satisfactorily making the experience worthwhile and putting it in the realm of above average entertainment. The film is firmly anchored by its stars Willis and Baldwin who bring a sense of credibility to their roles. However these are the type roles that the two accomplished actors can play in their sleep. In other words they are not challenged by the material. Nonetheless while the film is predictable on most of its plot points the poignancy of a helpless child being an innocent target of sincere government agents with only Mr. Die Hard to protect him made for some reasonable drama. It was wise not cast Arnie or Sly in this role. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good & Bad Of  'Mercury Rising'","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE GOOD - A solid suspense movie, this film is very entertaining and has just the right amount of action. Bruce Willis does his usual competent job and is very interesting in the lead and Miko Hughes - a Haley Joel Osment lookalike - performs well as a 9-year-old autistic boy. Willis protects the kid from bad-guy Alec Baldwin and his hit men.THE BAD - The film had negatives, too, at least for this reviewer who gets tired of seeing Hollywood portray government officials as corrupt (and especially Republican, if they can insinuate an alliance between Reagan or Nixon with the bad guy, which they do here). They also make sure that you know anyone who calls himself a patriot is a bad person, too. On and on....the Liberal Hollywood agenda never ceases. Too bad they also have to insert their politics into well-made, interesting films like this one. "},{"Title":"Great Action/Thriller...with a, wait for it...&#x85;Big Heart","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Commendable Effort and a Risky One. Combining Slick Action, Suspense, and Thrills with a Highly Emotional and Heart Wrenching Story of an Autistic Child. Innocently and Immediately Put in Danger, the Kid is Hunted by the NSA and Bruce Willis Must Save the Day and Protect the Adorable and Sympathetic Little Fella.Used to Saving the Day, Willis Gives a Restrained and Effective Performance Tightroping Between Macho and Sensitive. It's Quite a Thing to Watch. As is the Acting of Miko Hughes as the Danger Ensues. He Captures it and the Audience is Rooting from the Get-Go.Simplistic and Almost Comic-Book Like in its Villains and Contrivances Concerning the Government and Super-Spy Stuff, the Film Nevertheless is a Joy Ride with Ups and Downs and More Heart than Any Movie of its Type has Ever had the Courage to Convey.A Sleeper that is Underrated, Underseen, and Under Appreciated for its Differentness. A Winner that is Highly Recommended. It is One of the Oddities that Can be of Equal Enjoyment for Men and Women. A Great Date Movie. "},{"Title":"Flawed But Under Rated","Date":"7 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite having a soft spot for this movie, I don't own it and have not seen it in years, so when it was on TV last night I watched it with my 15 year old son.Plot In A Paragraph The NSA has developed unbreakable code which they call MERCURY. They test it by putting it in a puzzle magazine. Simon Lynch, an autistic boy who has an affinity for puzzles sees it and deciphers it and calls the NSA. Kudrow (Alec Baldwin) the head in charge of MERCURY worried what might happen if this gets out orders that Simon be terminated. The man he sends kills his parents but is unable to find Simon and leaves when the police arrive. An FBI Agent who is in the bad books Art Jeffries (Brice Willis) finds Simon, who was hiding and takes him to the hospital. While there, the assassin takes another try but Art saves Simon and they go on the run.Alec Baldwin is awful and some awful CGI and green screen DUI why should be intense moments, but that is more than made up for by the performances of both Bruce Willis (who is as charismatic as always) and even more so by Miko Hughes, who is simply superb as Simon.My fifteen year old laughed at the wrong moments a few times (how fake does that look??) but overall he enjoyed it, and I still think it's an above average Bruce Willis flick. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis goes all out to prevent the NSA from assassinating a 9-year old autistic Miko Hughes","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mercury Rising (1998) is an action-thriller with a heart. Bruce Willis is excellent as an FBI agent who battles the evil machinations of an NSA higher-up played by Alec Baldwin. Baldwin has already had murdered the parents of a 9-year old autistic boy (Miko Hughes) and now his assassin (Lindsey Ginter) is after the boy. Willis gets assists from Chi McBride and Kim Dickins in sympathetic roles.The story is set in Chicago. In the opening, undercover agent Willis is unable to stop his FBI compatriots from needlessly slaughtering several young sons of a right-wing militant who is holding up a bank. He punches out the FBI man responsible and is banished to routine jobs of spying on telephone conversations. He can't shake the memory of the boys dying. When Willis is down in the dumps, he goes to a club to have a few drinks and we see and hear briefly a Chicago blues singer. I really liked that realistic touch, and it is an example of the movie's heart. So is the depiction of a blundering FBI and an NSA with power to kill in order to protect its secrets. But the story's heart is brought out continually in the character of the autistic boy who has the surprising capacity to solve difficult puzzles. They have been devised by several likable and disposable geeks employed by the NSA. These two and the girl friend of one of them are all likable characters.The story is as far-fetched as most thrillers but it's not difficult to suspend disbelief and get into the spirit of the thing when you have Bruce Willis at the top of his form and such a sympathetic character as Miko Hughes plays. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Willis provides his usual excellent performance and Alec Baldwin pulls out all the stops in his role as the villain, but Miko Hughes is the one who gets MY Academy Award for his portrayal of the autistic boy, Simon Lynch.His portrayal is profoundly accurate in every detail from his lack of eye contact to his attention to the tiniest details of life (eg refusal to step on cracks on the ground). The chemistry between Hughes and Willis is heartwarming, and is the foundation upon which the movie is built.I don't know too much about the movie's premise; indeed, I find the premise difficult to believe; however, as with sci-fi, I took this with a grain of salt and gave it the it is what it is attitude and went with it, refusing to allow it to put a wedge between the movie and my enjoyment of it.I give it a 9 because although the premise may be hard to believe, the acting, direction, and rest of the story line are excellent, which makes the whole thing work very well. I understand critics tended to give this a thumbs down, refusing to deal with heartwarming and action in the same movie. I say the marriage of heartwarming and action work well in this movie, and therefore refuse to be a killjoy in that respect.If you have a mo, watch this movie; it's more than worth your time. "}{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this film and have found it equally watchable on repeated viewings.From the opening scene of a helicopter making its way towards a rural town accompanied by Barry's soulful music you just know that you are in for a rewarding movie experience.What elevates a routine and slightly clichéd thriller into a tense and emotionally satisfying film is the sensitive direction of Harold Becker, spot on casting, a story with emotional depth and John Barrys great score.Bruce Willis is ideally cast as the loner working against the system. The interaction between him and Miko Hughes as the autistic child Simon feels authentic. There is real chemistry in the exchanges between the 3 computer nerds who work for the NSA. And the scenes between Simon and his parents carry real emotional weight.This is not an action film. It is a film about story and character, and in some ways that makes it an old fashioned movie and all the better for it. It does, however, maintain tension through most of it's running time, a characteristic which is becoming rarer in modern films.Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"I really like this movie...","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was surprised to see the terrible reviews it got from some important reviewers. I'm watching it for at least the 4th time, just recorded it from satellite TV. Bruce Willis is really fine in this...I think few people appreciated how complex and skilled he is before this release, and I'm very glad they chose him for this role. Baldwin and the entire cast is very good and despite the not uncommon plot elements, the whole thing succeeds.Since the Patriot Act went into effect, I can give the actions of the government in this film a lot more credence...I rate it as an 8 out of 10, and I have seen extremely few 10's.mark "},{"Title":"A terrific action thriller","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was Bruce Willis at his finest. Although Mercury Rising was financially not well received, the film is a terrific thriller, solid acting, great story and just all around entertaining! One reviewer said this was more of a drama about autism and that's ludicrous. This is a thriller about a young boy who happens to have autism but to call this a drama or about autism at all is misleading. The film is part mystery, part thriller, part action and will entertain from beginning to end. Powerful performances from the lead cast make it worthwhile and riveting.Bruce Willis plays Art Jeffries and does a great job doing what he does best. No this isn't an award worthy performance or anything outstanding for Willis but he still carries the film well and Willis fans, like myself, will remember this. The star and stand out performance of this film is Miko Hughes who brilliantly plays autistic puzzle solver Simon. His performance is award worthy and I've always remembered it as one of my favorite performances. His chemistry with Willis is brilliant. Robert Stanton deserves mention in a small but pivotal role that I really enjoyed him in. Same could be said for Chi McBride who also does a good job. Alec Baldwin is good in his role as the villain. I would have liked a little more chemistry between him and Willis and I don't think he was outstanding in his role but he was definitely good. Kim Dickens is the female lead in the film and she does alright although I found her character very one dimensional for the most part.Harold Becker's direction is perhaps a little bland from time to time. It is true what some reviewers say that the film could have used just a little more action and some of the performances felt dry at times from Baldwin and Dickens, who are important to the entire film in many ways. Still the concept for the film is riveting and the story is delivered in a well paced, entertaining fashion. Anyone looking for a good thriller will not be steered wrong with this film. Its a movie that I watch from time to time again and again because I've always thought it was a great movie. Plenty of thrills, plenty of edge of your seat moments and a terrific performance from Hughes. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Miko Hughes steals the show","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not a very great movie, but it's entertaining and keeps the interest, despite its flaws which aren't that few. But still it deserves a positive feedback from me and I guess my rating is fair.Even though this is another Bruce Willis's action-flick, at least this one isn't excessive on that matter, it has a story Bruce Willis portrays Art, an FBI agent who protects Simon, a boy who is 9 years old and is autistic. Some criminals want to silence the boy after he deciphered a super-difficult code named Mercury and Art's mission is to make sure he doesn't get assassinated.Since the movie is mostly about the FBI agent and the autistic boy and their chemistry, there should be more touching moments. But at least the ending has a tender scene when Simon hugs Art.Bruce Willis won the 1999 Golden Raspberry for his performance. Well, his acting may be nothing special, but certainly not deserving of a Golden Raspberry on this one.On the other hand, Miko Hughes won the category of Best Performance in a Feature Film - Leading Young Actor at the 1999 Young Artist Awards. A very deserved tribute, his acting as Simon is superb (a difficult role for a child, which he masterfully portrays). I think he should have won an Oscar for Best Child Actor. Why does it always have to be the adults winning Oscars? Why can't children win them too? "},{"Title":"Flawed but decent enough","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mercury Rising is far from a masterpiece, the ending is choppy and the script has its weak spots. But it was the plot that was the main problem, despite its intriguing idea it is not only very thin and routine but some of it doesn't always make sense. However, the cinematography and editing are great, and there are enough tension and thrills to make up for the heavily flawed plot-line. The film is well-directed too, and the music has atmosphere while not being intrusive. The acting is fine, Bruce Willis is good in his role and his chemistry with Hughes feels natural, and Alec Baldwin is very chilling and detestable, but it is Miko Hughes who is excellent as the autistic child who carries the movie (being autistic myself I could relate to him). Overall, flawed but a decent film. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"totally brill!!!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury rising isn't one of Bruce Willis' best films.  Its total garbage compared to the die hard movies.  But not comparing it with that, it is ace. The story is not really original but somehow it works and creates a spectacular film what I think is too highly rated (UK-15 US-R).  Overall very enjoyable and shows that Willis can act without shooting people every second!!! "},{"Title":"Some good Bruce Willis suspense/action with Bruce Willis acting.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good work combining some of the action that Bruce Willis is noted for, along with some of the better acting he has done like Pulp Fiction, Sixth Sense & even 12 Monkeys.  A little less smart alecky John McClane goes a long way for me.  The acting by  the little boy, Miko Hughes,  was also well done.  Alec Baldwin didn't do much for this film and I thought that his sinister role might have been done by any number of capable character actors.  In general, a good, fast moving flick, better than I had expected. "},{"Title":"Better than it's given credit for...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Given the generally poor advance word on this film I approached it with some trepidation, but despite the fact that many critics seemed to hate this film and that audiences generally seemed to stay away I found Mercury Rising to be a surprisingly well made and for the most part effective little thriller.Granted it's nothing strikingly original, but the script by Lawrence Konner & Mark Rosenthal is nicely adapted from it's source novel ('Simple Simon' by Ryne Douglas) and maintains it's pace well, while veteran director Harold Becker handles his duties with obvious ease.It also boasts some fine acting, with Bruce Willis' understated performance working well, and Miko Hughes being impressive in his difficult role of the autistic Simon, while Kim Dickens as the woman that reluctantly befriends them also gives a very good, well judged performance. Even most of the supporting cast such as Peter Stormare, Chi McBride, Robert Stanton, Bohdi Pine Elfman, L.L. Ginter, Carrie Preston, Lisa Summerour, Kelley Hazen, John Carroll Lynch and Richard Riehle all manage to provide good, solid performances which adds to the films overall effect.However there is one major problem acting wise and that is the usually excellent Alec Baldwin who really lets the side down as he chews the scenery and generally overacts badly as the films chief bad guy Nicholas Kudrow. In fact Baldwin's performance badly detracts from what is for the most part a well paced, nicely handled film.Still all in all Mercury Rising is a satisfying, undemanding thriller that is in fact much better than most critics seemed to have given it credit for. Nothing earth shattering, and the ending is a touch cliched but overall this still manages to be quite an enjoyable, if unspectacular film and more than sustains its runtime.One man's opinion. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"An intricate pattern of emotional interaction","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie really has a human touch. It is of course a thriller like so many others the intricate pattern of emotional interaction between the three protagonists however lifts the plot to a dramatic intensity on a very high level.It not only offers us true insights into the troubled mind of the autistic child in general, it is also an ode to the gratifying experience of empathy.Bruce Willis is excellent and it's so good to see him act low-key without the sometimes exaggerated facial expressions he frequently exhibits.Alec Baldwin as the outwardly well-mannered but basically cold and cruel villain is convincing as always.A special mention for the final scene very intense, an excellent illustration of what a professional actor is capable of and kind of overwhelming, if you grasp what I mean. "},{"Title":"A good Portrayal","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury Rising does a really good portrayal of an autistic boy. I have an autistic son myself, I should know. I think the movie did a good job explaining autism to the general public and at showing what life with autism is all about. Don't plan on seeing anything other than a typical Bruce Willis movie, there's not much to the plot. If you or someone you know has a relative with autism, this wouldn't be a bad choice to watch.  "}{"Title":"One of Willis' Best Movie Efforts!","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am frankly not a Bruce Willis fan. As a rule Most of the films I have of his in my collection end up with his character dying at the end. But I am beginning to have a new appreciation when he plays the tough guy with a soft heart for children, as he does so well in this film. And Miko Hughes as Simon is simply Brilliant. That had to be a tough role for a child to play and he shines in it all the way through. As for Alec Baldwin, as arrogant as I imagine him to be in real life, none the less whether playing villain or hero he does the job right. You either love his character, on in this film you absolutely hate it. And it was a powerhouse of a chase story. One other actor of note that is always excellent but probably never gets the notice he is due is Kevin Conway as the FBI section Chief. He is always fun to watch, and he is the kind of actor that you see and usually turn and say Hey there's what's his name that was in .......... All together a disturbing but enjoyable thriller. Disturbing because the basic premise of the film hits a little to close to home in this day and age. "},{"Title":"Highly unplausible action snore","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just finished watching this movie with my two twelve year old nephews.  None of us liked this movie.  I like both Bruce Willis and Alec Baldwin, but they both were wasted in this highly unplausible movie.  Frankly I could not believe any of the plot turns or character motivations in this movie. Nothing made sense!  Alec Baldwin is willing to kill 10+ Americans in order to protect the identities of American agents overseas.  Bruce Willis is willing to defy all his superiors and take on the big, bad government to protect a kid he just met (o.k. you got me--he is anti-establishment in all his movies).  A random woman in a coffee shop is willing to jeopardize her life to help Bruce Willis protect the kid.  This definitely is not a thinking person's action film.  As standard action fare the movie is pretty stale.  Nothing new or original to report in terms of fights, chases, gun battles or explosions.  Stay away from this flick.  If you like Bruce Willis, rent the Die Hard series.  If you like Alec Baldwin, rent Hunt for Red October. "},{"Title":"Mind candy to rot your mental teeth","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, it's a Bruce Willis vehicle. But after Fifth Element, I had come to expect something more -- well, competent.It isn't giving anything away to tell you that this is yet another film in which the Eeeevil Government Spooks (they're always US Government, aren't they...?) have no ethical qualms about killing innocent citizens to protect their secrets.The secret in question is the USA's latest crypto method, and is endangered because a couple of idiots stuck it into a puzzle magazine to test it.Riiight.Simon (Miko Hughes), an autistic child, solves the puzzle.Apparently the writers don't understand the difference between autistic and idiot savant. A subtle distinction, true, and made more difficult for Hollywood success-think by the stereotypes engendered by Rain Man. -- yes, some autists can perform prodigies of calculation and so on, largely because of intense concentration. But they're not generally idiots, and there's essentially no chance that this kid would be the only person in the world to solve that particular puzzle, even granting it was soluble in the first place, which, given what is shown, seems quite unlikely.In the mind of NSA bigwig Kudrow (portrayed by Alec Baldwin), this justifies killing the kid. Well, maybe, though taking him into custody until they'd assessed the risk would seem more appropriate -- not to mention more in line with real security thinking; the kid may be useful. But it's not enough to kill him, the agent whacks his parents. First.  Which gives the kid the ability to get away, right into the arms of Art (Bruce Willis) Jeffries.The rest of the movie is taken up with violence, escalating and recurring frequently enough to keep most viewers from noticing that there is essentially no story here.  "},{"Title":"Bad,bad,bad.....","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are too many bad things to say about this movie. The plot is so stupid and impossible it makes me sick. They only said what the code was for once in the movie, and I can't even remember what it was for. Baldwin was in it for like 3 or 4 scenes. What would a 9 year old kid who has that mental problem (the name of it escapes me at the moment) do with a government code anyways, he doesn't even know what it's for. Still, the government tries to kill him, but they are to incompetent and sloppy. They would draw even more attention to themselves killing innocent people. I could go on forever about the bad plot, or the bad editing or just about anything in this movie.The only reason I gave it a 2 instead of 1 is because the kid in it was a pretty good actor for someone of his age. But, still don't even bother seeing this garbage. It came in last place out of all the movies I saw in 98'( I saw 29 in theaters).  "},{"Title":"Middle of the road","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unremarkable but moderately suspenseful thriller that mistakenly underplays the relationship between rogue FBI agent Bruce Willis and autistic kiddie Miko Hughes, who has cracked a top secret code and is now the target of villainous Alec Baldwin. The plot seems as though it was more intelligent somewhere in the script's journey to the screen, while characterisation is on the shallow side - 'Is that him or you you're talking about?' asks Willis's best friend. Hmm. I wonder... Willis seems to have cottoned on to this lack of depth, as he hasn't switched off the autopilot. I could have done without the scene in which a hit man stares Willis in the eye just long enough for him to be recognised before legging it, and the computery sound effect that helpfully clues us in whenever Hughes cracks the code is just annoying. Still, the movie is low-key enough that it remains plausible, it's technically slick, and the villain's demise is impressively fresh. "},{"Title":"Underrated Actioner","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Really don't understand the poor rating for this picture. It's an action picture, and a good one, with lots of action and stars Bruce Willis, who is an action hero. Looking for Ingmar Bergman, or Lawrence Olivier? Look elsewhere. This one has fights, guns, car chases and objects that explode, with Willis front and center.This, despite the fact that he is saddled with an autistic child he is trying to keep alive. The kid has unwittingly broken a government code which inadvertently appears in a kids puzzle book and as a result government agents want to to kill him.May I be the first to say it? The kid is cute but unlovable - he has autism, which is the opposite of warm. Sounds heartless, but there it is. And he is forced to drag the kid around throughout most of the film, which slows the action down. Many of the elements of the plot have been done before but in this type of picture we're not expecting an intellectual challenge - just action. And Mercury Rising delivers. "},{"Title":"Not vintage action, yet I have certainly seen worse flicks","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" On a scale of the Willis action flicks, MERCURY hits a 7/10. On an independent scale, it's a 5/10. It can cheer you if you wish an action flick. It's pretty cleanly acted, and it simply reflects the '90s action cinema's lack of brio. Willis has plenty of; not the flick. The marginal cop (here, FBI agent) it's the very same flick made several times.This is another variant of the Willis stereotype, and not a truly unpleasant one. The action scenes are honestly handled&#151;yet few. Among the many flicks of this kind made with Willis, this is not the worst. It manages a cross between the two basic tandems Caucasian cop/ Afroamerican cop, and sexy cop/ fat ugly cop. Here, Willis has as pal a fat Afroamerican.Willis is a rebel intrepid FBI agent, fully committed to justice and to the USA board of values . He is a rebel against his obtuse narrow&#151;minded superiors, but also a stoic. His T&#151;shirts are quite unsubtly dirty&#151;this helps characterizing the hero. This is basically Willis' movie persona for the action flicks.We are spared a melodramatic ending&#151;Willis does not adopt the kind, and he is not shown dating the girl.I enjoyed the pace, the rather banal suspense and Willis' look. The minuses are the lack of style, of shape&#151;it's another formless flick. To me, the action flicks and the melodramas are Willis' least important outings. (We are left with the quirky futuristic movies, the comedies, the Shyamalan flicks, his one exceedingly enjoyable western directed by Hill&#151;so, that's plenty to enjoy. Like Gibson, like Pitt, the early Costner, Depp and Gere, he had a rather fair share of opportunities&#151;not, for Willis , in the action brand, where he got severely nastier choices than, say, Nolte or Bronson or Newman or Wayne or McQueen or Marvin&#151;but his were generally nastier times for the Hollywwodian action flicks . It's good he's in the movies, that he keeps working. ) "},{"Title":"Not bad, but falls flat now and then","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mercury Rising concerns an FBI agent (Bruce Willis) and his attempts to protect an autistic boy from being killed by the NSA in retaliation for cracking their top code. The kid who plays the autistic boy is actually very good and deserves credit for his acting. Willis is on good form, with some typical trademarks he's unpopular with his boss, is happy to be a renegade, employs sarcasm and of course, he wears a vest. It must be written into Willis' contracts that whenever he plays a cop he has to wear a vest! Alec Baldwin plays the 'evil' agency boss prepared to kill the codebreaker, but I felt that his character was not exploited to the full. There are a few good action scenes, with a brilliantly inventive death near the end, where a badguy is shattered by hundreds of shards of glass from machine-gunned-windows. Willis and the boy are essentially being chased for much of the movie, with all that entails, but now and then, the film's urgency flagged and I felt that it needed a jolt. On the whole, however, it is worth seeing, but don't expect something to match Die Hard. "},{"Title":"Yet another disappointing action flick - 59%","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For reasons that I can't explain, this has been on my Must See list for ages. I really don't know why - Bruce Willis action movies aren't exactly rare beasts and at some point, I figured that this had a plot that offered something a little different. Sadly, it turns out that it really wasn't worth the wait. It lacks the bluster of your usual Willis blockbuster and the story that I had high hopes for quickly finds itself becoming a gimmick.Willis plays FBI agent Art Jeffries, an undercover specialist who finds himself demoted to monitoring radio transmissions after a botched hostage assignment. However, he quickly finds himself assigned to look for a missing child - Simon Lynch (Miko Hughes) who is an autistic nine-year orphaned after his parents are murdered. But Art quickly finds threat there is more to it than that - Simon had accidentally cracked a top secret code after it inexplicably appeared in the pages of a puzzle magazine and was being sought by NSA operatives led by the gravel-voiced Nick Kudrow (Alec Baldwin) and his murderous colleague Peter Burrell (Lindsey Ginter).Being an odd hybrid of espionage thriller and fugitive actioner, Mercury Rising successfully manages to be neither. The action is satisfying enough when it turns arrive in fits and starts but there is an awful lot of dialogue to get through in-between. Willis can pretty much sleepwalk through these kinda movies and sure enough, he simply doesn't engage you enough to care. He's also completely shown up by his young co-star as Hughes is brilliantly and genuinely heart-wrenching as the tortured savant. However, the worst actor by far is Baldwin who seems to be eerily foreshadowing his portrayal in Team America World Police. At times, he's simply appalling as he mumbles his way through his lines as though paying tribute to Michael Madsen. Maybe it was he who distracted me from the story which seemed confusing and never really explained what was happening. For example, imagine you are an experienced FBI agent looking after an infant suspect. Would you happily hand the care of the child over to a complete stranger in a café (played here by Kim Dickins) while you popped off to meet an informant because I'm not sure I would.Mercury Rising is annoyingly wasteful of its promising set-up, failing to deliver either a decent action movie or a gripping chase flick. It seems curiously restrained, as though it can't be bothered to be the nail-biting gripper it seems to aspire to. Maybe I'm being harsh on it given how long I've waited to watch it but for me, Mercury Rising is just as generic and forgettable as any other Nineties action flick. Shame, shame, shame. "},{"Title":"A concept film gone very, very wrong","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like Bruce Willis movies as a rule, and I wanted to like this one. However, the more I thought about it after the movie was over, the less I like it, and it was wearing thin even by the end.I think this started out as a concept Well, see, there's this super secret code, and this little boy breaks it ... let's make it an AUTISTIC boy for more punch. Then the guys that made the code are Embarrassed, so they have to try to kill him. Then Bruce finds him and has to save him OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER again, while virtually NOTHING ELSE that makes any sense at all happens. Wow, can we get a script?!?!In reality, if something this unlikely happened, the agency involved wouldn't try to wipe out the kid and his family, they'd soon have him looking over enemy coded transmissions. LOLThe end of the movie was far too chopped off. One minute, everyone on the boy's side is in big trouble. The next minute an FBI assault force is breaking in on the meeting and Bruce is even in the helicopter that shows up. It smells to high heaven of people who wrote themselves into a corner and had no idea how to make it work ... so they didn't make it work, and it showed.Give this one a pass and instead watch any movie with an actual plot. "}{"Title":"Miko Hughes is really good!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well... ok... the movie isn't that good. Lame story and such film... And Peter Stormare dies too soon!But, Miko Hughes is very good. If you seen an autistic boy, you can see him in Simon. It isn't easy to play an autistic person... But he does it really well...Bruce Willis is good to, but its too ordinary for him... he always runs around shooting people without clearance from some boss! "},{"Title":"could have been longer","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If it's anything to go by, this movie could have been a lot better if it had been given a bit more airtime, a lot of it seemed to be spent at the beginning focusing on the characters, that the whole story seemed to finish before it started. Bruce Willis plays his usual (street talking tough guy), and the leading lady, Kim Dickens hardly gets a word in edge ways, definitely not enough airtime for her character to progress, the real star in this was the young child actor, he was the star of the show here with those haunting eyes and fearless stare. It was brilliant seeing Alec baldwin again playing the baddie, he does it so well, his demise at the end is worth a glance, but it all come to an end to soon, but this film is still worth watching "},{"Title":"Dispelling the Bruce Willis myth","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have heard many comments about this film from people who either didn't listen to the dialogue or didn't understand the dialogue. The comment,  that Mercury Rising is a terribly unbelievable story about a nine year old boy who cracks a secret government code. . . is most likely from a viewer who has never seen a pictorialgram or stereogram picture in which hidden words or an image, if you know how to look, leaps out at you.The film is full of suspense and drama with a good measure of tension. Miko Hughes, who plays the autistic boy should get an academy award for his performance. He is real and your heart goes out to him as would for a real life boy in similar circumstances. I am not a true blue Bruce Willis fan but his performances in this film and The Sixth Sense show the kind of profound acting of which he is capable.Based upon the acting of Miko Hughes and of Bruce Willis I gave this film a TEN! Go see it or rent the video without any preconceived notions  and you will find it as entertaining as I did. "},{"Title":"Movie saved by one good performance","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The little boy saved the entire picture from disaster. Miko Hughes gives a terrific and emotional performance, he saved this movie from being a terrible cliche thriller.Bruce Willis looked bored at times, the script didn't feature depth to the characters. The love interest was dire, I don't think it was even an attempt to make it work. Alec Baldwin can produce good performances but in this one he is neither menacing or interesting.John Barry's score is quite nice.The direction was fair but the screenplay was the problem all along.Must be seen in widescreen. "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie, it wasnt 1 of Willis's best but it much, much better than THE JACKAL. It has its good share of action & suspense. But with Alec Baldwin as the bad guy, I expected a much better fight in the end but not every movie can go your way. Miko Hughes does a good job as the autistic boy, i was shocked that he was the little boy in PET SEMETARY. anyway, this is worth seeing if u r a Willis fan. But its not his best film. worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Why All Of The Negativity?","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I've got to wonder why people like Keegan(review on main page) watch films. Movies are not meant to be so realistic that you lose all sense of realism. They're meant to be entertaining fun that makes the audience think a little. When watching films like Mercury Rising, you've got to forget the real world for a while and focus more on the entertainment. I mean, films like Star Wars and E.T weren't exactly real were they? But they achieved their aim; to make audiences think. O.K, I admit, Mercury Rising is not the best film in the world, but its not exactly the worst either. Miko Hughes is incredibly good at being the autistic child, Simon Lynch. Bruce Willis is also good. I don't know how Keegan got the connection between Willis' character in this film to that of the Die Hard Series? Is it because they're both law enforcement? Alec Baldwin is limited. I'll agree to that, but every actor has their bad days. Sean Connery in Never Say Never Again, Keanu Reeves in Bram Stokers Dracula(good film, limited acting) and Al Pacino in The Devil's Advocate. The end result is easy entertainment. If anything, credit the film for Miko Hughes, who puts up a much better appearance than Jake Lloyd's stinking performance in Star Wars. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"This movie was the perfect mix of action and compassion.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not a fan of Bruce Willis, and I am even less a fan of movies with violence in them, but this movie was excellent.  It captivated the audience and made us care about Simon and what happened to his life.  Bruce Willis did an excellent job in this role.  "},{"Title":"Better than my expectations","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contrary to what others have told me about this movie and various reviews I have read about this movie, I liked it. I feel that there are three reasons why this movie works. 1) Bruce Willis- His character wasn't a great guy and one might even disapprove of some of the things he did, but Willis did an exceptional job in this role (even with some lackluster dialogue). 2) Interesting Plot Twists- So many people told me that this movie was very predictable, however, I didn't find this to be true. This is one of the few movies in 1998 that have managed to hold my attention throughout the movie. 3) A realistic antagonist- Alec Baldwin plays this character which I believe was under-developed. When Baldwin is on the screen, he gives a very believable performance.Don't get me wrong, this is no GREAT movie. However I believe credit should be given to this film that surpassed all of my expectations.  6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Predictable and contemptuous of intelligent audiences","Date":"13 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I actually gave up on this film right after the laughable scene in Alec Baldwin's wine cellar. The sight of Willis tossing off his party piece wise-cracking followed by that gratuitous wine trashing was just too much for my delicate stomach. Baldwin seemed to be merely reprising his scenery-chewing role from Glengarry Glen Ross only with now murderous malevolence. Why I wasted a good hour on this abysmal movie is a mystery to elude even the NSA's code breakers. Where does one start with the insults to our cinematic intelligence? Just how many times could that assassin wave his piece around in public without getting just a hint of interest from law enforcement? Oh,I forgot,the NSA are so powerful that they can suborn any branch of government, can't they. But one can of course easily find their assassins on a computer database using only a grainy morsel of CCTV footage to go on. Look,I'm partial to a bit of consp/theo myself but this was just absurd. The very fundamentals of this film are awry. For instance, why not, instead of wasting the kid, his parents, Uncle Tom Cobley and all,not just give Simon and co. say a million out of those billions budgeted on Mercury (yeah,as someone else here has said,where DID all that money go?) to go live out the rest of their lives in obscurity in the boondocks somewhere, well away from puzzle magazine vendors or indeed any temptations whatsoever to do code-breaking for those nefarious Enemies of America?. Dumb films like this,whatever their budget, are classically peppered with glaring plot holes, if you're not too beaten down by the end to keep counting them. The plots only survive on implausibility and coincidence in fact. Why did they do this instead of simply doing that? is my tedious but insistent refrain. Can it really be so hard to put together an action thriller where the action if not plausible at least conforms to what we know about how people and organisations behave in real life? Nope but if you keep it plausible you can't throw in,every 15m a gratuitous violence scene/chase/bit of rumpy-pumpy and so on. The makers just hope you're either too stupid or else too mentally deadened after a while to object. I'd be aggrieved if I'd seen this to the end. I don't care what happened but I can easily imagine. I still feel bad about the bottles of vintage French red that WERE harmed during the making of this movie though! "},{"Title":"One of Bruce Willis's best performances.","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this was a very meaningful movie. I loved it.Seeing Bruce Willis perform his role made me believe that thisis a real person and not an action hero. What made me care aboutthis movie is how Bruce cared so much about the boy he wasprotecting, that he would do anything to save him. He had thesame carisma as in his Die Hard movies. (I don't like tolose.) Except it wasn't about winning or losing. Just doing agood thing. Bruce Willis is a great actor because he takesroles, and makes them into real people instead of regular actionheroes. Alec Baldwin also gave a great performance as a badperson willing to kill a kid. Even though he wasn't a hugecharacter in the movie, he was still great. Miko Hughs wasexcellent. His role as Simon was very difficult. It was a greataccomplishment to pull it off. The movie was also very intense.Bruce helped with that in his acting. His relationship withSimon was very touching too. All in all, this was a great movie. "}{"Title":"Simon","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harold Becker directed this chase thriller that stars Bruce Willis as outcast FBI agent Art Jeffries, who is assigned to protect a nine-year old autistic boy named Simon Lynch(played by Miko Hughes) who has unknowingly deciphered a top secret NSA security code, which comes to the attention of a rogue NSA agent(played by Alec Baldwin) who orders Simon's death, prompting Art to take the boy on the run with him for protection, while he tries to find a way out of this deadly situation... Mediocre film has an interesting premise but becomes too routine and predictable, though both Willis and Hughes are fine, and the autistic angle is most worthwhile, but still underutilized. "},{"Title":"Deals with the idea of Autism within the confines of an action movie","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I would call this movie a mum movie, because it is the type of movie that my mum would go and see, mixed with an action movie. I say this is because it is about an FBI agent who has to look after an autistic child while assassins are trying to kill him because the child is able to crack the governments super code.Now as for plot and theme there is little to discuss. I didn't hate this movie, but I can't really rave about it as well. One of the major things about the movie is that it is opening our eyes to the existence of autistic people. The main point of the movie is the struggle that the FBI agent (Bruce Willis) has in trying to protect the boy. The autistic boy is played incredibly well and is very convincing.It is interesting how we tend to take these people foregranted and we do not really know how capable they are. The bad guy refers to them as nature's mistake, yet the mistake is that this boy sees straight through the code without a second thought. He doesn't try and even work it out, he just simply sees the message and follows the instructions. Simon, the autistic child, is not stupid, rather he just sees things differently and we, in our blind state, don't really understand this.I actually think this is a good little movie which deals with the fact that we have autistic children in our society. We don't want to believe that they are there and when we see them we ignore them, or try to, but the problem is is that they need help. Both of Simon's parents are killed and because of that he is left all alone. He cannot look after himself and it takes Willis a lot of work to actually get Simon to trust him, and even then it is hard because he knows that he should not trust strangers. This movie is a little slow but an eye opener, especially if you have never had any experience with these people. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic, slow thriller","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Art Jeffries (Bruce Willis) is the best FBI undercover agent. But a bad shootout leaves him an outcast. Then he gets the case of a missing autistic boy. The boy is an amazing puzzle solver, and was able to decipher a new NSA top secret code. Before anybody else knows the code has been cracked, Nick Kudrow (Alec Baldwin) wants the boy killed to protect all the secrets.The NSA part is over the top unbelievable. Sad to say, the autistic boy is a little bit annoying at times. Also it's hard to see how the cops can't figure out what happened at the hospital. The whole thing is a little thin. It's a passable thriller, but it's just too slow. "},{"Title":"Like my cooking skills, fast and tasteless.....","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The NSA has developed what they think is an unbreakable code. They ran a test to see if anyone can decipher it by putting it in a puzzle magazine. Simon Lynch, an autistic boy, deciphers it and calls the NSA. The men in charge call their boss Kudrow, who is worried what might happen if this gets out, and orders Simon to be killed.The man he sends kills his parents and leaves when the police arrive. The FBI send Art Jeffries to look for the boy. Art finds Simon, and they go on the run......In the nineties, Willis lost his star power a little, and every now and again, he starred in your typical generic action thriller. And like Striking Distance, Last Man Standing, and The Jackal, it's nothing special, but its a must for Willis fans.As always in these types of movies, it starts with a set-up, this one leading to a bit of a meltdown for Art. He's involved in a robbery gone wrong and would you know it, it ends in a boy getting killed, thus Art will stop at nothing to protect Simon.The rest of the film involves Willis and Hughes (who is excellent) on the run from your atypical assassin, with supporting characters getting killed every now and again, with only Chi McBride as a friend, as the police are after him too.Baldwin is fine, but its little more than an extended cameo, with the two stars only meeting the once.The ending is silly, but its a nice little thriller which won't challenge the brain, with a nice ending.Plus, this film must hold the record for how many people actually duck when the Amin hero cries 'get down'.It won't win Willis any more fans, but it does its job. "},{"Title":"surely better then a 5.6","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is nothing special but it surely worth more then a measly 5.6. The acting is good and the idea is new and original so I don't know why everyone hated it so much. It had a good story line and some decent action scenes so I was pleasantly surprised by this one.This movie is about a FBI agent who is sent to protect an autistic boy who is a target of assassins after accidentally cracking a top secret government code.I don't know why everybody hated this movie so much I actually thought it was pretty good. It was nothing special but in my eyes it was worth a watch no doubt. "},{"Title":"Tries for unusual ends up routine","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A clandestine branch of the US government is tasked with constructing an unbreakable super-code to be used for the protection of covert operatives in dangerous situations worldwide. One of the ways in which they test it is by putting it in a puzzle in a puzzle magazine to test the geek factor ie. can geeks crack it where trained codebreakers can't. 9 year old autistic savant Simon (Miko Hughes) is able to not so much crack it as read it. So, naturally enough, the response of Alec Baldwin (head of the project) is to have him and his parents murdered. Simon escapes, being rescued by bruised FBI agent Art (Bruce Willis) who then has to keep him alive despite rapidly finding himself on the outside looking in.I think this film may have thought that, by centring the action around autistic Simon, it was doing something different. It isn't. Though Miko Hughes does quite well in presenting a credibly handicapped boy, Simon is no more than a maguffin to hang a routine action thriller on, and not a particularly sympathetic one, either (which is probably a compliment to the performance).Bruce Willis and Alec Baldwin can play these parts in their sleep and, in this particular case, that's pretty close to what they do.This is an adequate time-passer. "},{"Title":"Nice acting, but heavily flawed story line  Spoilers!","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I gave this a gentleman's 7 because the acting is well done, especially by the kid who plays Simon. (Others have given the story line, so I'll bypass most of that.)So, here are a lot of spoilers for anyone to avoid who hasn't seen this movie before. These are basically flaws that made me think This doesn't make sense. What about. . . . . (fill in the blank)? Simon's (the kid's) parents are murdered at his home by an NSA assassin. The assassin really wants to find and kill Simon but can't find him in the house. Simon, who is a savant, figured out a massive, highly complex and multi-billion-dollar code the NSA developed to safeguard its classified info. Alex Baldwin is the NSA colonel in charge of the project. His mission is Kill Simon.The Chicago police arrive at the house and figure it's a murder/suicide because of the costs and stress of caring for Simon. Bruce, an FBI agent, shows up and questions how a father who has major problems making ends meet can afford a $1,500 pistol that the assassin left behind in the father's hand. The police ignored that fact. Where's Simon, Bruce Willis asks? The police guess the father killed him elsewhere and disposed of the body.Bruce then finds Simon in a hidden compartment in the kid's bedroom closet. The police still think it's murder/suicide and ignore the fact that the kid is now an orphan with no one to care for him. (We've already seen how much the parents love the kid and are entirely devoted to him, but the police don't know that). It's somewhat incredible that the Chicago detectives won't budge from their snap assessment.Next, Simon is at the hospital to help him get through the ordeal under medication. Bruce insists that he be kept in a secure wing with a Chicago police guard. The police detective in charge disagrees because it's a murder/suicide but finally does it anyway.Bruce returns to the hospital and discovers the police guard is gone. The desk nurse at the security wing tells him Simon's parents called and said the guard wasn't necessary.It seems reasonable that the desk nurse would have known why Simon was in the protected area; ie., his parents are dead by gunshots. It seems reasonable the guard would know the same, and that a guard would take orders to leave his post from a superior -- not from a nurse.Meanwhile, Bruce is told by the nurse that the kid is now in the children's wing. The NSA assassin is now posing as a doctor. Bruce finds Simon first and escapes with Simon in an ambulance -- after exchanging gunshots with the doctor in the hospital. Bruce and the kid are attacked with gunshots by another NSA assassin in heavy expressway traffic. The ambulance crashes after careening into several cars. No one stops to help. No one calls 911, even those whose cars are now damaged by the out-of-control ambulance.MEANWHILE, the next morning, Bruce is told by his FBI buddy that he's now on the FBI's most wanted list for kidnapping Simon from the hospital.Everybody is still ignoring the facts -- even Bruce when confronted by his FBI pal -- that dead parents told the desk nurse to dismiss the Chicago Police uniformed guard, and he left his post; gun shots were fired in the hospital, with Bruce and the kid being chased by a new doctor with a gun; and that the ambulance they escaped in has bullet holes in it and crashed after first striking several cars on a crowded expressway.Bruce is still wanted by the police and the FBI and is on the run with Simon, whom he's trying to protect but doesn't know from whom.Finally, Alex Baldwin, the NSA lt. colonel responsible for developing the code and trying to assassinate Simon and just about everybody connected with it, learns that Bruce's FBI buddy -- who now understands -- has forged authorization papers to put Simon in the witness protection program (although Simon is now an orphan and has no foster parents).Alex shows up at FBI headquarters. In Bruce's FBI Chief's office, the Chief is told the NSA will now take over to put Simon in the witness protection program themselves and the FBI is now out of the picture totally. That's fine with the Chief, without his even questioning why the NSA is involved in the first place; why does the NSA think it has jurisdiction in the witness protection program, and why aren't Federal Marshalls involved(who do).Well, obviously, everything turns out O.K. Simon is saved; the bad guys get what they deserve, and everyone lives happily ever after.BUT. . . . here's Simon back in school and meets Bruce. We're told he's doing very well with new foster parents. But shouldn't Simon now be receiving a six-figure salary working with the NSA/CIA/whatever breaking the top-secret codes of other governments?This is a fairly good yarn just based on the decent acting. The kid who plays Simon needs to take a well-deserved bow. It's well worth watching just for that.Just be prepared to put your brain at rest and go with the flow. "},{"Title":"Puzzling propaganda","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bruce Willis should have known better than to have appeared in this one-dimensional piece of anti-military industrial complex propaganda. The plot, such as it is, makes no rational sense. This secretive government organisation creates a super code and then puts it in a puzzle book just to see if someone could crack it? That makes a lot of sense. Then a boy break this code and instead of thinking the code's not that good then, they track him down and murder his family in cold blood? Why was this junk ever made? One really has to be a self-hating and paranoid far-leftist of Michael Moore proportions to find this plausible. It requires the belief that secret military forces are almost demoniacally evil to hunt down a 9 year old autistic kid. In reality, when the phone number to CONAD was accidentally published (see the FAQ) and a kid rang up to speak to Santa, the colonel in charge responded by setting up a special line for kids to ring, not you may note, hunting and gunning them down. That's how the American military really behaves (and I'm not an American, btw, I simply wish to see fair representation). "},{"Title":"renegade cop + evil conspiracy = standard Hollywood action thriller","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a snoozer action film that follows the standard Hollywood action thriller formula. Bruce Willis is a renegade play-by-his-own-rules kind of cop (if you can imagine) trying to protect an autistic (and exceedingly annoying) young child who can read a high level government secret code. Willis (in true John McClaine style) says, *bleep* the police rules man, I'm saving this kid. Things progress pretty predictably from there.Willis turns in a good performance given the material. The kid just screechs annoyingly alot (and I mean A LOT). Alec Baldwin's character is the super-cliched villain, who can only utter one-liners and threats to underlings. This is Baldwin's worse role EVER! He must not have read the script before agreeing to do the film ...*sigh* Final Rating 4/10 - An okay action genre flick, but negative attributes seriously outnumber the positive. Noob Aalox  "},{"Title":"Willis, in a not-so-macho role","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Willis takes a more restrained approach to his action flick resume in Mercury Rising. Our hero plays a tough FBI agent named Art Jefferies who tries to protect an autistic boy named Simon (played nicely by Miko Hughes. You might remember his famous line from his appearence in the Schwarzeneggar comedy Boys have a penis, girls have a vagina!) from hitmen hired by a sleazy govt. operative named Kudrow (Alec Baldwin). What follows is a frantic cat and mouse chase. Mercury Rising is a fine thriller, but it contains a lot of boring, slug-paced scenes. Willis is kind of slow and a bit zombiefied in here, because for one thing, he does not play the same macho hero like he always does in the past! I just noticed that this film doesn't have any cool or funny one-liners! It's just pure action and suspence, and not any real personality, except maybe between the close relationship between Art and Simon.    "}{"Title":"not mercurial, just predictable","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mercury Rising has a potentially interesting plot a 9-year-old boy cracks a government code, and they come after him. Unfortunately, the movie is not interesting. It's basically two hours of Bruce Willis being a tough guy. The final showdown between Bruce Willis and Alec Baldwin was totally predictable. I don't know why they keep making these kinds of dumb movies (oh, right they do it for money).But the point is that there are plenty of good movies out there, so don't waste your time on this. Even Bruce Willis, whom I usually don't like, his appeared in some good roles. But this is the sort of role that he usually does. Just avoid it. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Willis stars as Art a police officer who takes an autistic boy (Miko Hughes) under his wing to protect him from an evil government agent (Alec Baldwin) after the autistic boy cracks a special code in this routine suspense actioner. No surprises here, except that Miko Hughes gives a really decent performance and that the movie is never boring.  "},{"Title":"As good as Sixth Sense","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have read some of the newsgroup ratings and cannot believe their ratings. This is a movie I love to watch over and over.  Bruce Willis is great and the rest of the cast is excellent.  The story line and action kept you involved in what was going on and interested.   "},{"Title":"I Wish I Knew Why Willis Decided to Do This Movie...","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Mercury Rising', from the look of the trailer, looked like an adequate drama with a reasonable amount of action - I also like Bruce Willis and so didn't think I could go too wrong - the fact that the film also starred Alec Baldwin was a big plus...The only hesitation on my part was that I had never heard of the movie, and as I found, at least 90% of the time means the movie, for whatever reason, is bad...In this case, the film represented part of that 90% - poor character development, a very poorly constructed story, and the fact that the story itself was so unoriginal and unentertaining - one felt that the two lead actors did not enjoy one minute of making this movie...The trailer made it seem that this film would be one heck of a ride - but the film's tense scenes (if they can be called that) were so dispersed in snipits throughout the movie's frequent non-required dialogue, it made the disappointment that much greater...2/10 "},{"Title":"Another Willis butt kicking session","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce lets go in this action film done in the proud diehard tradition, though not as stupid as the last one. The bodies piled up as the combatants blasted their way across town with high capacity handguns and automatic rifles. Predictable Bruce Willis plot and outcome, but still tense and exciting. "},{"Title":"Not too complimentary","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury Rising was one of the most disappointing films I've seen.  The plot was very predictable, and not particularly exciting. It seems that it was made simply for the sake of making it, with no obvious benefit to anyone. As Total Film said, This should never have been made.  Avoid it, and pretend it wasn't. "},{"Title":"Superb acting in this suspense thriller","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The contents of the movieLanguage A few F words spread out amongst the movie with 2 or 3 S words and God's name followed by the D word about 5 or 6 times.Violence People are shot and beaten with some bloodshed.Sexuality None.Plus and Minus Material---(What I liked, What I didn't)+Bruce Willis+Great acting from Miko Hughes-Not chock full of language but it's there+Baldwin makes a good bad guyOverallThe first time I saw Mercury Rising I was blown away. Every little bit and piece of this movie kept on adding more and more suspense until the end. Plus, it's always been entertaining for me to see Willis in movies. I've always seen him as an above decent actor in most everything he's done. But in this movie Miko Hughes (Simon Lynch in the movie) was the one who stole the show. This is one childhood actor that totally deserved more recognition than what he got for his role in this movie. I give this movie an easy 8 out of 10 for it's exciting mix of action and acting. "},{"Title":"Mercury Falling.","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mercury Rising (1998) Dir Harold Becker / Cast Bruce Willis, Miko Hughes, Alec Baldwin, Chi McBride, Kim Dickins This is a cliché burdened action farce with a ridiculous title. Bruce Willis plays an F.B.I agent put in charge of protecting a nine year old autistic savant who cracks a top secret code in a puzzle book. This upsets National Security Agent Alec Baldwin who orders the termination of the boy, which has already happened to his parents. Directed by Harold Becker who made Sea of Love and The Boost. Here he must work around dreary writing and stupid clichés and nothing he throws at the board seems to stick with any form of originality. Willis is likable but is he is doing nothing differently since his success with Die Hard. So he is there basically to beat the living snot out of bad guys. Miko Hughes whines a lot going into spasms. Perhaps it is his reaction to the reality that appearing in this film will follow him around for the rest of his life. Baldwin as the villain is a joke. Anyone who plots to kill a child has head trauma to begin with but with Baldwin, this guy is suppose to be sophisticated. Chi McBride and Kim Dickins also pop up in one of the many flat supporting roles. There is nothing of interest that viewers haven't already seen before. It is a dull story that never rises but viewers have that option before the film ends to rise and leave. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Mercury Descending . . .","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When a 9-year old boy cracks an ultra-secret, $1-billion military code in Onion Field director Harold Becker's lukewarm conspiracy thriller Mercury Rising (** out of ****), the National Security Agency stops at nothing to cap both the parents and the kid. This polished Universal Pictures' release uses an autistic child as it gimmick. A compassionate but rebellious FBI agent (Bruce Willis) is the only character who stands between the youngster and inevitable death after his parents are murdered. Essentially, Mercury Rising combines familiar elements from the Harrison Ford thriller Witness and the Dustin Hoffman movie Rain Man with a touch of the Robert Redford espionage tingler Three Days of the Condor thrown in for good measure. This pallid suspense melodrama generates only marginal thrills and chills. A cliffhanger conclusion is about as pulsating as this dreary thriller gets. Mercury Rising is incredibly predictable. No way is the FBI going to kill a handicapped child. Nothing is more manipulative than plunging a defenseless adolescent in jeopardy. Further, Mercury Rising is tedious because the autistic boy is either annoying or too much of a zombie. The filmmakers tug without a qualm at your heartstrings to evoke feelings of sympathy for this orphaned urchin. Mercury Rising starts falling down from the get-go and doesn't let up until its lackluster shoot-out finale atop a skyscraper helipad.As veteran FBI agent Art Jeffries, Willis sports a Pulp Fiction haircut and wears basically the same outfit. When the movie opens, Jeffries is working undercover with a gang of bank robbers besieged by the police. Although the criminals don't know it, Jeffries plans to surprise them until an overzealous FBI superior sends a phalanx of heavily armed agents into the bank. The Feds mow down anybody in sight. Two of the casualties are teenage boys, forced by their larcenous father to participate in the hold-up. A frustrated Jeffries assaults the FBI chief, and then finds himself reassigned to marginal stake-out jobs. In other words, a cliché of a cop character. No dog. No girlfriend. Just a bottle of downers and an attitude. Why Bruce Willis squandered his time with either this standard issue character or this jaded thriller is puzzling.Meanwhile, Lieutenant Colonel Nicholas Kudrow (Alec Baldwin of The Departed), a slippery patriotic NSA official, is soaking up the limelight. He has masterminded the creation of a quantum-leap communications spy code dubbed 'Mercury Rising.' Mercury is an undecipherable, sophisticated spy code that enables undercover government operatives to pass along information undetected by friend or foe. Two nerdy computer nerds working on the project have proved that the code is unbreakable. As a redundant back-up, they hide the code in a harmless puzzle magazine. The child, Simon (Miko Hughes of Apollo 13), gets a copy of the magazine, spots the cipher and gives them a call. The NSA freaks out and Kudrow wants to kill everybody involved and leave behind no traces. Kudrow is justifiably furious when he learns that the programmers concealed the code in the magazine without his approval. Paranoia haunts Kudrow. He fears the worst and dispatches a fish-eyed hit-man to kill, kill, kill! Under Harold Becker's laidback, low-key direction, Mercury Rising merely simmers. Becker appears determined to play down as much of the action as possible. Nothing in the pedestrian Lawrence Rosenthal script comes as a surprise. Sometimes, the action seems unintentionally funny. During a life-and-death struggle between Kudrow and Jeffries, a gun is lost. The autistic child spots the pistol and walks almost too casually out onto the ledge. Wind ruffling his hair, he retrieves the gun with no thought to the high altitude and takes it back to Jeffries. While Jeffries and Kudrow swap blows, Simon hands the gun Jeffries the firearm. No suspense whatsoever is evoked by Simon's perilous ledge walking stunt. The autistic child gimmick backfires because the child is blind to his own welfare. When the filmmakers want to goose you , they let Simon wander off and into either an on-rushing train or car. These sudden, abrupt shock periodically punch up the film's lethargic pace. Indeed, Miko Hughes is splendid as Simon. He wears a faraway stare and displays convincing body language. Simon, however, is a leaden role. Rarely in jeopardy, he divides his time between screaming when strangers touch him and solving dangerous puzzles. Bullets are whining through the air and his sudden rescues from trains and cars are just too spontaneous to qualify as suspenseful. By the time you figure out that Simon could have been killed, Simon is safe.Baldwin does an exceptional job as the antagonist when he appears on screen as an urbane, darkly-lit, menacing figure. He doesn't cross swords with Willis until almost an hour or more into the action. Good thrillers pit hero against villain as early as possible, and the earlier the better. This mantra helps stoke the emotional factor. They meet only twice, but both times Willis holds the best cards. The shallow script undermines their adversarial chemistry. Baldwin's baddie is far to neutral despite his bloodthirsty attitude to hate with a passion. Nobody will be copy-catting any of the antics in this flick. Mercury Rising is almost comatose because the villains lag so far behind Jeffries that he has time to catch forty winks. When the hero of an actioneer isn't leaping through flaming hoops or scrambling into a siren's bed, he is having it far too easy. Translation zero excitement. The action never takes off like a roller-coaster. About the only inspirational aspect of Mercury Rising is John Barry's moody musical score that underlines each scene. If some of the music sounds different, Carter Burwell substituted for a couple of scenes. Lenser Michael Seresin's widescreen photography and Peter Honess' editing endow Mercury Rising with a sleek, seamless gloss. Mercury Rising has a considerably less than quicksilver pace. Only die-hard Bruce Willis fans need apply. Everybody else will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Interesting ideas let down by poor acting.","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is always interesting to see autism portrayed in movies and, although they went for the rather obvious autistic savant, it was delivered very convincingly. To be honest, the whole plot revolves around this particular rare condition, so it's hard to see how they could have made it work with more common forms of autism. Miko Hughes steals every scene he appears in, and it was these scenes that kept me watching to the end, despite the dross that comprised the rest of the film. Actually, an early scene caused a sentimental parental urge to kick in - maybe that's what kept me watching, and occasionally on the verge of tears.However, most times, those tears were tears of laughter. The plot is sublimely stupid and it takes a great deal of willpower to suspend any disbelief. The action scenes were largely run- of-the-mill, although there was a reasonable amount of suspense if you find yourself caring about the autistic boy.What really spoiled it for me though was Alec Baldwin's truly dreadful acting. It ruins the whole movie. I each of his scenes, he was completely outclassed by every other actor around him. He has only one facial expression (replicated brilliantly by his puppet in Team America), a kind of half smirk, that just makes you want to slap him. He delivers every line in a gruff monotone that I'm sure is supposed to sound sinister, but it ends up sounding silly and fake. He is basically a fat Steven Segal embarrassing to watch and belongs squarely on the B-movie hire list. "}{"Title":"Don't think, just watch","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's another slightly above average action/thriller (big question mark on thriller) from director Harold Becker (Sea of Love and Malice).Early on the flick travels well, and if you're willing to ignore the plot premise's unlikeliness, and the obvious typecasting of Willis, you are likely to enjoy this by the numbers action flick. That is until it starts to wind up. It seems though, that neither Becker nor scriptwriters Lawrence Konner and Mark Rosenthal (adapting from Ryne Douglas Pearson's novel Simple Simon) knew where to take this pic when it came to providing a finale. At this point, Mercury Rising becomes horribly formulaic, with Becker throwing in a rooftop confrontation between Bruce Willis and bad guy Alec Baldwin. To call this predictable is an understatement. We not only know the obvious outcome, but even how it will come about before it does. Also, the most humorous thing about this film is the fact that the NSA only appear to have one hit-man on their books, apart from the train guy.Willis does his usual horse-eye bit, and the rest of the cast are suitable. Hughes is cute, though his artistic savant behaves in ways I am sure medics would vouch for as ridiculous. Ah, it's just a movie!Sit back, relax, and don't think too much! Not at all if you can help it.Tuesday, April 14, 1998 - Village Morwell "},{"Title":"Slow paced average thriller","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It began promisingly but got slow paced at the end. The story line I have seen in much other thrillers before. Bruce Willis therefore delivered a convincing performance showing that he is has the quality of a good actor. I expected much more adrenaline and the only hot scene that I liked the most was the one of the train. The little boy played also good but I didn't like his voice as an autism child. The running time of the movie was a little bit too long and I started to get bored. At the end me and my wife were touched by high emotions because we have a little boy too. The actual vote of 5,7 matches our rate of 6/10. If you want to enjoy a solid thriller of this genre then watch instead TRAPPED or MAN ON FIRE. "},{"Title":"Mercury Stagnancy (when The Gauntlet met Rain Man) !","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie had the reasons to be one great action classic as (The Gauntlet) meeting a young (Rain Man) for a very talented time. That could have happened indeed but without some untalented points like  1 &#x96; If the kid discovered that dangerous horrible secret code, so in God's name somebody tells me how the good guys at the end left him peacefully in his own school while they know so well that this very kid became already a hot target for a lot of the world intelligences' killers !2 &#x96; After the train's sequence is finished, the kid goes home with (Willis) and suddenly he resolves the code (again !) and calls the designers (for a second time !). That naive repetition of the whole thing was only a lame move just to fabricate a date between the designers and (Willis) through the internet !3 &#x96; At the end How (Willis) got himself into (Baldwin)'s helicopter ?!, plus the delay of (Baldwin)'s fall when he had been killed on the high building's edge; that was quite impossible ! 4 &#x96; The movie is without a female star ! Maybe they discovered that so they added the character of the girl who got herself involved in the conflict (so damn easy !) but actually she wasn't convincing, effective or even nice relief. She was so marginal whereas she didn't do anything memorable for the kid, (Willis), us, or for the movie itself ! 5 &#x96; When (Willis) was saving the kid from assassination on the train, then between the 2 trains, the visual effects were just so unconcealed like an old poor movie ! 6 &#x96; The sound effect which was accompanying the kid while he was deciphering the code !??? If you ask me, it was truly a very ludicrous one ! 7 &#x96; I wasn't satisfied with (Miko Hughes) as the diseased child !8 &#x96; (Bruce Willis) knew everything about the hit-man from one dim photo having him among too many people which had been taken by a street's camera ! How he did it ?? 9 &#x96; If (Alec Baldwin), as the hard intelligence man, is truthful about his duty in keeping his undercover agents safe, so he is a loyal patriot kind of guy and all of (Willis)'s talking in the vault is pure crap like a stupid braggart strutting; as somebody who doesn't put his country and all of its people in the first priority (actually what is the value of 2 or 3 people compared to the fate of one nation and millions of its citizens ?!). Yes, the movie presented (Baldwin) as the cold blooded murderer who killed innocent people. However, the very movie didn't present him as the coward powerful man, who didn't protect his country inasmuch as himself, or was afraid of the loss of his job, position, influence; as any other stereotype evil guy you saw before who deserved all what happened for him at the end. So the problem is that this movie made him as the first image (the loyal patriot) maybe to inflame the drama and to show a controversial conflict between 2 points of view, yet according to that; the attitude of (Willis) would logically seem so weak; as he believed that the security of one individual was more important than the security of his own homeland as well as its public benefit. Simply the whole thing which I'm dying to confirm here is that if (Baldwin) is the traditional swindler politician who's assumed to be the old image of the evil man, then why the script didn't divulge the falseness of his frequent story about his secret agent (Rashid Halabby) ??!! As one lie which could justify his crimes and disclose his filthiness too !! So it could have been fine movie for sure. But with all of the previous things it's not (Mercury raising) anymore.. it's (Mercury Stagnancy) !! "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis as Loose Cannon Cop.","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In this one, the FBI are the good guys, more or less. A little naive maybe, except for Bruce Willis. The National Security Agency (NSA) are a supersecret group who plant spies all over the place and want to kill a little autistic boy who has accidentally cracked their top secret code. The NSA as a secretive organization? There's absurdity for you.Anyway, there are a couple of bad guys within the NSA, led by Alec Baldwin, who follow Willis and the kid around. (Gloria, the original, was a far more innovative movie.) There are some rather mopey scenes between Willis and the kid but more often the kid is a nuisance, screaming and kicking over minor matters like the fact that he can't play with the buttons on the ambulance dashboard and the fact that his mother and father have just been blown away by a murderer from the NSA.The murderer is one of those guys who smiles a lot but has a cruel face and an even crueler haircut. He uses a pistol with a noise suppressor and is absolutely ruthless. There is also the obligatory young woman introduced halfway through the story and she gets swept up in events. The kid isn't required to do much except scream, kick, look distracted, or chant statements repeatedly.In the last few seconds of the film, the kid gets up from his chair, moves slowly over to Willis, and embraces him. The movie, which has been tottering along trying to stay upright, finally collapses entirely in a shuddering heap. The slam-bang action is predictable but okay. But people are liable to come away from movies like this one and Rain Man believing that all autistics are savants, which is just not the case. Both conditions are real enough but they don't always occur together. Autistics aren't usually pathetic and charming like this kid either. They don't need other people, they like to tinker with things or play with glittering objects, and they don't like change. They like predictability, so they'd probably like this movie. It's a fascinating condition and nobody knows what causes it.Anyhow, nobody with any experience demands much of a movie like this. But the expectations, however low, aren't met. Forget this. "},{"Title":"Puzzle lovers beware!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow this movie shows what can happen to you if you get too good at solving some of the more esoteric puzzles that you run across in books and magazines those innocent little puzzles just might have been planted there by the NSA to see if anyone out there can crack their secret code. And if someone indeed CAN crack the code... oooh baby, look out, 'cause Alec Baldwin is gonna' come after you with the full might and fury of the U.S. government.I like this movie alot, it is loads of suspenseful fun, action, drama, plus, Bruce Willis's tear-jerking tenderness towards that autistic little boy is enough to melt your heart. (Rumour has it that this is one of Michael Jackson's all time favorite films.)The only thing that doesn't work for me is WHY? Why would the government go to such great and diabolical lengths to kill the kid, when it would be a lot easier just to put him away somewhere and give him all sorts of NSA puzzle books to occupy his mind with... and then they (the government spooks) could sort of pick his brain to help glean some profound ideas about building secret codes and such. I mean, if this kid is bright enough to break the one super-code, maybe the kid could invent a whole different code that NObody could break. So, why waste such a valuable asset?The worst scene in the film was when Bruce Willis's character tips over that entire rack of expensive wine bottles. Man that's gotta' hurt! "},{"Title":"decent action flick","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I'll get something out of the way first yes, there are plot holes in the film the size of Antarctica. Yes, the story is predictable and the chase scenes border-line unbelievable. Yes, some of the stuff is superfulous and ludicrous. And yes, you do have to suspend disbelief during the course of the film.I think I have just summed up just about every action movie ever made. This movie stands out a little bit because of certain character and plot elements. Bruce Willis is good as always. One question when the boy cracks the code, wouldn't it have been easier to change the code rather than sic the bad guys on him to kill him? Oh, well. If they did, we wouldn't have a movie, would we?You might like this if you are a Willis fan.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Too much Willis, not enough kid","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unlike the great adult/kid combo movies like Searching for Bobby Fisher (sp?) and The Sixth Sense, Mercury Rising fails to impress me.  Alec Baldwin plays the one-dimensional I have to protect our agents out there section head who can control too many resources from his NSA offices far away. Chemistry between Willis and the kid never occurs.  I kept waiting for the movie to get better, but all I got was lots and lots of shooting in front of a kid who already has autism.  Yeah, great way to scare the crap out of kid who's already afraid and overwhelmed by the world we live in. "},{"Title":"not too bad, but not too clever either","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this after The Sixth Sense - another film with Bruce Willis and a kid. And of course my instinct was to compare the 2 films  this one is much much much more inferior. The kid acts well, the story is good, but the movie lacks that... something. It's obvious the director's intentions were just to create an action film and nothing more. Vote 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A description of what almost ruins an otherwise decent movie.","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There must be about a million action/thriller movies available these days. Some of them are good, some of them are great, and some of them are horrible.  While `Mercury Rising' certainly doesn't fall into the last category, I would stop short of calling it `great.'The largest flaw here is one of the most devastating nature you could expect the story needs some serious work.  If this were a novel, people wouldn't keep reading very far.  At least, not critical people.  The same goes for viewers, whether they know it or not.Willis plays a rather cliche sort of action hero.  At one point in time, he was a great man.  Now he is a rather worn version of his former self.  If you remember `Die Hard with a Vengeance,' then you get the idea.  As the movie starts, he is trying to stop a robbery from turning deadly.  As an under-cover agent, he is within the walls of a small siege.  Just before he can stop it from turning into a bloodbath, someone on the outside gives the order to charge.  In the chaos that follows, a young, teenage boy is shot to death by the government.The scene is quite important.  It serves as Willis' motivation for most of the rest of the movie.  You see, he is going to be protecting an autistic boy from the government, who has found that he knows the code to their top secret military code.When you watch, you quickly realize that there's no clear-cut villain.  In an effort to make sure the villain was somewhat sympathetic, the writer went to far.  Alec Baldwin plays a man who heads up a top secret branch of the government.  He orders the murder of a child to save lives.  The thing is, this actually makes sense.  He is sacrificing one for the many.In fact, you almost wish Baldwin would win, just because his logic works. Willis, on the other hand, works only to ease his own guilt.  He works through the movie, mostly just pulling the boy out of the way of trains, so that the autistic child won't have to die.  Of course, that means the code will remain 'not secret.' We're all supposed to cheer for Willis.Don't get me wrong.  I believe Baldwin's intention of having the boy killed is perhaps excessive.  But Willis doesn't come across as a real saint, and Baldwin is a pathetic villain.  In fact, you don't see him much.  His only true menace comes from the fact that it's mostly night when you see him, and that he can order men to kill.I don't expect a lot from the story of a movie like this.  All I ask from a thriller is that it give me a villain to hate, a protagonist to love, a story with a twist or two, and some serious action.  Any of those elements that appear in `Mercury Rising' are watered down, at best.  At worst, they're enough to render this movie worse than average.  "},{"Title":"It's no Hudson Hawk, but...","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not the best, not the worst Bruce Willis movie you'll ever see. The story is compelling enough, but there are some serious plot holes that leave you wondering if anyone was paying attention during post production.Fortunately,  the scenes are in order, which helps the progression. But it's almost as if they  needed 120 minutes of film, so they shot 120 minutes, used it all and never considered the consequences. If they'd cut the throwaway scenes (plenty of those) maybe they could have squeezed in some more relevant footage and turned an average movie into something worth watching "}{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When you see Bruce Willis on the cover of a movie poster, or a video you immediately think of an action-packed evening. With Mercury Rising you will not be totally disappointed. There is enough action in it to keep you entertained during the movie, and the acting of the kid is definitely worth watching. However, I must say that the plot line is thin. Unfortunately I did not read the book, so I cannot say if that goes more into depth with the characters than in the movie. You get a 'global' feeling of how they are developing and what their motives are, but for the most part there isn't too much time spend on that. The only surprise I had was how the movie ended; I didn't expect it coming. If that is good or a bad....I don't know, but if you like Bruce Willis just go out and rent this movie. "},{"Title":"All right.","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was okay- not good, not bad.  It was hugely original, you could see all the plot twists coming, and I've never been a big fan of either Bruce Willis or Alec Baldwin.  But I still think this movie is decent.However, having seen a variety of reviews and having discussed this movie with others, it has become crystal clear to me that a lot of people don't really understand what autism is and is not.  First, a lot of people seem to think that someone with autism is automatically profoundly retarded, and if they have any special abilities it is in memorizing the phone book.  It is true that about 70% of children with autism are also mentally retarded, but this means that 30% are not.  The child in this film, it seems quite clear, would fall in that 30%, and if I remember correctly, he was attending a regular school and not a special one, and not all children with autism can function very well in that environment, while this child seems to manage fairly well.  In a study by someone named Lovaas in 1987, when autistic children worked one-on-one with therapists and their parents for 40 hours a week, 47% completed a regular grade 1 class and had an average IQ of 107, and only 11% of the kids had to learn in a first grade class for autistic-retarded children.  This certainly suggests that a lot of autistic children are not nonfunctioning and are not without reasonable intelligence.The child in question does, however, still exhibit impairments in social interactions and communication, and some stereotyped patterns of behavior. Savant abilities occur in 6-10% of those with autism, and it is doubtful in my mind that any movie will be made with an autistic chid as a main character in which the child does not exhibit better than average abilities for someone with autism.  It's the same reason they didn't make Dustin Hoffman just sit in a corner and rock back and forth.  That's not very interesting.  I do agree that it is highly unlikely that some child would have cracked the code this kid is supposed to have cracked.  But if one looks at it another way, it makes a little more sense people with autism often have a problem with concepts and rules, and often fixate on a particular thing.  In this case, the fact that this child did not have some rigidly entrenched rules with which to go about solving a puzzle may have made it possible for him to solve the possible while the genius down the street couldn't, because that genius has in his or her mind that there are a set number of ways to approach a problem.  It is not explained how the code was put into this puzzle, so we have no way of knowing if this hypothesis of mine is valid, but I don't doubt that the reason the creators of this film did not include such information is because they didn't want to cut off the possibility.  Also, the child was consumed with puzzles; he did not have other activities and thoughts interfering with him solving the puzzle.Anyway, that's about all I have to say.  This movie is improbable, but not as ridiculous as some say.  But even if it is improbable, who cares? Star Wars is improbable too; most movies are.  That's why we watch them.  We get enough reality in our daily lives and from the news; at least, I know I do. If you want reality, watch the news or court tv, or just stare out your window.  I always thought the whole idea of movies is to escape from reality for a couple hours. "},{"Title":"It's Plot Meets It's Category","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury Rising's star, Bruce Willis, is what made me see this movie. By the time you get to 000002 on you VCR counter, you're hooked. This is definitely a great thriller. My question to the movie is, Why is Bruce Willis' name on the cover? The reason I ask is that by the time you get into this movie, you care more about the kid. The play by play of this movie keeps you on the edge of your seat. This is -definitely- not a Date Movie, more of a Sitting in on a Friday Night movie. When you get to the Bruce Willis section in the movie store, turn away from the Die Hard Trilogy (as much of a fan I am of them) and turn toward a more realistic, just as exciting movie, Mercury Rising.P.S. A tidbit- Bruce Willis is actually William Willis... "},{"Title":"Really silly movie.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Others have summarized the silliness of this movie quite well. My one observation is that all of the chaos in this movie comes about because someone called a certain telephone number!! No one questioned Simon to find out why he called the number! It could have just been a wrong number!!!  "},{"Title":"Ho hum...","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, not the worst movie I've ever seen that's for sure. Basically watchable, but definitely not worth the price of a movie ticket. I don't get the other Australians' comments about not understanding the significance of the Mercury code, maybe they were watching the expurgated version or just lost interest?!? Anyway, a few things stand out about this movie that were just laughable; first, the bionic man sound effect whenever Simon looks at the code second, 'the child is retarded. He's autistic' 'oh, autistic, well that explains it, he must be a savant' 'oh, of course, a savant' 'what's a savant?' Sheesh, have these people never seen Rainman? Obviously codes will have to be run past autistic people from now on. and thirdly, the best bit, when Bruce Willis kicks the crap out of Alec Baldwin when he starts on his 'hooray America' patriotism speech in the wine cellar. Exactly what I would have liked to have done anytime movies lapse into that 'America is so great and you should sacrifice everything for your country' crap.  "},{"Title":"WORTH THE PRICE OF ADMISSION","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  you have to take bruce willis movies and all action movies at face-value. you know what you're going to get going in.  the point is, will this movie entertain me enough not to put me asleep?  this is how i gauge a movie....if i wake up and it's over, it really didn't hold my attention enough.  this movie was an eyes wide open movie.  no nap time here.  some people might not understand or believe the plot, but that's their problem.  i did.  i understood the significance of everything.  the characters motivations, etc. and the final scene brought a tear to my eye.  a very good movie, not the GODFATHER, but in this case you get what you pay for...... "},{"Title":"Lame, Lame Lame","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Keywords Contrived, Trite, Lame.Summary  X-files meets ABC movie of the weekFinal Comment Been there, done that. "},{"Title":"left something to be desired...","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to agree with previous comments that, while the story could've been really good, it just wasn't brought out that way.  You could see a lot of Art McClane.  Alec Baldwin, who I think can be phenomenal in roles such as this one, was only given a tiny part and quite frankly, the movie wouldn't have suffered much if his character hadn't even been IN it.  Too many unbelievable aspects to the story (for something based on a very real possibility).  I've seen them both in much better movies. "},{"Title":"Not convinced   (cue sad music)","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, Mercury Rising is a 5/10 in my book.  And if it wasn't for Bruce Willis' performance it would have been more like 3/10.One thing that really bugged me from the start was the music.  John Barry has had his moments and indeed the music in itself is not bad, it was just so inappropriate for most of the scenes, particularly the pseudo-arty attempts when Simon is making his hot chocolate with his mum.  Once you notice the overdone melancholic score you can't ignore it. Barry's effort is yet another rehash of the Dances with Wolves thing.Back to the film, and basically it sucked.  For a start, the plot was as thin as Willis' hair,  Alec Baldwin's character was terribly overplayed and by the end I really didn't give a toss about the kid either.  The roof-top scene was so cliched I was laughing before they got there, especially when the elevator sign said 'Skydeck closed for Renovations' - sad ploy for lots of stupid props and dark corners.All in all, this was a pretty mediocre popcorn movie.  Don't wait for it on rental, wait for it on network TV!  However, I suppose it was still better than Wag the Dog! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been oh so much better.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a Bruce Willis fan, I was entertained but not totally engulfed in this mystery/intrigue/thriller/action/etc.  As you can see, I don't think that this movie picked a genre and put itself into it wholeheartedly.  Good cast terribly under-used. Not one character developed to the point of letting the audience know why Art is constantly popping pills, or why Leo is paranoid or why Kudrow is a self centered creep.  Too many bit parts that seem to be there only to glue two non connected scenes together.  One of those that you are thankful that you rented for $4 instead of going to the Multiplex and paying $7.  2 1/2 out of 5. "}{"Title":"Willis' number of dud films the only thing Rising","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mercury Rising is a fairly competent, but terribly unbelievable story about  a nine year old boy who cracks a secret government code and then is  targeted for termination. The way in which the boy is shown breaking the  code is a scene too ridiculous to describe, and also, the significance of  the code is never really established. We never know what is at stake for  Kudrow (Alec Baldwin) and why he wants to protect it so much. This brings  Art Jeffries (Bruce Willis) onto the scene. Bruce takes it upon himself to  protect the boy Simon (Miko Hughes) and kill any number of bad guys along  the way. While the premise to this thriller is interesting enough, it hasn't  quite been developed to its full potential. Sure, we have a lot of scenes  with Bruce running around and doing his macho John McClane act again, but  it's all starting to get a bit tiring now. Bruce should try and extend  himself into bigger and better roles and stop wasting his time on second  rate thrillers such as this. As for Baldwin, he is possibly given the worst  part ever to a big star, given about three scenes (only one with Willis,  not counting the unforgivably contrived end fight sequence) in which to do  his smooth villain routine. As it is, he isn't too bad, but you wish the  director, Harold Becker had given him more screen time and made it more of  a personal one on one battle, rather than another Bruce Willis against the  world film. The most impressive performance in the film goes to Miko Hughes,  who is really believable and makes you really care about the fate of his  character. All in all, a good view if you don't like thrillers being too  taxing, but certainly not up there with Willis' or Baldwin's best.    ** stars out of *****. "},{"Title":"Mercury Rising","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a pretty implausible film, and I think only real Bruce Willis (winning the Razzie for Worst Actor - also for Armageddon and The Siege) fans will have fun, but I guess you could try it. Basically Simon Lynch (Miko Hughes) is an autistic 9-year-old who is fond of puzzle solving, and being placed in one of his magazines, he manages to crack what the NSA believed to be an unbreakable code they call MERCURY, and calls them. Concerned, the two men in charge at NSA call their boss, Nicholas Kudrow (Alec Baldwin), and soon after, he orders that any trace of Simon (including his parents) be terminated. The outcast FBI agent Art Jeffries (Willis) is assigned to find missing Simon, and when he realises he is a target, he will do anything he can to look after this very distant child. Obviously he does find out about MERCURY and the NSA, and he gets help looking after Simon from Stacey (Kim Dickens), it is just a question of what happens when Kudrow does eventually meet Simon face to face. Also starring I, Robot's Chi McBride as Tommy B. Jordan, Robert Stanton as Dean Crandell, Bodhi Pine Elfman as Leo Padranski, Carrie Preston as Emily Lang, Volcano's John Carroll Lynch as Martin Lynch and Kelley Hazen as Jenny Lynch. The idea of an unbreakable code by the National Security Agency being put in a puzzle magazine is the most implausible part, I can deal with the fact that an autistic kid can solve it (remember Rain Man), and I can deal with some not too bad shoot-out scenes, but it's not a film I'd long to see again. Okay! "},{"Title":"Cracks the code?!?!  What the heck does that mean?","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not a cryptographer and I sure don't work for the NSA. But I do know enough about encryption to know that breaks the code is about as simplistic (and meaningless) a plot element as you can come up with.Any modern encryption method employs one or more encryption algorithms. In some encryption schemes, it is trivial (or even essential) that some or all of the algorithms are publicly known. In others, the cryptanalysis process depends on determining the exact algorithm(s), or other algorithm(s) with similar mathematical results.The situation described here in this movie and the book on which it is based is an example of a very difficult task given one ciphertext of limited length, derive the plaintext message equivalent. Of course, Simon has a few advantages over professional cryptanalysts. The message is known to be encoded and it can safely be assumed that the plaintext is an English language message (as opposed to some random numerical sequence or phonetic Cantonese).Still, the basic idea is just dumb. And, in agreement with a couple other reviewers, I would expect it to be more likely that Bruce Willis would have to be an attorney defending Simpon and his family against legal action brought by the Federal government. After all, the Feds have a lot more attorneys than secret assassins (or perhaps I am a victim of the paranoid conspiracy discussed in the film).*** out of ********** due to plain old dumbicity. "},{"Title":"Very good action thriller, though not realistically probable.","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am an invalid and a virtual shut-in, so have been unable to attend movies for more than a decade. I have to tape any movie I want to see in order to view it later when my physical condition allows. In watching Mercury Rising, I was deeply engrossed in Art's efforts to save Simon from the agents who were pursuing him, when one of them held up the magazine in which Simon had been working a puzzle and referred to it as this geeks' magazine. This was quite amusing to me, as I have subscribed to that magazine for years and work almost every puzzle in each issue, but have never considered myself a 'geek.'I am, however, extremely interested in the condition Simon was portraying; therefore, I found the movie very interesting from that point of view as well as the intense action of a sustained chase over a large variety of spellbinding situations, many of them highly improbable. I found Bruce Willis' portrayal of the FBI agent to be both tough and tender and certainly tenacious in his refusal to give up in his protection of Simon regardless of danger to himself. "},{"Title":"Fairly brainless but engaging enough","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is as *ok* a film as I have ever seen.A autistic child 'breaks' a highly unbreakable military code and puts his life, as well as his family's in great danger. Alec Baldwin plays Kudrow, whose organisation is the one responsible for the code.Miko Hughes as the autistic Simon puts in a very convincing performance, it has to be said, and Bruce Willis plays practically the same type of show as he's changed into since his Die Hard days. These days he plays a milder type of hero, one who always seems to have demons all over the place.The story is reasonably told, though it does plod in places, and lacks effective characterisation.Interesting is how small Alec Baldwin's role actually is. For someone credited equally with Willis he doesn't get a lot of screen time.Overall half decent movie, if perhaps not all it could have been.   "},{"Title":"Run of the mill Bruce Film","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very little to say on this one. Bruce plays his usual lonesome role, so much so that he could easily have been playing the same character from numerous other films of his. Despite the flaws & the 'bent high-ranked USA officials' storyline that's been flogged to death, the film still has lots of tension, some good acting and an ability to keep you watching to the end. A very low 7/10 "},{"Title":"Boredom Rising","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Woops, Bruce Willis make a mistake taking this script.It started like usual Willis' characters in movies looser and lone heroes. Like Die Hard Trilogy, The Last Boy Scout, Striking Distance, or even The Sixth Sense, it lifted up as our hero decided to get up and start another assignment and move on.Alas, he's attached with an autistic child. Not a fair partner for him, because he has to be fatherly and patient. Harrison Ford would have better opportunity with this child. He's experienced it from Witness.Anyway, as Willis accepts his fatherly call, he ended up caught in Baldwin's conspiracy against society. Bad move. He spent less time killing Baldwin's people than staying with the child. It means less action and more drama again.If it used efficiently, it still got a good chance of being an action-drama movie. Unfortunately, the story get slower in the middle and focusing too much in the child, and explore less on Willis' characters. Not mentioning the story needs more humour and refreshment.It's true, we can understand Willis' desperation and efforts, but we also suffer from boredom. Not mentioning similar train-tracks action, like the one where WIllis confronting RIchard Gere in the Jackal. But this one got worse camera angle.Still it's not a total loss, for Willis' fans, we still able to seek his acting ability in drama, and be thankful for his gifted acts in action-humour-crazy characters he specialized in. A fair weekdays evening movie.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing on all all levels","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Concerning all the talent and all the money involved in this production, it's disappointing to see that it all turned out as a thriller that does not thrill. The characters are all cardboard, and there's no turn in the story you haven't seen hundreds of times before. Sometimes it seems as if material has been cut out that might have brought some depth to the characters. For example, we never get to know very much about the Bruce Willis character. Willis himself is far from his best on this one, mostly grimacing instead of acting. The only thing about this movie I find remarkable is the score by John Barry, but even his efforts can't save the movie. "},{"Title":"Ordinary Willis movie","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is actually a good movie, especially if you are not looking for any deeper meaning. It follows the standard action plot but contain some originality. Willis is as usual good, and Baldwin isn't bad either. Therefore you can rent this movie without feeling bad about it. "},{"Title":"Hollywood, for how long yet?","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm amazed that someone on earth can still have the idea of writing, producing and performing such a film. And, most of all, I'm amazed that people want to spend money to watch it at cinema in a number high enough to allow another producer thinking that such films can still be made, and so on...Bruce Willis has recently (at the David Letterman show, for example)shown that he's a very skilful, witty and nice man... please Bruce, would you STOP destroying your image as an actor accepting roles like this? You deserve better from life (and show-biz)!How about THIS movie? Think of the perfectly stereotyped formula of Hollywood action flicks, and that's exactly what you will find in these two hours. Want the honest and misappreciated cop who's going to become a hero? Here it is. Want the bad lad with a sardonic grin printed on his face 24 hours a day? Here it is. Want a script full of second-rate patriotism, true moral choices, millions of people in danger, cheap hypocrisy and Bush-like rhetoric? Here it is, ladies & gentlemen, and the worst is that you could easily say, after the first ten minutes, what is going to happen from this moment on, up to the end.Maybe you've just had a long and stressing working day and you're desperately waiting for a battle between Good and Evil where the former OBVIOUSLY wins (unlike what has happened between you and your head-clerk this morning). If this is what you want, take place on your sofa and watch... but get ready to fall asleep! In any other situation, please switch off your TV and go out for a walk, even if it rains...  "}{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All too predictable. This movie is - well - predictable. There is no suspense.  The characters are not developed.There are too many coincidences that just happen to fall into place.  **1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"This is just another mediocre thriller that we've seen a million times before, parading as something it isn't. It's mediocre at best.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The problem with Mercury Rising is that every scene is handled mediocre at best, and the film never tries to become anything it isn't.Bruce Willis plays an ex-undercover FBI agent. At one time he had been undercover at a bank robbery, and two teenagers were killed when the FBI busted in and started shooting. Willis blamed himself, and lost his undercover spot for punching the man who made the call to shoot everyone. Now he is a stakeout FBI agent doing nothing. Until a call comes in.An autistic child's parents have been killed. It looks like the father shot the mother then shot himself. And they can't find the kid. Willis does find the child (Miko Hughes), eventually, in the back of the child's closet, and takes him to the hospital. But then Willis finds out that NSA man Alec Baldwin is trying to have the child killed because he cracked a million-something-dollar government code. Uh oh.This movie was slightly entertaining in the beginning, but then it started to become quite long and dreary, ranking in at a whopping two hours (at least on television).Willis mumbles every badly-written line helplessly, Alec Baldwin is the same as always, and Miko Hughes is probably the best actor. I thought he was bad at acting autistic at first, but I don't want to say that because he may very well BE autistic.The dialogue is right out of a one-dimensional, manipulative film with no respect for the audience. His parents were killed be a real bad man, Willis mumbles to someone. Wow. A real bad man. Nicely put, Bruce! But I can't blame Brucey--he didn't write this film. The credit goes to someone who is probably working at a McDonald's right about now.Things that happen later in the film are so contrived and predictable it is utterly mind-boggling. Willis meets a woman in a restaurant and asks her to watch the kid a minute. We're just waiting for them to go back to her apartment and start making out. And what do you know, later Willis looks her up, lets her in on what's going on, and asks to stay at her apartment. Wow. I wasn't expecting that.You know those really dumb, manipulative, slow-paced thrillers that are just ridiculous and boring? Domestic Disturbance and Striking Distance just popped into my mind. Those movies are both completely mediocre and nothing more. Well, Striking Distance at least Domestic Disturbance was just plain awful. Anyway, that's what Mercury Rising is. And you know those made-for-TV thrillers that are always on? That's what Mercury Rising is. I don't know what it is about these films that just make them so corny...boring...mediocre. It just pops out at you when you're watching them. Mediocrity at large.If you see this movie, I would turn it off after an hour. It starts to become mind-numbingly bad and over-the-top. Not worth wasting your time on, overall.This is just another mediocre thriller that we've seen a million times before, parading as something it isn't.It's mediocre at best.2/5 stars -John Ulmer, March 28, 2003 "},{"Title":"Stupid stupid plot","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot is so stupid i had to turn the TV off.1. WTF does the code (Mercury) refer to? A secret key? Or a new encryption method? 2. If it is a new secret encryption method and its strength is that is secret...then it is doomed to be broken one day! The method should not be secret...but the key should! 3. If someone can break your encoded messages...increase the size of the key! BTW, why is everyone trying to tell the story of this film in their comments?? The outline is already easy to find on IMDb! /M "},{"Title":"Mercury sinking&#133;","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, before you condemn Mercury Rising for being what it admittedly is, a cheesy action movie, you should at least consider that it accomplishes what it sets out to do. This movie was obviously never meant to win any Academy Awards (otherwise they wouldn't have cast Bruce Willis, at least at that stage in his career), but it does have some effective action sequences. The problem that I have with the movie is not that it fails as an action movie, but that it could have been so much better. The good action sequences are padded with at least as many awful ones, and there was plenty of thought put into about 5% of the story, while the rest is on auto-pilot.There is a great opening action scene where Arthur Jeffries (Bruce Willis) plays an undercover FBI agent acting as a robber in an effort to end a bank robbery safely, before the trigger-happy cops outside suddenly decide to open massive fire, completely unprovoked by anything except the passage of time. What follows is one of those endlessly satisfying scenes where the angry hero stomps out to the official in charge who's stupid decision resulted in the deaths of all those bank robbers, criminal or not, as he defies all ranking by smacking him in the face with his pistol, although I can't help wishing that he had done something even more. Unfortunately, this is one of the most satisfying scenes in the movie, which goes gradually downhill from here until the end.Miko Hughes, one of American's beloved child actors who can actually act, adds to his already extensive filmography with his portrayal of Simon Lynch, an autistic boy who loves puzzles a little too much. Autism is presented in a fairly straightforward manner, although the potential for massive intellectual processing is hugely enhanced and milked for all it's worth here. The problem with the movie is that it takes an enormously unlikely scenario related to autism and makes and entire film out of it.Simon has cracked a government super-code that was placed deep within a puzzle in a `geek's puzzle magazine' to test it's durability, and when he manages to decipher and call the secret phone number, all hell breaks loose. And by `all hell,' of course, I mean the rest of the goofy plot of the movie. The film starts off presenting an intelligent story about national security, until we realize that this is a code that they spent billions of dollars on without bothering to explain where those dollars went. This may be something that I just don't know, but what is it about a code that costs billions of dollars to make? Is it the two guys in the little computer room who charge too much for their services? Are the rates for Federal Hitmen getting out of control?This is where the movie really slips, by the way. Instead of simply admitting that there is obviously a problem with the code, which can be solved by a 9-year-old boy, autistic or not, and then setting about changing the code, the FBI agents involved literally turn into murderers, sending out a hit man, black gloves and all, to murder the boy and his parents, erasing him from existence and then hoping no one ever asks any questions.The action in Mercury Rising succeeds, for the most part (except for some awful blue-screen scenes, like the one between the trains), but it has enormous problems on a foundational level. Some stuff succeeds (I rather enjoyed the scene in the wine cellar, but even this is founded on a movie with an unstable premise. I think that Roger Ebert pointed this out best at the end of his review when he says that if a billion dollar code can be cracked by an autistic boy, don't kill the boy, kill the programmers.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't respect the audience","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  FBI agent Art Jeffries is washed out after confronting his superiors after an undercover job goes bad.  Simon Lynch is an autistic child who loves puzzles.  When he cracks a code that the Government put into a magazine to test it's strength he begins a target and his parents are murdered by someone from the NSA. Jeffries is assigned to the case when the boy goes missing and easily finds him.  However Jeffries soon realises that this is not a simple case and that both he and the boy are in great danger as NSA Colonel Kudrow tries to protect his code.Despite having a career boost in the mid nineties with 1995, Bruce Willis proved that he could still do pretty lame and mindless films by signing on to do this.  In fairness it isn't that the film is really bad, it's more that it is condescending to it's audience.  The actual plot is interesting &#150; Enemy of The State was good using the same sort of `all powerful Government conspiracy'.  However this film feels so lazy in every approach that it spoils a potentially good set up by not playing to it's strengths and thus exposing it's weaknesses.It's weaknesses are of course the fact that the plot, lets be honest, is daft from square one.  Add to this plot twists that are unexplained and daft and you're on the road to nowhere.  The film introduces a love interest in a lazy way &#150; it doesn't really bring in her well and you're never quite sure who she is or what she's doing but suddenly they're kissing each other hello and goodbye etc.  The film ahs some good thriller scenes but mostly these don't feel part of the film, as the majority of it is slow and talky.This made me feel like I wasn't worth the effort &#150; that the producers felt that I didn't need to have a logic behind the story to enjoy it and that simply saying `look, she's a love interest OK?' for example would do the trick.  It doesn't.  On top of this the script falls into lazy cliché &#150; the hitman `died twenty years ago officially', Jeffries is `washed out' and on pills, even the black sidekick comes into play.Willis looks like he is on autopilot &#150; and Willis on autopilot is not a good thing.  He mumbles his way through it and doesn't really convince aside from when being an action hero.  Hughes is really good if a little annoying.  His role didn't help me understand autism at all (in fact it was a bit gimmicky) but he did well as an actor.  The only downside is that horrible, pitying score that plays when he is onscreen &#150; all sad and `awh, bless'.  Baldwin reminded me of his role in Glengary Glen Ross here &#150; talking with authority and down to his staff, but he is nowhere near as good.  He isn't as all powerful or menacing as, say, John Voight in `Enemy of the state' simply because Alex only seems to have a few staff and none of them can catch a child.  Ginter is menacing but not given enough time, Dickens is simply thrown into the film without thought and Peter Stormare makes a fleeting appearance.Overall this is passable but I couldn't shake the feeling that I, as an audience member, deserved more.  Why shouldn't the story hang together?  Why shouldn't the script work harder and not just be lazy?  Why shouldn't the film be exciting and the actors be acting full tilt?  This is a dumb thriller acting like a grown up thriller &#150; at every point it feels like it just couldn't be bothered to put in that little bit of extra effort. "},{"Title":"I GAVE MONEY TO SEE THIS!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a great Bruce fan, but this was a real set-back for him and for me. The little boy pulled a great performance. This shows, just like the boy in the Sixth Sense, that kids can probably act better than Bruce. Alec Baldwin proved that he couldn't even play the bad guy. Avoid this one. Trust me. "},{"Title":"An ordinary Bruce Willis film.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After I saw the Die Hard Trilogy, I thought Bruce Willis films would be good.  Since then I have seen Armageddon (his only other good film), Striking Distance (bad), The Last Boy Scout (bad), The Jackal (bad), Last Man Standing (bad), The Fifth Element (bad) and Mercury Rising (bad).  Why was the code so important?  Why did Kudrow want to protect it so badly? Lots of other questions also go unanswered in this trashy Bruce Willis action-vehicle. "},{"Title":"Actors on autopilot and a rather weak script.","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mercury Rising isn't a really bad movie, but it isn't a good one either. I don't like actors like Alec Baldwin and Bruce Willis playing a role just for the money. They can do much better. Now it only feels like they were on autopilot, just doing their job to earn some cash. There aren't any emotions to be found in it. Only Miko Hughes was better than average as the autistic kid. His performance wasn't great either but it was the best one in this movie.The story is about a 9 year old autistic kid that is able to crack and read a code that no-one is supposed to be able to crack. Because of his ability, the NSA has to get rid of him. He's a danger for the national security and might endanger some of the NSA's men in countries like Iraq. So he has to die. A hit-man is send to his house, his parents get killed, but the kid survives. Of course they didn't take into account that a paranoiac, crazy, ex-undercover FBI agent (Willis) will do everything to save and protect the kid.This movie would never have been anything special, but at least it should have offered more than some bored actors, a weak script and a lot of stereotypes. I have nothing against an action thriller, as long as it has some quality to offer. This one however is so mediocre and never stands out above the thousands of other movies in this genre, so I give it a 5.5/10. This one is only for the really big fans. "}]