[{"Title":"I heard about this movie, but I didn't know that it would be THIS good....","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"240 out of 268 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I knew what this film would be about before I rented it, but I'm stunned that it would be THIS good. Nothing against Saving Private Ryan or Shakespeare in Love, but this film should have won Best Picture in 1998 and it was a shame that it wasn't nominated. It's an even bigger injustice that it did not get a nomination for best screenplay or cinematography.In the hands of another writer, this movie could have been made as just a parody of 1950's sitcoms like Leave It To Beaver or Ozzie and Harriet. But this film isn't about how clichéd those series look decades later. It's about the false nostalgia for a past that never existed. We survived the past and we know that everything turned out all right. Because of this, we selectively choose our memories and weed out the unpleasant ones. That's why the past is sometimes seen as the good ol' days. Pleasantville does not represent how the 50's actually were but rather an idealization of what people THINK the 50's were---no one had sex, everyone got along swell, and life was fairly easy. Nothing could be further from the truth, and there are many film from that era which show how real people (even in suburbia) actually lived. This film argues that free will and choice is ESSENTIAL to life and that we should embrace freedom instead of fearing it. It isn't just about making out, but having the OPTION to make out.Another reviewer claimed that this film was an attack on the 50's, but David and Jennifer could very easily have been dumped in the world of The Brady Bunch, Gilligan's Island , or Batman. But setting Pleasantville in a 1950's sitcom allows for the brilliant metaphor of black and white versus color. Black and white photography is a stylized depiction of the universe, but unless you're color blind it's not the way you actually see the universe. When we first see Pleasantville's citizens, all of them are cardboard cut-outs of stereotypes. As they begin to open up and become real people, color seeps into their world. The catalyst seems to be the willingness to experience new sensations and become vulnerable. Jennifer has slept with lot of guys when she was in the normal world, so sex does not change HER into a color character. On the other hand, when she actually finishes a book (without pictures) for the first time in her life, THEN she becomes colorized. Similarly, David does not bloom into color until he breaks out of his aloofness and defends his mother. Compare the way he ignores his real mother at the beginning of the film to how he consoles and comforts her at the end to see how much David has changed.I could go on and on, but I think you get the idea. There are a lot of films out there that are very entertaining and/or very moving--like Raiders of the Lost Ark or Titanic. Movies like Pleasantville which challenge the audience and force them to think are very rare, and should be treasured by the discerning filmgoer. "},{"Title":"A brilliant fairytale..","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"133 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed Pleasantville from the 'Once upon a time' through the film fading to black.The acting was top notch all around, as was the use of special effects; in very few films has colour been used so effectively that it can convey a story seemingly without help from dialogue or music.I can see how some people would perceive it as merely another mouthpiece of liberalism, but I watched it twice, and I only noticed it attacking bigotry and censorship.  What was wrong wasn't that these people were living according conservative values, but that they didn't really choose those values in the first place!I like the fact that the film was bold, and that it made its point as directly as it contrasted the black and white with the splotches of Technicolour.  While Pleasantville had little subtlety in its allegory, it was, like any good fairytale, beautiful in its simplicity.Nine out of ten =) "},{"Title":"floored","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"133 out of 158 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Some critics here are saying the movie takes itself too seriously - but I believe some people are taking it too literally. ... Saying that the topics that are addressed have no impact on society anymore, clearly misses the point. ... The 50s -- or more specifically, 50s TV -- is used as a metaphor, because of the way 50s TV portrayed life in America. ... Thematically, this movie is about Living Life to the fullest, whatever that means. More specifically, to live life to the fullest -- to truly feel alive -- you need to take the good with the bad. Sweeping things under the rug and just acting pleasant all the time, is no way to live. That's what Tobey McGuire's speech at the end to his real mother is all about. Bad things happen, it's part of life. Having passion brings with it positives and negatives -- but suppressing true feelings for the sake of pleasantness is an empty life. THAT is the key ... and that issue is everlasting to the human condition. Another point People fear change. This is universal from the start of time until the end of time. The film suggests that changing and growing as a society and as people -- even if scary -- is good. Just because the 50s were used as a metaphor for that, don't believe for a minute this isn't a universal issue that exists today and forever.Another issue common for people critical of this film is the sexual issue.  They say that Gary Ross is promoting sexual promiscuity, sex out of wedlock, etc...  Again, I believe it misses the point.  Is Ross suggesting that premarital sex is OK?  Yes, and I'd agree - and I'm sure there's plenty of people who don't agree with that, and that's OK too.  But, again, the sex is just part of the theme - used as a high-profile example to making the overall point about openness - and not suppressing one's feelings.  Note that the Reese Witherspoon character was already promiscuous, and her transformation was actually something completely different.I can't make everyone like this film - I'll just say that, on a personal note, I was so floored by this film, I had to see it again the next day. That had never happened to me before, or since. Ross' commentary goes on to speak of everything I felt about the film when I first saw it. It was great to hear that his reasons for what he did, meshed exactly with how I took it. I had to write him a letter to tell him so - another thing I'd never done before or since.This is not a perfect film. I liked its subtlety, but then the racism correlation, and the censorship stuff, got a bit more overt. The courtroom scene at the end is a bit cliche ... and I also agree with one poster who said that, to make the point about taking the good with the bad, we should've seen a bit more about the consequences of their actions.Those are merely nitpicks in the grand scheme of things. This is a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A brilliant commentary on life","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"85 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One night after working something like 6 or 7 hours at a movie store, I went to see a one of the last films on my list for the week that I hadn't gotten to.  My manager and I seem to go out to movies a lot after work.  It's odd how people who around film all day cling to it for relaxation at the end of the shift.  We knew the manager of the theater, so we got in free.I knew Pleasantville was about some kids who fall into a world of television and adventures ensue.  Plus I knew that it had Don Knotts and I've always loved his acting.  Expecting a funny little film about TV, I got a brilliant commentary on the social and political environment of the 50's.  There were countless religious, political, and racial references throughout the film.Life in Pleasantville is perfect.  For breakfast you get everything your heart desires, the basketball team wins every game, and everyone is just swell.  The only problem is that life is set; there is no free will, self-expression, or new thought.The Characters begin turning colour when they break their set mold, break out of their lives into something new.  When Mary sue first has sex with Skip, he doesn't turn to colour because he doesn't know what's happened. The event does lead him to begin seeing the world differently, hence the red rose.  People only change when they do something freely and of their own will.  The mother and her bathroom incident, when Mary Sure finally discovers life beyond sex and seduction in books and thought, and when Bud finally stands up for himself.The fact that new thought and experience leads to the thought of the breakdown of the Pleasantville world speaks to the desire in the 50's not to change.  Things were good, values were abundant, and life was good.  Dinner was ready at 6, the wife was always home cleaning or cooking or something. Then came those greasers and people doing more than holding hands.  One of the main points of this film was that change is one of those things that can become undesirable, but is needed to evolve and grow as a society.Another big statement this film makes is one the issue of racism, and very well I might add.  There are no black people in Pleasantville.  This isn't an attack of any sort on race.  I'm sure you can count on one hand the average number of black people in a 50's television show.  The point is that the colored people are representative of all nationalities oppressed in the fifties, even through today.  Because of things they could not necessarily control, they are all hated and spat upon for being different.  Especially in the end when all the `colored' people are at the top of the courthouse segregated from the non-colored people.  And don't forget the `no colored people' signs in the shop windows.This film is about more than the way things were and how change is good. It's about the way we see ourselves inside and out.  If life is static and non-changing, then all you get is black and white.  It's only when people allow themselves to grow and mature as people and human beings that they see the world through coloured eyes.  Pleasantville only becomes whole when everyone sees appears in colour.  Only then do the roads open up and the life beyond the town exists.  It's odd how people in the city know what colour is, yet are shocked when it appears everywhere. "},{"Title":"First of all...I really liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"74 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all....I really liked it. Ignore any review (and reviewer) that says different. We live in a day and age that we seems like every movie has a touch of this old film and bit of that one...or is a remake or possibly a re-release. But Pleasantville is none of that...it is unique, fresh, reflective, pleasant (you knew I was going to use that word someplace), sad, but yet still had a touch of fun. The film begins by looking at the interaction between and the lives of a brother (Tobey Maguire) and sister (Reese Witherspoon). The brother is very content with his life and enjoys watching television, in particular, the show, Pleasantville. His sister, a bit more outgoing, enjoys meeting new people and seeing where this interaction will lead. A fight over which show to watch results in the intervention by Don Knotts (of Andy Griffith and Three's Company fame). Maguire and Witherspoon are wisked into the television set and take center stage as two of the Pleasantville cast. The only difference is while the world may be watching a tv show, to them, this is their reality. The film appears to be in black and white, but as each character opens their mind or changes from the perception of the Pleasantville tv show, then they begin to gain color. As those in color become more prevalent, the old black & whites become resistant to change. To ebb the flow of change, the black and whites react violently against the new colors and begin placing restrictions on them. Yes the similarities of the 60s civil rights movement are here as are the violent acts of the Nazis in pre-World War II. But while you see these, you are also brought to the realization that there still exists a great deal of prejudice, discrimination, and close-mindedness in this world. One of the most pleasing aspects of this film is the cinematography, the mixing of the colors with the black & white shots were great. The story keeps your interest and the characters impact upon each member of the audience in their own special way. This is one film to see for I think you will hear more about it around Oscar time. Bottom line...if we open our minds more towards others, letting them be who they are, rather than who we want them to be, then not only will we be richer in color, but also richer in character. "},{"Title":"The Colors of Modern Life seems Brighter than ever before","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Three movies of the late '90s -The Truman Show, EdTv and Pleasantville- specifically examined how television made an impact on our world, our culture and our values. They both showed larger than life happenings and captured our minds with their perspectives. In EdTv there was a humble video store clerk guy having his life filmed for a reality show, which was happening in present time. Though in Truman Show very futurist and fantastically, Truman Burbank was not even aware that his life is being filmed, offering the viewer the vision of life from God's perspective. Distinctively here in Pleasantville, there is a journey which starts with materializing a TV-series into life and ends up with materializing the life into this TV-series.The cheerful 1950s' TV sit-com Pleasantville is revived in the '90s on cable. A homebody teen, David Wagner, escapes from the daily rush of the real unpleasant world by watching this show. He doesn't even miss the reruns, memorizes the scripts and speaks them out before the actors in the show say their part. One day after school, he and his sister Jennifer can't agree on the right TV channel to watch. Then they fight over the remote control and it breaks. The new remote, which will zap them inside Pleasantville, given them by a strange TV-repairman.When they entered Pleasantville, they become the part of the show and turn to black-and-white as the TV show displays. David and Jennifer take up residence as the son and the daughter of the sit-com family. Soon, they realize that there the life is always pleasant; the temperature is always lukewarm and the seasons are always spring with no rain no snow no hot no cold weather, books have no words, roads end where they start, nothing burns and matches are useless, married couples sleep in twin beds, sex does not exist, nobody gets sick, nobody gets hurt and nobody ever questions this hassle-free life. David fits right in as he always dreamt to be, while her sister persists on him to try to figure out what should they do to escape from there. Though she changes her mind when he gets a boyfriend from school. Her attempts of putting her lifestyle on effect causes Pleasantville gets colors. Thus wonderful and frightening changes start to take place.Pleasantville is a truly original film that soars with dynamism and aesthetic. From a social and deeply political perspective; it has deep meaning and relevance in today's society. Consequently, it should serve as a reminder for most that the world is made up of how its residents think and act. You can't stop something that's inside you. says David, and that could be summation of all that Pleasantville stands for. "},{"Title":"Positively Wonderful","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville should be nominated for Best Director and Best Cinematography, and perhaps Best Supporting Actor for William H. Macy. Joan Allen, Jeff Daniels and Tobey Maguire are also excellent, and the idea is brilliant. In other words, this film is one of the best of the year. It is fun for the eyes and filled with wonderful allusions to great books and other films, not to mention some similar events in our country's past. If you will let yourself go from reality and put a little thought into it, you will realize the sheer genius behind this film. The messages were plenty and appropriate, and while it is extremely fun to watch, it still is able to evoke deeper emotions. Fantastic, and my vote for second best film of the year behind Saving Private Ryan. "},{"Title":"a wonderful many layered experience that put a smile on my face again","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"51 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i wish i had the ability to put into a 1000 words what this movie impressed upon me. sadly enough, i am a verbose person, inclined to write and write and write, following a train of thought that never ends. however, i shall certainly give it a try, without botching it up. after having viewed this movie, i sat a while in my chair, watching the end credits play and listening to the music as it played along. not until the tape rewinded did i fully realise that i had watched a really good movie again, one that spoke on more levels than the simple obvious ones.if i were to speak of one of the main things in this movie that are so incredibly important, it's the fact that it speaks about people and society, and the patterns inherent in them. in the beginning, you see reese witherspoon in a normal 90's class situation, following what is a 'normal' situation in that environment. then she is dropped into pleasantville, and what happens? she loses all reference points towards a life that seems right to her; she misses her pattern in life. the first thing that happens is she tries to enforce it again, resulting in the start of the major happenings of the movie, and somewhere along the line, softly swerves away from it and finds another pattern. once she reads a book, and stays put reading in it while she could have gone out to 'do it', you know things have changed.william c. macy shows the same thing when he gets home, and his wife isn't there to greet him, and i could go on for ages to point to this, but i'd be overstepping my boundaries of these 1000 words, and definitely spoil someone elses movie experience. fact is, almost every single storyline in this movie is about change, change brought about because someone is stuck in a pattern and feels something is wrong, or through the self discovery that is inherent in every single one of us. not only that, it also shows how fear of breaking established patterns can bring out the worst, or get the upheaval that the major starts with his 'concerned citizens'. but even beyond all this, all the explanations and thought provoking issues that it brings up, if alone for the beauty of it and for the precious score that is attached, one should at least consider seeing it. i am personally a very jaded person concerning movies, having seen more than probably even a professional movie reviewer has seen taking my age as his career.even with that in mind, i thank my lucky stars for picking this up on a whim and getting a look at something that has taken me in more than most of the movies this year. several of the scenes are priceless, and as someone before commented, the drive through a black and white scenery with coloured blossom weaving through the soft winds will leave you breathless.in short, if you feel like watching a wonderful movie, catch this one and be impressed; try to follow the patterns every character exhibits and think about what the colour means in that sense, how it brings life back, how change is life.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant and vastly underrated cinematic experience","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" PLEASANTVILLE had to be one of the biggest surprises I've ever had at the movies. This superbly mounted and completely winning fantasy starred Toby Maguire and Reese Witherspoon as a contemporary teenage brother and sister who are magically transported into a black and white television show called Pleasantville, a show similar to Leave it to Beaver or I Love Lucy, where everyone in the town knows each other, where the fire department only saves cats from trees and never put out fires and where there are no pages in the books or toilets in the bathrooms. Maguire's character is a Pleasantville trivia expert so he knows everyone there and everything that's going to happen but sis Witherspoon is a stranger in a strange land whose introduction of 1990's sensibilities to the citizens of this town brings about extraordinary changes. The film is beautifully made with a very smart screenplay and superb performances, the best of which is by Joan Allen, who is luminous as Betty, the mother in the sitcom who is shocked at first but learns to accept the 1990's coming to Pleasantville. Yes, it may borrow from other movies, but there is a freshness and originality to this movie that is most engaging and anytime with Don Knotts is time well spent. "},{"Title":"Oh, how the world has changed. Or has it?","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"35 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Brief recap of story A brother and sister from the 1990s are magically transported into the world of a fictitious television show from the 1950s. There actions have consequences and result in major changes with the characters from the show.The misandric (anti-male) messages abound. As the (positive) changes occur in the town, the adult males are the ones that are shown as being adamantly opposed,and are shown as stereotypical stuck-in-the-muds that don't like change. The adult males are shown as incompetents that are unable to even cook for themselves and gripe about having no one (i.e. their wives, which they are *dependant* upon like children) cook, clean or prepare their clothing for them.The movie goes into depth to portray what the expectations of women back in the 1950s (e.g. cooking and cleaning), yet does NOTHING to portray the limitations and responsibilities imposed upon males, like providing for the family, wearing a suit and tie everyday and male-oriented work like yardwork. As with most aspects of modern culture, only the lamentations of frustrated women are shown and males are shown as living in a utopian society with no worries or limits.Just as other movies, this movie shows a woman having a extra marital affair and it is justified because she has grown weary of her married life. Despite the fact that she never *discusses* the matter with her husband, who remains OBLIVIOUS to the changes that are happening, she has decided that her husband cannot cope with her newly discovered sexual desires and seeks out another man. This, of course, would be *taboo* if a man had done it; there are enough movies showing what a creep a man is who cheats on his wife, yet a when a woman has an affair it is always justified. The father character is shown as being a nice guy, who never accosts his family, provides for them and seems to do nothing wrong, yet this also portrays him as being boring and therefore needs to change.The movie started with an interesting premise and had really good acting and good special effects, I just found it difficult to stomach the frequent negative attitudes about males and the male bashing. This movie would fit in well in the book, Misandry The Teaching of Contempt for Males in Popular Culture.Overall the movie was pretty hypocritical. The basic premise was, People should be free to do what they want, as long as what they want is what we tell them they want. For example, the father character was comfortable and happy with his old life. *That* was the life he wanted and he was happy with it. But this is portrayed as wrong because he is not changing his lifestyle to conform to what the other people are saying. Huh? "}{"Title":"Good tale on values and change that loses it's way occasionally and is quite slow","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"39 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When a mysterious TV repairman gives David a new remote control both he and his sister gets sucked into an old 50's show called Pleasantville.  A first all seems perfect in a cheesy 1950's way - all language is wholesome, everything is black and white, none of the sports team ever miss and nothing is unwholesome.  However when David and Jenifer begin to influence those around them they not only change attitudes and behaviour but start to bring colour to the town.  The town splits in it's attitude to this change.This is a very gentle comedy but with a hint of a moral about it.  It starts out with `once upon a time' and that's quite apt in that it is a fable with a moral in the way many fairy tales are.  At the start it's all quite small and the film almost shows the changes as bad and something that has comedy value, however later the changes are shown as something that should be embraced rather than feared.  Then those who fear change and expression are shown to be wrong.  It's all quite clever - the only problem to me was that the message felt a bit muddled and could have been a bit clearer - but then maybe that's the point, we learn our own lessons from it.The effects are excellent throughout - colour creeps in in some objects and people to great effect.  It's very well done and never seems unnatural.  As a metaphor for change or lost innocence it gets a bit tired but for most it's very effective as a way of seeing people's true feelings come out.The cast are great - Maguire and Witherspoon are both good (yes, even Witherspoon!), but the real strength comes from the adult support cast.  Daniels gives a great understated role, it's not his best as he plays it a little too much like a wounded deer at times but he's still very good.  Allen is the strongest as she has to carry much of the story with Macy who it goes without saying is superb - they share some very emotionally charged scenes together.  It's always a pleasure to see the late J.T. Walsh in anything and here he is good in a comparatively minor role.Overall this is a very enjoyable film that is very thoughtful and easily overcomes it's slow pace and slight lack of total clarity. "},{"Title":"A marvel","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Very possibly my favorite film of all time. Pleasantville explores a greatly simplified fantasy world -- a hypothetical 50's TV sitcom -- and examines what happens when reality intrudes on its premises. As Shakespeare put it, There's more to heaven and earth than is dreamt of in your philosophy.Unfortunately, some reviewers see the film as commentary of another kind. They view it as a confirmation of, or attack on, their own personal philosophies, political, social, or the like. For those who are expecting such, let me say what Pleasantville is NOT* It is not a criticism of the 1950s, its social mores or political bent.* It is not a celebration of liberalism versus some conservative straightjacket view of the world.* It is not a groundbreaking, original thought piece on philosophy, religion or anything of the like.The creators of this film could have made it such, but I think they were smarter than that.What Pleasantville IS is a celebration of real life, in all its messy, confusing, beautiful and often painful detail. And the celebration is masterfully executed.The device of the 50s sitcom is used to convey the film's central point that it is often easy, comforting, even helpful for us to think about things in simplistic terms, and even that there isn't anything wrong with that per se.But to think about REAL LIFE this way is to live a smaller, lesser life. Life without color is easy to look at, and it certainly works. But a black-and-white life is certainly less of a life. OK, that one's easy, and that's where Pleasantville starts. (I'm supposed to be IN COLOR!) Even the next evolution, that life is better with sex, is pretty much taken for granted, but of course that enhancement to Pleasantville later brings the real-life complications we can all predict.And the complications continue, as Pleasantville residents discover that there are other places in the world, other people, other ways to think and imagine as evidenced in the books that had all heretofore been blank. As evidenced in the changes in music we hear at the soda shop. And these complications aren't all good. They introduce upheaval, prejudice, violence.But the film successfully carries the theme that you just can't have the good without the bad. It keeps reminding the viewer that, if you're thinking that way, you are missing a subtlety of life, and you'd better think again. And I think it goes even further, making the case that even the existence of these evils makes life the richer for living, because they enable us to distinguish what we like and wish for from what we find reprehensible.My favorite scene of the film may be when Bud brings Mr. Johnson an art book from the library. As he leafs through its pages, we are left to wonder what life would be like had we never had the chance to see these magnificent works, what a tragedy it would be, what a smaller, meaner life we would have lived. And a later remark in the film reminds us that seeing is only part of life, that the real joy is in understanding what we have the privilege to experience.The film seems at times like it is hitting the viewer over the head, but it's deeper than that. When Bud takes (Betty Sue?) to Lover's Lane, his first trip there, she offers him some berries as they sit on the grass by the pond. And then she gets up, runs to a nearby tree, picks a shiny red apple, and offers it to him. The metaphor is painfully obvious, but it's supposed to be. We all recognize it. The point is, Bud recognizes it too, and he realizes in that moment that the fact that not all change is good will sooner or later intrude on the lives of these people, which is precisely what then begins to happen in the film. The scene isn't precious for a Do You Get It? Adam & Eve metaphor, it's precious for the look on Bud's face as HE realizes the metaphor being enacted when a beautiful girl offers him a bite of a nice red apple, as his look reveals his thought Uh oh. This is about to get ugly.If you're looking for a groundbreaking thought work, look elsewhere than Pleasantville. It treats a classic theme, not a brand new one. But it does not, in my view, pretend to do more than that, and it treats that theme brilliantly. "},{"Title":"Where everything is always the same.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"46 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The basic theme here being that the meaningful life requires breaking out of rigid, dull and conventional roles, this film's story sucks two teens back through their television set to a fictitious 1950s sitcom named Pleasantville, where life is in gray-tones until they start breaking the rules.  The self-referential notion of having characters interact with the very media which represents them has its counterpart as far back as 1924 with Buster Keaton in Sherlock Jr., in 1970 with a low-budget film named The Projectionist, and in 1985 with Woody Allen's The Purple Rose of Cairo.  But where the others explore the private experience of self-discovery through their enmeshment with the media, this one explores a much wider public awareness.  In that sense it is a very cleaver and intelligent story, offering numerous social messages worthy of consideration.On the downside, its message that different is better mostly translates into contrary means better, providing an anything goes mentality in answer to conventional values.  The rules are to be broken by gratuitous sex, loud music, and cheap garish art.  Not transcending in answer to different, but rather setting up what is conventional today as more desirable than what was conventional back then.  Exchanging one convention for another is not for that reason an improvement, and the attempt to do so results in a self-congratulatory narcissism of the form See how much more urbane and sophisticated we are than our parents were?  The 1950s are set up as a straw-man, while the values of the 1990s are simply taken for granted as superior.  Hence the deeper questions of change, growth and improvement, are never asked, and what we are given merely puts the past down without bringing up the present. "},{"Title":"Pure manure","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  *spoilers, not that it matters*A couple of teenagers are thrust into the world of 1950 TV show Pleasantville. The girl, a slutty airhead or valleygirl or whatever you americans call those it's like, you know, totally! types, proceeds to bang the first guy to talk to her, and since sex doesn't exist in 50's TV shows, it turns their world upside down. We are then kindly told by the director/script-writers (complete with cheery music) that lots of sex with no feelings involved is better than having ultra-clean morals. After all, clean morals are for boring people. Tobey McGuire's character goes from calm geek to sex-starved teenager because some good-looking girl he never met made him cookies after he becomes popular (awwww, true love). This film is filled with such positive values.All in all, it's a very childish movie obviously written by an amateur. It even contradicts itself, since the nice people portrayed in Pleasantville would never turn into a fanatical violent mob. The worst scene is when the father of the family, who is consistently shown as a  nice guy throughout the movie (talking to his children, kissing his wife, etc), is ruined by doing a 180, he's turned into a close-headed chauvinist so that we can give the lively wife a big scene where she proclaims her independence about how she doesn't want to make dinner, that she wants to run off with another man. And we're actually supposed to be glad for the wife here.Definitely pass. "},{"Title":"Technically proficient but simplistic","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville has been favorably compared to The Truman Show, which premiered earlier this year. However, I feel Pleasantville doesn't hold a candle to The Truman Show. While Truman offered genuine pathos, a sympathetic, even heroic lead, and insight into the intrusive nature of television, Pleasantville is overlong, repetitive, simplistic, and hollow.The plot of Pleasantville has two modern-day teen-agers being magically transported to a fictional T.V. show set in the '50's, called Pleasantville (by no less a character than Don Knotts, the movie's only inspired idea). The boy, played by Toby Maguire, likes it there - it's a nice respite from his family problems, which includes his sister, played by Reese Witherspoon. She is transported with her brother, but feels she has entered Nerdville, and so sets out to change her surroundings to something she is more familiar with, something with a more 90's sensibility, like, say with...sex?This is actually an interesting premise, especially since the 50's world is in black and white, and only gradually introduced to color. Unfortunately, the movie takes a black and white attitude in its morality too, hammering the same point home over and over again. I think the movie is basically saying the 50's was a time of stifling conformity, dull and unimaginative culture, and in the end, threatening and oppressive patriarchy. The 90's, on the other hand, offers ultruistic freedom, better values, and color! to life.Please! One could make a better argument that the 90's offers moral decay and fear, as evidenced by broken families, teenage pregnancy, violence, and general cynicism towards all authority. The film takes the logically dubious step of taking 50's sitcom sensibility and making it the reality of that time. Just ask how 90's sitcoms accurately reflect 90's reality. One could defend the movie by saying that it is not making a literal 50's - 90's comparison, but is making the more general point that freedom is better than confromity. This is a truism and doesn't need over two hours to justify, and besides, the movie is taking that comparison seriously. The audience shouldn't.  "},{"Title":"Please do not fry my brain!  It's the only thing keeping me together!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville deals with memory, and how we choose to remember the good old days. When breakfasts were plentiful, and it never rained and dinner was at five and there was no such thing as sex and everyone obeyed their parents and got good grades and everything was just super. Well, transport two modern day teens into a 50's sitcom and watch them wreak havoc on this perfect little world from the past that we've created. I think everyone will agree, that is what this movie is about. Two teens trapped in a fictional, black-and-white world, where everything is perfect, and bringing with them unwanted, but ultimately, extremely necessary change. I believe that I have given a glorified description of this allegory, just as the director claims that we have a glorified view of the past. It seems so perfect, yet underneath, it's so extremely flawed. I do not see an overall message to this movie. If this was a paper, and I was a teacher grading it, I would write in bold red ink across the top, WHAT'S THE THESIS? It seems to be going in so many directions, and ends up being nothing more than melodramatic sap. At first the director seems to be saying that we view the past as perfect, but that's just our imperfect memory at work. But what's the deal with there being no such thing as rain, and never any fires? Well, reviewers will claim, this is not about real life, it's about characters on a television show. Wait a minute? I thought this was about us having a false perception of the past? 50's sitcoms were made in the 50's. False memory had nothing to do with it. It was about entertaining. Yes, I understand this suggests that the movie is about fiction vs. reality. However, if that is so, then it's not about change, it's about facing up to the truth that was always there. All of the elements seem to contradict each other. I'm so confused. I'm trying to balance all these things that are offered in the movie that just won't connect because they are randomly flying at me from from all over the place. We need color, nothing is just black-and-white.  Ok, but I don't believe looking to the past, and realizing it wasn't perfect, is going to help us be more well-rounded people.  It serves as nothing other than to tell us we're wrong, the good old days were not perfect.  How does that affect the now? If it is about accepting that it is good that nothing is perfect in today's world, then that contradicts the idea that the past was not perfect.  What is the director trying to say? The film does not know what it wants to be, is my final analysis. Is it about change?  Acceptance of color, and rejecting black and white? Admitting that the past was not as perfect as we like to think? I don't know and I don't care. It gives no insight into the human condition, as far as I'm concerned, and that's all I care about in movies and literature.  A 3/10. Just read The Giver or Harrison Bergeron. By the way, I heard that they were going to make The Giver into a movie, but they couldn't because Pleasantville stole it's thunder. No doubt it needed it to go along with that dramatic rain scene. "},{"Title":"Brave New World Meets The Twilight Zone","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this film.  It's different.  It invites the viewer to think about, and ponder, concepts like morality and values, stereotypes, fear, and social change.  Each person will come away with his or her own interpretation of the film's meaning.  And this meaning will be consistent, no doubt, with the viewer's own life experiences, values, and belief system.I consider Pleasantville to be a quasi-sci-fi film, one that I think Aldous Huxley and Rod Serling would both approve of.The film does seem to get bogged down in the middle.  It overplays the sex angle.  And I could wish for more 1950's rock and roll music.  But the acting is fine, especially the performance of Joan Allen.  And the lighting is very well done.Overall, I was pleasantly surprised that a film made in the last ten years could be as original, as cerebral, and as under-stated as Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"Absolutely heartwarming w/amazing performances.","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie I haven't seen in years & yet I often think about it. It was one of those films you were sad to see end. Beyond just the excellent & original story is all of the brilliant performances by all. In a cast that was excellent all around including Tobey McGuire & Reese Witherspoon before either of them were big stars I have to give special props to Jeff Daniels & Joan Allen. I have yet to meet anyone that doesn't think this is an extremely good film. The way all of the characters interact is what makes this such a special film. I honestly don't know how this didn't make at least twice as much money as it did, because it's that original. If you haven't seen it, do yourself a favor & watch it & I dare you not to be impressed. I would especially recommend this to fans of 1950's & 60's shows such as The Andy Griffith Show & The Dick Van Dyke show. Have fun & be prepared to be very impressed w/the originality & the tremendous performances by the huge & fabulous cast. "},{"Title":"Moving but Overly Broad Social Criticism in Comedy (spoilers)","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just rented Pleasantville and was very moved by it. If you're wondering whether to see it, please do. It's somewhat similar in feel to The Truman Show - a warm comedy that conveys social criticism. That's why I just rented them both for the first time and watched them back to back - and much preferred Pleasantville as more profound, funnier, and having more original writing.However, at times Pleasantville is a little odd. First, it may well rub people the wrong way (it did me) that indiscriminate nightly recreational sex by teenagers is seen as causing them to flower into real people. Thus, a teenager contracting a venereal disease becomes the amusing equivalent to lipstick found on someone's collar. Well, it isn't. It's bothersome that this is seen as meaning the teenagers have somehow acquired real life and flowered.Similarly, the infidelity of the perfect suburban wife is seen as completely wonderful - the horrific impact on the husband shown merely comically because dinner isn't ready.Somehow, the town's negative reaction to a nude painting of the wife by her lover on the windows of the local hangout is seen as perverse. The writer/director sees the painting as just a wonderful expression of a long repressed artistic sensibility. Hmmm - imagine YOUR mother painted naked on the storefront window! You wouldn't want it to remain there!Similarly, character after character responds enviously when presented with the idea that there is a more dangerous world out there. Well, I wish there were less danger in the world - less likelihood of disease, of murder, of ruinous bankruptcies of people's hopes, of litigation that drives people under, of unemployment, of infidelity. These are terrible things - they ruin and end lives. That doesn't mean I want a controlled environment - but only that it is hard to imagine anyone wishing for life to be MORE dangerous.Moreover, much of the social criticism is blunted by the fact that many of the oddities the characters find about their situation are not because they are in the 1950s, but because they are in the midst of a television show rather than real life. Thus, ALL books have blank pages, there is no known place outside that town, all basketballs swish through the hoops, everyone's routine is so rigid that the soda fountain worker is unable to cope when a worker fils to show up in time to fold the napkins while he begins cooking.The question thus becomes whether the director is satirizing merely television shows. But if it is merely a satire of old television programs, it is strange. On Leave it to Beaver or Father Knows Best or Donna Reed or My Three Sons, the characters OFTEN failed - and the inevitable moral lesson about trying again or keeping one's chin up was the point of the show.If instead, it is social commentary about conformity and repression (as the movie's point appears more to be), then the oddities of being inside a television program unfortunately vitiate the point of the movie.I also have a problem with a movie that confuses expression with libertine behavior. It's one thing to be free to draw any picture - it's another for teenagers to contract venereal diseases through indiscriminate sex. They AREN'T the same things, and making it appear that those who are confused when their wives have simply abandoned them and their children without even a note, with those who are violent book burners or utterly rigid conformists, is really hitting too broadly.All that said, the movie was terribly moving in showing those in a conformist society finding themselves bloom, and  the confusion and shock and anger that this causes among others. It's sweet and funny, and I particularly liked how well drawn the two leads were - quite distinct people who react very differently to the situation.It's interesting that Toby McGuire begins by trying his utmost not to upset the existing conformist social order (his sister doesn't care at all), but ends completely believably as the revolutionary subverter of that order. The movie is well worth seeing even if you think the director insists on throwing out the morality of fidelity along with the bathwater of mindless rigid conformity. "},{"Title":"Is Carnal Knowledge, Like Ignorance, Really Bliss?","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" You know, I much preferred the b&w, 1950s town of Pleasantville before the characters of Jennifer and David arrived in it and literally corrupted it with the colors of carnal knowledge. (Yep. That's right! - Corrupted it!) It was especially the Jennifer air-head character who literally slutified Pleasantville in no time flat. She even educated her TV-Mother on how to please oneself through the dexterity of finger masturbation.I thought that as a movie Pleasantville got its equation for fulfillment all wrong. By using the screwy metaphor of color as its yardstick to measure fulfillment, I was told, plain and simple, that a black and white world equaled sterility, close-mindedness and gross naivety. While, on the other hand, a Technicolor world meant only beauty, life-lovingness, and rich rewards.This film seemed to have absolutely no understanding or appreciation for the targeted era in US culture that it so smugly attempted to belittle and ridicule.Pleasantville's message was neither deep nor meaningful. All that this picture seemed to be was just another way for its producers to show off their expertise solely in terms of its CG imagery.Pleasantville's story repeatedly told me that one must drop (like - Pronto!) all sexual inhibitions in order to be totally fulfilled in this life. And, yet, it made no mention that it's due to a lack of common sense and rampant, unprotected sex that this world is rife with STDs and unwanted pregnancies.I found it really hard to believe that the characters living in Pleasantville (before the colors of sex arrived) were so bloody clueless that they didn't know that a whole, wide world existed out there beyond the idealistic borders of their quaint, little town.Like, didn't these innocent-ones ever watch movies and TV? And, didn't they actually see in color? And, finally - It really baffled me that the TV Repairman (whose motives were decidedly dubious) had become absolutely outraged when he found out what dear-Jennifer and her darling bro, David, had done to the innocence of Pleasantville - Especially since it was he who had zapped them there in the first place.Like, what the hell did he expect to happen by introducing these 2 casualties of the post-sexual revolution into this unspoiled environment? "}{"Title":"A unique movie that i did nothing but enjoy. Send my regards to Gary Ross.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In short terms, this is one of the best movies i've seen in a while. seriously think this is one of Tobey Maguire's best performances, along with so many other great actors and actresses that i don't even have to name. And the beauty of the scenery is just the icing on the cake. The best thing about this movie is that it only gets better each time you watch it, because you understand more of what's happening. It's hard to say anything that hasn't already been said, so all i have to say is, i fully recommend this to anybody that appreciates the more subtle movies that have so much more meaning and depth to them. It was just so, how do i put this, pleasant. Gary Ross, i send my regards. "},{"Title":"Altercation over continuity","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville begins with two teenagers getting zapped into a TV show by a remote control. That kind of fantasy premise rarely plays out as something so good. What follows is an intelligent, funny and introspective examination of today's interpretation of 1950s sitcoms.Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) and David (Tobey Maguire) are 90s teens, that are real and funny at the same time. She's a self-absorbed party girl; he's a nerdy home-body. He's ready to settle into a Pleasantville marathon - a black and white TV sitcom, but as laid out in the premise, they instead find themselves playing the brother and sister in the show.The film follows how their modern ways affect the characters in the show. Some characters go through a sexual awakening, others more of a cultural awakening, but they each mature and advance in their own way. Even David and Jennifer find that these TV sitcom characters have something to teach them. The film is just so smart and funny that it doesn't come across as melodramatic, and the lessons on society aren't in your face.Pleasantville is beautifully shot and well written, and is far from the teen fantasy film that it sometimes gets advertised as. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Exploding with Originality","Date":"26 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is one of the most original movies I've ever seen. It's entertaining from beginning to end and charms the life out of you. The script....I don't know where to begin with the script. It's so imaginative and heart-warming; it's just wonderful. Its containment of sexual curiosity and racial discrimination is absolutely excellent. They are two of the biggest themes here and they are done beautifully. The script is just magical. The visuals are stunning to say the least, the evolvement from color to black and white is masterful. The acting is terrific. MaGuire, Witherspoon, and Allen in particular deliver great performances. Overall, you must witness this film and everyone should be inspired by the amount of creativity piled here; 10. "},{"Title":"Buried treasure.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" **Spoilers throughout**Unfairly eclipsed by the excellent The Truman Show, and easily dismissed as a facile sucked into the TV comedy, Pleasantville is truly an under-appreciated classic.Strong performances and writing set it apart from films like the later Stay Tuned, with Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon displaying acting capabilities that transcend their youth. The standout in this excellent ensemble has to be Joan Allen, whose remarkably studied performance is a masterclass in character development, as her Betty slowly steps free of repression and blossoms into a woman of sensuous, simple beauty and independence. Jeff Daniels is charming too as Bill, the bow-tied soda store owner who discovers passions within. Coming to terms with one's inner passion isn't an easy process, we discover, as the town breaks apart into paranoia and fear, dangerously teetering on the brink of a kind of apartheid until even the staunchest black-and-white citizen realises that change is inevitable and that the unPleasant waits within. It is precisely this thread of tension that elevates Pleasantville over the level of easy comedy, though there are a good number of affectionate laughs here.The beauty of Pleasantville is the way in which the film so easily and comfortably finds its stride and, like Groundhog Day, uses every last scrap of its unapologetically high concept to the maximum. The real coup de cinema is that the modern-day kids don't learn old-fashioned values as much as the citizens of Pleasantville learn from David and Jennifer how wonderful sexual and cultural freedom can be. This isn't just a fish-out-of-water comedy - the arrival of the kids disturbs the very fundament of Pleasantville. The way in which the seemingly happy yet horribly repressed town is slowly exposed to the freedoms of modern life is thrilling to watch - symbolised with such great clarity initially by the use of colour and other unPleasant things like lightning, rain and the joyous eruption of a tree into orange and yellow flames upon Betty's first orgasm. Another great achievement here is that the audience really gets a sense of how powerfully such changes impact upon the community - the first glimpse of a red rose is framed with such intensity that we ourselves are disturbed - uncertain as to whether we should be thrilled or frightened. "},{"Title":"The Colorless Fifties and Nineties","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can already see the entreaties to the contrary.  We were parodying 1950's sitcoms, not the 1950's.  Well, don't you believe it.  Despite being an awful film, Pleasantville, does provide us with interesting generational viewpoints.  Notice who gets shelled in this film, the '50's and the '90's.  Conveniently sandwiched between these two highlighted decades is the real culprit.  Growing up in the '60's, being educated in the '70's, and working in the '80's, the hippy generation has once again stuck it to their forbears and their offspring.As the story goes, the people of the 1950's were so square they couldn't see color because they lacked sexual knowledge and experience.  Moreover, people of the '90's lost the vigor of color because the sexual revolution had long ended with just assembly line sex remaining.  If a rational individual removes the one linchpin of this logic (e.g. sex), the whole proof crashes down upon itself.  All I'm convinced of, is that the hippies, were, are, and continue to be consumed by the issue of sex, and anyone not so inclined is square.  This movie rates two out of ten. "},{"Title":"Dull and pointless","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a really messy, unfocused film that has nothing to do but define its' own atmosphere for over two hours, while trying to convince us that there is a much deeper meaning behind it all.I'm no expert on shows from the fifties, and I am not a product of that era, but I have of course watched many shows from that period and I understand what the movie was going for; it was trying to show us that things aren't as picture perfect as they appeared in those shows, and that change into the modern world isn't so bad--it just makes us free. Fine, that's a cute premise, maybe for one of today's sitcoms (in which it has already been done many times before), but the town of Pleasantville is such an extreme exaggeration that I never bought the fantasy world presented within it. This is something that is necessary to the viewer when it comes to films involving fantasy--we must believe in the world depicted. It didn't work for me at all. Sex was something that was never talked about on shows from the 1950's, but I'm sure Mrs. Cleaver (Yes, I mean the fictional character) knew what it was! I also think that the characters from those shows also knew that there was a world beyond their own town, that there were days when it would rain, and that the local sports teams didn't always win.Director Gary Ross seems pretty unsure of his material himself, and that is probably why the film keeps defining itself; within the last half-hour of the movie, a young boy punches another. Those watching look on in surprise and wonder. They've never seen violence before someone a few rows behind me in the theatre said. Well, duh! I thought this was clear as soon as the movie started (but I still never bought it), leaving the audience to defend the monotony of the screenplay. At one point, William H. Macy looks all over the place for his wife, looking for his dinner. I feel sorry for him, an uncomfortable audience member said.When the movie is not overdoing itself in explaining its world, it is trying to shock us with sexual humor, also in the same, tedious, overblown way--after Paul Walker is deflowered by Reese Witherspoon, the camera LINGERS on him, emphasizing his shocked and dumbfounded expression, milking it for ungenuine laughs. The film then TEDIOUSLY expands this single joke commonly throughout the movie, showing us shocking images of kinky sex acts, some I can't even mention here, for my comments won't be posted (HINT one involves a popular number in the double digits), and when we're not seeing the acts of sex or the blown-away expressions of those who have just experienced it, we get some really shocking conversation; Reese Witherspoon has been shacking up with every guy in sight, then educates her mother on ways to please herself--Oh, MY! Another shock, provoking embarrassed and courteous laughs from the audience.The final scenes of the film dissolve into complete disorder; Don Knotts starts getting angry at the kids for their disruption of Pleasantville, and goes quite mad, but what was he expecting in the first place, and why does his demeanor change so radically from that of the first act? Other characters end their stories without solutions, not that its wrong to leave certain stories open-ended--I just feel that Ross didn't know what he wanted to do with most of his characters. The final scene Gee, you know you're pretty smart is poorly written, tacked-on, unsatisfying, and forced.I think what bothers me most about the film is that, since these banal characters are just imaginary, dull caricatures of 50's television shows, who don't even really exist, why should we care about them? At one point, Tobey Macguire's character is offered the chance to leave Pleasantville, but he turns it down--he wants to make a difference here. WHO CARES! It's just a TV show! Maybe I would have cared if I found the world of Pleasantville to be believable, but I never did.  Grade D  "},{"Title":"Writer/First-time director Ross's bastardized version of Adam and Eve.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"24 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville, which is extremely well crafted and beautifully acted, must also be categorized as one of the most irresponsible films of our time. Gary Ross, who previously wrote Dave and Big, both of which were excellent comedies as well as being timely moral statements, has now crossed the line.Not in filmic terms, but in morality.It's obvious that Ross is making a statement about the inherent freedom within everyone from Adam and Eve right down to people within the world of television.  This is a beautiful statement, one that should be lauded.  But it is also one that should be tempered with responsibility and reason.Tobey Maguire plays the proverbial Adam, a boy that loves everything to do with the 'pleasant' world of forties and fifties television, until he and his sister, Reese Witherspoon who plays the also proverbial Eve, are zapped into the television world of Pleasantville.In this world, everything is black and white, until Eve feeds the apple to an unsuspecting boy.  As his desire is aroused, color appears in the world. Soon, all the kids are doing it...literally, at the ridiculously named 'Lover's Lane'.  More and more color appears, and yet, strangely enough nobody gets pregnant.The mother of Adam and Eve, played by Joan Allen, is Mrs. Cleaver to a 'T', until her daughter teaches her about sex.  After having been taught, the mother proclaims that the father would never to THAT, to which the evil Eve says, There are other ways to find pleasure.  To the mother, this means more than just masturbating in the bathtub.  She leaves her home and family without even speaking with her husband and the only after math that we see is that food is not on the table.In the end, the normal people of Pleasantville must somehow come to terms with the 'coloreds'.  But what of consequence?  The only true evil in the film comes by way of the males who refuse to partake in the world of color. They burn books, rape women, and are generally Hitler-esque.In Ross's world, color means free will.  The freedom to do whatever you please.  This is truly an amazing thing that human beings possess, but this gift we have is tempered by the fact that we have consequences for every action that we indulge in.In Pleasantville, there are no consequences.In the ancient allegory, when Adam and Eve were cast out of the 'black and white' Garden of Eden, they were sent into the world we know too well.  A world of hardship, but certainly a beautiful world.Nobody dies in Pleasantville before and after color appears, there are no accidents, no mishaps, with unprotected rampant sex comes no disease, no pregnancy, no remorse...no sense.  With the pleasure, there is no pain.Someone said, How can we know the sweet without tasting the bitter?  Gary Ross will show you.Pleasantville is like the allegory of Adam and Eve cast UP from the Garden of Eden straight to heaven...  So why are we here at all?  "},{"Title":"Turning your black and white life into a world of colour","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I read a review of this movie and they trashed it because they said that it cheapened sex. As such, I decided not to watch it. At first I thought that it was in the same vein as the Truman Show, but it is far from it. Where the Truman Show had some deep, intricate themes regarding control, Pleasantville is about enjoying life and questions the ideas of morality.The movie is about a fifties television show where everything is perfect. A boy loves the show while his sister scorns it. They are completely opposite in personality, she being a slut while he being a nerd. They then get drawn into the show, and the boy is ecstatic while she is angered, especially since she misses out on a date with Mr Studley from her school (who would want to date a donkey Mr Studley anyway - they sound so try-hard).By the end of the movie, the boy has shed his shell and comes to see that a perfect world is not always a happy world while she discovers that there is much more to the world than sex. The movie depicts these changes in characters by giving them colours (as the TV Show is black and white). As people come to find joy in life, they come to take on colours. The movie emphasises that this joy is not simply sexual gratification, as the sister has a lot of sex, yet does not become coloured until she discovers the wonder of literature.One wonders if this movie is trying to advocate the 90's over the fifties, but I don't think so. What I think this movie is trying to draw out is that which we find joyful. We might be happy doing something, but it might not be truly joyful, especially since we won't want to do it because of fear of persecution. This is emphasised at the end as those who are still black and white begin to persecute those who are coloured.When I saw this movie, I wasn't paying that much attention, but what I did see was that it was a much better movie that I expected, and will have to watch it again more closely. "},{"Title":"Heavyhanded","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The potential was there--the actors were great (esp Macguire as nerd and a young, fat Reese Witherspoon and the puppyish Daniels), the 50s atmosphere seemed to set everything up for nostalgia and irony, and the premise of 90s children bringing color and passion in a 50s television show seemed like a great story. Unfortunately, the heavyhanded message detracted from the experience. The worst signs were the over-dramatic courtroom monologue adding nothing particularly original (what's different is inside us), the extremely heavy racial and religious allegory (girlfriend offering an apple? things that are off-limits to colored people? mccarthy-era fahrenheit 451-style book burning??), the overplayed color metaphor (the first few times were great, having it last to the end of the story dragged). It begins to seem a bit dumb and heavy...and its message is ridiculously left-leaning. A housewife, and some high school kids, find passion after sex (and masturbation, after which a tree goes up in the obvious flames), with no regard to teenage pregnancy, stds, etc. A bored schoolgirl finds passion after reading D. H. Lawrence. Leaving one's husband and starting extramarital affairs is given a thumbs up (and never resolved afterward.) Someone paints a housewife nude on a wall and the attack on it is made out to be some kind of anti-art, anti-passion mccarthyism crusade. In the end, the hero exhorts the audience to find their true feelings and passions, including anger. The town turns colorful. Boring, and biased, and an obvious, heavyhanded story. "},{"Title":"The Colors are Loud","Date":"14 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I used to watch this film as a kid almost regularly. Undoubtedly I was unconsciously infatuated with the vibrant colors, playing against the cold and grainy 'black and white' backdrop. I watched it again recently, however, and it seems apparent to me that this movie has much more to offer me as an adult than the special-effects gimmick.The story is strange but somehow not all too original. A brother and sister who are polar opposites get sucked into their television set one evening just as a Pleasantville marathon is set to start. The show, per its' name, is a mega-sappy boomer-era sitcom comparable to the likes of 'Leave it to Beaver', and this is the world they find themselves stuck in. It soon becomes evident that if the pair neglect to play along with every little nuance of the Pleasantville episodes, it's entire universe would cease making sense. Desperate to keep the innocent folks of Pleasantville intact, David struggles to keep everything routine and orderly like the episodes he's memorized, but Jennifer, known as the school slut back in reality, has other plans.The running time for Pleasantville stretches just over 120 minutes, and while it feels about as long as it is, it is time well spent. The characters are written with remarkable emotional maturity, even for the surreal P-ville residents, some of which are borderline childish in their ignorance (WHERE'S MY DINNER?!), but even such a disposition is portrayed with honest human emotion and a belief in goodness underneath it all. The director commands a subtlety from his actors, and manages to succeed in having them play their sappy archetypes and be themselves at the same time, coming across with a humble ignorance that offers a rich duality. For while they are merely people trying to be people on the inside, the impostors amongst them are people trying to be Pleasants.The colors. Oh, the colors! The use of color is definitely worth mentioning, not just because the film revolves around it. The director knew that if he were to perform a visual effect like this, it would have to be spectacular, quite literally. A burning tree glowing against a pale picket fence, pink cherry blossoms in a gray lovers lane, and (to me) most memorably a black and white greaser runs a vibrant-colored comb through his black and white hair. The effects are done with technical proficiency to the effect of beauty. But the colors are loud in multiple ways because they say so much. They spring up in any of the town residents when something happens, and just what that is could be discussed amongst the audience. On the surface, the colors change when a person changes; a routine, a feeling, a way of thinking. Underneath, a passionate moviegoer can look inside these characters, find the humanity, and pick out how they feel like a familiar outfit. It is in these moments of relation that we connect most with the Pleasants, and it is also when they receive their new colors. I think it was these kinds of moments that inspired the color in Pleasantville, the moments of purity. Another interesting perspective I had of the concept was as a kind of reflection of American culture, ranging from the 1950s generation gap to the later civil-rights movement (check out the No Coloreds sign in a store window).I won't try to nutshell the movie, since the characters endure a whirlwind of change and turmoil. Suffice it to say that it's full, rich, sensitive, and funny. It manages to say a lot and it looks damn good doing it. This one stood out on its' own, even within a period of cinematic revival and new ideas spawned by special effects (but not TOO MUCH fx). Yet one more reason why I miss the 90s'. "}{"Title":"Halfway Home","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville as about a pair of modern teenagers who are transported into a black-and-white 50s TV show. That scenario has disaster potential of FEMA proportions, so when the filmmakers avoided making a post-modern film version of Gilligan's Island starring Will Ferrell is half the battle. And director Gary Ross got just about everything else about Pleasantville half-right, which makes for a halfway decent viewing experience, nowhere near as bad as it could be, but not as good either.The look of the scenes in the sitcom small-town is half-right -- the costumes, hairstyles and set decorations are perfect, but the pretty black-and-white cinematography and odd camera angles are more reminiscent of an art movie by Scorcese or Woody Allen than grainy single-set 50s TV. The casting is half-right. Don Knotts as the mysterious TV repairman who transforms people into sitcom characters? Perfect. Tobey Maguire as the nerdy, unpopular teen obsessed with an old family sitcom? Way too easy. Looking at Tobey Maguire back in 1998, you assumed he was a geek, so he coasts on his charisma deficit and doesn't bother creating much of a character. Reese Witherspoon as the slutty girl who introduces sexual liberation into the staid 1950s? Brilliant. This was before anyone knew how good she was, and her depth and intelligence shine through this gimmicky role -- her sense of mischief in her early sitcom scene is hilarious, her transformation into a more thoughtful young woman is quite moving. Jeff Daniels as the soda jerk with artistic aspirations? Confused. Is his character stupid or repressed? Daniels never figures it out so he plays it both ways and winds up just kind of stiff and awkward. Finally, the politics of Pleasantville are halfway thought-provoking. A few scenes of book burning and threatened gang rape are enough to make you wonder if Pleasantville is about the sentimental impulse at the heart of fascism. But that's kind of intense for an American movie so it almost literally backs away from that idea in a bizarre edit and becomes a sentimental movie about self-acceptance and self-actualization. Which is fine, just not incredibly distinctive. Good but not great. "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The story begins in the 1990s focusing on a pair of bickering siblings. David&#x97;an intelligent but socially inept teenager&#x97;and his twin sister Jennifer&#x97;pretty, promiscuous, and desperate to be popular&#x97;are at odds with one another until they abruptly find themselves trapped inside Pleasantville, a 1950s black-and-white sitcom where tradition, naiveté, and old-fashioned values run the idyllic little town like clockwork. Conflict arises when the duo's contemporary social norms begin to influence the town inhabitants, all of whom begin to embrace their unexplored potential and newfound autonomy. Wonderful fantasy from director Gary Ross has some familiar themes but a highly original concept, splendid visual effects that create a sense of awe and wonder, and an abundance of moving moments balanced by plenty of funny ones as well. It goes on too long, but benefits from superb casting all around with each actor playing their part to perfection. *** "},{"Title":"Leave It To Toby","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A magical TV remote transports a brother and sister from the 1990s to a sitcom town in the 1950s, corrupting the innocent residents of the town. The premise is interesting, leading to some amusing moments initially, but eventually the execution leaves something to be desired. The story meanders around rather aimlessly before turning heavy-handed with social commentary and moralizing. The film is rather obvious in making its simplistic points, using black and white cinematography to represent repression and socialism while using color as a metaphor for tolerance and liberalism. It has a good cast, especially Maguire, Allen, and Daniels, but it runs out of steam. "},{"Title":"Original fairy tale that kids and especially adults can enjoy","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I really liked this movie, not only is it pleasant it's original. The plot is about a brother and a sister, David and Jennifer going into the TV show literally, into one of those old sit-com where everything is black and white and everyone has a perfect family. And the people are living the same routine life while everything is black and white, but David and Jennifer starts changing that. The movie has a deep meaning about it, even on today's society and I enjoyed it from beginning to end. It was like watching a fairy tale for adults, I honestly don't know how anyone can dislike this film. Sure the second half isn't as good as the first half, but this is still really worth checking out.8.3/10 "},{"Title":"Don Knotts is magic...","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon play brother and sister who are high school students in the present day (though they were 23 and 22 when they made the film). While you have no idea WHY, Don Knotts (yes, Don Knotts!) plays a magical TV repairman who gives them a bizarre looking remote that somehow transports them into a TV show that Tobey loves--Pleasantville. They have no idea why this occurred or if it will ever end or if Knotts is god, but oddly neither questions this new world that is literally in black & white like an old episode of Father Knows Best. However, unwittingly, their presence with their modern sensibilities and notions causes this seemingly idyllic world to start to slowly come apart at the seems. Notions such as freedom to choose, sex and individuality are missing in this world--and the two interlopers bring this to the plastic world of Pleasantville.By the way, Pleasantville is odd in many ways. First, all roads in town lead right back to town and no one has ever left the town or knows anything about the world outside. Second, books are blank inside and the people have no idea about what they contain. Third, when there is a fire, the fire department actually has no idea WHAT a fire is--they are only used to things you might see in the TV world--such as rescuing cats stuck in trees. In fact, how Tobey is able to finally convince the firemen to come to his house when there is an actual fire is pretty funny. There's a lot more that is strange about the town and it gets stranger when the influence of the two outsiders slowly causes actual colors to begin appearing in the monochrome world.The film is a strange surreal sort of thing that is truly unique. Using colorization techniques, they are able to achieve amazing results that seem to jump off the screen. It's all a metaphor about how the idyllic life of 50s TV was actually quite stilted and repressive, though Maquire and Witherspoon's life in the real world isn't exactly great either--their parents are divorced and Witherspoon is, to put it nicely, a bit shallow and slutty. A happy medium would sure be nice--combining the best of both worlds--and I think this is a valid interpretation of the film's intent. Where exactly it all goes and the unexpected consequences are something you'll just have to learn about yourself, so watch the film.Overall, a rather interesting and innovative film. It was nominated for three Oscars and deserved kudos in these departments--for sets, costume design and music. While I wouldn't put it in the category of must-see, it is interesting and worth seeing--even if the ending is a bit too drawn out in some ways. The only real misgiving I have is the way SOME might see the film and come to the conclusions that the 1950s were all bad and repressive--a rather oversimplification of the era, to say the least. This era, like all in our history, had its good and bad points and I worry that such a revisionist view of our past will be believed by young people seeing this movie--especially since films such as this are the only way most teens get their history. I know, as I've taught US and World History--kids are THAT gullible...really. I can't really blame the folks from Pleasantville for this lack of awareness in teens, but it did concern me as I watched the film.By the way, one thing I liked about the film was the courtroom scene and William Macy's acting. While he said very, very little, his face showed so much expression--now THAT'S acting! "},{"Title":"Pleasant movie experience","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this film on a Saturday afternoon and it really packed a wallop. As someone who was brought up on Leave It to Beaver, Father Knows Best, Ozzie and Harriet, etc., etc. I was ready to have any image of those series deflated very quickly. The images (in chilling black and white) of the perfect small town with perfect families and perfect people brought back memories of the above shows (What DID Ozzie do for a living?!) and a few others. Who didn't want parents or friends (or a life) like the ones in the movie?! The cast (among them a pre-Spiderman Tobey Maguire, William H. Macy, Joan Allen, Reese Witherspoon, Jeff Daniels, Marley Shelton, J. T. Walsh in his last role as the town leader, etc.) was one of the best ensembles ever assembled. Everybody had their big moment on screen. Add to this echoes of To Kill A Mockingbird, The Wizard of Oz, as well as touches of the above noted TV series and one has a great movie experience. This one had me thinking for days afterwards and it'll have you thinking too. "},{"Title":"good premise, bad execution","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think that this movie had a great premise - 90's kids get sucked into 50's TV universe, they disrupt the social order with individuality, imagination, and self-determination.  However, this movie seemed like once the premise was created, played out excellently in the first half of the movie, it lost direction.  There was a great setup, but the creators didn't know where to take it.  They wanted to include a message, then let the message become so central, and so obvious and overdone, that it snuffed out the romp that the movie started with.  I'm not against having a message in this movie - I think it was important and relevant; however the ending was so maudlin and hard to swallow that I left the theater feeling overworked.  "},{"Title":"The Beauty of Color","Date":"27 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Although many reviewers have commented on the gradual switch from black and white to color as the film progresses, and although the themes of freedom and bigotry have been well documented in the reviews, I wanted to add an extra comment on the subject of color.One of the most striking moments in the entire movie is when Jeff Daniels opens the art book and thumbs through it. The movie audience, having spent some time like the characters seeing everything in black and white, can share with him the experience of seeing the paintings in their full color for the first time. We have all seen the famous paintings he looks at in the book many times, but have we ever seen them with such fresh eyes? The colors, both subtle in the Old Masters and bold in the modern works, virtually jump off the pages.And continuing in this vein, when Daniels wipes Joan Allen's face with his napkin and reveals her true and vibrant skin color, it looks exactly as though he is painting her face with his strokes. This was truly a transcendent moment for me, and I never tire of seeing this scene in multiple repeated viewings.See this movie if only for the renewed appreciation of beautiful things. "},{"Title":"What A Pleasant Colourful Surprise!","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" All I knew about 'Pleasantville' was that it concerned two twin siblings who, after a quarrel, find themselves in a 50's black and white sitcom. I thought it would be some kind of corny comedy and what convinced me to watch it was the cast. But 'Pleasantville' is so much more than I expected.It touches a very interesting theme of what people think of the 1950's America based on the movies and sitcoms. Most of these media portray it so stereotypically as a result of which people are under the illusion that it was a time of innocence, when people followed rules and were always 'happy', when there was no sex or violence and history was just perfect. All the women had 'perfect' hair and makeup, the guys had 'perfectly' combed hair and would wear suits or uniforms. The characters never swore etc. But, that's not how life really was and this is what 'Pleasantville' beautifully demonstrates. There aren't many well-known films or series that depict the 50's more realistically. In this film, we see that the more the characters break away from stereotype and act out of their own free will, the more realistic the 'life' becomes in the town. The colour and black and white contrast plays a crucial role as it stresses on the stereotype (that is marked with extreme colours such as black and white) but gradually people make their own choices and add more colour to their life. Through the character of the mayor, Ross also portrays the irony of society. The mayor stands against the 'colouring' of society and he gets people to protest for him yet he too, just like everyone else, has his own secret desires. Yet, it isn't only about making choices, it's about discovering something new, something that shows that there's always more to life than its present state like Jennifer's new-find interest in books, Bill's passion for painting and Betty's new-find self.Ross deserves most of the credit for his innovative writing and crafty direction. He touches on several themes such as racism and sexism. The 50's movie feel is nicely done with the score, the costumes, the sets and the acting. I really liked how Ross brought the surprise element but I hope people do not reject this film thinking that it's some silly film about two modern-day spoilt teens' adventure in a 50's sitcom. At least for me, the unusual cast drew my attention (I had forgotten that Ross was also the man behind 'Seabiscuit'). A supercute Reese Witherspoon and a naive Tobey McGuire are very convincing as siblings. Moreover, both show David and Jennifer's growth with élan. Joan Allen would make for a hot 50's mom. The actress is sublime. Likewise Jeff Daniels and William H. Macy are superb.'Pleasantville' remains good entertainment while it presents some relevant themes with class. I had seen Ross's 'Seabiscuit' earlier, (which is a completely different film) and both movies show his capability as a filmmaker. "},{"Title":"One of the first movies I watched with Tobey Maguire  & Reese Witherspoon!","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" David and Jennifer are a brother and sister of the 90's. They have a terrible relationship with each other and with their parents, who doesn't care very much about them and are always discussing with each other. David loves to watch Pleasantville - a 1950's Black and White soap opera, where everything is perfect and everybody is sweet and polite with each other, what is totally different from the reality that he lives. One day, when they both are alone in their house, they broke the TV remote control in a fight, and a very strange repair man gives David a new remote that is capable of sending them (Jennifer and David) to the Pleasantville soap Opera, inside the TV.Trapped in a life of old fashioned values, they both need to live as Mary Sue and Bud to integrate themselves into this 50's life, so different from what they were used. What do they don't know, is the difference they will make to the Pleasantville's society and how this little society will also change them.I watched ''Pleasantville'' for the first time when I was 12, and I recently watched again with 23 years old. Even after one decade, the story continues to be good to me. I like very much the interesting metaphor of getting colored/changing inside, after doing something bold or having a challenge in your life.This film was one of the first I saw with Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon( Who would say they would become such famous actors!) and I totally recommend to anyone who wants to watch an interesting and different movie. "}{"Title":"Pure Film Bliss","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If memory serves me correctly, the first time I was about to see Pleasantville I had it fixed in my mind that I would see a fantasy comedy romp that was nothing more than what happened to two teenagers caught in a nineteen fifties black and white television program.  The idea was intriguing enough that I thought the possibilities for comedy and slapstick were endless.  If Pleasantville had been one of those comedy capers churned out by the Disney Studios, I'm sure that is the kind of film I would have seen.  Thanks to direction and writing by Gary Ross, what I got instead was not only film magic of the highest order, but a film with so much more to say, and a film that affected me in ways I never thought possible.  Pleasantville is easily one of the most gratifying film experiences I was privileged to enjoy in the 1990's.Much of the early parts of Pleasantville are as I suspected they would be.  When brother and sister David(Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer(Reese Witherspoon) are sucked into an old black and white sitcom named Pleasantville, courtesy of a TV repairman(Don Knotts), early hilarity ensues as they cope with their situation.  It seems in Pleasantville, everything always has been and always will be Pleasant.  The people of Pleasantville existence remains constant from day to day, never changing, never experiencing sadness, hurt, or anger.  It is a land of Stepford people in a sense, not because the citizens of Pleasantville are robotic, but because they only know the pleasures and joy of the world in which they live.  At first, Bud implores his sister to go along with the program and not to upset the apple cart.  He tells her it could wreck the whole universe of Pleasantville and ruin any chance of them returning to the real world they left behind.  An easy task for the nerdish David(now Bud), who has dealt with the trials and tribulations of the real world by losing himself in the fantasy of the reruns of Pleasantville.  Alas, Jennifer(now Mary Sue), is just the opposite.  In the real world, she is a sluttish boy crazy, cigarette smoking teenager, and the world of Pleasantville is as foreign to her as the clothes she is now forced to wear.  Obviously her resolve to go along with David doesn't last very long.  It is then that, slowly Pleasantville changes from a farce, into a meaningful film experience.As David and Jennifer interact with the people of Pleasantville, the world around them slowly begins to change.  As their classmates and the townspeople learn and experiences things they never dream of, the things around them change from the drabness of black and white to color.  It can be something as small and subtle as a rose blossom or as they find new meaningful changes in their lives some of the inhabitants themselves change from black and white to color.  It is not long before the town is divided into two factions those that have experienced the joys of discovering there is more to life than the every day blandness of living in Pleasantville, and those that wish for Pleasantville to stay exactly as it always has been, never changing, never evolving, forever to remain in the suspended animation of a 50's TV sitcom idea.  There are so many great performances so many well written scenes, so much wonderful cinematography as John Lindley expertly blends together scenes of color and black and white, aided by the most purposeful use of digital effects ever seen in a film.  I could list each acting performance individually be it Maguire or Witherspoon, William H. Macy, or Joan Allan, or Jeff Daniels, but they are all exceptional and there is not enough superlatives to do so.  Add to this a beautifully rendered score by Randy Newman, and you have film perfection.I have viewed Pleasantville a number of times.  With each viewing it holds more fascination for me as I discover little gems one will miss from just having seen it once.  It is one of those films I never tire of watching and for me to run down a list of the wonderful moments encapsulated withing Pleasantville would do nothing more but to spoil those discoveries for yourself.  Much has been written about what Gary Ross may or may not have been trying to say with his film.  For me, Pleasantville says that life is ever changing.  As much as we would like for things always to remain constant, change cannot and will not be held back, nor should it be feared.  More importantly, especially in the times in which we live now, where people are quickly denigrated for opinions and thoughts beyond that of the masses, one should be able to express new ideas and different opinions without fear, without malice, and without contempt.My Grade A+         "},{"Title":"The 50s weren't really that way and the 90s weren't  that great","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The movie is technically clever, well-acted and beautifully photographed - but that's where the good stuff ends.The point of view of this film is that people in the 1950s were stupid, complacent, unaware and uncaring of the world outside their immediate environs. Not so. Furthermore, the film would have the viewer believe that if one drops all sexual inhibitions, whether you're a teenager or a middle aged wife and mother - only then will you be fulfilled. Again, not so. That's how we got the real life screw-ups that show up with Jerry Springer, Maury and Montel on TV every day of the week.To put this film in a historical context, the 50s were really a breathing space for America after saving the world from the Nazis and the Japanese in World War II just a few years before. In the 1950s, the United States was heavily involved in rebuilding those parts of the world devastated by a war they did not start.Before that, Americans had struggled through 12 years of severe economic hardship known as The Great Depression (effectively 1929-1941).In the 1950s, middle America was getting back on its financial feet and raising families. There was peace and the beginning of prosperity for the first time in many years. The U.S. was not filled with innocent, stupid teenagers. High school graduation rates were far higher then than now. The economy was good and unemployment was low. The polio vaccine was developed and cures for other ailments were in the works. Rock and Roll had its beginnings and the space exploration program was started. Civil rights changes were also emerging. For most people it was a very good time. Fast forward 40 years and look at today's crime stats, divorce rates, incurable STDs and high percentage of unwed mothers and consider whether or not the more moralistic 1950s were not a better time. Too many young people look like idiots with their tattoos and piercings and dressing like bums or whores. When did ripped, over-sized jeans falling off your backside become a positive fashion statement? More importantly today, consumption and greed are rampant. The U.S. has lost millions of manufacturing jobs and the borders are wide open driving down wages. It used to be a coveted privilege to emigrate here - now it's a catch and release program at best and English is becoming an optional language. Standards in everything are eroding.Look at the family sitcoms of the late 1990s like Rosanne, Malcolm in the Middle vs. Leave It To Beaver of the late 50s early 60s and consider where you would rather be.Pleasantville is a movie with little understanding and appreciation of the period in American history that it attempts to belittle by its revisionist portrayal.This film is not funny, witty nor insightful. I'm not sure what it was supposed to be. "},{"Title":"Yawn... or Yuck (both apply)","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the most disappointing films I've rented recently.  After reading all the glowing reviews, I had expected something at least as fun as the first Back to the Future movie, but boy, was I ever let down.  First of all, this movie doesn't know what it's even about.  There doesn't seem to be any sort of viable conflict to justify anything that goes on.  The story changes direction several times, but never comes together to add up to anything. The main theme appears to be that the corrupt and decadent 1990's culture is a vast improvement on the boring and innocent 1950's that we've seen depicted in so many old television shows.  What kind of message is that? That aside, this movie is far less entertaining than those same old programs that it makes fun of. The dialog is tedious, the acting shaky, the musical score forgettable, and the visual effects passe.  We've all seen the TV commercials where everything is black and white and yet one person is in color.  That's what this whole movie is based on.  The whole story and all the hub-bub is built around exploiting this one simple visual effect, which gets old really fast.  If you're thinking about renting this loser, forget all the Hollywood hype and save yourself a few yawns put it back on the shelf and find something better.  It won't be hard.  "},{"Title":"Yuck","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is awful. While it contains several good points about the same-old same-old style of Pleasantville,and it's heart is in the right place, there are different ways that they could have made this movie without filling it with sex. I had to watch it in my civics class, since it is so political. In my opinion, the two modern kids totally ruined the society. Sure it was boring, but everyone was happy. The statement it seemed to make is that living in the perfect, happy, albeit corny, world of Pleasentville is not as nice as living in a world of divorce, fighting and promiscuity.How come every time we see a movie about the 50's, movie makers must pervert it? We are all used to seeing the era through Leave it to Beaver coloured glasses, but filmmakers seem to think we would rather see it as today's world fifty years ago. Do you sort of get what I'm saying?Everyone will have different opinions of this movie, but I just gave you mine. Don't rent this movie thinking it's Pleasant (har-de-har), or because Don Knotts is in it. "},{"Title":"Still Pleasant for a second viewing!","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A re-watch of PLEASANTVILLE from writer-director Gary Ross (THE HUNGER GAMES 2012, 7/10) is as pleasant as it the title suggests, a really novel cautionary tale coated with a profound satire milieu. It is a golden idea to juxtapose monochrome with colourful graduation concurring with the evolving storyline. A present-day (1990s) high school siblings David (Maguire) and Jennifer (Witherspoon) have been transported inside their TV, as Bud and Mary Sue, the children of George and Betty Parker (H. Macy and Allen), living in a small black & white town called Pleasantville, based on a sitcom of 1950s where all its residents are also exclusively black and white and comport themselves in a monotonous harmony with storybook unconsciousness of their own feelings, books are blank, toilets are empty spaces, basket-shooting accuracy is 100%, fire and rain are non-existent, parents never hear about sex, the lovey-dovey Lovers' Lane is the place where young couples go for holding hands. In order to get back their life on track until the odd TV repairman (Knotts) is willing to transport them back to reality, David, who is a big fan of the show, proposes they should abide by their characters and act along with rest of the people, but Jennifer is a unchaste nonconformist, on their first night, she has her way with the basketball jock Skip (Walker), like the snake in the Eden, she usher sex in the town, and ignites the ripple effects with colour-transformations (from black & white to multicolour) of the unsophisticated denizens whoever experiences any degree of self-discovery and the objects as well. Betty rejects to be an archetype housewife and finds uninhibited romance with Bud's friend Bill (Daniels), whose untapped talent as a painter also be spontaneously triggered thereafter by her. Meanwhile, David (Bud) and Jennifer (Mary Sue) are also undergoing their own metamorphosis through the revolutionary shift, their own life- changing epiphanies will arrive too although from the mid-stream Jennifer is largely sidelined in the plot while David becomes a pioneering hero to defend his cause to unleash everyone's own feelings from the conservative party leads by mayor Big Bob (Walsh). A great cast of veterans, Joan Allen is the MVP as she stuns the audiences with her elegant flair to bring true vitality to her role, she is the most intrepid person in the film, the ending with an equivocal ménage-à-trois scenario is a big thumb-up to the liberation of feminism. William H. Macy has less showy pieces to perform, but he effuses a drolly naivety all the way through, his final conversion is cliché in the script but he nails it with compelling sympathy. It is also a career-defining role for Reese Witherspoon, her Jennifer is the kind of rebellious kids with an open mind about sex and a hipster's selfishness, as in Alexander Payne's ELECTION (1999, 7/10) one year later. Tobey Maguire has been consistent outstanding in his earlier filmography, not as wide-eyed as he looks, in the films he is always arresting without giving away too much information about his true feelings, it is the real deal to be a star on the big-screen, as SPIDER- MAN trilogy (2002-2007) would prove, which earns him a deluge of money but also ruins his following career, or maybe acting is not the priority in his life now, how pitiful it is. What is not so agreeable in the film? In some way, the script is too idiosyncratic to make the ends meet, one has to be a complete non-skeptic to buy all its castle-in-the-air premise, nevertheless it is a film has its distinct merits, to say the least is Randy Newman's hearty music score and Gary Ross' competence to single-handedly pin down its dystopia nucleus with sterling nostalgia lustre. "},{"Title":"TV time! Remember, you're soaking in it!","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's difficult to find movies with a completely novel concept one hasn't seen before, so in that sense, Pleasantville is one of the more original films you're likely to come across. Occasionally other pictures rely on the black and white/color dichotomy, but this one does so to present an interesting idea. When a person steps outside of their normal comfort zone in the picture, they transform from black and white into color. The concept is then turned on it's head when the majority (the b&w) start to turn on those who have experienced something new (the coloreds). I don't know if that was supposed to be an overt comment on racism or not, but I got that impression, similar to the way the issue of race was handled in the Loki episode of 'Star Trek' back in the 'real' Sixties.It was also pretty cool to see one of the Sixties' most memorable character actors, Don Knotts, in the role of the TV repairman. I'm glad they had his personality toned down as opposed to the brainless deputy Barney Fife he portrayed on the Andy Griffith Show. What a neat way to make the transition from the 1998 (then) present to the decades earlier past. Reading some of the other reviews posted on this board, it's kind of comical to me to see how young present day viewers interpret a past they hadn't lived through and which they can't fully understand. Entertainment media in all forms has undergone a gradual transition over time and what once were taboo subjects for TV like the word 'pregnant', are almost unimaginable today with the way anything goes nowadays. I'm reminded of my own son when he was only about eight years old asking me if when I was a kid, did everything exist in only black and white. "},{"Title":"Good good good movie","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great movie, great concept (and not a rip-off of The Truman Show!) Smacks a wee bit of the racism in the South in the 50s and 60s and of Nazi-ism but doesn't dwell on the fact. Go see it the best movie out in ages as most movies this fall have really really bit! "},{"Title":"Anti-nostalgia for our times.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderful, 'anti-nostalgia' vision of life's entrapments, both then and now. Several shots and scenes are homages to renown films and newsreel images in our collective consciousness. "},{"Title":"I didn't know just how surprised I was while watching this movie","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In the 1950's, television made its breakthrough in American households. Such 1950's television shows like Father Knows Best and Leave It to Beaver hit the airwaves and create a generation of its own kind. But as time went on, television soon began to experiment on controversial social subject matter. Television shows like All in the Family, The Jeffersons and St. Elsewhere told American families and households about certain social issues such as rape, AIDS, the Vietnam War, racism and even sexual oppression. However, there was one television show that was clearly flipped upside-down. That show was called Pleasantville.Pleasantville is a film that I was very surprised by because of its ideology toward different time values. In the 1990's, modest, but shy high-school student David (Tobey Maguire) is a fan of the fictional 1950's TV Sitcom, Pleasantville. His sister, Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon), is not a fan of the show and would rather watch a concert on MTV instead. One night, David is hinted that a Pleasantville marathon is coming on in 20 minutes. But, Jennifer wants to watch the concert that she was waiting for on MTV. In the middle of the scuffle, the TV remote control breaks. An strange and old TV repairman, (Don Knotts) stops by and gives David a very awkward, but very special TV remote control. After the TV repair leaves, the fighting continues and as the fighting goes on, the TV remote control transports both David and Jennifer into Pleasantville itself. Instead of being Jennifer and David, they are both children of Pleasantville parents George (William H. Macy) and Betty (Joan Allen). At first, the siblings decide to play along as the Pleasantville children, Bud and Mary Sue. In the dear old town of Pleasantville, everything is calm. Everything is utopia. But, that's about to change. Soon enough, the world of this peaceful town starts to change for the better. First, Jennifer goes on a date with Skip (Paul Walker) and then goes on to make love to him. That, of course, is the introduction to sex in Pleasantville. In another scenario, Bud introduces books to the teens of the town and in another scene, Mr. Johnson (Jeff Daniels), starts to paint provocative paintings, especially one particular painting involving a nude painting of Betty. After social issues starts to take its toll on Pleasantville, the entire town and citizens starts to turn into Technicolor. The community is split up between people who are black and white and those that are Technicolor. The mayor of Pleasantville, (J.T. Walsh, in his final film role), decides to create a Plesantville code of conduct that somewhat mirrors the Civil Rights movement of the 1960's. It seems that the reason why everyone is turning colors is because of emotions. With that being said, Plesantville doesn't have to be pleasant after all.The movie was directed by Gary Ross, who also worked on previous movies like Big and Dave. This is particularly his best work since the two. The interesting ideas that surrounds this movie is the difference in time values between the 1950's and the 1990's. The movie dares us to ask ourselves, What is our values toward different time eras?. It is a big contrast, yes, but it makes total sense on what certain things have to be like in a community like Plesantville. Back then, Mom always had a freshly cooked meatloaf sitting at the dinner table and Dad always coming to a nice clean house. In this time of age, that's not even presentable. Things have changed over the years in our American social history. And, as we progress toward the future, our values would increasingly differ from our earlier years.One thing that also stuck out to me is the way the movie pays a great deal of contribution to American television. I was around during 1998, which is the year this movie came out. The only thing is that I was just a baby. But, I can tell that in this world, the only things that people are attracted to are the media and the technology advantages that makes this world so much different that that from the 50's. Another film that have used this kind of ideology is Peter Weir's film, The Truman Show, which was released the same year as Pleasantville. I think that these two films really tells us how far we come from a world of both entertainment values and social values.The movie is very well photographed by John Lindley and it creates a Technicolor world of imagination and fantasy. The special effects are marvelous and it works mostly because it blends with the storyline, telling us how this peaceful town get turned into a understandable environment. Even as upcoming movie stars, Tobey Magiure and Reese Witherspoon bring out the charm and humor of their characters and make them into the heroes of Pleasantville. They are smart enough to make this town into understanding their own values toward life and society. Even with that being said, the movie create a sense of unpredictability.Plesantville is a funny, smart and charming fantasy that creates a world full of imagination and wonder. Its look and photography paints a elaborate storyline that moves a certain pace with humor. At first, I didn't know if I like this movie because I have heard of it before. Well, I like it a lot and I do think it's one of the best films of 1998. ★★★★ 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Clever and original","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have to give Pleasantville credit for cleverness, if not outright originality. It is not like anything I have seen recently. I was vaguely aware of the basic premise when the movie came out, probably from reading a review. It was done very well, the symbolism being out there for everyone, but not beating us over the head with it. When the NO COLOREDS sign appeared in a shop window, I was afraid it was going to get ultra-preachy about race, but they just made the point and moved on. Reese Witherspoon was so beautiful here. Apparently she was about twenty-one when it was filmed, but I could see that certain something, the charisma of a movie star. Joan Allen was also very, very good in a somewhat sad part. I resisted watching this film, but wish I hadn't. It's pretty good! "}{"Title":"Sometimes the best parts of ourselves are the ones we leave unexplored","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Through the years, unknowingly really, I have developed into a movie buff. With this being said I find myself intrigued and mesmerized with those deeper movies. By that I don't mean the ones about love altogether but one's that are past the mindless explosions-for-the-sake-of-explosions movies, but use symbolism to relate to the viewer, as well as conveying new ideas in a more thought-provoking manner. So I must say that I was pleasantly surprised with the film. The film begins with a teenager by the name of David, who let's just say does not have the greatest home life. He copes with this by seeking refuge in the 50's perfect world, portrayed in a sitcom called Pleasantville. His sister, Jennifer's character, however is contrary to his. She is wild and enjoys life's thrills, worries about her appearance, and how she is perceived by those around her. The film really begins to take shape as the two characters are actually thrown into the sitcom. In the sitcom, all the characters are black and white but as David and his sister bring imperfection to their world they begin to see colors appearing on certain people in the sitcom. It seems that things such as sex, violence, sadness, and other feelings that are not pleasant trigger the change in color.However, it is not the corruption that causes color in Pleasantville, rather it symbolizes when people live life to the fullest with a wide array of feelings, not just the good, but the bad too, all of themselves. So when the black and white characters begin to experience some of these new feelings such as love they begin really living. The beauty of the color as opposed to black and white also symbolizes the beauty in living life to the fullness. The symbolic reasons as to why people obtain color is perhaps best evident (as well as the 'courtroom scene', which was one of my favorite scenes) when David and his sister are one of the last of the main characters to obtain color. David obtains color when he stands up for his mother. This displays David exercising an unexplored side of his personality, where he generally is content with his life and what is happening. But his stepping out of his comfort zone causes him to live a fuller life. His sister obtains color when she reads a book and genuinely enjoys it. This symbolizes that the best parts of themselves, the parts they never knew existed were there all along and once you experience all of life, its beauty and majesty, then can we live full lives, and in doing so we may have to do things out of the status quo (as Bud and Mr.Johnson did when they painted the mural on the wall, knowing they would be persecuted and ridiculed by other members of the town). Another great use of symbolism is the ending when Jennifer chooses to stay in Pleasantville, while Bud chooses to go back to his imperfect world. This shows that Bud, although wishing he could live in Peasantville originally, realized that a perfect world has no surprises, no newness to it and that he should embrace his imperfect world, as he realized in his time in Pleasantville. He also realized that he should just live and not expect things to be a certain way and that life will be life and it was meant to be lived to the fullest of our potential and embraced. While, his sister though wild at the start and hated Pleasantville originally, found that the best part of her was her thirst for knowledge and new love of literature, something in which she never knew she had in her. Besides the great theme, and beautiful portrayal through various accounts of symbolism there were also wonderful casting done in this film, as well as wonderful performances particularly by Maguire, and Daniels. I would highly recommend the film to those in search of the deeper film "},{"Title":"Pleasantville has come home to roost","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A really great movie. Not only a great fictional story, but non fiction as well. Pleasantville has appeared on my cable system several times in the past few weeks and I have watched it almost every time. I was struck by the similarities between events in this movie and what we are experiencing today. There are some people who are able to change and grow easily in this movie, as there are in our world today. And then there are those who yearn for a return to the bygone days, with their traditional values and interest in the status quo. I was struck by the resemblance between the Pleasantville chamber of commerce and how they discouraged any sort of thought, and the Tea Party supporters that we hear all the time talking about their wish to reinstate those same types of traditional values. At least in the movie, those who develop the ability to think and feel emerge the victors. "},{"Title":"Insanely clever","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie isn't as much a finished story as it is a wonderous collage of funny little things. Two kids from the MTV generation getting stuck in the unbearably pleasant world of a 50s television show is a truly brilliant concept, but it's the execution that's the real winner. I particularly loved the scenes that mixed B&W and color, not only because of the technical skills involved but mainly for what they represented. The intruders slowly cause a revolution among the villagers, a plot element that is absolutely beautifully done. Nothing burns in Pleasantville, there are no toilets, nobody knows what sex means, it's all just very witty. In the end few things are answered, but by then you just won't have the energy to be mad at the movie. Quite a good film. "},{"Title":"Premise Is Great, But Couldn't Someone Else Have Directed This?","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A fabulous premise is undermined by Gary Ross's cavity-inducing tendency toward syrupy sentimentality.Two modern-day teens (Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) are magically transplanted into a perfect and perfectly oppressed small town in the 1950s. Once there, they begin to awaken in the townsfolk yearnings and ideas that haven't yet occurred to them. The film's gimmick, and it's a great one, is that the 1950s portions are filmed in black and white that begins slowly to turn to color as the town begins to blossom.The production design alone is interesting enough to make the film worth sitting through, and thank God for that, because director Gary Ross certainly doesn't do his part to help. A graduate of the Ron Howard school of film directing, he thinks every thought and emotion in a film needs to be telegraphed to his audience with sledgehammer force, making the film at times too maudlin to bear.Grade B "},{"Title":"Colorful.","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a pretty good movie to watch if there is nothing else on TV. It's about this brother and sister who get trapped into a stereotype 1950's TV show and it's all black and white. The brother and sister get in there and mess around with the show and colors appear and the people change. The movie really messed with my rods and cones because I had to sort out who was in color and who wasn't. That was annoying but the whole story is pretty good. The people change with the colors or they stay black and white. The scene in the bathtub is pretty funny and unexpected. I didn't like the part where the father came home and asked where his dinner was about 40 times. He should have just made his own dinner and I was yelling at him to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. No wonder he was eating cocktail olives.From watching it, my eyes now hurt. "},{"Title":"Very innovative and visually stunning","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Highly original, visually stunning, and very funny, with a great satiric message to boot. Really the only things that don't work for this film are the heavy-handedness of the happy ending - way too cheezy - and Tobey Maguire - who I really, really, really, really don't like. Everyone else in the cast is fantastic and the story, when it's subtle, is right on. But the real highlight of this film is the stunning visual effects. The gradual change from black and white to colour is superbly executed and makes for some very visually striking moments. It's one thing to see colour inserts in a black and white film - that's nothing new - but it's quite another to see black and white inserts in a colour film. And the way that the gradual turn into colour is actually the story as well - fantastic. It's a bit cringe-worthy at times - mostly in moments involving Tobey - but it's very entertaining and quite innovative. "},{"Title":"The voice of change, and the discovery within.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I find that ti's movie is an absolute favorite of mine and has been a topic of many discussions on social interactions. The basic plot, of two 90's era teens being transported into a late 50's era sitcom, and how their actions affect to world around them, and the people that they are encountering, is dramatic and fascinating to watch. On the surface, we ave a self discovery movies as two people encounter them selves through difficult situations, and open up to their own full potential as they open up the full potential of other people. However, as we dig deeper, we find that the people are dealing with some basic human emotions and struggling with identity shift, in very violent ways as their simple and unchanging world encounters the depth and rich color of emotions that are not tied down to expectations.I find that this movie is a must see for all people who work and live in social environments, and it tells how easily fear, and prejudice against the other can cause a Nazi like mentality to spread like wild fire. "},{"Title":"Reese Witherspoon's Breakout Role","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Just saw this wonderful movie again today (Sunday). I agree with many of the things said earlier about the main theme that life involves taking the good with the bad.When I saw this movie for the first time, Reese Witherspoon's performance knocked my socks off. This was the first time I had seen her on the big screen and I knew from the first that she was a wonderful actress and was destined for a great career. Having said that, I think that Joan Allen's performance was also superb, but then, she's always superb.This is one of my favorite movies of the last ten years. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film with more depth then you see at first","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" At first, the plot seems quite obvious and not a whole lot challenge you. But as the film progresses, you realize there is more to this film then the complications of traveling from the 90's to the classical 50's. I loved this film and was stunned by the depth it showed. It was surprising, but I can understand that some might not see this. This is also a good feature with Pleasantville. It works very good (Specially with the acting of the wonderful Reese Witherspoon) in one level, but it can take you up another level as well, if you choose to be receptive to this.It is definitely worth seeing, since it all blends together perfectly. Acting, sound, picture and context makes for an experience. Joan Allen portrays Betty Parkers silent questioning and discovering in such a heartbreaking way. She and Reese Witherspoon (Who plays Jennifer) almost makes the whole movie worth watching just because of their incredible acting. "},{"Title":"A pleasant movie","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is a movie worth seeing. It is extremely charming and sweet. It shows how dull our world if it were just black and white. The set design is gorgeous and so is the cinematography. The acting in this movie is superb. This movie definitely should be on the list of to 250 movies. It is very well made. Pleasantville tells the story of a teenage boy (played by Toby Maguire) and his sister (played by Reese Witherspoon) who find a magical remote control and are transported into a black and white '50's sitcom. The town in the show is called Pleasantville. The people of Pleasantville are very limited in terms of life. They have not discovered many things yet, and the town lacks color. But when Bud and Betty (the boy and his sister) teach the people about things they have never experienced or know of before, the town becomes exciting and colorful.One of the best scenes in the entire film The best scene is when Bud and Betty go to lovers lane. They are driving in the car as they see the world changing colors. Flower petals turn pink and fall from the trees. It is a gorgeous landscape and extremely pretty.Another of the greatest scenes is when Bud goes to his mother in the kitchen. She is colored. He takes her gray makeup and paints her face with it to cover up her color. Then, she looks exactly the same as she did before. Her husband can not tell the difference. "}{"Title":"The human condition presented in black and white","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I recently re-watched this gem of a movie. This is, by far, one of my favorite films to date. This initially appears to be a somewhat light film about 2 modern day characters ( Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) that have a run-in with Don Knotts as a T.V. repairmen. The outcome of which ends them both in the T.V. show of Pleasantville. A place where the temperature is always 72 degrees, the sun always shines, and everything is in black and white, and ...pleasant.After the initial shock wears off, both characters discover how 2-dimensional the characters in Pleasantville are. They find themselves as the main characters in a 50's T.V. show as children of George and Betty Parker. The actors in this film do a phenomenal job portraying a life devoid of passion. They find that all of the characters go about life in a mechanical fashion, without any knowledge of lust, hope, grief, or anger.Reese's character (Jennifer) quickly turns to her old ways, and promptly takes her 'boyfriend' (Paul Walker of The Fast and the Furious fame) to lovers lane. She shows him the joys of sex, at which point, the exodus from Eden begins. Shortly after Paul drops Reese off at home, he sees a single red rose. By red, I mean this is the only non black and white thing in Pleasantville. From here on the movie reaches out and grabs you. It turns into a cascading affect of self discovery, both good and bad for the citizens of Smallville. Initially all of the high school kids enter onto this path, as glimpses here and there of pink bubble gum, neon signs at the local hang out/diner, rose red lips, and curiosity about the previously unknown world outside of Pleasantville. The Diner and Lovers lane become a place of color in a black and white world with many allegories to The Garden of Eden.They discover things like love, lust, wonder about the world around them. This is where I disagree with many of the reviews here. This is a movie about passion. You have to look beyond the first and most obvious things that curious teenagers do. The changes in the children begin to happen with the parents. Suddenly dinner isn't cooked and ready at 6. A wife burns her husband's shirt with a iron because she was daydreaming. They see rain and rainbows in Technicolor for the first time, and a tree in front of the Parkers' household bursts into flame as the mother (Joan Allen) pleasures herself in the bathroom (with a little instruction from Reese Witherspoon on the facts of life). These scenes are all tastefully done.From here the film takes a turn into the darker side of human emotion. Soon, the 'coloreds' are drawing attention to the fact that things are changing in Pleasantville. Signs stating that no coloreds are allowed start appearing on Main Street while the coloreds continue to explore themselves and the world around them. Angry mobs begin to form, trying to stamp out any sign of change. As each person discovers passion in some form (whether hate, love, lust, bigotry, grief, regret), they turn into coloreds who then initially hide in the local soda shop, desperate to escape the angry mobs outside. A new city ordinance is passed declaring what music is acceptable, and what colors are safe (as long as they are a shade of gray).Jeff Daniels also shines here as the local Diner owner. He finds himself attracted to Miss Parker, who in turn finds herself drawn to him even though her character is 'happily' married. Daniels also finds he has a passion for art. He goes from a mechanical shop keeper to a person in love, who also stands defiant with Tobey Maguire in painting a naked mural showing Miss Parker. This sets off a riot, and ends with the Diner being trashed and a bonfire culminating in a book burning. Some of these moments have you sitting with a lump in our throat from the raw emotion the visuals and the music evoke from this film.Suffice it to say; this is one of the finest and most original films I've ever seen, and certainly not to be missed. For those that think this is an attack on moral values, you have missed the point. This is not about lust, or promiscuity. It simply shows that were are all human. We make mistakes. We love. We live. As a result, we have passions of which sometimes you cannot control. "},{"Title":"How pleasant is Pleasantville?","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was born in 1954, so I have no specific memories of the '50s (except maybe for starting school in 1959). But I've seen Father Knows Best, Ozzie and Harriet, The Donna Reed Show, Andy Griffith, etc., all of which provided the black-and-white idealized fictions of American life that are the subjects of Gary Ross's movie Pleasantville.Why have I seen this movie about 15 times and watch it again every chance I get? I keep asking myself, if I had the same opportunity as David and Jennifer had in this movie, would I succeed in gently moving these black-and-white stereotypes of living human beings toward greater acceptance of life, self, and others? Could I help them see all the colors? I'd probably screw it up and make some unintended changes in the future as we have lived it. Could we avoid blurting out, say, that we survive the Cold War and that the Soviet Union ceases to exist - in 1991? Could we avoid talking about the Vietnam War and what a disaster that was? Should we mention the political assassinations of the 1960s, and Watergate? Maybe hardest of all, suppose we interacted with our parents, grandparents or other family members - would we have the strength to again see them as living people when we also know that they died during our lifetime? Others may feel more equal to the task, but I don't think that I could do it without ruining the future. "},{"Title":"Anti-Communist?","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is an unusual movie; one about culture, family, freedom, love and even color! The casting is perfect, special kudos to Macey, who was born for the role.  My main problem with the movie is that it goes on too long and thus loses part of the impact of its 'message'.  Also, did anyone else spot the anti-communist/Nazi subplot?  Extra points for the premise, script and music.Best bit When Jeff Daniels is looking through the art bookWorst bit The over the top trial 7/10 "},{"Title":"A quiet, little masterpiece","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very nicely constructed allegory for both the US in the 1960s and western civilisation from the dark ages to now. As a history lesson, Pleasantville was almost magical in the way it revealed the role of art and literature (not to mention guilt-free sex) in elevating humankind to greater heights while demonstrating the dark forces that have always fought this progress. The good old boys of Pleasantville don't look particularly nice but their kind weren't particularly nice during all of western civilisation's progroms against people who were different. Having said that, the film is never cynical about small-town USA or the people who live there. In fact, it's a warm and affectionate nostalgia for either the director or writer's memory of the good old days. Pleasantville does get a bit cornball at times but nothing is too overstated or sentimental as to undermine the package -- which includes a fine cast delivering some pretty good performances, a great soundtrack and some very amusing one-liners (my favourite We're safe, we're in a bowling alley.) in an otherwise user-friendly and thought-provoking polemic. "},{"Title":"A powerful and beautiful film","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  On paper a story about a brother and sister getting zapped into a kickback leave it to beaver type show doesn't sound all that interesting, but Pleasantville is a stunning film.The story, along with the cinematography works magic.  The use of color, or lack there of works two different ways.  First, it makes the story a whites and colored film.  It's about oppression based on your color.  This film tries to show, and i think succeeds in showing how closed minded people can be when it comes to the color of your skin.  The other reason that the use of black and white and color is a good idea is because of how they deal with it.  You become color by discovering something inside yourself, something you never saw...a passion, a understanding.  The film implies how learning about ourselves gives up a favor, makes us all colorful.Gary Ross does a great job at the filming of this.  The look of the film, the shot selection and the angles shown to be shot at are amazing. The acting is amazing.  I'm not a fan of Reese (aka Greesy Reesy) but she did a really good job in this film.  Macy was good as always, and all the supporting cast did their role above average.  That brings me to Tobey.  Tobey is one of the best young actors that i've seen.  He doesn't get by on his looks (freddie prinze), he gets by on homely looks, and straight up amazing and stunning acting skills.  Tobey will be around, being in great films like Pleasantville and Cider House Rules for a long time to come.You know, i really can't say enough about this film.  Not only does it look beautiful, but it carries a heavy message if you just watch with open eyes.  I really don't understand how people can not like this movie.  This movie is an amazing film, that didn't get the credit that it deserved but thats fine because people that discover this film wont be sorry.  Life isn't always pleasant, but that's what makes us unique and special....life is only what you see when you really open your eyes. "},{"Title":"Great Film-Making Techniques, But Only a Good Film","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is truly original and impressive, but still misses the mark with its disjointed message.  Two teenagers (Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) get sucked into a television show named Pleasantville and they immediately start to change the show's universe with their 1990s-style of life.  While the changes open the eyes of the inhabitants, it also creates knowledge and this is not necessarily a good thing.  People who evolve within the black-and-white program turn to color and all of a sudden there is a new way of life that has its advantages and disadvantages.  Prejudices begin to run rampant and a once peaceful place is being turned into a cess-pool of poor elements.  However, the film-makers try to show that all these changes are great to life itself.  In a way they have a great message, but in another way they turn something that is already great into something trivial.  Pleasantville is a good-looking movie, but its screenplay is not very smart at all.  The performances from top to bottom save this project which was very close to being a disaster.  4 stars out of 5.     "},{"Title":"Very good, certainly worth seeing.","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The premise is simple, but it gets developed fairly well. All the characters are satisfactorily fleshed out, no pun intended. I especially liked Joan Allen.  She has a certain presence that is unexplainable, and mesmerizing. (Her beauty may have something to do with it...)Some of the points the movie was trying to make were not clear, or conflicting, or inconsistent.  I eventually stopped trying to determine what Gary Ross was attempting to convey, and just enjoyed the movie viscerally. That worked better.Before seeing it, I was reminded of Truman, like many other people were. What really surprised me, more than anything, is that not once during the movie did I ever think of that comparison.This movie is technically brilliant, with regard to special effects.  This is almost enough by itself to make it worth a look.Go see it, it's well worth it.  "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasentville is a very surprising and excellent movie.  When I saw this movie I didn't know what to expect.  The underlining plot is that two teenagers are fighting over a remote and are sucked into an old tv show called Pleasantville.  The two teenagers bring their world with them and transform the black and white town into color.  However, this is done very gradually, and this makes for very cool b & w mixed with color effects.  The film covers issues like racism, emotion, and just having a good time.  Even though the plot is weird, I know it's probably been done before.  But this movie is done in such an innovative way that it is an instant classic.  This movie will definitely be in the Oscar race, and has a good chance at winning.  I guess what I'm trying to say is that Pleasantville is swell! "},{"Title":"The Color Of Life, The Joy Of Life Is It's Diversity","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" One of the most charming fantasies ever put on film was what Gary Ross did in the film Pleasantville. It's subtle message about tolerance for diversity ought to be required viewing for those of us who make public policy and influence public opinion.Television of the Fifties seems to have fashioned an image of the American family that permeates our political views and social mores right down to today. Not that families were any better or worse during the Fifties, but the image that television created with families from Ozzie and Harriet, Leave It To Beaver, Father Knows Best, right through to the Brady Bunch seem to set impossible standards. Including a favorite of mine, the Donna Reed Show which I believe was the model for the Parker family in Pleasantville. Starting with your's truly, I don't know anyone who had an upbringing like in a TV family.Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon play a pair of current teens who don't have the greatest of home lives. Maguire is a nerdy kid and Witherspoon is a very serious version of Kelly Bundy who thinks if she sleeps around, she'll be popular and hasn't much interest in education.One night while Witherspoon is running late for a date and Maguire is getting ready for a marathon showing of the popular Fifties family comedy Pleasantville the remote breaks down. As if by magic, a TV repairman played by Don Knotts shows up with a very special remote. As Witherspoon and Maguire fight over the remote by magic they are transported into the television set and become part of the self contained universe of Pleasantville. Oh, and they are in black and white as the show was taped back in the day. So with their new identities from the teenage kids of the Parker family with ideal mom and dad Joan Allen and William H. Macy, Maguire and Witherspoon seek to adjust to a new life in television land. But just the introduction of these two into this well ordered universe changes things, first in the most subtle ways and then as both realize the problems with this world in more direct ways. As the change comes, color comes slowly creeping into the black and white images. Pleasantville got Oscar nominations for Art&Set Design, Original Score, and Costume Design unfortunately not winning any. However it won Saturn Awards for Tobey Maguire and Joan Allen for Best Actor and Supporting Actress in a Science Fiction film. I prefer to think of it as a fantasy rather than a science fiction film, though I can see that science fiction certainly influenced the creation. It combines the best elements of a Star Trek TNG pair of episodes involving Data and LeForge with a holodeck character based on Professor Moriarty and how he's dealt with and an original episode involving Kirk and Spock and some of the rest of the crew landing on a planet where the philosophy of a former sage named Landru is enforced vigorously. There's a bit of the Stepford Wives here as well.In fact in the role of the head of the Pleasantville Men's Association is J.T. Walsh in a farewell performance. Such things that don't fit his ideas and those of an influential few are just not permitted in their paradise. Pleasantville is also the last big screen appearance of Don Knotts, an interesting choice for the TV repairman as he was a regular on the most wholesome Andy Griffith Show.Pleasantville is one of the best films of the last decade of the last century. It illustrates that humanity's real strength is in its diversity and how we respect that diversity. It's what brings out the best in the human character, in the human spirit. "},{"Title":"A rich, deeply textured portrait of suburban conformism vs individual escapism","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is a truly extraordinary experience. Not to mention rewarding. Far more than you might imagine. It really is a wonderful film. I can't praise it enough. It is so good. And intelligent. And entertaining. All qualities in short supply in films nowadays but are in Pleasantville by the bucketload.Pleasantville was a little overshadowed in 1998 by The Truman Show, even though they're equally great films. But although they cover similar ground, they are quite different. They share the same conceit of television thrust upon the unsuspecting individual, but the worlds they inhabit are diametrically opposed. Truman's world was an artificial construct designed for him to interact with. But in the case of Pleasantville, this is a self-contained world with actual people who inhabit it. But all within the boundaries of television programming.Pleasantville is actually a 1950s sitcom. A cosy, b/w world of picket fences, malt shops and bowling alleys. Everyone is happy. Everyone lives normal, untroubled lives. The weather is always perfect. And the people are perfectly content.In our world, David (Tobey Maguire) is a social outcast at school. And he has a distant relationship with his Mum and rebellious sister Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon). His only means of escape is the uncomplicated world of Pleasantville. While waiting for a Pleasantville marathon, a TV repairman turns up, and gives David a new remote control. When Jennifer wants to watch something else, they fight over the remote, and end up zapped inside Pleasantville.Taking on the characters of Bud and Mary-Sue, David and Jennifer begin to explore this new world. Their fictional parents are George and Betty Parker (two wonderful performances from William H Macy and especially Joan Allen). George is the strait-laced Father Knows Best, and Betty is the happy homemaker. But they're not really people. They're two-dimensional characters inhabiting a flat, insular, sexless, joyless environment.The first half of the film is enjoyable because it allows us time to speculate what the film might be about. Perhaps a witty, even gently scathing satire on classic American sitcoms and family values. Where these people are so touching in their naiveté, and so willing to believe in the noble intentions of others. But as the film progresses, it soon becomes more than enjoyable. It becomes extraordinary.Jennifer is unhappy. Geography lessons only consist of the world of Pleasantville. Books have no writing in them. Parents sleep in separate beds. And no-one has ever heard of sex. Jennifer changes that when she introduces the concept of sex to the captain of the basketball team. In Pleasantville, nobody ever loses at basketball. They make a basket every time. But now, after having sex, the captain misses. And that's only the beginning.David and Jennifer's presence begins to introduce startling changes. The kids are the first ones to notice. The basketball team are now missing almost every time. They're all discovering the sexual act. And their behaviour is starting to change. They actually now have a thirst for knowledge. After Jennifer accidentally introduces them to the joys of reading, now that the books are no longer blank, the kids want to learn more about the world beyond Pleasantville. A concept completely alien to them before.The characters of Pleasantville are beginning to think for themselves. They're becoming self-aware. And eventually, their self-discovery develops to the point where they're no longer two-dimensional, b/w caricatures. But fully realised, three-dimensional, in-colour, individuals.Director Gary Ross is careful the way he introduces colour into the picture. It happens gradually. Like a red rose in a grey flower-bed. Or a green neon sign in a b/w background. The way colour is utilised in this film is superb. The in-colour people stand out with an astonishing beauty. Or the breathtaking scene when David is driving through a b/w grove showered by pink cherry blossoms. Those scenes resonate with a vitality that is just wonderful to watch.Eventually the adults start to catch on too. It's marvellously satisfying when Betty learns about orgasms from Jennifer, and as she slowly breaks out of the confines of her character, she eventually learns the joy of thinking for one's self. Initially when she goes to colour, she at first tries to hide it with makeup.But when she meets Mr Johnson (Jeff Daniels), the owner of a diner, she starts to reconsider her position. Mr Johnson discovers self-awareness through artistic expression. He loves to paint now that colour has entered the world of Pleasantville. And when he paints a portrait of Betty, she comes to cherish her individuality.Because of the sweeping changes, not everyone welcomes them. Big Bob (J T Walsh's final film role), the mayor insists on things staying the way they always have. And unites the people against the 'coloureds.'First and foremost, Pleasantville is a film of ideas. And its never short of them. Gary Ross manages to find an astonishing level of nuances, as well as a rich subtext. Covering everything from racism, feminism, teenage rebellion, homosexuality, sexual awareness and so on. It communicates the ideal of the sharing of new ideas through art, philosophy, literature, and how change is necessary for a society to survive. The people in b/w represent those opposed to change. The acting is wonderful throughout, and I love the way the people become proud of their new identitiesGeorge Betty, whatever's happening to you. It will go away. Betty What if I don't want it to go away?The final scenes are exhilarating, as the whole town goes to colour. It appears so vibrant and beautiful, my heart soared with joy. The music is perfectly matched to the tone as well, creating joyous surges of well-being. I could go on praising Pleasantville all day. I love it so much. A true, modern classic. And a potent, symbolic message of hope and new ideals.Wonderful! Simply wonderful! "}{"Title":"Why all the low scores?","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I realize that my comment may be about 5 years too late, but I have read a good deal of the comments posted about Pleasantville, and I think that some people have been overly harsh. In my personal opinion, a movie is unlike a book in that there are many things aside from the symbolism or opinions expressed that have to be taken into consideration when reviewing it (for example, cinematography, lighting, acting, casting, soundtrack, etc.). When you see a movie, you may disagree with the message that the director is trying to force upon the audience, but giving a rating of 1 seems a little too stingy. If you want to get into an academic or political debate, I'm sure that there are a lot of people who would be willing to disagree with your point of view. However, you would be grievously mistaken to write all people with different opinions off as stupid. it is inevitable that people will disagree about things. The director of the movie obviously has a certain idea of what life should be like; whether or not you agree with that is your business. I understand the arguments that some have posed regarding this movie, even if I don't entirely agree with the assumptions that they have made. The difference is I don't write them off as stupid people (i wouldn't give you a intelligence rating of 1 just because i disagree with you). In any case, there are other factors to consider when rating a movie. People who gave a rating of 1 failed to mention any of the other aspects of the movie (for example, were you as displeased with the acting as much as you were with the writing?). In short, I loved Pleasantville. I think that it was entertaining, as well as thought provoking. At the same time, it appeals to many different audiences (much like Shakespeare did). I think that this is the mark of a good film. Even if you disagree with some of the ideals that are presented in the movie, you would be hard pressed to criticize the soundtrack or cinematography of Pleasantville (not to mention the acting). Personally, I wouldn't be willing to spend time writing a several paragraph review of a movie that only got a score of 1. It simply wouldn't be worth my time. In my opinion, a 1 would be a movie with no redeeming qualities that I could not watch start to finish. I seriously doubt that this is the case with people who gave Pleasantville such a low score. If you have not seen Pleasantville, do so now. It is definitely worth watching once, if not many times. "},{"Title":"An IMMENSELY underrated film!","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I managed to catch Pleasantville when it was aired on TNT, and even though I only saw the last half of it, I liked what I saw immediately.  When the movie was commercially released, I didn't think a whole lot of it, thinking that it looked cookie-cutter, and now I feel that I've missed out, and have since brought it on DVD.I'm not going to go into the storyline synopsis, since so many of you probably already have seen it from the movie's main page.  I will, however, give examples of how this movie works.First of all, the special effects; this is a movie where the special effect enhance the story instead of them taking the place of the story.  The mixture of black-and-white with color is absolutely remarkable.  In my opinion, the characters changing from black-and-white to color is attributed to them breaking away from their normal routines and becoming more of a three-dimensional kind of person.  For example, Reese Whitherspoon's character is promiscuous and not intrested in doing much with her life,but when she  starts to read and study, she realizes that there is more to life than the next date.  Same with Tobey Maguire's character; when he gets sucked into that TV world, he's pretty introverted, not very quick to socialize.  As the days go by, he in a sense is responsible for instigating the rebellious nature of the other teenagers, and it hits a peak when he introduces violence to the town, even though he's defending his TV mother. It's at this point that he realizes that it's not supposed to be perfect...it's not 'supposed to be' anything.Another big aspect that makes Pleasantville work is the character development.  In a sense, all of the characters are major stereotypes of themselves, but as the movie goes on, each character tends to become self-aware.  Several of the black-and-white characters are fighting so hard to keep the status quo that the characters in color are starting to become repressed (a rather obvious reference to segregation).There are several other parallels in the story (garden of eden, kristallnacht, etc), there are too many to mention in this one review. I'd just like to conclude by saying that I really recommend this movie to anyone who would be intrested in a good story and not just Hollywood pandering. It's not the perfect movie in the world, but definately one that people should take a cue from.Grade A "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Films of All-Time","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  (The following discusses and analyzes plot, characters and themes in detail. Those not wanting to receive spoilers should not read this review.)Very rarely do I fall in love with a movie and want to watch it over and over again.  Casablanca is one such film for me and another is Pleasantville.  Watching Pleasantville was one of the most magical film experiences of my life.The idea behind the story is simple.  Take modern teenagers and transport them into the candy-coated 1950s world of a Leave-It-To Beaver television show.  However, producer-writer-director Gary Ross transcends the Jetsons Meet the Flintstones story idea and uses it as a starting point to create a modern fable of shockingly refreshing wisdom.The movie begins in modern day where High School students sit bored as their teachers educate them as to the plagues of modern times -- global warming, sexually transmitted diseases, and other horrors.  It is at this point we meet nerdy David, played by the amazing Tobey Maguire.  David and his sister Jennifer, played by the irrepressible Reese Witherspoon, are children of divorce.  David has a passion for an old 1950s show named Pleasantville where at all times things are pleasant.  His passion for the show is that of a zealous Star Trek fan who knows every line of every episode.  There is poignancy to David's obsession, because the viewer understands that Pleasantville is an escape to a more stable family environment than the one fate has provided for him.However, fantasies often come crashing down when attempted in real life. In a surprising magical leap through the television (supplied by the lovable Don Knotts), David and Jennifer are transported into the Pleasantville black-and-white TV world.  Until they can figure out how to return home, they live the lives of characters Bud and Mary Sue Parker.For Jennifer, a sexually liberated teen, Pleasantville is a drag, so she attempts to introduce modern sexual liberation into the Pleasantville world.  Instantly color is introduced on to the screen.  A rose is shown as true, brilliant red.  When word spreads that love can be expressed in physical form, many younger and older couples begin to have sex.  Some who have sex become colored while others remain black-and-white.  There is a mystery as to why some become colored while others do not.Bud and Jennifer begin talking to students and citizens of Pleasantville about the greatest works in English literature and the greatest paintings in the world, and lines form at the library while impressionist, cubist and modern art begins to appear on the Soda Shop front window.  The people engaging in these passionate ventures are turned from black-and-white to color.It is at this point that we understand the logic.  It is not the act of sex or the mere act of reading a book that turns the characters colored.  It is the passion for creativity, imagination and love that makes the change when ignited in each individual's soul.While change occurs, some in Pleasantville fear change.  The Chamber of Commerce, led by the town's mayor Big Bob (in the last towering performance of J.T. Walsh) takes action to quash the sexually suggestive paintings and books.  They are blind to the imagination and passion going on all around them.  All they see is dirty filthy smut.  They organize a book burning, and create rules of conduct that forces all residents of Pleasantville to act as they did before David and Jennifer entered their world, including the requirement that the only colors allowed are black, white and gray and all citizens must remain pleasant at all times.  I won't give away the end here.When one finishes viewing this masterpiece, one remembers it started out from a simple story idea and ends in book burnings, mob violence, and a defense of creativity and brilliance.  It debunks and criticizes those in public life that would keep our minds small and our ambition to be different even smaller.When this movie came out, it received a lot of criticism from the religious right and radio-talk show hosts like, Dr. Laura Schlesinger, who like the Chamber of Commerce, only saw dirty filthy smut.  They complained that this movie encouraged promiscuity.  It goes without saying that these groups and individuals entirely missed the point.  The movie was explicit that having sex did not change a character from black-and-white to color.  Only true passion and love for something new would do that.  These criticisms remind us that people like the Chamber of Commerce characters do actually exist. They are the ones that ban books, enforce rigid codes of conduct, and protest art that pushes the limit of what a narrow conservative few expect.Pleasantville is one of the most beautifully filmed, thoughtful, and mesmerizing films that I have ever watched in my life. "},{"Title":"Does this Movie Have a Point?","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Every commercial I debated whether I should turn this movie off. Finally I decided that perhaps it was going somewhere, and it would be interesting to see where it was going. Well, it went nowhere. I'll admit, it was very funny at some points. The naivety of the people could be very funny.The actors were good. I've become a fan of Tobey Maguire even though I haven't liked either of the movies I've seen him in.Nevertheless, this movie made no sense. Even if you call it a fairytale, fairytales live by rules, too. If there were no rules in a fairytale there would be no conflict because the hero would just think the dragon defeated. All worlds need rules. I can be led into accepting, for the sake of the story, that two kids can be sucked into the TV world. This is acceptable for the fairytale. But in the end, a rule was broken. It made no sense. I kept repeating, they can't do that! They didn't explain how it could be done, or what the results were--the movie just ended. They broke a rule and didn't explain it to make it believable.I was bored throughout the movie. The ending just made me extremely annoyed. "},{"Title":"More than a few technical flaws, but...so what?","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  More than a few inconsistencies in this film. For example, if no world exists outside of Pleasantville (remember the Geography class?), then who the heck has the basketball team been playing??? And if the characters have no past (and no future) then how can Bud's dad be moved at the end of the movie by Bud's suggestion that he remember how lovely his wife had looked when they first met??? And if he did remember that, then that must have been before Bud showed up, and if that is true, then how did Bud, in the double bed, sexless world of Pleasantville, come to exist???But who cares? This was one of the more moving films I've seen in awhile. I loved how the characters unfold right before your very eyes. And this has not all that much to do with the color gimmick--it's about the people realizing the color in themselves that's always been hidden just beneath the surface.This is really a very good movie to watch by yourself.To make you think.And to make you feel. "},{"Title":"For every season turn ,turn ,turn","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie should have won first prize at the box office. Remember this movie, and once seen through the eyes of an average intelligent human being, you wont forget how there is hope for the American culture A gentle comedy yet also a drama. I must say that this movie will enhance the audience and will open people up if they are willing to take the time and go deep into the valley of their mind. Pleasantville will change you, I am not joking!The movie makes an entrance at poking fun of those old sitcoms as spoofs like Leave it to beaver Father Knows Best The Andy Griffith, Dick Van Dyke but ends up becoming one perfect political satire statement.This is a follow up of the book Fahrenheit 451 as well as The Truman Show but with a different twist. All the people in Pleasantville, as well as us (The audience member) , are though how we must live through change! At first, pleasantville is seen as this quiet little perfect simple minded community, where Everything is good with the world but then we learn that even though everyone is happy in Pleasantville, inside they are actually miserable. And we all learn quick that the only disturbance in Pleasantville is cats getting stuck in trees! There are no opportunities in Pleasantville, without this, progression cease to exist, without progression, there are no challenges, without challenges, there are no problems. No problems, no in dependency = no means to live. So really the people are dead in Pleasantville and live in this very boring circle where they do the same things over and over again. Really, they're living a quiet communism.But David and Jennifer (the characters who were zapped into their TV sets who end up in Pleasantville ) unknowingly are about to change this world for the better. They share to the world of Pleasantville their culture from the 1990's, and from there progression took place. People then had sex for the first time, basketball shots were missed, the ended up losing their first basketball game ever, and it later brought a bit of color to the town and opportunity. Yes, riots broke out, but they then learned how to defend themselves. So therefore, this movie was also about being afraid of change and how to deal and become accustom to it.We now assume to live in a very fast paced world, filled with rudeness, independently and danger. We assume that the Old days were BETTER But they are not. Learn that something just wasn't right. Somehow there is an attachment and we learn from the townspeople of Pleasantville of how to be a little more modest and polite, and the pleasantville residents learn to be a little more assertive and independent. Let our boundaries expand!9.2/10 A- "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, surprising, a little heavy-handed","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, it sounded pretty silly to me -- two teenagers are transported from the 90's to the make-believe world of a 50's television show.  Since it was marketed as a comedy at first, it didn't sound all that appealing.When I caught it on cable later, I was pleasantly (no pun intended) surprised.  Tobey Maguire was especially good in the lead role, and Reese Witherspoon delivered the best performance I've ever seen from her, although that's not saying a lot.  Joan Allen and William Macy are great as the 50's parents who have it all together on the surface but are terribly conflicted internally.However, this film suffers from two things terminal cuteness and a 50's phobia that is so cliched it's tiresome.  The theme of the movie shifts abruptly from a standard science-fiction premise (Maguire cautions his sister not to do anything that will destroy Pleasantville's reality or they may never get back home) to a simplistic screed on racism and stifling conventionality.  Not that there's anything wrong with fighting racism, but maybe it would have been better to introduce the theme a little earlier, when the two were in the 90's.  (Yes, it DOES exist in the 90's and 00's too.)As far as the stifling convention goes, Hollywood seems to consider the 50's the Decade From Hell and takes every opportunity to let us know that.  This is the effect that the Baby Boomers have had on the entertainment industry; they feel they rescued America from the 50's by giving us the 60's and 70's.  That's fine, they're entitled to their opinion, but if I have to see one more movie based on that thought I think I'm going to puke.  Get over it -- the 50's are forty years gone already.Other than that (my soapbox commentary!) the film is really pretty good and worth watching.  Don Knotts is hilarious in a small but important role.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Truly Magical, Interesting and Wonderful film BUT.....","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Two 1990's teens, David and Jennifer, living unhappily dysfunctional lives, gets magically transported into Davids favorite 1950's Black and White sitcom, Pleasantville where they turn the world upside down for the residents of the fictional town by introducing many 1990's things (slang words, culture, sex, etc.) into the Pleasantville's 1950's universe which in turn changes people, plants, even inanimate objects into color.I identify with David in that I too was brought up (I'm in my early thirties now) in a dysfunctional family, only a thousand times worse than his, and I also sought an escape from that by watching endless syndicated re-runs of all kinds of classic tv shows (where life was perfect, people were happy, people loved each other), to the point where I had every line and every piece of useless trivia memorized from all of those shows. And, just like David, I too wished I could warp back in time to live in a simpler and more innocent era (and/or to be transported into my favorite classic tv sitcom).C'mon, be honest. Who among us hasn't wished that? I think that most of the reviews here bears me out on that. The enormous majority of positive reviews always mention the first half of the film with absolute delight while barely mentioning the second half of the film. The negative reviews harps on the second half of the film, barely mentioning the first half.To watch David and Jennifer warp into a 1950's sitcom and have to live in it as if it were real life was quite thrilling. Oh, the possibilities! This movie gives one an idea of what that would be like. It kind of fulfilled that fantasy of mine to go back in time, to LIVE in one of my favorite sitcoms as if it were real. I truly wish that part of the film was a little more played out.  I found it quite funny for David to know everyone, everything, every nuance about the tv show which made it easy for him to get along with the program.David/Bud and Jennifer/Mary Sue are walking down the street on their way to schoolMr. Simpson Hello Bud!David/Bud Hello Mr. Simpson!Mr. Simpson I hear your father has a new car.David/Bud Oh yeah, a Buick. It's swell.Mr. Simpson Great!Jennifer/Mary Sue You know that guy?David/Bud Yeah, he owns the Hardware store.But Pleasantville, which starts out as a comedy/fantasy film, changes gears midway and turns into a sociological/political argument against the fifties and against any modern day romanticism of those years which almost ruins the movie.  After all, a movie is supposed to provide entertainment and what better way to do that than to let us live out our fantasies vicariously? The film lets us do that for just a little while then does an about face and trashes our fantasies, and by extension, trashes those of us who look back on the past somewhat nostalgically. When it comes to the fifties, there are things we could have done without segregation, the cold war, McCarthyism, etc. But there are some things that they were doing so right back then (lower crime rate, lower illegitimacy rate, an educational system that was the envy of the world, fewer divorces, more two parent families and fewer single parents, a healthy respect for religion, children and teenagers treated their elders with more respect, profanity wasnt a part of the everyday language, a Hollywood that was still producing mostly family friendly movies and tv shows, etc.) that we are doing so horribly wrong today.I wouldnt change parts of the film where David and Jennifer introduce and teach the residents of Pleasantville how to do things differently in their day to day lives (except for the sex parts which this movie wouldn't have suffered without) thereby introducing color to the town, but at the same time, I would have done it without having to attack a person's beliefs. The saving grace of the second half of the film is that Jennifer learns something from the towns simple ways, discovering that there are more things to life than her 1990's sluttish ways (like reading a book of classic literature) and becomes enchanted with the 1950's more innocent ways.The special effects are incredible. I liked the crowd scenes of Black and White people mixed in with colored people. The scene in which David/Bud and Margaret (the both of them still in Black and White) are driving down a road in a yellow 1950's convertible car while pink petals are blown all over the place, simply took my breath away the first time I saw that scene. And after multiple viewings, it never ceases to please the heart and puts a smile on my face. It simply has to be the most beautiful scene ever filmed. My only criticism of this scene is that it is too short. I wish it were a much longer scene.In spite of the heavy handed parts of the second half and in spite of my own minor criticisms, I truly love this film and I highly reccomend Pleasantville. (I only wish that Pleasantville Producer/Writer/Director Gary Ross would have stayed off his soapbox and let us enjoy our nostalgia) "},{"Title":"Self-important and self-congratulatory","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that might have been made in the 60's, when young trendies embracing free thinking (to justify their self-indulgence in sex and drugs) would have hailed this film as the perfect message - even instrument - of change. In other words, it suggests that change is always beautiful, ultimately makes everybody happy, and leaves no battle scars. Groovy, man.Well, the radical changes that took place in the late 60's did much good they broke down a lot of prejudices and opened up many young minds to the possibilities of life. They also left us with rampant egotism, mistrust (even hatred) of authority, and a party's-over cynicism that, 30 years later, has only gotten worse.The key problem with Pleasantville is that, despite a rushed (and insincere) reality check at the very end of the film, writer/director Gary Ross wants us to believe that changing the world is as simple as opening up your mind to sex, jazz and art. It's hard to really see this as a metaphor for greater things; Pleasantville is much too simplistic in its power to the people faux-idealism to mean much more than what it shows on the surface.It's also very significant to note that, by film's end, the town of Pleasantville is completely technicolored and every citizen is just as happy and docile on the surface as they appeared in their black and white beginning. In other words, everybody changed... But everybody changed in the exact same way. Who's against conformity? Not Gary Ross, and not Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"Preachy Liberal Fundementalism","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Intriguing, often hillarious, well- made, Pleasantville nevertheless left a sour after-taste for me. I felt like a liberal Jerry Falwell was standing on a podium, banging his version of the bible.  I'm going to presume people have seen Pleasantville and cut to the chase. 1)I love a good book, fine art and great sex as well...Really! I also like the idea of small town Americana, which Pleasantville seemingly loathes. It's true that, even today, people can be stuck in an arcane, antiquated view of life. The fifties ARE gone, most likely ( hopefully ) never to return. Yet the Norman Rockwell places of America are dwindling rapidly, and many people cherish them. Myself included. 2 )Typical of Hollywood, there's a sore lack of spirituality in Pleasantville. Not RELIGION, there's a difference. Wouldn't citizens of a liberated community discover the trancendance of THAT as well as the earthly pleasures? *POSSIBLE SPOILERS-WARNING!* 3) Yes, sex is fantastic, but not always. On on occasion girls DO get pregnant. It's unfortunate yes, but it's funny this film doesn't address this. ( Although most movies don't. Fantasies sell better ) 3) Narratively, Gary Ross' screenplay revelations are convoluted. Why didMagical Don Knotts show up to give the kids the magic remote anyway?Why did he get upset when things on the show started changing. ( He must have known that would happen.) How is the boy going to explain to his mother that his sister has gone off to college in a paralel universe?Anyway, I gave up church for the same reasons. NOBODY knows what's best for EVERYBODY. "}{"Title":"Slick, but colorless","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While this movie is beautifully produced and decently acted, its whole premise is specious.  On one hand, we are told a `Pleasant' world where everyone is comfortable with their lives is not as viable as a world colored with teenage sex and adultery.  Yet, on the other hand the instrument of change (one of the main characters) ended up deciding to stay in this now improved, but still, fifties world.  Her words, `I've done the slut thing,' are ironic as her doing her `slut' thing was what lead to the supposed improvements in Pleasantville.  Another theme in the movie is the use of the term `Coloreds,' and how it relates to the supposed bigotry of `Pleasantville.'  Please.  Is this producer really trying to compare a bewildered town's anxiety with its population sudden randiness with that of the atrocities of the Civil Rights Era?  Finally, why do the producers of this movie believe there are no words in the books of their town?  Weren't most classics written prior to the fifties?  This movie is mind candy; tastes good at the beginning, but the more you indulge, the sicker you feel. "},{"Title":"Why I hated this movie","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" First, I must say I liked the concept... how things were in black and white, and they slowly turned to color. I thought it was a novel idea.But I hated the message it left. It starts off giving you the feeling that times were better back in the 1950's than they are today - no aids, teenage pregnancies were much less a problem, the big problem in school was getting caught chewing gum in the classroom, etc. But then the movie betrays you. It mocks the 1950's, the Father Knows Best lifestyle of that era, and - somehow - tries to sell you the idea that we are better off today. Apparently, in the writers' minds, the civil rights struggle eclipsed all of the good things that the '50's had to offer. Well, I am not a racist or segregationist, but I cannot buy that line. With drug and alcohol abuse, sexually transmitted diseases, teenage pregnancies, and the disrespect teenagers have towards authority, I would take the '50's back in a heartbeat. This is sending a bad message to kids. A very immoral message.About the same time this movie came out, another movie was released called Blast from the Past. Like Pleasantville, that movie highlighted the differences in our culture between the '50's and the '90's. Unlike Pleasantville, it did not mock those traditional moral values. On the contrary, it portrayed Brandon Fraiser's character as being well bred, well educated (as a home schooler), and with respect and admiration toward his parents. How often do you see that on TV or in Hollywood? I would recommend that movie over this one, hands down. "},{"Title":"Worn out themes perfect for an audience of 12 year olds","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is without a doubt one of the most air headed movies to hit the big screen in recent years. It tries to be a very serious message movie and a fun lighthearted one at the same time. Better to take it as a bad joke of a movie than as a serious one. It really fails on both levels. The sophomoric sledgehammer metaphors really sunk this one for me.The conflict is a modern 90's, sexually aware, colorful, liberal pop culture (good) against a 50's style uptight, repressed, black and white, conservative town (evil). Both sides are portrayed in stereotypes so narrow they look like they were written by a 12 year old. Gee, where have I seen a them like that before? The black and white people are conservative ugly racists, while the good liberal colorful people are wonderful because they get to be true to themselves and become sexually aware because they masturbate.Perhaps the most ridiculous scene is where the girlfriend picks a red apple from a tree and hands it to the hero. The film plays with many religious and moral issues but doesn't have a single thought provoking thing to say about them. Anyone who wants a film with religious messages can surely find better ones than this! The best part of the film is Reese Witherspoon's performance. She plays a good character who has an ugly side of her own. She can't save the film on her own though because the characters are nothing more than cardboard cut-outs. This film is full of the kind of dumbed down politically correct drivel that is very popular these days. Those who think that Al Gore is a hero will probably think that Tobey Maguire's character in this film is one also. Too bad there is no room for either character to come to an understanding of REAL adults. "},{"Title":"HIDEOUS","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Perhaps the worst movie of the year so far. Simple-minded, preachy, boring, poorly directed, lousy use of special effects. A waste of time for Joan Allen and Bill Macy. Avoid! "},{"Title":"Leave your brain at the door","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  because you certainly wont be requiring it once the film begins.Yet another incomplete plot with pretensions of social commentary added as an afterthought.What rubbish.Luckily I had free tickets so the only thing Im really angry at is the incredible waste of time the whole thing was-not to mention the tragic mess made of a fine Lennon tune(ok, THAT wasnt too bad).Also, as a parting thought, does anybody REALLY think Toby Maguire can act? Really?...no, I didnt think so "},{"Title":"Allows your outlook on things to be much more - pleasant","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is 1998, American suburban teens Jennifer (Witherspoon) enjoys her time with those of the opposite sex and is in need of guidance, and her brother David (Maguire) finds comfort in the of 50's soap show Pleasantville to simpler times in which dinner is always on the table when the Father comes home and everything is nice and pleasant.The movie is almost like a comparison of ideal 50's life and 90's life. In Pleasantville, David and Jennifer get transferred into the television show and live out the lives of Bud and Mary Sue. Bud and Mary Sue enter a world full of censorship, a world in which the only colors permissible are black, gray and white. In the world of Pleasantville there is no messing around, things are orderly, every shot in the basket goes in and at the end of the street is the beginning of the same street. Yet this goes a little astray when Bud and Mary Sue aren't as 'pleasant' as the rest of the town which restores some color; the first very delicate pink rose grows in a world full of gray. Gary Ross has done a great job telling the story much like in his most recent movie The Hunger Games. Pleasantville is not particularly similar to The Hunger Games, yet is has some similarities like both Bud and Katniss step into strange alien world in which they change their surroundings, much like when Katniss wins the Hunger Games and wins the hearts of Panem, Bud attempts to unify all of the people of Pleasantville.The movie is a well filmed production and has a heart warming storyline and really makes you appreciate the world in which you live in. "},{"Title":"An absolutely wonderful, thought-provoking parable on society","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The first film directed by Gary Ross, this is an absolutely wonderful and thought-provoking parable on society. It concerns a pair of teenage twins who are transported into the universe of a 1950s sitcom Pleasantville, a seemingly idyllic place where firemen only save cats from trees because there are no fires, everyone is terribly wholesome and sweet and the closest thing to dramatic conflict is a date being cancelled because of an unfortunate case of the measles. However, it soon becomes clear that there is a dark underbelly to this world as conformity is stressed above all else and people, women in particular, are expected to know their place.The first rate script by Ross, whose previous credits include classic films such as Big and Dave, is a powerful statement on the problems which existed in 1950s America but are certainly not exclusive to that time or place. It nicely deconstructs the dippy world inhabited by characters of that era's sitcoms such as Leave It to Beaver or Father Knows Best, which (almost) completely ignored the social issues of the time as well as the existence of people who weren't white and middle class. In 234 episodes of the former, only one black character appeared and she was a maid. The special effects were innovative for their time and never look less than brilliant. It was shot entirely in colour and decolourised where appropriate, in stark contrast to the events of the film itself. The black and white scenes look beautiful and really help to sell the idea that this is an initially black and white world as opposed to merely a partially black and white film.Tobey Maguire gives a great performance as David, a pretty nerdy high school boy who has encyclopedic knowledge of Pleasantville. Prior to entering it, he loves the world of Pleasantville as nothing bad ever happens there and wishes that real life was like that. After he is transported there and assumes the identity of Bud Parker, he discovers that it is essentially a gilded cage where any form of individuality or artistic expression is discouraged. He becomes the champion of colour over black and white in Pleasantville and, in the process, learns to appreciate the real world. This is best illustrated when he returns to it at the end of the film and comforts his distraught mother, played very well in a great cameo by Jane Kaczmarek, instead of simply ignoring her as he did earlier.Reese Witherspoon is excellent as his twin sister Jennifer, a liberated girl of the 1990s who finds the sweaters and poodle skirts - and what they represent - to be more than a little oppressive. Rather than merely holding hands with Skip Martin, she introduces him and Pleasantville to sex, something which starts the ball rolling on the colour conversion. Over the course of the film, Jennifer grows significantly as a character and abandons her wild lifestyle in favour of her education. She takes the decision to remain in Pleasantville's universe to go to college but, considering that time seemingly moves at a different rate, she presumably won't be gone too long, comparatively speaking.The best performance in the film comes from Joan Allen as Betty Parker. She is introduced as the perfect 1950s sitcom wife and mother who is always impeccably dressed and has dinner on the table every night at six without fail. As the changes caused by David and Jennifer begin to ripple through Pleasantville, however, she realises that there is nothing more to her life than that. Like many real women in the 1950s, she wants something more. As such, she develops a sweet relationship with the soda shop owner Bill Johnson, who is played very effectively by Jeff Daniels. Bill is likewise faced with an existential crisis when it occurs to him that his sole function in life is to make hamburgers and serve sodas. Encouraged by David, he pursues his interest in art and paints a surrealist mural in full colour in defiance of the oppressive Chamber of Commerce. When Betty becomes coloured, this is a great scene in which David helps her to use her make-up to pass as black and white, a wonderful allegory for the practice of light skinned African-Americans attempting to pass for white. The scene in which she is harassed by several black and white boys for being coloured is an even more effective allegory.J.T. Walsh, who sadly died before the film was released, was very well cast as the McCarthy-esque Pleasantville mayor Big Bob, who wants everything to remain the same. He claims that it is a question of values, the excuse typically used by traditionalists who find themselves on the wrong side of progress and, eventually, history. In a very strong performance by William H. Macy, George Parker represents the more benign face of conformity who realises the error of his ways in the end. It also features great supporting performances by Marley Shelton as Margaret Henderson, Don Knotts as the mysterious TV repairman and Paul Walker as Skip Martin, who is not as nice as he first appears.Overall, this is an absolutely brilliant film which has some very interesting things to say about the danger of idealising the past. If the entire film had been a parody of the unreality of saccharine sweet sitcom conventions in the style of the Brady Bunch films, it would have still been a great film as the comic writing in these scenes is very sharp but, to his credit, Ross took it to the next level. This is one of my favourite films of the 1990s. Just sublime. "},{"Title":"Exceptional film...different","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Let's see. How do I explain this? Hmmmm. This film is not one of the truly great films (like Gone With The Wind or Doctor Zhivago or Lawrence Of Arabia). But, nevertheless, it is -- quite simply -- a brilliant film.Oddly enough, I avoided watching this film for the last 17 years. And even after I started watching it this time, during the first 20 minutes I repeatedly had the urge to turn it off. It just seemed uninteresting. Then, when the two teens are magically transported to Pleasantville, a rather complex and intriguing story begins to unfold. I can't help but think that the story is loosely based on sort of the mirror image of Father Knows Best, which was one of the most enchanting of all the early family story television shows from the 1950s. Father Knows Best was, of course, often the 1950s-idealized life, which wasn't very much like real life in the 1950s (although, I see Father Knows Best more as a drama and one in which each of the characters had their challenges, though those challenges were muted to fit into television mores of the era.One of the most intriguing things about this film is that the viewer doesn't really have much of any idea where the story is leading...to what conclusion it is racing toward.The acting here is top notch, even though no one in the cast is one of my favorite actors by any means. Tobey Maguire, never a favorite of mine (although I always saw him as a competent actor) is perfect here. I have enjoyed Jeff Daniels pretty much only in The Newsroom before this, but he brings a real sensitivity to his role here' I'm quite impressed. William H. Macy, another non-favorite of mine, is perfect as the Honey I'm home father. And the very talented (though I usually can't remember her name) Joan Allen as the mother is brilliant, as well.A word should be said about the wonderful special effects here -- dabs of color in a black and white world. Just about the most magical use of the concept since Dorothy landed in Oz.At first I thought that the director left out Black people, yet there is an interesting reference to them (coloreds). I wonder how the story would have changed if they had actually included African-Americans. The story doesn't end with a bang...the bang is earlier on.Excellent film, and while not one of the great film masterpieces...definitely brilliant. "},{"Title":"Simply, Pleasant.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville (1998) Dir Gary Ross / Cast Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, William H. Macy, Joan Allen, Jeff Daniels Wonderful film about change in people, lifestyles and culture. It regards a TV show set in April 1958 where all seems perfect in the black and white world inhabited by the characters. Plot regards siblings zapped into their T.V. with a magic remote control given by a mysterious repairman. This is questionable since the power of the remote control seems contrived and never explained. Nonetheless they are in Pleasantville and Tobey Maguire plays along so not to upset the balance between reality and fantasy. Reese Witherspoon opts to educate the high school boys on sex. Things get complicated once colour enters the frame. Some people prefer tradition while others embrace change. Tremendous achievement by Gary Ross who exploits sitcom stereotypes but the true gem is the exquisite art direction that reveals the time and frame these characters live in day by day. Maguire and Witherspoon well cast in the leads with different attitudes towards the sudden ordeal and they are backed by a terrific supporting cast. William H. Macy and Joan Allen play off familiar sitcom parents. Jeff Daniels plays a guy who works at a malt shop and is having an affair with Joan. The film expresses our sense of change in values and lifestyles and our sense of self. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant social commentary, touching characters, a true classic","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Gary Ross's Pleasantville is one of the most heartfelt, creative, thought provoking dramedies I've seen in a while. I was floored by its benign, lighthearted first third, which gives way to some unexpectedly deep social commentary, brought to life bu truly remarkable performances, and stunning, storybook cinematography that looks like Sin City had a baby with Rumble Fish. Tobey Maguire, an actor I usually can't stand, is nicely low key, while his sister Reese Witherspoon gets the peppy, in your face persona. Following a terse bit of sibling rivalry, a strange TV repairman shows up, bestowing on them an ancient looking replacement remote. Before they can ask where he even came from, they are magically whisked from their 1990's living room right into TV land, specifically a cheery black and white 1950's sitcom called Pleasentville. They find themselves in a gosh golly, apple pie, white picket fence realm of perky, smiling housewives, rampant celibacy (the characters in this town are essentially shells of humans, and have no idea what sex is...yet;). The naive, mentally stunted townsfolk function at the truncated level that the show's writing is allowed, resulting in strangely robotic, stepford wives like versions of people. That all changes however, when Witherspoon introduces a highschool hunk (Paul Walker, hilarious) to the ol' hanky panky. From there on in the townspeople gradually discover books, music, art, and as such start to see the world in vibrant colors, and become colored themselves. It's a genius idea for a film that's executed perfectly, with some scenarios that really pay off, making you feel and think. J.T. Walsh, always fantastic, plays the town's fearful skeptic of a mayor. William H. Macy nails the father role perfectly (Where's my dinner?!), Joan Allen gives the best work I've ever seen her do, giving force and gentle feeling to the wife who starts exploring herself, and the world around her. The crown jewel acting wise though is Jeff Daniels, as an aloof diner owner who discovers an affinity for the arts. He brings such a warmth and budding humanity to the role. There's subtext relating to Mccarthy-ism, and not letting the powers that be tell how you what to like, how to feel or what to do. There's a lot to enjoy in this package, and indeed all aspects are done so well its a wonder this one hasn't retained acclaim over the years. "}{"Title":"Is it true ?","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Knowledge and liberalism are not same things. Your body is your business.Only your business and your life ; your private. If you love, show it only her or him and tell only one.If you love want their happiness , do good things and benefit. So many love, so many bodies, so many people whoseever whose loved by yours... Is it true ? You touch everybody and you say '' if i love i touch ''. I think if you really care your self-respect you never say yes to anybody touch you without promise. Old people were courteous,respectful, righteous... They created virtuous families and this families created strong society. Sorry.. so sorry for this word... But People call someone to '' bitch'' not liberal. "},{"Title":"cute gimmick turns funny turns profound","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" David (Tobey Maguire) is a geek in high school. Real life is diminishing expectations, family divorce and no female companionship. He's obsessed with an old TV show Pleasantville. While watching a Pleasantville marathon, he has a fight with his twin sister Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) and they break the TV remote. TV repairman (Don Knotts) shows up and give them a special remote which sends them into the show. They become George (William H. Macy) and Betty Parker (Joan Allen)'s kids Bud and Mary Sue. She's not happy until she sees her new boyfriend Skip Martin (Paul Walker). Bud is working at Bill Johnson (Jeff Daniels)'s soda shop. He falls for Margaret Henderson (Marley Shelton). The kids' interactions start changing the strange purity of Pleasantville and colors seeps into the world.At first, this is a gimmick that has some cute aspects. Don Knotts adds to that sense of a cheap laugh. It has some good fun with Maguire and Witherspoon budding head. Then the deeper profound message seeps into the movie. It is gentle and yet undeniable. A couple of times, I feared the movie would push too hard like calling the people color. It manages to maintain some distance and follow through on the message without overpowering it. This is quite a film. "},{"Title":"Great movie on so many levels","Date":"15 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie. It's been nearly 20 years, (1998) but it still holds up. Inititally, the premise seemed like it had been done to death. Two kids grab a remote control and are transported into the TV. Wackiness ensues, but Pleasantville is not a wacky comedy. It's a touching drama, with a little comedy mixed in. It mixes social commentary, artistic brilliance and pathos. In 1998, when it was made, CGI wasn't as advanced as it is today. I've wondered how they made it. The artistry of blending black and white with color in one scene is done to perfection in this movie. Without this effect, the movie would not be anything like what it turned out to be. The fact that it takes place in the 50's is somewhat relevant. In that time, it was about to become very turbulent. Things in the 50's weren't as rosy as we remember them, but that makes this movie all the more relevant. It's a visually stunning movie with great production, writing and acting. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is by far one of the best movies I have ever seen and does not get enough credit for being such a good movie. Though it may seem like it, Pleasantville has really nothing to do with the old shows you see. It puts two kids who from our world who would be normal and throws them in to a perfect world that knows no real pain or war. These two kids change the lives of the people they interact with, and also get new perspective on their lives too. It is a movie that you have to mostly watch for the deep meaning behind it to actually enjoy it. Although I watched it twice before really seeing the movie for what it was, I think it is a great, meaningful movie. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville review","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is supposed to represent the perfect society. Pleasantville is a perfect society because of it's innocents. There is no conflict, sex, losing and there is no stress because every thing is easy. I do like the idea of the black and white image colors in Pleasantville in the beginning to represent the old times and the idea everything is straight forward and there is no debating. Which represents the time period because everything was straight forward and a routine. Then when the people started to change mainly by having sex they started to change into normal colors. Then the normal people started to attack and tried to get rid of the colored people. That in my opinion is one of the best connections to the real world in the movie. The idea that colored people which would be African Americans were hated just because of the color of there skin. The movie showed this without saying a single word about African Americans or civil rights and showed how wrong that is to judge somebody by there color of there skin. This movie had a lot of good connection and some very famous actors including Paul Walker. This is a good movie that shows history with out saying any facts about it. "},{"Title":"Still pretty good.","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched Pleasantville for the first time a couple years ago and I thought that it was pretty good to begin with. After watching it again recently, I can safely say that it still holds up.One of the things I liked about Pleasantville was how it was an allegory for the Civil Rights Movement. I thought it was pretty interesting how they went about the whole thing with the color changes and it took me a little bit to realize what the director was planning.Another thing I liked about it was how even though the characters in the show were fictional, you could tell that they were more than that as the movie continues and their characters get fleshed out. It made you feel like the world of Pleasantville wasn't just some TV sitcom, but a living breathing world.Overall I liked Pleasantville for what it was. "},{"Title":"Classic Representation of the Flaws with Uniformity","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville with Toby Maguire is a perfect example of the flaws of being uniform and alike in every way. Pleasantville reminds me of the suburban expansion following World War II in which veterans retired to uniform, identical housing complexes. Pleasantville is a troubling reality of what it would be like to have little to no variation in character between persons. This movie is perfect in refuting the idea of similar being good. David and Jennifer embark on a journey with a magical remote into a show where everything lacks color and, overall, differentiation. A show David once very much enjoyed, Pleasantville soon becomes a repetitive lifestyle lacking genuine character and unique character qualities. David and Jennifer change Pleasantville into the enjoyable, sometimes devious lifestyle we all enjoy. "},{"Title":"7/10","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A funny look at a made-up 1950's sit-com and how a brother and sister get literally sucked into the makeup of the show and begin to change the landscape of not only the city itself, but the values that dwell within. This movie is funny to start out with, and there are a couple of great performances, but this thing begins a downward spiral during the last 1/4 of the movie. It does a very good job establishing its agenda and message, being not to fear change and to embrace diversity, however it pushes it too far in the end, feeling too much like a liberal Hollywood production that pleads with you to be in awe of it. It is probably worth watching just for the gorgeous visuals that are on display, but the end of the movie in particular left me wanting more. "},{"Title":"Great movie, love the humor but history to it too","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a great movie, especially the sense that it related to a teen movie in a way, having it based off high schoolers, and that the history of it was on point. Although I don't particularly like black and white movies, this one was a very watchable movie. The black and white of the movie is actually a huge part of the movie, it shows how they discovered color so to speak. This film was also very comical just because of the people original in Pleasentville and there naiveness to what kids nowadays is normal. The accuracy of a 1950s town in the movie was portrayed very well. Everyone was happy, fire departments were there for cats in trees, such prosperity, life couldn't get better. Personally, I loved this movie, and would watch it again, it's a different spin on most typical movies these days and would recommend it to most. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Two 1990s teenagers find themselves in a 1950s sitcom where their influence begins to profoundly change that complacent world.This is a surprisingly strong role for Reese Witherspoon, who tends to be an overrated actress. If anything, she is actually underrated here for how well she made Jenny her own character. The appearance of Don Knotts is a great touch, and William H. Macy is wonderful as always.While a simple concept (kids getting sucked into the TV), the execution is a work of genius. Writer-director Gary Ross used this backdrop to explore race relations, the good old days, changing cultures and mores... and exploring a range of right and wrong. And underneath it all, it still remains a sense of humor and does not attempt to guilt trip the audience. "}{"Title":"Overall good movie","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This was a fantastic movie. It portrayed the way people felt about colored versus white people. The movie was upsetting because the people who were colored were embarrassed about it at first and were bullied because of it. I found it clear to see that the introduction of color into the movie was indicative of an overall change in the attitude and morals of the inhabitants of Pleasantville. Because of people changing to have color instead of being black and white made the town very segregated. Excpecially in the court room, this portraits the many court cases that happened in real life. For example, Brown versus Board of Education and Plessey versus Ferguson. However, as they changed to color they also became more accepting of differences. "},{"Title":"jaded technicolour","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film has been classified as a dramatic comedy, but I think that the humor content was not as high as it could have been and most of the comedy that was in it was ironic because of the era that the T.V show was based on. The film gains attention from it audience because of the different way that it was made. The film was made in the 90's but the T.V series that the main characters were forced into was based in the 50's in black and white. As the movie progresses and the characters from the naive and proper T.V series are slowly being corrupted by the real world attitude of the new comers, a gradual evolution from a naive black and white to a more jaded Technicolour begins and the consequences are not so pleasant (pun intended). This film highlights the way that life used to be lived back in the 40's and 50's where 'sex' was a mystery and most teenagers were innocent. This movie has magnified this innocents to make it seem as though no one ever did anything bad and in doing so made comparing the 90's where David and Jennifer (main characters) were from, and Pleasantville (where most of the movie is set) seem like parallel worlds, one corrupted with sex and drugs and one naive about anything deemed unpleasant. This film was well made, although I think that the writers should have explained why David loved the show 'Pleasantville' so much. I am under the impression that the character loved the show because his own family was falling apart; his mother and father were divorced, his twin sister hated him and his mother and her boyfriend were leaving town again. David wished that his life was like Bud's from 'Pleasantville' with a caring mother, an attentive father and a sister that didn't drive him crazy. I would recommend this film to teenagers, and grown up families (as it is not appropriate for young children). This film has good morals as it shows that when you take a risk or do something that is out of your comfort zone you can reap the benefits that courage bring, in this case courage brought the residents of 'Pleasantville' Technicolour. This film also shows how diversity can be feared. The residents that stuck to their routines and lived in a 'pleasant' hell (pun intended) stayed in black and white didn't approve of the colored people and many didn't want any association with them at all. Many issues of racism were raised in this movie, especially when black and white store owners made signs saying 'no coloured's' and separate but equal seemed to be implemented in the small town. Of course in the end right prevails and 'Pleasantville' opens its self up to the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"I recommend it to you!","Date":"2 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville leaves me with few words. The underlying theme is really what caught my eye. I will go as far as to say, I have never watched or even read anything with such an incredible theme. Everything that changed in Pleasantville was because of this theme and at the end you learn what it is and why it matters.Now yes the theme is quite good but theirs an effect that was used in this movie that changed film making forever. If you have ever read the giver that would be the best example of what I'm going to describe. This effect made only certain things in color and everything else was in black and white. Previously this was only done a few times and not quite on the scale that Pleasantville did. After this movie made it big this effect literally was named The Pleasantville Effect. That has to say something for the awesomeness this movie has brought forth.In no way was this film a disappointment. I RECOMMEND IT TO YOU! "},{"Title":"Pleasantville Reminds Me of the Town We Live in Today","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you think Pleasantville is only about America in the fifties, think again. The abject conformity, the unquestioning belief in conservative propaganda, the appalling ignorance, the complete lack of sophistication, and the simmering bigotry bubbling beneath the surface ready to boil over at a moment's notice -- that more or less describes the town in the movie and it's precisely what our town is like, as well. In fact, the flick gave me the willies just watching it a second time because we are surrounded by people just like that. Our next door neighbors, for example, are straight out of some Nazi nightmare, ready to dial 911 for the slightest reason. The woman (hardly a lady) spies on us openly and brazenly as if there is nothing wrong with it. Today I watched in bemused horror as she directed a fire truck toward a single car accident that occurred about a block up the street. There was nothing wrong with trying to help, mind you, although they already knew full well where they were going. It was the way she pointed in the direction of the accident dramatically and repeatedly as if she were some sort of self-appointed cop trying to earn her merit badge and her assistance was ever so important. What a butt-kisser and what a Nazi. You had to be there to see it with your own two eyes to understand precisely what I mean. The broad is simply nuts, and in this neighborhood, she's hardly alone. Others call in complaints over really trivial matters that don't concern them in the least. This particularly egregious clique that lives in our immediate vicinity are always chatting one another up like a gaggle of teenagers yet they refuse even to acknowledge our presence. It's not that we want to socialize with them, because we don't, but there is something so strange and weird about those people that it's difficult to describe in a few choice sentences if you don't already understand. Bible-thumping conservatives act as if places like this constitute some sort of real world paradise. What a sorry joke. It's a complete police state and about as far from paradise as one can get. Not to excuse or justify the lefties, we used to live in one of their so-called paradises and it was a complete hellhole, too. "},{"Title":"it was OK","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was very like the book i read called Farenheight 451. There was much discrimination, fire fighters don't put out fires. They only rescue cats. I gave this movie a 7 out of 10 because it was a very good movie, not great. Good. The humor amused me though. The movie became more and more interesting as it progressed because everything was turning colors. It look weird to have colored people on a black and white setting. It looked like it was hard to make. I like the cable guy's character because he is snobby and funny. I think that the choice of actors was great! My favorite part of the movie was the Cort room scene. "},{"Title":"TOO SACCHARINE BY FAR","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  (March 2003) Just saw the movie on TV for the first time, and I have to say that it was too saccharine and treacly for me.  The obvious allegory about the conformism and censorship of the 50s doesn't justify or alleviate the heavy-handed pedantic tone of the movie.  Macy is fine and Witherspoon is amusing, but Maguire becomes too saintly by far. "},{"Title":"Interesting concept but flawed execution","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a fabulous idea that tries to cram a heck of a lot of high concept into its running time.Modern teenagers are transported by a convenient remote control into an apparent utopia within the small town setting of a 1950s television show.Fairly innocent conflicts regarding 'geography' and sexual mores give way to a more serious agenda concerning small-minded prejudice, bigotry and the value of individualism.  There is much use of symbolism, particularly the gradual depiction of characters and objects in colour rather than black and white.The acting is of a high quality, with seasoned performers such as Joan Allen, Jeff Daniels and William Macy providing a solid background to (relative) newcomers Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon.However, some of the messages and symbolism is alternatively muddled (the timing of the transformations to colour) and heavy-handed (the signs that start to spring up saying 'no coloureds'.Having said that, there is a lot to like about 'Pleasantville', even if the loftiness of its ambitions is only partially met by its success.Worth a look. "},{"Title":"not too sure........","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Very cleverly done, but way too cliche and annoying. Nice to see Don Knotts!! But you can see his TV co-star John Ritter in a better, funnier and more thought provoking social commentary movie 'Stay Tuned' which has 'Pleasantville's' original concept.  'Pleasantville' has some very cool ideals and images and a great cast, but is too 'modern retro' for my tastes. For my tastes, I'll take the obviously intentionally idiotic, typically short-lived TV show 'Hi Honey, I'm Home'......... "},{"Title":"Archaic, would've been progressive in 1958","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie would've been progressive in 1958, today it's just self-congratulatory.  If you want to feel special about yourself for having a consciousness that's more evolved than those silly 50s people, see this movie.  It actually raised my opinion of this movie to find out it was being attacked by social conservatives; I guess there still are some people that need to hear this message (but they're not going to get it from this movie). Let me be clear, I agree with much of what this movie tries to say, but this movie is merely preaching to the converted.If you step back and really look at this movie it's quite hypocritical. The movie itself completely stereotypes and vilifies those that do not agree with its social agenda.  People were two dimensional, judgmental and scared of change before there were contemporary left wing social values.  Is anyone truly liberal enough to say human value transcends social values, or do we just embrace all the different people that agree with us?  But I digress.On the other hand, the performances were all great, the entire cast just shined, and the cinematography was tremendous--it's certainly a very watchable film.  Gary Ross did a very impressive job of directing, especially for his first time out.  But at root, I think the message is archaic and Ross is just patting himself on the back for growing up in the 60s and 70s.maybe that's not so bad.it's certainly a good way to get your film made in Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"My absolute favorite movie","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I initially saw this film because I am a huge fan of Don Knotts. Although he hardly gets any screen time, he gives a flawless performance as the TV repairman who sends the kids to Pleasantville. The acting was brilliant from all the leads. I particularly liked William H Macy as the father who comes home every day after work and says Honey I'm Home in the same flat tone.    I watch a lot of old TV shows and this movie made me think what would those TV worlds really be like? The interesting thing about the movie is that everything happens for a reason and has a meaning. Everything relates to one central plot and if something happens, it's always to move that one plot along.      I'd recommend this movie to almost anyone. Five out of four stars! "}{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie works on a few different levels and is definitely a must see for anyone with a functioning brain that can realize that the movie isn't celebrating evil or moral corruption but rather individuality, free will and the potential everyone has to become a more mature person. Ten thumbs up. "},{"Title":"An overall enjoyable, light film.","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, this obviously isn't supposed to be some incredible cinematic masterpiece with a deep, profound theme to deliver; and reading through some reviews here, it seems a few people really took it as such. What's the point of criticizing a movie from a serious perspective if it isn't meant to be serious? I mean, it's about two kids jumping into their TV with a magical remote, for fuck's sake. What did you expect? The film makes a simple point -- and I'm willing to bet it's not the first to bring it up. When it's done, not much is left to the imagination, but so what? It is just a little off-the-wall fantasy story or fairy tale with that same message of individualism and creativity to throw at you -- the beauty and wonder of eccentric free thought and emotion. Its entire point is to elevate this as the nexus of our humanity, beyond tradition, stability and benign comfort.So, taking it as such, I thought it was enjoyable -- even if for no reason other then its style. I'm a sucker for all things retro and that 50's culture/atmosphere has always fascinated me. Of course, the movie's not supposed to portray what real life in the 50s was like. Instead, it brings to the screen that cheesy, picture-perfect, television stereotype a monotonous, plain, patriarchal and conservative society that knows nothing but its stable, boring, predictable lifestyle -- the Honey, I'm home!, Dinner's on the table! , ridiculously flawless, idealistic suburban town. It's literally in black-and-white.It would be a huge understatement to say that colors played an essential part in this movie. They practically made it. And though playing around with these colors got old rather quickly, I really liked the way this film blended black-white and colored scenery together. Many parts played out like great satire; some of it was just really funny; other moments breached critical levels on my retard-o-meter.A little annoying at times, but there are a few golden nuggets along the way as well.All-together, a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"A nice, somewhat tame, film that seems to make people think.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this film and it´s light social commentary. As I understand it the film is about the fact that accepting change and diversity is something valuable. The main point is that confronting your own prejudices and accepting the diversity in our lives make it so much easier to enjoy and appreciate. The fact is that every society throughout human history that has stopped evolving, and focused on preserving the Status Quo, has broken down. This is especially true to societies that refuse to accept new ideas and intellectual independence. And as I understand it, keeping the social Status Quo and protecting an abstract idea called the American way of life was the main goal of the 50´s U.S. culture. Remember that this was a time in U.S. history when people were punished for their ideals and thoughts via the oppressive structure called McCarthyism.In this, very light and in my opinion surprisingly tame, film this is shown in the way people react to the coloureds, i.e. the people who start to brake social conventions. And it is not until the people of Pleasantville start accepting change that they can see the problems in their society.Now I have to admit that I have trouble understanding all aspects of U.S. culture. That is why I have a hard time understanding the critique that some commentators have posted against this film. I know that, especially in the U.S., sexuality and rebellion against social tabu´s is a touchy subject.But that is what makes this a good film, it actually manages to make people think and that is all too rare in contemporary American cinema. "},{"Title":"Pleasant to watch, but...","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Modern brother and sister accidentally enter the fantasy world of 1950s TV sitcom and change the lives of its people?Though Pleasantville is beautifully filmed, its premise about sitcom is totally wrong. What makes a sitcom? Situation of course. Anyone who has seen the typical 1950s sitcom I Love Lucy would know there are many incidents in an episode. If nothing happens in its characters' daily lives, like this film depicts, there would be no situation. Who wants to see such a dull TV series?Besides, young Tobey Maguire's character is too mature to be interesting. He keeps preaching to everybody in the movie, including his own mother! "},{"Title":"Pleasantville was a movie I was looking forward to since I first saw the previews for it a few months ago. And it didn't disappoint. It was a well made, well acted film, that while at times beat you over the","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon play David and Jennifer, two all-American kids growing up in today's world. Jennifer is the cool kid, while David is, well, not. While Jennifer is into trying to get guys, and smoking and all that, David is into watching tv, especially his favorite tv show, Pleasantville. Tonight David and Jennifer have slightly different plans. David is planning on watching a 24 hour marathon of Pleasantville, while Jennifer is planning on watching a concert on MTV with this guy she's invited over. During their squabble over the all-mighty remote, it breaks, and a mysterious stranger is at the door (Don Knotts). He hands them a new remote that changes their lives forever. Somehow David and Jennifer get zapped into the tv, and are now part of Pleasantville.Pleasantville (the tv show) is an old black and white wholesome show where the father comes home from work everyday at 5, his wife has prepared dinner for them, and the two kids rush over to see daddy. The temperature never goes above or below 72 degrees, and life is well, pleasant. David and Jennifer (who are now Bud and Mary Sue) have to deal with this new life, while trying to figure a way out. Soon the black and white world of Pleasantville is turning colorized, and people aren't sure what to do. Is this change a good thing, or will it ruin the lives of the people of Pleasantville? There are a few obvious messages screenwriter/director Gary Ross is trying to show. So I'll just tell you what I got out of it. Basically I thought he was trying to say that people need to express themselves. Your world will remain in black and white unless you're willing to open your eyes to new experiences. Once you start seeing what the world around you has to offer, your once black and white world can open up into a rainbow of colors. Of course Ross could have been trying to say that being an individual is important rather than always following what the group says. Or he could have been saying, can't we all just get along? Whatever his real message was, he certainly hits his point, over and over and over again. I though I was pretty smart picking up on his message (something I usually don't see) early on in the film. Then for the last 30-45 minutes, he just kept slamming his message into you again and again. And while I didn't feel that he needed to, it didn't really take away from the movie. The black and white vs. color idea was something different. The special effects were quite cool in fact. Seeing how the world of Pleasantville slowing transformed, flower by flower, face by face, into color was very interesting. Although for a while it seemed the only way a person could turn into color was by having sex (an idea later refuted by Mary Sue). The acting was wonderful, and it was all held together by Tobey Maguire. His character (David/Bud) had a powerful yet boyish innocence about him. He knew the tv show so well he knew what all the people were supposed to be doing, yet after trying desperately to keep them in line, he realized that maybe change was a good thing. The one character that truly showed how change can affect you was the mom Betty Parker (Joan Allen). Her performance showed how change can be exciting and at the same time frightening. It was funny to see how all the kids changed into color first, while all the older white males were the last to go. It tells me that the kids of today are more willing to go out there and make changes, and that we are the voice of a new world. But those older white guys will come along, once they realize that maybe kids have something important to say. So overall, I really enjoyed Pleasantville. It was well made, and well acted. And while it did beat you over the head with its many messages, the story was still done in such a way that I didn't really mind it. It's a movie that I'll probably see again.  "},{"Title":"So much to dislike, let me count the ways. . .","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was flabbergasted to finally see this family film on MEMORIAL DAY and all I had heard about it was the positively regarded visual special effects of grays - - > color.  I can't imagine more wrong choices as far as a script; if this was meant to be a family picture, why so many references to teen sexual activity as casual and liberating?  In the real world where I live, people have to live with consequences (pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases, guilt from exploitation, etc.).  The sister who tampers with the Black/White/Grayness of the world and helps it to Fall as in a Genesis eating of the APPLE kind of way doesn't even come back to the real world after finding that she can project some D.H. Lawrence novel that she's never even read somehow. I also don't appreciate being lumped together and dumped on in behalf somebody's biased view of the somewhat restrained/censored Fifties.  Suburbs, conformity, and repressive whiteness are too-easy targets that got lampooned much better elsewhere in Peter Weir's THE TRUMAN SHOW.  Steer away from this people-exploitation film that has some odd performances (the best is given by Don Knotts) in favor of some better small town screenplays with an actual heart like CHOCOLAT (2000) that was set in an imaginative realm with diverse people to really care about!    "},{"Title":"Great ideas, falls apart in the second half","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Even though I see the great flaws in this movie, it fascinates me.First, Ross is very poor at tying up loose ends.  What became of the real Bud and Mary Sue?  What's going on with Joan Allen and her men?What was up with the TV Repairman driving off with an enigmatic expression? Was he happy or sad at what happened? Second, the idea of the whites becoming Coloreds (the race thing is done to death).  Why didn't any of the kids in the malt shop riot become colored after they experienced violence and then trashed the place?  Yet, they did while quietly sitting in the courtroom scene.  Answer  Inconvenience to the plot. Third, I don't mind the liberal pot shots, such as the race thing, and the sex attitudes.  But pot shots is the appropriate phrase, as Ross goes out of his way.  The code of conduct, in addition to possibly appropriate McCarthy themes, brings in creationism for no obvious reason except to take a shot at it.  Has nothing to do with the plot.  And in Pleasantville, creationism, is correct.  Duh, it was created. Great ideas, poor ending, Ross really lost sight of the goalposts on this one. "},{"Title":"Very original idea, shame about the ending","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Hmm, this is one of those films which starts out incredibly well, is an incredibly original idea, but after about halfway through, starts to go a bit downhill, eventually reaching a total anti-climax. In that respect, it is not dissimilar to Final Destination or Cube.I'm not saying that it is not a good film. It is. But let's just say that the ending left a little to be desired.It is a very very original idea...it starts off so promising. The acting is faultless, the transition to black and white is very clever, the script is very witty. I think that where it goes wrong is that it tries just a little too hard to be intelligent. But it doesn't need to...that comes across naturally, and instead of being able to sit back and enjoy it as the delightful gem that it is, you spend too long trying to analyse the confusing subtle undertones.And whilst it endeavours to prove itself as a serious piece of cinematography, it forgets small, but vital plot details, which, for a viewer who must have every last detail tied up and successfully concluded, proves incredibly frustrating viewing.  "},{"Title":"pleasantly surprised!!!!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I hadn't heard anything about this movie so I really didn't know what to expect. I was as I said pleasantly surprised. I really rented this and a few other Tobey Maguire movies to see how his acting was and try to visualize him playing Spiderman. Well, everything I have seen him in he was very good so I'm looking forward to seeing him on the big screen. Pleasantville was a fun surprise and I love how they introduce color(and the premise as to why they do it) slowly to an otherwise mostly black and white film. A touching, heartfelt movie, enjoy. "},{"Title":"Interesting Movie","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  That's all I can say really about this movie.  It was interesting.  I'm sure most people have dreamt of being in their favorite TV show.  Well, for David (Tobey Maguire) he gets thrown into a 1950's sitcom he loves so well.  There he plays the role of Bud Parker.  Along for the ride is David's sister Jennifer.  She's that type of girl who gets all the guys and loves to be wild.  When she's thrown into Pleasantville as Bud's sister Mary Sue, her world gets turned upside down.  Will she change her ways from that of a wild romancer, or will she continue to charm all the guys?  And will David change his ways and become more outgoing?  Watch to find out.6/10 stars "}{"Title":"Allegorical fairy-tale fantasy","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gary Ross has emerged from un unstomachable concoction, which is the world of those silly telenovels, sitcoms, soap, or whathaveyou, to make a surprisingly enjoyable film. I say surprisingly as a priori I expected very little, but got a few laughs out of it. Earmarking inward-looking self-complacency and parrochial mentalities so often evident in so-called well-heeled societies, and carrying it to a rather overblown degree is hardly a way of making anything be convincing. However, evidently, that was not Ross's intention but the allegory is clear. And well done. My only real complaint is that he should have cut all the dialogues during those minutes in which Dave Brubeck's `Take Five' could be heard. Not that the dialogue was bad, but Brubeck's piece is always worth a good listen. The ending is certainly a failure, not at all in keeping with the rest of the film. Somewhat spoiled the effect. Or was it on purpose so as to throw us back into some seedy soap-opera atmosphere so that everyone would understand it?  "},{"Title":"Colors of brilliance.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is only film I can remember using black/white, and change into color effect with the moods of the characters in the movie. Two teenagers are mysterious zap to black/white a 1950's sitcom and their 1990's attitude changed the town to color. It is worth to see the special effects used in this film. The colors that are used give the film a character of its own. "},{"Title":"What a swell movie this is!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm starting to think that Tobey Maguire has a very good manager, because he always seems to end up in movies that blow my mind.   Pleasantville is no exception.  It's a sweet, moving and funny tale of two teenagers who get stuck in a 50s TV show. The movie does get a bit slow and preachy in the second hour, but the charismatic presence of Maguire and Witherspoone and the great effects make up for that.Most Memorable Movie Moment Reese Witherspoone going to the bathroom, only to discover there is noneRating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been great.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is quite thought provoking and entertaining at the same time -and in a lot of ways is like THE TRUMAN SHOW (which Jim Carey spoils). In the main way, of been a imaginative and interesting idea not pulled off on screen.  Pleasantville, at points, brings across a range of interesting social and political issues - by displaying a modern day brother and sister in a 'perfect' and 'plesant' 50's TV show environment which gradually gets changed towards a more modern day environment.  Unfornuately the fairy-tail style and the more adult base themes doesn't mix brilliantly and subsquently the film suffers a bit of a identify crisis in relation to its target audience. Its a shame, because its refreshing to see a film with some interesting ideas and bit of imagination compared to general run-of-the-mill box office hits. This could have been used to make a minor-classic - but instead is a above average film - if not hugely more. And leaves little desire to rush to watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Great acting, cool special effects, bad ending","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie up until the end.  It's as if a different writer took over or the writer got lazy.  It got very weird, and I think it should have ended differently.  I was disappointed with the movie due to the ending. "},{"Title":"Pleasant enough, but could be great","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a watchable enough movie, but it had the potential to be much better, if it didn't insist on delivering the message. Almost from the very beginning I felt like I'm getting a lesson and if I didn't get it the first time, the creators made sure to bring it up again and again.  Even music served the purpose of making sure I get the point. If the movie just told the story and let us come to our own conclusions, whatever they might be, it would've being much better.As it is, well, I gave it a 7.   "},{"Title":"Pleasant viewing with Pleasantville!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a nice movie!  Pleasantville was a very enjoyable movie and has a really interesting concept.  Two teenagers from modern society are sucked into the black-and-white world of a 1950s American sitcom where life is just peachy, literally.  That's the basic premise of this movie and it makes for great viewing.  It's the sort of movie that gives you a lot of stuff to think about and it was kind of refreshing in that way.  The use of color and black-and-white was quite powerful and very symbolic.  The actors in general did a pretty decent job, and I think I'm becoming quite the fan of Reese Witherspoon!Definitely worth a rent, or if it's on TV, be sure to catch it.  "},{"Title":"Eat your peas...","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...they're GOOD FOR YOU.Oh, and watch this movie. It's GOOD FOR YOU too. Stop squirming. Stop complaining that it's too slow & ponderously self-important. There are funny bits in it, trust me. There, wasn't that funny? Don't shrug your shoulders at me, young man. (sigh) OK, just watch it and THINK about The Message. It's an IMPORTANT FILM. There will be an essay on this IMPORTANT FILM due tomorrow, you know.Oh stop pouting.  "},{"Title":"An allegory for American in October 2001","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Watching movies is a disturbing experience these days.  Since the outrages of September 11, 2001, we notice so many movies with shots of the old, wonderful, New York; a New York with the World Trade Center dominating the skyline.  The scene in A.I, of New York drowned, with only the WTC towers above the waters, is perhaps the most horribly ironic.  There have been many comments on the brilliant allegory that is Pleasantville.  Suddenly, though, it seems so apt for this time.  It is a story of a paradise more naive than innocent, suddenly and uncomfortably presented with the beauty and fear of reality experienced in its full complexity.  Pleasantville seems now to illustrate the process that America and its people are said to be experiencing, a looking outwards, a growing awareness of its position, of its unique power, among the nations; but also an apprehension of the vulnerability that America's people shares with us all, in a dangerous and sometimes evil world.  Their success in this process is of historic importance to our world.  "},{"Title":"Fantasy come to life","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) are twin brother and sister, linked by DNA, and little else. They are exact opposites in just about every way. He's a well-read nerd, carries on long-distance imaginary conversations with the most attractive girl in school, and obsesses on the fifty's black and white family sit-com, Pleasantville. Jennifer doesn't waste her time reading, is popular in school, and obsesses on sex. Suddenly, by magic both are transported into the black and white world of Pleasantville. The impact of these two modern-day kids on that one-dimensional culture is explosive. SPOILERS. Jennifer brings the joys of sex and passion to the people of Pleasantville, and David opens their eyes to an exciting outside world they never knew existed. However, Jennifer and David, themselves, are changed dramatically. BIG SPOILERS COMING. Jennifer finds joy in other things besides just sex and popularity; she becomes an avid reader; and in the end remains in Pleasantville to attend college, an opportunity not available to her in her original life. David finds himself suddenly the center of attention, a hero, and popular; and the prettiest girl in Pleasantville, Margaret (Marley Shelton), falls in love with him. However, having grown up, so to speak, he accepts the opportunity to return home. The movie touches on several issues - social, political, and personal - including how reading and literature can change the outlook of people; how important color is in the appreciation of art ... and life; how passions vitalize people; how insidious racial intolerance is; and how static cultures fear the written word. The importance of the written word is especially emphasized here. However, there's an even more profound and important message delivered by this movie. Actually, it comes in one of those short, unheralded golden movie moments, which sometimes in a matter of a few simple seconds, define a good movie. It took me several months and many viewings to catch the significance of that moment in Pleasantville, a moment so seemingly unimportant that I originally gave it little more than a passing thought; in fact it seemed to me somewhat irrelevant until I finally figured it out.SPOILER. David is about to push the TV remote button that will send him back to his present day home. Margaret hugs him tightly, and as tears roll down her cheeks, says to him, Don't forget about me. Even if you never come back, I just don't want you to forget about me. As I watched that scene for the umpteenth time, it struck me. Margaret was the symbol of his fantasy come to life. And it was important for him. It would indeed be tragic if he forgot Margaret and the beauty she brought to his life through his fantasy, as well as the value his life gained from the changes Margaret and his fantasy world wrought in him. Fantasy isn't to be taken lightly.An excellent piece of work by Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, Joan Allen, Jeff Daniels, Jane Kaczmarek, William H. Macy, Marley Shelton, J. T. Walsh, and the rest of the ensemble cast - and by writer-director Gary Ross and his entire production team.  "}{"Title":"A Cute Little Film.","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Tobey Maguire plays David, a young lonely guy who's obsessed with a black and white soap opera, Pleasantville. One day, as he wants to watch a Pleasantville marathon, his sister Jennifer, (Reese Witherspoon.) who's far more outgoing then he is, wants the remote control to watch something else. They end up fighting over it and the remote gets broken. Suddenly in minute, a strange repair man comes over to there house and gives them a new remote control, when they receive it, they end up fighting over it again and this leaves them suddenly in Pleasantville, as two of the Pleasantville characters, Bud and Mary-Sue Parker. In Pleasantville everything is obviously in black and white, including them. They have new parents, new clothes, new friends, etc. Everything is just very Pleasant. They obviously want to get out of Pleasantville but they don't know how. Jennifer decides to go on her own little tour though meeting  new love interest, Skip Martin (The Brilliant Paul Walker.) Soon enough though, things are turning into colour. The more rules that are getting broken in Pleasantville, more things are turning to colour in the small town. Tobey Maguire is quite good here. I thought he had that old fashioned  look which went right with the film. Reese Witherspoon does an okay job, but I would of preferred someone else having her role. Jeff Daniels does a job too and so does Paul Walker who really should of had a bigger part in the movie.Pleasantville is a cute, original film with some great effects and some captivating moments. The funny thing was the first time I saw Pleasantville, I wasn't to keen on it, after seeing if for the second time, I was.  "},{"Title":"Oh Gee, It's Swell!","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What can one say about Gary Ross' PLEASANTVILLE except that it is an enjoyable farce about life, art, reality and fantasy.  Watching it, one is reminded of Woody Allen's THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO, a wonderful film which also dealt with people entering and characters leaving the screen.  PURPLE ROSE dealt with the big screen, PLEASANTVILLE deals with the small screen.The film's title refers to a 1950's TV show where everything is monotone and monochrome, life is scheduled and fixed and everyone is well....swell! Through a series of inexplicable events, a fanatical fan of the film (Tobey Maguire) and his not-so-fanatical-fan of a sister (Reese Witherspoon) are transported into the show as Bud and Mary Sue.The reasons for and the how of the entry into the show is unexplained and it doesn't really need to be.  We take it as a given.  The presence of the two outsiders in the show changes its environment, its people and their whole world forever.  The library books now have words, firemen now fight fire and there is colour.Though at times the film's script does get a bit heavy handed, especially in the attack at racial prejudice, the film always retains a gentle, aloof humour that keeps the audience amused.The special effects in the film are unprecedented, subtle and marvellous with 1950's costumes to match.  Everyone in the cast is a joy to watch. With Joan Allen, William H. Macy, J.T. Walsh, Jeff Daniels and Paul Walker amongst the main supporting players.10/10 "},{"Title":"Very nice","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First, I would just like to say that Tobey Maguire is so cute. I mean it. I look at him, and I feel like pinching his cheeks. He is just so darn cute.Pleasantville is, on the whole, a very nice movie. Nice visuals, nice actors, nice story, nice ending. And it also raises some very interesting points. It's about change and accepting every aspects of the human soul, including those that may not be pleasant. And maybe it's through the embracing of the darker and unpleasant side of the human soul that one becomes a complete human being. The characters in the black & white TV show Pleasantville (the actual show in the movie) after accepting the changes in them. Tobey Maguire is absolutely perfect as David/Bud Parker. His best performance though is in Wonder Boys as James Leer. Joan Allen is charismatic, and she plays her character (I forget her name) with grace and dignity. Reese Witherspoon is...well, Reese Witherspoon. What can I say. She has that pout thing down phat. All in all, Pleasantville is a very pleasant film. A joy to watch, a film to remember.  "},{"Title":"Absolutley wonderful","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Two teenagers go into their tv screen and into the lives of the characters in a black-and-white tv show in the '50s. Everyone acts perfectly and the teens aren't used to that. Everyone's smiling, no one ever fights, people never miss a hoop when playing basketball. These two teens try their hardest to bring color to the boring black-and-white show and go home. But on their way they change themselves. Tobey is great in this movie and Reese rocks the house as always. I recommend this movie to people everywhere because its wonderful. "},{"Title":"perfect example of hollywood technique","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the drawbacks of IMdB is the fact that those who don't like a movie aren't likely, in my opinion, to comment on it. It's a drawback that I don't think the great folks running the dB can circumvent, but it's one we should keep in mind. Especially while reading about this movie.Why do I say that? Because I'm certain, despite all the rave reviews of this film, that there are many, many people out there who saw Pleasantville and knew instantly that it's a piece of trash. I'm writing this review because I think it's an interesting and telling piece of trash.I encourage people to see Pleasantville (not to actually pay for the rental or ticket price, of course, but only to borrow it or watch it with others if they happen to have it) because it's more illuminating than any other film I've seen on the latest hollywood technique intellectual gimmicks. This movie is rife with metaphors that don't line up, symbolism that doesn't work out, images that obviously are meant to seem significant, and other such gimmicks that exist (but aren't as obvious) in nearly every movie hollywood releases today. For the unconvinced what's the message of the film? If you indulge in innocuous pleasures, society will shun you? Okay, I can begin to believe that... until the coloreds political metaphor kicks in. If you indulge in innocuous pleasures, society will shun you in a way that's a lot like racism? Okay. But what does abstract painting have to do with this? What about the garden of eden imagery? All these things are so incongruous and disconnected that it becomes obvious on reflection that the seeming metaphors are designed simply for audience effect. Hollywood knows that people want movies that make you think; that's why hollywood engineered this type of movie, a movie so convoluted and inane that it should take a long time to sort out all the metaphors and realize that there's nothing behind them. Trouble is, this movie failed at that it's obvious after a while that it's just inane, so the movie itself has to resort to trying to capitalize on its own inanity by being a fairy tale. Indulging in the liberals vs. conservatives argument is just what hollywood wants us to do, too, and it gets us nowhere. It's not that hollywood is liberal; it's that they know that sex sells.That's why I tell people to see this movie; after Pleasantville, the difficulties with movies like Fight Club, American Beauty and Memento become much more obvious. It's hard to see at first that these movies are just designed to sell themselves by puzzling the viewer; after one sees Pleasantville, however, one can appreciate hollywood's skills in this area much more, since all the foils and gimmicks are so obvious. "},{"Title":"A different and engaging film","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film stars two of my favorite young actors, Reese Witherspoon and Tobey McGuire as brother and sister that are transported into a 50's sitcom that the brother is obsessed with.  Both are great in this film, but I especially enjoyed McGuire.  His fresh faced naivete is perfect for this role of a boy that longs for simpler times, but finds that things aren't so simple after all...even in Pleasantville.  The story is a nice change of pace, both simple and complex at the same time. "},{"Title":"A pleasant little film...","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this movie mostly because I was interested in hearing the soundtrack. My favourite chanteuse (Fiona Apple) was credited with two songs and loved what I heard. I thought any movie with songs by Fiona would be great.Well, I was disappointed in the soundtrack -- only got to hear Fiona at the very end -- but the movie was a pleasant surprise. The film was supported by a cast of very solid actors W.H Macy, Joan Allen, Jeff Daniels -- though I don't think they lived out their full potential. But perhaps that was the idea -- they were playing very limited fictional characters.The movie deals with themes of racism, change, and passion. There's also some interesting allegorical reference.A pleasant movie. It may not change your life -- but it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Strange.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A strange and strangely touching allegory on life, love, self-realization, racism ... you name it. And if you can suspend disbelief at the on-the-surface preposterous premise, there's a lot to be got out of it, not least some excellent performances, notably (but not only) the wonderful Joan Allen as a flowering mum. On the down side, some of the plot devices are a bit clunky (how the two youngsters find their way into Pleasantville, for example) and the film may pull its punches a little (on the question of racism, for example). But if you can disregard these shortcomings, you're in for a very pleasant time.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Funny Satire","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie immensely, but had to watch it twice before I think I picked out the most important part of the message.The plot is relatively simple by the use of an ingenious TV remote control device, two teenagers are magically transported into a 1950's TV sitcom called Pleasantville and assume the identity of the main brother-sister characters. Of course, being a 1950's sitcom, everything in this imaginary world is black and white, everything is perfect, husbands and wives sleep in twin beds, etc. The introduction of two kids from the '90's is sure to add some colour to this black and white world.When I first watched Pleasantville I treated it as a rather pleasant and funny example of culture shock, as the kids from the '90's came to terms with Pleasantville and Pleasantville came to terms with them. However, with the second viewing I was far more taken with the political satire involved in it.There is a rather abrupt shift in focus about halfway through the movie. Up to that point, it had been rather amusing. From that point on, as those opposed to change in Pleasantville's black and white world begin to resist, the tone actually becomes quite ominous; sort of McCarthy, Communism and Orwell's 1984 all rolled into one, complete with mob violence and book burning. All those who treat their politics in simple black and white terms should sit up and take note of the dangers involved.An interesting subplot is that any type of lifestyle can become monotonous. While the kids of Pleasantville break out of their monotony by engaging in the more physical pleasures of life that had been denied to them, it is Jennifer - the loose girl from the '90's - who discovers that her very looseness has become monotony. It's only when she discovers the joy involved in reading and study that she breaks out and discovers new life.This was an absolutely fascinating and immensely enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"It doesnt get enough credit","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is by far one of the best movies i have ever seen and does not get nearly enough credit for it.  In previews you see on TV the first genre you think of is comedy, but it turns out that this movie could be one of the best drama's made.  Though it may seem like it Pleasantville has really nothing to do with the old shows you see.  It put's two kids who from our world would be normal and throws them in to a world so perfect.  That knows no real pain or war. These two kids change the lives of the people they interact with, and also get new perspective on their lives too. Cinematography was great contrasting colors, well written, well directed, and definatly well played by Most actors.  this is definetly something worth watching. "}{"Title":"Pleasant enough, but not great.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A nice feel good film with a big message. Really good effects that don't really infringe on the story. It just seemed to follow a well worn track for me, and the performances seemed to lack life and depth, although the courtroom scene near the end shows the missed talents of JT Walsh. Maybe that's how it's supposed to appear, judge for yourself, when you've spare time. "},{"Title":"Hail to Joan Allen","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Of all the actors in this interesting film, Joan Allen certainly is the most impressive one. Her deep emotions being trapped in the world of black and white totally turn around in a very subtle way. And this subtle star quality certainly makes Joan Allen a great actress specializing in difficult roles like a lonely housewife trapped in the routines of life. I was deeply moved by her convincing acting in this film.   "},{"Title":"Peace!!!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess, everybody wanted to be a figure of his  favorite TV-show - if only for one day!  Pleasantville is an old show of the 1950´s.  David (Tobey Maguire) watches it ever and ever again. But one night - there is a Pleasantville  marathon on TV - he gets into a fight about the remote control with his sister Jennifer (Reese Whiterspoon). The two are mistakenly  beamed into the show, into a time when the world  was in black and white, where everybody´s friendly, nobody argues and the fire brigade rescues the cats from the trees. Pleasantville was such a wonderful experience of a film, so much more than I expected. I suppose Director Gary Ross was more inspired by the european filmmakers. It was pure magic and like a long dream you never want to wake up. An irrestible beautiful ferry tale.  "},{"Title":"This movie could have been a great movie!","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not a good movie!  It could have been, but instead it turned out to be one with a bad theme   Good is dull and bad is better!  Think Folks! Is this what you really believe?  I give the movie a 3 star(out of 10) rating. "},{"Title":"BACK IN TIME","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I feel this film did not not succeed at the box office, because of comparisons with The Truman Show. That's a shame, because this is an equally good film.  An excellent cast are all on fine form. Maguire is increasingly producing some good work (catch Ride With The Devil).  The film questions traditional values and deals with themes such as integration and fascism. Not bad for a mainstream movie. "},{"Title":"Great Cinematography.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very Impressed with this movie. Not knowing what to expect ( Well, I thought it would be another movie similar to The Truman Show ), I was surprised.The Cinematography of this movie is Fantastic. The way it blends Black & White with Colour, is very clever. I`m not sure if it won an award or not, but if didn't, it should have.The storyline is good too, with the two main actors (Toby MacGuire and Reese Witherspoon) doing a very good job.And finally the end tune. I fell in love with it, and am trying to get hold of a copy of it. Fiona Apple's version of The Beatles' Across the Universe.Great Stuff. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good idea, good story, but message is shown too obvious.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You've got to like this movie, because of its deeper message and its wonderful special effects (the contrast between black & white and colored things), but it's shown all too obvious - you get the deeper message without thinking or interpreting anything. There's just not enough symbolism. That's why I think it's just good and not excellent. "},{"Title":"Overall, a well-acted and well-produced film","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a fantasy, plain and simple.  However, what makes it work is that each and every character is given an immense amount of humanity. It's the way the characters react to the amazing changes to their world that makes the audience accept all of the plot devices(an apparently nuclear-powered remote control).  Tobey Maguire is excellent as the anti-social TV fanatic who gets transported into the Pleasantville TV series, and Reese Witherspoon is also good as his sister who ends up with him in the show.  Almost every one of the characters ends up going through some kind of change at some point in the movie, and all of the actors do a good job of making you care about their particular character.  One of the main problems with the movie isn't it's acting, but it's pacing- it is very uneven.  Most of the movie is spent showing how the changes began to separate the town, and it takes only a 5-minute speech to get everyone to make peace.  Still, it's a very good movie with a excellent message, and it will definitely make you think. "},{"Title":"if you buy the corny set-up, you'll like it","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a little perplexed by the number of people who are violently negative about this movie.  Yes, it does have obvious metaphors, it does get preachy at the end, and its theme isn't all that new (see the Garden of Eden story in the Bible).  But there are some scenes within it that are really wonderful, subtle, and ambiguous.  The scene where the son has to put gray make-up on his mother's face to hide her color is touching, provocative and disturbing at the same time--isn't that what all good movies should be?Joan Allen's performance as the mother is amazing.  To think that Gloria Stuart and Joan Cusack got supporting actress nominations that year, and Joan Allen did not...  it's a pretty screwed up world. "},{"Title":"I would love to know how Pleasantville played in Idaho","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I believe that Pleasantville was a far more political movie than the reviewers on these pages have given it credit.  I also can imagine that it would have made conservatives very uncomfortable and they would have decried the movie as puerile because the metaphors and illusions were too obvious ie. the girlfriend presenting the apple, Catcher in the Rye written on the soda shop wall, the sign on saying No Coloreds among many moreInitially this is a viewers first thought but as the movie progresses and you think about these seemingly facile plot details you realize that, unfortunately,  these events and details have all occurred in the not so distant past.  I also see every glib supposedly plot transformation reenacted on the Evening News or written about in the local press.The thing I'm most surprised about is that the movie ever got backing in the first place.  We must be thankful that they make movies in Hollywood rather than Boise, Idaho.   "}{"Title":"Beautiful Black, White & Color Mixing","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Feel good movie with great cinematography. The black & white with color mixes are beautiful. Fairly good acting by a great cast. The story is about a brother and sister that get sent literally into the brothers favorite classic TV program called Pleasantville. While there they make some changes that shakes up the TV characters otherwise perfect world. A little overlong, but should keep your attention. Nothing extra or special in Pleasantville other than an original idea for a movie that works well and is pretty entertaining. Several scenes in the movie intentionally mimic famous scenes from other films. "},{"Title":"Boring Trash","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie started out good.  It was humorous up until Reese Witherspoon's date with the stereotypical perfect 50's TV jock.  It all goes downhill from there.  I don't mean to be overly preachy, but what exactly was this movie trying to tell us?  That life is colorless unless you have promiscuous sex with people you barely know?  I guess the message was if it feels good do it or else you'll become a racist Nazi?  I don't get it.  I'm not saying that a movie has to teach good moral values to be an entertaining movie (Pulp Fiction and Being John Malkovich are both wonderful movies.)  I just expected entertainment, and all I got was a lecture on how I'm supposed to live my life.  In addition, it is extremely boring.  It visually is beautiful, but I've witnessed more interesting plot developments in Austin Powers The Spy Who Shagged Me.  The only thing that redeemed this movie (or the home video, actually) was the music video by the unceasingly wonderful Fiona Apple (which was directed by the unceasingly wonderful director, Paul Thomas Anderson) that the good people at New Line Home Video added to the DVD. "},{"Title":"Hated it with a passion!!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've heard of a suspension of disbelief, but this is utterly ridiculous.  If the film just stuck with being a farce, as the first act indicated, I probably would've thought it was a clever comedy.  But then it delves into a muddled attempt at social commentary, and that's when the film falls embarrassingly on it's face.  I just couldn't take any of it seriously.  And the message that was trying to be conveyed, is not an objective message.  It's as far left wing as Pat Buchannan in right wing.  I'd like to think objectivity is what a filmmaker would like to strive for.   Had Gary Ross been a first time writer, this script never would've gotten past the script reader stage.    "},{"Title":"An 8 out of 10!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville - this is only one of the few films from which I have seen brilliance and entertainment at the same time. Gary Ross' film is evenly paced, ingenious and downright full of acting talent.It begins with a simple premise Two teenagers from the modern era are transported into a 1950's sitcom. During their stay, their influences begin to spark a series of changes in the uniform community. This occurrence begins to disturb most residents and trigger a dispute among each other.Gary Ross' own screenplay is actually an excellent depiction of how a permanent community adapts to major changes. From monochrome to color and routine to decisions, Pleasantville explains how changes affect every single individual. Many in the film were confused and had a hard time to accept things brought about by changes. It was clearly seen in the film how a peaceful community transformed into a violent and segregated society as it clung itself together in ways to find solace and harmony.Moreover, Gary Ross' direction is a clever mix of brilliance and charm. He used several techniques, such as colored objects amidst black and white background or vice versa. His techniques are quite remarkable and astonishing, as most clearly seen with Toby Maguire and Reese Witherspoon's acting. Both give satisfying performances as the teenagers who introduced reforms into a predictable society.I liked the film, and how it ended, although it turned out to what I expected. From its comic opening to the tragic consequences displayed in the movie, Pleasantville is perfect for individuals looking for a movie with intelligence and appeal. "},{"Title":"Amazing appetizers, a shame about the answers","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Some 100 minutes into Pleasantville, I thought This must be one of the most underrated movies of the 1990's. Unfortunately, from there on it goes downhill fast. Still, it opens interestingly enough. Two contemporary kids are being sucked into a tv-series from the 1950's and get to embody two of the leading roles. But their arrival is somewhat analogue with Adam and Eve eating the apple and thus infecting mankind with sin. Because Pleasantville, the town where the action takes place, is a world where the roads go round in circles and where everything is known, because nothing changes; accordingly neither do the history lessons at school. It's truly a world based on tradition.But when the newcomers arrive, they take the forces of nature (rain, fire etc) as well as the forces of mankind (sexuality, violence, frustration, hate, love and confusion) with them. And along with all this colour (the tv-series are originally in black and white). The Pleasantville citizens gets curious and starts laborating with things previously unknown, such as sex and art. But this is also wrecking the balance of their world. When the man in the main family comes home and his wife is gone (out with her new lover), he walks around in the house, confused, wondering why there isn't any food at the table, as it has always been before. This and other incidents forces some of the citizens to make a list of some basic rules that the people of Pleasantville have to follow, and the group agrees to fight together for the values in which they believe.So far so good. But at this point there is not much time left of the movie, and what's there almost spoils the whole thing. It really starts at the court scene, where one of the characters stand trial for using illegal colours in his paintings. I won't say what happens, let's just establish that the colored world defeats the gray one, and not only that this process is uniformly welcomed by everyone.  I don't appreciate this at all. It is not only a pathetic cliché, well in line with the view on mankind that we see all the time in commercials etc. More so, it makes the movie turn 360 degrees and end up where it started - in a new paradise! But we all know that the colored world, that we're all very aware of, isn't anything like paradise.One can say that this last statement is the only knowledge we can cherish. The filmmakers seem to do just that. That must be the reason for the morality of this movie, manifested in the dialogue at the end between the main male character and his real mother. She is frustrated with her life, and says I'm forty years old, it's not supposed to be like this. He replies It's not supposed to be anything, and she finds him suddenly very wise. The morals are life is a mess, but take it day by day and it'll be quite alright. But, honestly, is that really enough of guidance for us in life? And more over, in whose interest is it that the members of society just floats along on the river like unmoored boats, neglecting to navigate?That said - forgetting the inadequate answers - Pleasantville evoces many questions which themselves are a treasure to have and to hold. And one more thing just watch out for the sequence where the main female character explains to her mother about sex - hilarious!  "},{"Title":"Roots of Intolerance Investigated","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville continues the tradition laid down by such films as Groundhog Day and Zerkalo dlya Geroya. In all these films the main characters find themselves in a different world where the time-space continuum remains unchanging until the main characters and the people of the world surrounding them undergo a radical change. Though the film can be appreciated by the teenager audience as well as by the adults the film crew expertly introduced the theme of fascism and racism, which helped the film to become a serious production. The film investigates the roots of  intolerance to alien values and reveals the fact that most people are not guaranteed against turning into a savage mob when confronted with something new and unconventional. It leaves the viewer pondering over the possibility of fascist and racist ideology taking over normal ethics. That's why it stands closer to Zerkalo dlya Geroya where the main hero finds himself in his native town but in the late 40-s and even meets himself as a small boy. He has to change the stalinist mentality of his fellow citizens so that they could stop being automatons and become thinking human beings capable of opposing the regime.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant-ly spellbound!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie on cable a year ago, and I really loved it, but didn't think anything of it really. I saw it again on cable the other day, and I absolutely fell in love with it! It is one of the most timeless movies to come out of the 1990s. Ever since I was a kid, I always wondered what it would be like to go inside a 1950's sitcom. Well, you will get that feeling when you watch this movie! This movie was so well cast, all the actors looked like they actually belonged to the 1950s. The cinematography was SUPERB, and the music was absolutely awesome. I've always been fascinated by 1950s pop culture, but this movie has really sparked up my interest in it even more! Pleasantville will now go down on my all-time favorite movies list. Do not miss out on this wonderful, feel-good movie!  "},{"Title":"Well executed 90s fantasy/social commentary","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A very well executed fantasy which is only let down by a rather ham-fisted, if well intentioned slide into social/racial commentary. The special effects and use of colourization cannot be faulted, and the humour created by 'libertated' 90's teenager meets claustrophic staid 50's society is genuinely funny. Once the film attempts to tackle its 'serious' sub-theme some elements become rather cliched, however the film is generally well put together and recommended. "},{"Title":"Not everything is black and white!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is story of how peoples perseptions of a perfect life are not always as perfect as they seem.It is the story of a brother and sister who get sucked into a tv show about a pleasant town with perfect people who lead angelic lives and how the two peoples values and own way of life gradually rub off.If this is for the better it is up to you to judge . The transision from old pleasantville to the new pleasantville is very clever . The old turn from black and white into colour to show the progression. This film was a little slushy and maybe a bit to long but over all not bad. 7 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"A good movie albeit predictable","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you take every culture in the world -no matter how old- there is usually a myth about a time when man, before his fall, was living in Eden. The 50's USA is something similar in the minds of many people. Of course we are not talking about a myth or Eden here, but any period seen through the prism of nostalgia can look like utopia.I must confess that I am a sucker for this nostalgia. I understand that it wasn't in reality all roses but I like the Hollywood version which takes cues from the period TV shows.I could watch Pleasantville just for the polished 50's urban scenes. But there is a twist of course. They are characters of a show and trapped in their preset routines - a parallel for the roles a society is sometimes enforcing on people. The message of the movie is that, when there are no free choices then there is trouble in Paradise. I must admit that the approach was somewhat simplistic and the two 90's kids are predictably bringing chaos in such a society. The changes could come by more subtle means rather than basically sex.Get in the right frame of mind and it will be a very enjoyable movie.   "}{"Title":"BEST FILM!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was the best movie I've seen in a long time. The films was brillantly acted by Tobey Maguire, Don Knotts, William H. Macy, Jeff Daniels, and especially Joan Allen and Reese Witherspoon. It is obvious Reese Witherspoon is the best young actress out their today. The film itself and Joan Allen were both jipped of Oscar Nominations. I give a 10/10 or ***** "},{"Title":"fun and something to reflect on","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great film It starts out with two teenagers who end up in a 1950's sitcom. You'd think it's just another lame high concept comedy but there's so much more going on. The civil rights issue gets slipped in there and the movie gives us some confronting insights about the true meaning of the word tolerance. All this is being delivered in a totally plausible manner,nothing seems dishonest to the plot. See this film !!!  "},{"Title":"Original","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While I thought this movie was not as good as I'd thought, it is still a very interesting movie with a fresh storyline and plot twists. Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon were perfectly cast as the two teenagers, and whoever cast William H. Macy and Joan Allen as the parents was ingenius! The black and white cinematography slowly turns to color as the people of Plesantville start to discover who they really are, and innocence falls away.  "},{"Title":"Clever and entertaining but how do you end a plot like this?","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       The basic idea might not be new but this film is cleverly written and produced.  The contrasts drawn in the first half between modern urban life, and particularly modern teenage life, and the Pleasantville of the 1950s are revealing and very entertaining.  And the delivery by Maguire and Witherspoon is excellent.  In the second half they introduce sin, passion, independent thinking and risk-taking into Pleasantville's garden of eden with the expected results.  When only part of the town is thus converted, we then have the racial divide metaphor, laid on very thick.  Entertainment and light social comment turns into moralising and, for me, the film drags.  How you tie the strands of a story like this into a satisfying ending I do not know.  I do not think it is achieved here.  Overall, a film worth seeing.  Toby Maguire is terrific.  I look forward to more from him. "},{"Title":"Clever and entertaining but how do you end a plot like this?","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       The basic idea might not be new but this film is cleverly written and produced.  The contrasts drawn in the first half between modern urban life, and particularly modern teenage life, and the Pleasantville of the 1950s are revealing and very entertaining.  And the delivery by Maguire and Witherspoon is excellent.  In the second half they introduce sin, passion, independent thinking and risk-taking into Pleasantville's garden of eden with the expected results.  When only part of the town is thus converted, we then have the racial divide metaphor, laid on very thick.  Entertainment and light social comment turns into moralising and, for me, the film drags.  The, how you tie the strands of a story like this into a satisfying ending I do not know.  I do not think it is achieved here.  Overall, a film worth seeing.  Toby Maguire is terrific.  I look forward to more from him. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I first viewed this movie about 4 months ago.  I instantly fell in love with it.  It is a beautiful masterpiece of a film.  It is funny, dramatic, and just really fun to watch.  It is also visually spectacular.  The editing is perfect, and the mixture of color and black & white is stunningly gorgeous.  Not to mention all the intelligence put behind the script, the wonderful acting, and amazing fantasy fun.  This is the best movie I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"a good timewaster, very little substance","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I though that Pleasantville was a fun sugary snack, but there is very little of any substance to sink your teeth into.  Honestly, the most pleasing aspect of this movie was that Don Knotts is still working.  The most annoying aspect of Pleasantville is its  pretentiousness and that it tends to take itself too seriously.  This is a goofball film and you'll enjoy it as long as you don't  expect too much from it. "},{"Title":"Do you know the basics?","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie deals with a subject that most people face from their first years The pleasures of life and our stance towards them. A movie like this would be great in the 50s, or if it were shot under a totalitarian rule, where people would be so suppressed. But now, it's only about the minority who don't get it yet. It's an ode to obvious, or maybe for everyone to appreciate what they consider as given. About the film itself, we have a nice scenario, although quite a few times slipping to naivety, nice performances and great effects. But as a whole, it's good entertainment, sweet and pleasant, as it's name suggests. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Mediocre...sorry","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I found out to my delight that it was 2 for 1 at the video store, so when I rented I Still Know What You Did Last Summer ,I had to pick a second film and that was Pleasantville. I'm a fan of The Truman Show and so I thougt the premise for this was intersting. So I watched it on the Friday Afternoon, someone had left it halfway through the tape, later I realised why. What had been a very good idea for a film, that could have worked on many levels, many of the levels that people seem to think it does work on (50's vs the 90's), (the US Society) etc. Although I liked the characters and the idea of the film, I found the whole affair turned out be rather mediocre. The film wasn't very credible, and it lacked action, which just resulted in boredom. The full possibilites of the situation, weren't properly explored. The 50's Pleasant Tv-moulded characters who they met do not seem to have a point to them. The messages in this film seem to be very vague, better more dynamic writing what probably bring them about better. The film comes across as a bit of a mish-mash, while they spirit of it is good, and the characters are sond, the rebellious sister from the 90's forced to live in a different role. Many people seem to moved by the atmospherics for the film, but much of it was fantasy based on nothing with any credibility. It may be that I cannot relate to the 50's TV world of the US or something. It just seemed such a mediocre film and such a waste of a good idea. It didn't seem to symbolise anything, because the TV World didn't mean anything, adn they were trying to use color as a symbol. If the film was trying to show us that the 90's were dysfunctional or something, then why does it turn out that Pleasantville is such a dysfunctional place too. Color is sued to symbolise the corruption of the town's innocence, and it was crudely applied, this is contradictive (colour eventually becomes a symbol of freedom). And anyway if those 50's networks had had color, that's how they would have filmed it, people aren't black and white if they have to be, so why is that symbolic. It's all too abstract. However the fact that there still were things I liked about it, were probably enough for some people to like it a lot. They must have clearly understood the abstract sublimial meanigns of the film, which didnt exactly go out of it's way to explain itself. It was just another mediocre movie. However if you can see something in it, then that is great, I was amazed at the praise it got on the IMDB, because I had truly thought that it would have bad reviews. Either we're al being taken in by Hollywood or I'm just dumb and shoukld get back to watching blockbusters, 'cause if you all feel that way about it, it must be good. I'm gonna watch it again, I might get it this time. "},{"Title":"Charming, but not entirely successful","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"    Thought the Truman Show is a better film, this wonderful fantasy about television has some parts that I would rank even higher.  The acting is uniformly fine, with Allen giving an award-worthy performance.  I enjoyed this film all the way through, but did have some misgivings.  First of all, I was reminded of The Wizard of Oz and To Kill a Mockingbird throughout the entire film.  While it didn't bother me at first, it surprised me later on to see how much of this film was actually borrowed from others.  I recommend this film, but I am surprised that it placed so highly on peoples lists. "}{"Title":"Pleasantfilm","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie with a lot of heart and no cheap sentimentality.  It has a real interesting view on living in a world based on predictablity and breaking down walls.   performances by Macy (great actor), Daniels, and the rest of the cast and with a clever and fun story.  I recommend you to watch this movie.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville has just a little more oomph!. Brilliant stuff.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  * * * * (four out of five)PleasantvilleDirected by  Gary Ross, 1998Inspired and funny take on the 50s all-American sitcom. A wonderful, original and artistically rich movie that raises many questions; and is therefore more politically themed than initially thought. The main topics are freedom and evolution, and how challenged people often react stubbornly and this in a fascistic sense. The touch of genius is the use of color in an otherwise black and white movie (it was filmed the other way around). It is done with so much subtlety that I ended up watching Pleasantville two times in a row - just to catch all the nuances. Brilliant stuff.Where the movie does seem a bit too long and the ending is a bit lopsided, Tobey Maguire is truly spellbinding in the lead role (as is the whole cast actually) and his intensity quickly interlocks with director Ross` calm, matter-of-factly style.More importantly, the campy 50s diner `feel' and environment is dead on  re-created with the same charm as in other modern day classics, notably George Lucas` American Graffiti and Barry Levinson`s Diner. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie, on many levels","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In addition to being an enjoyable movie for the story alone (and the creative treatment of the subject matter), Pleasantville also presents a number of interesting ideas for the thoughtful viewer to ponder afterwards  the nature of prejudice, what it is that makes us human, what it means to love another -- just to suggest three. -- The acting is uniformly superb, especially on the part of Toby Maguire and Joan Allen (yet another underrated actress!). Randy Newman's score well-deserved its Academy Award nomination, as it is, by turns, both a successful pastiche of 1950s TV music and a moving lyrical commentary on the action. The sole objection to be lodged against the film is that it seems a trifle too long. Otherwise, an enjoyable, eminently watchable, and ultimately intriguing movie. "},{"Title":"THIS IS A MOVIE FOR THE AGES!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"   Pleasantville is a movie-going experience that all people should take advantage of. This is a movie about 2 children who enter a fictitious television world where nothing is normal to them, and adapt them to everyday feelings and beliefs. These two children teach the citizens of Pleasantville, the value of love, character and equality within a civilized society. It shows great refences to oppression for skin colour, and then reveals that it's not what one looks like that matters, but what is underneath their skin. This is a great film, with deep meanings for life. SEE IT NOW! "},{"Title":"Beautiful but overdone","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There is no question that this is a wonderful film and beautifully presented. There is also no doubt that it starts to labour over some issues and even misrepresents some concepts of the nineties vs the fifties morality. In all 'though very enjoyable. 8/10 "},{"Title":"in black and white, most confused.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Crikey!  What a mix-up THIS film is.  It's a bit like Gary Ross was told he could only direct one more film in his entire life and that he had to fit into it everything he wanted to say. The result is that he faffs around a lot but achieves little; the mix of potentially colourful themes ending up as a nondescript grey sludge of good ideas but a complete failure in the conclusions department.Stepping into the TV is a good start I thought, mainly because I very much liked Woody Allen's Purple Rose of Cairo (and his earlier short story The Kugelmass Episode).  The theme had also appeared in Poltergeist/The Twilight Zone/Stay Tuned etc. so was not new but clearly there was more that could be done with it.But not much is. The fact that the kids are thrown into a TV series is for the most part forgotten and instead, the question is what do the 90s kids do if thrown into a 50s world? And that question was better dealt with in Back to the Future, because at least in that film there was an intention of producing a passably realistic impression of the 50s.  Instead, there are uncomfortable limits imposed as to the knowledge of the Pleasantville residents, ie no sex/colour/books/out of town/fire etc. but no rhyme or reason as to why some things exist in their world but others don't.Add to that a random bit of magic realism (ie the burning tree), an embarrassing attempt to deal with race/discrimination issues, and the most unsatisfactory love-triangle sub-plot ever devised, and you have a proper mess, with more loose ends than a spaghetti sandwich.  True, there are some pretty bits with the colour/black-and-white cine effects mix, very clever I'm sure, but that is just gilding a rotten lily. "},{"Title":"A very good movie.","Date":"24 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked Pleasantville.  I was totally absorbed by it from beginning to end.  The story was well written and flowed smoothly and evenly.  It was obvious some thought went into the writing of this film.  I will have to watch it again just to make sure I caught everything.  Gary Ross also co-wrote one of my other favorite movies, Big.  The effects were pretty cool, yet not overwhelming.  The story allowed for a few twists and turns, and for some unexpected character developments.  I would be hard pressed to find fault with any of the acting, let alone the film in general.  I cannot recommend this movie enough.  It is funny, thoughtful and inoffensive.  To put it another way, I can't imagine anyone not enjoying this film. "},{"Title":"What is it all about.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is not about 50's.This film is not about the US.This film is not about television.This film is not about sex.This film is about hypocrisy of any society in the world. It shows that people who pursuit pleasant life, suppress their real feelings, close their eyes on what is beyond Pleasantville and do not accept any changes to their everyday's comfort, inevitably turn to crime, genocide, desintegration of culture and destruction of justice.We have witnessed that in pre-war Germany and in the USSR up to now. Look beyond your Pleasantville and don't make it happen again! "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What can you say about the premise of Pleasantville apart from that it is brilliant? The idea of two American teenagers getting stuck in an old TV show and that not only the people of that isolated world start to change, but that the teenagers also start to realize that there are things about themselves that they never would have known if they had not come to Pleasantville is in short brilliant. It's just such a fantastic story and Gary Ross certainly made a film that lived up to the high expectations of the premise. I must admit that I really like movie fantasy fairy tales (like Time Bandits for example), but Pleasantville is a wonderful film in its own right.William H. Macy, Joan Allen, J.T. Walsh and Jeff Daniels are all very good. Tobey Maguire is great, as is Reese Witherspoon. I've only seen Witherspoon in one other movie -- Freeway -- but I still think she is very talented.In short, Pleasantville is a delightful and wonderful and very funny fantasy comedy and I thoroughly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding as a comedy, so-so as a drama","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  No question, this was a great movie.  Yet, I was still a little disappointed by the end result.  The main problem is that this film gets worse as it goes along.  The film started off as a comedy, and it was often hilarious.  Almost every joke seemed to work, and the attention that was paid to detail made for a magnificent first half.  Unfortunately, the film gradually switched from comedy to drama, and the dramatic parts were very hit-and-miss.  As the townspeople became more alive, the film became less lively.  The dramatic parts were okay, but they paled sharply in comparison to the stellar comedic moments that had dominated much of the movie.  It's just too bad that a movie that could've been nearly perfect faltered with a final hour that was merely pleasant. "}{"Title":"black and white","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My feelings on this film are mixed, in general I admirethe acting(Joan Allen, Bill Macy and the late, much lamented JT Walsh especially) all good, the two kids Reese W. and Toby M were fine, heck I liked the sets, the satire on '50s TV and all of that. And anything that brings Don Knotts back to us isn't all bad, believe me.Now, what isn't so hot-I got confused, was director Gary Ross saying that the '50s were suffocating, stunk, repressed, and that everything afterwards is so much improved by opening up, living your life is better if you do your own thing, etc. Sex is fun! etc. I.E. Gifts that the '60s gave us.Okay, sure. I admit-much of that is true, plus the racism in pre-Martin Luther King America was ugly, and its true '50's sitcoms like 'Father Knows Best' and 'Leave it to Beaver' were stilted and unrealistic in the extreme. I guess if you did take a few 1998 teenagers and plunk them down into such a universe, say onto the front lawn of the Beaver's house, sure-they could turn things upside down in a heartbeat.But that's on TV.I don't know about anyone else, but the people I know who lived in the '50s, my family, parents, their parents, friends, etc. were hardly a bunch of innocent boobs waiting for some 5-2 sleaze like the Reese Witherspoon character here to come prancing outta the future and show them how to Wake up and Really live.These were people who had fought in WWII, who had made it through the Depression before it, who also fought in Korea....people died of Polio, cancer, etc. at a much higher rate then now....Much lower homicide rate, drug rate, etc...Am I missing something here? If anything, this film would have done well to have portrayed the '50s as they Actually were-but then that's be too hard, and shunt aside Gary Ross's little message here.It'd be the same as if you dropped someone from the future, or '50s-early 60s into the set of Friends, and tried to pass off Friends as being Realistic. What, a bunch of 30ish anorexics and idiots pretending they are 5 years younger, who supposedly are broke but look and live like Actors who make a lotta $$$, not a black or brown person in sight anywheres-now which show needs a dose of reality here? And color?Point is-I didn't buy that part of Pleasantville. Liked the acting, actors, but that was it.  You want a half decent look at the 'Happy Days' era-check out American Graffitti or Diner.**1/2 stars outta ****; not bad, just....off a little. "},{"Title":"Lost in the 50s Tonight","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In the film, two 90s teenagers (Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon) get transported into a 50's Black & White sitcom called Pleasantville. Once there they began to influence the characters by destroying their innocence and changing their values.The picture starts out as a comedy or parody, if you will, of all of those B & W sitcoms like, Father Knows Best, The Donna Reed Show etc. As the story progresses and the characters begin to change, the mood of the film changes from B & W innocence to the realities of the nineties complete with sex, violence and protests.All of the cliches of the old sitcoms are there, from the twin beds, to no toilets in the washrooms, to the golly gee swell innocence of the characters in Pleasantville. I thought that the comedy element of the 90s teenagers thrust into the Pleasantville environment could have been played out a little more.Maguire and Witherspoon are good as the teenagers but it is veterans Jeff Daniels, Joan Allen, William A. Macy, J.T. Walsh and Don Knotts (himself a veteran of Pleasantville (aka Mayberry) who carry the film.I liked many aspects of the film, however, I would have liked it better if director Gary Ross could have decided whether he was making a comedy or a drama at the outset.  "},{"Title":"Well-acted, but an immoral message for viewers...","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed Pleasantville somewhat, and it is never the place of a film reviewer to stand atop a soapbox, but there were a few points throughout the film that just made me wander what the creators were thinking.Firstly, the blissfully ignorant teenagers suddenly come alive and become spirited after having promiscious sex at a place called Lover's Lane.  Good message to a nation whose youth pregnancy rate steadily climbs year after year.Secondly, the blissfully ignorant mother discovers the pleasures of masturbation and proceeds to have an affair with the local soda jerk...after a talk about sex with her daughter.  Once again, husbands and fathers in this country are lambasted for two things being male and being breadwinners.  Meanwhile, adultery as a spiritual-awakening experience is all right in that context.Thirdly, the blissfully ignorant Pleasantville takes a turn towards some sort of Deep South town in the pre-Civil Rights Movement 60s, Nazi-inspired fortress.  Oh, I'm sure this is how it is so many small towns throughout America where people work hard, don't break the law, and retain their family values.The director and writer, Gary Ross, appeared to have a lot of personal issues, perhaps familial issues, to work out, and used this overlong, trite, CGI-emhanced diatribe to display them in full color (no pun intended).  Yes, it is well acted, by the most part, and it features incredible cinematography, but all of this is muddled in the negative message put forth by Ross on the screen.  He fails on most accounts, especially through the cryptically weird ending.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"5 out of 10","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just couldn't get past the terrible acting by this Tobey Maguire. He looked like someone just saying their lines. I probably could have done better. The rest of the acting was good and I liked the premise but it seemed this movie didn't have an ending to me. Nothing was really resolved. Really liked Witherspoon (go watch Freeway) Daniels, Walsh and Allen. Don Knotts was cool too. I'll watch this again, maybe concentrate a bit more, but for now - 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful film but standard end(((","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Hi-class young actors (especially Reese), interesting story & camera & color decision, but when Europian style - at last - will influent on American movie society?! Sweet tear-squeezin' happy-end again n' again! Sometimes US give us some extraordinary cinematograph thinking but I'd like it happen more often "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, now I understand what the fuss was about this movie. It is very good. The idea is good, the acting is good... the whole atmosphere is good. The only thing that bothers me a bit is the fact that it emphasizes so much on sex. Don't get me wrong, sex is nice, but it seems -- toward the end -- that the makers of this movie realized that they had only used sex as the thing that would wake people up ie. give them color. But once they realized it, they came up with some very good ideas. "},{"Title":"Very Pleasant indeed...","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Plot           Two typical teenagers from the nineties find themselves stranded in a different era, similar to a 1950's monochromatic sitcom. Clash between distant times is just around the corner...   Review      Welcome to Pleasantville, land of the sunshine, where roads lead nowhere, where all men are equal and where what may seem an immaculate society dwells. While I could go on for hours complimenting the detailed and intricate special effects or other technical details, I can but notice the symbolic message behind Pleasantville that stands out as unique ( a completely different set of colors ). It seems a dream to entertain viewers in the virtual world of fantasia, yet it is only a reflection of our own society. Indeed, man strives to build his version of reality and life based on ethics and morals hoping to achieve utopia. However, under this veil intolerance and the evil hidden buds of human nature await. Utopia is another virtual reality, or more like another episode of the eternal sitcom. ( don't you think that is worth your 6$? )   "},{"Title":"A very interesting film","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville, starring Jeff Daniels, Reese Witherspoon and Toby Maguire is a very interesting movie. It is unlike anything that I have ever seen before. The plot is unbelievable at first, but then gets very interesting. OK, here's what happens. Two siblings (Witherspoon and Maguire) get trapped in a TV show from the 50's. These being 90's kids, they don't like it at first. Then they realize that the town is boring because everything is so perfect. After a while, they turn this black and white Leave It To Beaver town into a lively color town.The premise is very good, and I liked it a lot.My rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Only disturbing to those who need to be disturbed...","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a great movie.. at least to those with the slightest philosophical bent.The message here is NOT that sluts should read more or that acting on emotions is liberating. It is a metaphor for REAL life.  Life is almost never what it seems on the face of it and people are infinitely more complex than can be conveyed in casual storylines.Denial of the less than pleasant aspects of life does not make them go away, any more than railing against sin strengthens one against it.  Ask any number of fallen preachers.Excellent casting and acting all around. "},{"Title":"Reflections of the Times","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to give writer-producer-director Gary Ross credit for what he was trying to do in Pleasantville make a philosophical statement that maybe the nifty fifties weren't so perfect after all.Two typical, Gen-X teenagers (played wonderfully by Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) are magically transported back into a 1950's television show called Pleasantville. This place has obvious shades of Father Knows Best and is always genuinely pleasant.The two teens from the nineties slowly but solemnly begin to shake things up in the Pleasantville world, inspiring the other kids to read, ask more questions, and even to engage in sexual activity.Then again, has the arena of dating and sex among teenagers really changed all that much from the fifties to the nineties? I don't think so.Still, you have to give Mr. Ross his due credit for creating a new world, utilizing special effects not as the key story element, but as a tool to push the story along. Mr. Ross also pulls surprisingly touching work from co-stars Joan Allen (as the ever-pleasant housewife Betty), William H. Macy (as the delightfully unsuspecting Dad George), and Jeff Daniels (as Mr. Johnson at the soda shop). It's also nice to know that, as the twentieth century comes to a close, maybe Generation X didn't do that bad of a job after all. Rated PG-13. 124 minutes. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Too preachy by half","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw Pleasantville last night, ready to be taken in by a good comedy about our culture. What I got was an over-long movie which tries to take on the evils of the Moral Majority by preaching about artistic censorship and sexual uptightness. For my part, the movie had too few funny moments and too many vague generalizations about complex cultural issues. "},{"Title":"The Truman Show it's Not!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film which mixes its metaphors.  When Bud is transposed back into a 1950 Leave it to Beaver like scenario, things are perfect, everyone knows their place, and life is predictable.  I couldn't figure out whether having adultery, wilder music, necking on lover's lane were supposed to be good innovations or bad, and I don't think the movie could figure it out either.  There is a scene where Buds Pleasantville girlfriend offers  him an apple (Adam and Eve in the garden) which suggests that temptation and evil have come to Pleasantville  in the form of new  and dangerous ideas. The film couldn't make up its mind whether all the changes were good or bad. Just changing from black and white to color doesn't do it.I'd rate it  a 6.  "},{"Title":"Joan Allen deserved an Oscar nomination","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First, the film was interesting and imaginative, and I liked it very much. But, as to my heading, the snub by the Academy of Joan Allen for a Best Supporting Actress nomination was one of the two biggest snubs of the year, along with Joseph Fiennes for best actor. Her work here is another example of her artistry. And, anyways, while we're on the subject of Oscar snubs, I noticed just one more- special effects here. The special effects are quite amazing and definitely more complex than those in The Mask of Zorro. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville (1998)","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The answer to is Pleasantville as good as The Truman Show is yes. Pleasantville has an original and great story. Two teenagers who are brother and sister get transported into the world of Pleasantville. Not long after they start interacting with the people of Pleasantville things begin to change in the town. The movie is directed and acted out quite well. The movie has comedy, drama and style in a great mix. One of the year's best films. I give this movie 5/5.  "},{"Title":"Nice escapist fling -- good movie for a date.","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Acting is good.  The premise is novel.  It has a couple of interesting symbolic themes and the effects are reasonably good. This is a good flick for easy entertainment or a light date-- nice escapist fling.  On a scale of one to ten, a 6. "},{"Title":"The Destruction of Innocence","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a bit erratic.  It begins as a funny/amusing fantasy/comedy, but that soon fades away.  I don't mind that it became heavier, tried to say something more, but the message of the film really bothered me.As the film starts, David sees a world of violence, STDs, danger, and heartbreak.  He turns up Pleasantville to drown out the sounds of his divorced mother screaming into the phone at her ex about her new boyfriend. The audience begins to think, Okay, this film will be about finding wholesomeness and innocence again.David, who craves innocence (his sister points out that he really, seriously likes the way these people live once they arrive in Pleasantville), and Jennifer, who finds innocence nerdy and geeky, arrive in Pleasantville.  It seems that they will be thrust into '50s culture and have to learn how to live in it.  But soon we see that they are actually up against '50s TV culture, in a world where people have to do things by repetition, there is no rain, and there are no toilets.  So, I realized, if these kids were going to do battle with this black and white culture, it was going to be a fake culture from the start, a fantasy land in which nature doesn't even work right, not a real place.I expected David to find his peace in Pleasantville, but he just seems mildly amused by the whole experience.  Jennifer's reactions and changes are more interesting, as she finally learns that reading, valuing her own potential and intelligence, is what matters.But, as has been pointed out by other IMDB users, the reasons for the characters' growth/color change are vast and different.  Apparently sex outside of marriage is deep inner growth for some teens; adultery in Mrs. Parker and Mr. Johnson represents a wonderful growth for them; screaming and yelling make the mayor become who he really is; and yet reading is what makes Jennifer find herself, David must stand up and defend someone to become his best self, and finding respect and love for his wife makes Mr. Parker into a real person. Why does the emphasis go both ways?  If you're a slut, read more books? If you read too many books, go have sex?  What is the message?David's peace and satisfaction are the most confusing moment.  He and his sister venture into a world of perfect innocence, break up a family, introduce promiscuity (what about the references to STDs at the beginning of the film?), and leave an enlightened world behind them.  Why does this make them happy?  The one place of innocence has been stamped out.  Was it a real, realistic world?  No, but as David insisted over and over to his sister early in the film  They're happy!  They're really happy, and you have no right to destroy their universe.  If people are innocent and happy, why is it better to bring in this sort of enlightenment?  As the world becomes enlightened, fights break out for the first time; boys who used to be innocent about sex begin to gang up on women; marriages that used to be happy fall apart.  Is this what we are supposed to want?I feel that the best moment of hope was lost at the end.  When Mr. Parker admits that he loves his wife and turns colored, why not have him go to her, apologize and confess love, and work with her to create a stronger marriage in which they can both be more independent and happy?The message of Pleasantville seems to be that getting what you want first is what's most important, and you should go through anyone to get it, even dumping people and relationships and responsibility if you don't think it will make you happy enough.  (Like the reference to a boy quitting his job because he doesn't feel like it anymore, as if this is a good, positive growth for him.)  This film should have been about balance- yes, women deserve more than being confined to the kitchen; people should be able to paint beautiful artwork; we should grow as human beings.  But not through the destruction of innocence. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A brother & sister transported into a 1950's television show where everything is peachy.Although the premise sounds dumb,the film is actually a wonderful dramatic comedy featuring great acting.Rating***** (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Intelligent fantasy","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  PLEASANTVILLE is a charming, intelligent fantasy. Because it -is- intelligent and it is not fast-paced, it probably loses 80% of its audience right at the start...but the other 20% will appreciate a fine film that is not dumbed down, a rarity in this day and age. "},{"Title":"A film that's not as smart as it thinks it is...","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The critics drooled over this one originally, which I should always remember is a big warning sign -- stay away.  While the premise is intriguing, it's essentially a high concept, one joke movie.  Worse, the filmmakers weren't exactly sure what story they were telling, so the metaphor switches directions a couple of times, lots of attempts at explaining only make things more confused, and some of the parallels between what's going on in Pleasantville and real world events (Nazis, race riots, etc.) are so heavy handed they might as well have just run a crawl across the screen This is just like when Hitler ordered all books by Jews burnt.  Oooh. History...It's a shame, because the movie hits on an interesting idea at the very beginning, but it was probably an accident.  Mainly, the trip to Pleasantville is set up as largely a reaction of Toby Maguire's character to the sucky world of the 90s.  (Unfortunately, this concept is utterly trashed by the appearance of Don Knotts as a TV Repairman, a useless character that probably happened because several studio execs were confused. B-b-but... how does he get into Pleasantville?  I don't understand...) Anyway, the world of Pleasantville, under the surface, is really a political correctness freak's wet dream, NOT a version of the 1950s -- but we're led into it from the start knowing that this place is entirely wrong, and that's where all the potential ends.By far the most annoying aspect of the film, though, is that the filmmakers don't bother to give us the most important scenes.  At several points, when we're about to hit an emotional moment that might mean something, bang, we cut away to something else.  It's almost like the movie was cut with a stop watch.  As a result, it's impossible to care about anyone, because we never get to see the moments that matter to them.  (The most heinous examples of this come in the Joan Allen/Jeff Daniels relationship.  I think something happens between them, but it's hard to tell.)I won't even mention that Gary Ross hasn't bothered to think about the rules of the world here.  The TV Repairman character is inconsistent -- eager to send people into the place at one moment, outraged that things are changing in another.  As another IMDB reviewer pointed out, the reasons for people changing from black and white to color are also inconsistent.  At first, it seems like getting laid is the way to colorization, but at the end of the film, we learn that there are other reasons, and are left to wonder why the entire town hadn't turned technicolor a lot sooner.I don't know why the critics raved.  Maybe because nothing blows up and most of the film is in black and white.  But, if you want  great visual effects that actually have a compelling story attached to them, tune in to a Gatorade commercial.  Don't waste  your time on Pleasantville, because there's nothing there you haven't seen already -- or can't guess long before it happens. "},{"Title":"Fair Movie","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First off I want to comment of a few other comments I have read for this movie This isn't a representation of the 50s! Pleasantville wasn't supposed to be a representation of the 50's, it was supposed to be a representation of a 50's family comedy, i.e. Leave It to Beaver.  Not a very good representation, I'll admit, but neither was the Brady Bunch Movie a representation of the Brady Bunch.  It's satire, folks.This movie has too much swearing/sex/etc! It's 1999, and this wasn't rated 'G'. Profanity and sex were actually important to the changes that occurred in the characters, which were necessary for them to become colored.I, personally, think that this was a fair movie. I enjoyed watching it.  I think it was a bit preachy.  And there were a few annoying inconsistencies.For instance, the people of Pleasantville, were supposed to be pleasant. The thing that made people colored, was that they had fundamentally changed in some way.  If this were true, the rock throwers and book burners would have become colored simply because it shouldn't have been in their nature to do so.  I point to the climax of the courtroom scene to illustrate my point.And what about the relationship between Mrs. Parker and Mr. Johnson.  Did she leave Mr. Parker?  Did she simply have a fling with Mr. Johnson?  I'd hoped that this question would be answered at the end of the movie.  But then suddenly Mr. Parker turned into Mr. Johnson!  Did they forget about this plot point?  Did they suddenly realize after the first screening that they had forgotten and quickly tack on the ending? It left me confused.Despite those few annoying things, the message of the movie was an important one, and I recommend this movie to everyone, especially young people.  The story it tells has a moral that everyone should understand.  Intolerance and resistance to change are impediments to life and should be avoided at all costs. "}{"Title":"The Colors of Pleasantville","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" While some of us may find this movie quite boring, I've considered this film as one of the best. Performances of such talented actors proved that this film is beyond ordinary. The cast delivers a stand out performances. The black and white visual effects, and the black and white - color combinations made this film unique and a classic of the present time. All this contributes to one of the many colors of Pleasantville  "},{"Title":"Visually impressive but somehow fails to deliver","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An interesting concept which, if not wholly original, is at least well presented thanks to modern digital effects.The main characters of the film - including David & Jennifer (Toby Maguire & Reese Witherspoon) - seem very two dimensional, making the transition from black & white to colour less convincing than it could have been. The one possible exception to this is the attraction between Jeff Daniels and Joan Allen, which is wonderfully underplayed at the start, suggesting that before the arrival of the two 90's teenagers they had never really noticed each other before.It is not entirely surprising that the film has not been more successful commercially. It does not appear to have been very well marketed, especially the trailer which almost put me off seeing the film, and as a result has failed to capture the public's imagination despite receiving critical acclaim in the press.Overall, this is a film which could have been so much more and done so much better but at the end of the day is just pleasant.  "},{"Title":"More beneath the surface than you think.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Everything that has been said about this film is pretty much true. It is a visually-stunning film; the digital effects technicians' work in balancing the monochrome elements with the colorized elements is to be applauded. Likewise with the art direction; the look and feel of 1950s suburbia is achieved.Of course, none of this would matter if there wasn't a strong story serviced by these visuals. Fortunately, writer/director Gary Ross (Oscar nominated for his screenplays for Big and Dave) has given us a thought-provoking tale. Through effective, albeit less-than-subtle, symbolism, Ross uses images to convey timely messages about race relations, tolerance and individuality. The fact that he accomplishes this without coming off as preachy is a testament to the strength of the amount of talent involved in this film. And while some may note superficial qualities between this and other similar- themed films (The Truman Show, Back to the Future), this one can stand firmly on it's own. See it; it's sure to start conversations afterwards. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie at the dollar theatre!  It was a pleasant surprise.. I thought Joan Allen was great in the picture. The way they used the black and white and color scenes was terrific. "},{"Title":"This movie is all heart.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A confused little movie with a  heart of gold and no brain.  The  teenage son preaching the obvious  at you gets tedious very fast. Jeff Daniels is good in a smallish  role, I love Joan Allen in anything,  Reese Witherspoon is a pretty girl  with a look of her own.   "},{"Title":"Black and White isn't always as it seems.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A great movie!  Great effects on the make-up to make the characters black and white.  Especially on Joan Allen.  Reese Witherspoon is a talented actress, who can make any movie-goer love her.  The acting, effects, and plot were divine.  Not your average film....but better!  If you haven't already seen it, then you're in for a real treat.  If Pleasantville 2 came out, it would be first on my list for must sees!! "},{"Title":"Free time on Sunday","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After watching Pleasantville I had to spend half an hour washing the preachyness out of my eyes.If you buy the movie as a metaphor for the civil rights movement, it's not bad. But there are times when it seems to go beyond that simple explanation. Maybe I'm seeing things that weren't meant to be there, but equating anyone who resisted change with fascists? Seemed a little far fetched to me. And did anyone else notice that there were no consequences for people's actions? I mean, teen-age casual sex might be great and all, but there are some draw-backs (STD's, unwanted pregnancies itd.)hmmm maybe I need to watch fewer movies and get out more.  "},{"Title":"It's OK, but I expected so much more...","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok. this movie's OK. But this not what it was supposed to be,is it? I waited for months for it to be released in Italy, waiting to see something dazzling and.. well,frankly,it's not much cop.The effects are awesome,the plot isn't. When the first seeds of revolution and change in a perfect world are brought by a slutty teenage girl,you know you're in for a long night.Still,not a bad film. Joan Allen is extraordinary. Jeff Daniels isn't. What did you expect?Rating6 "},{"Title":"Pleasantville is Average. . .or so","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was a nice film.  It was good.  It was above average. It was mild. It showed that bland could be raised to an art form and thought-provoking. In a place of forever sunny skies, cheery wives, and holding hands, the movie colored in a couple of with it teens from the 90s age of acerbic tongues and one-night stands.The black and white world of Pleasantville, the village where everything goes right and everyone knows right from wrong -  and Father Knows Best - was a hybrid of Our Town and The Truman Show. It was like the former perhaps for no other reason than being about small town America in sweet, innocent era, and a bit of the latter since everyone had a role to perform, done in the exact order all the time day after day without end.  Without such a purpose the players in Pleasantville the village would have been in the dark. Coping with the unexpected was not in the grand scheme of things for the denizens of Pleasantville.That's where the teenagers came in, and life in docile in which the basketball team never lost - and made all their baskets - and nothing caught on fire or got sullied from sin or sand was not to be the same.Pleasantville the movie, contrasting this monochromatic world without conflict with a modern viewpoint, gave us an entertaining movie that reminded me of the time that a gentleman wouldn't dare to use 'truck driver' language in front of a lady. The concept of Pleasantville, although not entirely novel, did exhibit a flair for jarring those cobwebs to get us old timers, especially, to do a retake of the past, all-too-often looked at through rose-colored lenses.  It told us how innocent and, quite really, how stupid we were to fall for that tome of family values, hook, line and sinker.  Two twin beds in the master bedroom gave the appearance of the perfect, virginal family, whose big event of the day came when Father announced, Honey, I'm home.  Lovers lane was for star gazing but not on your back.When the teens were released from their roles in Pleasantville and one of them returned to the present, we were jarred to 90s-reality of how tough we were.  The over-the-hill 40 year old was all pent-up over not picking up a stud nine years her junior and vented a common obscenity, the kind of language only a truck driver would use in the day and age of Pleasantville. Certainly a lady wouldn't utter such crudeness.  I guess we've come a long way, haven't we, Baby?  We've become seasoned pros at spouting off, wagging our tongue with UNpleasantries.Pleasantville, though not a strong or compelling movie, did serve up two hours of a pleasant film experience.  It threw on a little salt to a pretty bland time in our nation's history.  It's a good, unpretentious  film that gives you something to think about.  "},{"Title":"Original, but drags","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The ideas and themes in this movie are very original, like those of Truman Show. Getting in touch with inner feelings would bring out the colour or change in appearance; people should not be afraid to change; change may disrupt proceedings as well as bring substance and imagination to life. The film touches on racism too.Despite the interesting themes, the film tends to drag. People changing to colour are mostly predictable, except that of Mary-Sue and Bud. The overall length is too long. The story would have been told more effectively in a shorter period of time.The film lacks impact, but it can set you thinking if you concentrate and take note of which things/people change colour first, and the reason for it. Pay attention to the things in the burger shop.  "}{"Title":"misunderstood!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A lot of the criticism of this film seems to come from people who have not thought through the messages that it conveys. It is easy to say what this film is not. It is not an attack on fifties morality, it is not a critique of television, it is not a nihilistic call to arms. Instead it is a film about nostalgia. How often do you hear people harp back to the good old days, the way society was before it got corrupted. What this film does is take a snapshot view of the present world; full of social hardship, environmental problems, AIDS and broken homes and then presents an imagined view of what the world used to be like;solid nuclear families, permanently sunny weather, innocent teens. This is what many people do when they become nostalgic. They only see the bad aspects of the world as it is and only remember the good parts of the world as it was. What the director then proceeds to do is show us why the world is not like that anymore, if it ever was. The most important thing that the two main characters bring with them to their new world is knowledge. Knowledge of their own sexuality, knowledge of the outside world, knowledge of the arts, knowledge of gender issues. It is this knowledge that changes Pleasantville's world and is presented as a parallel of the changes brought about in America from the fifties to the present day. What the director is careful to avoid, even though he has been accused of doing just this, is to suggest that all the things that knowledge brings about are good. We have already seen the problems inherent in the real world that they have left and they bring many new problems into the world, broken families, polarized communities and violence. It is no coincidence that Bud is the first person to use violence in pleasantville and show it's power to the rest of the world. The acquisition of forbidden knowledge is obviously going to bring comparisons with the story of genesis and Adam and Eve's expulsion from Eden. A fact that the director acknowledges with some subtle references but does not make his primary concern. All in all this is a film that works on many levels. The main message of the film seems to be that changes to society are inevitable given mans quest for new knowledge but that  such changes are preferable to living in a state of ignorant bliss. You may disagree with this idea but you must admire the subtle and thoughtful way that he has put this idea across and for his courage in making a big budget special effects movie that can be both thought provoking and entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie...","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Plesantville is one of the best films I've seen to this date. Because of how it acquires some good sensuality and humor into the movie. It also shows that people could change more and some opinions don't mix. Like the racist-like scene of the burning books or the trashing of Mr. Johnson's shop because of color. It sort of makes people think you know. Also the movies change through color was also dazzling. This is a good movie for you to have!  "},{"Title":"Visually sweet to cover the overall blandness","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It is interesting to read and hear reviews of this film.  It is either loved or hated, it seems.  I recommend seeing it for the visual aspect, to see great effects.  Otherwise, the story seems to go from deep thoughts to over the top preaching.  I almost feel that it would have been better as a short that raises a bunch of questions without answering any of them instead of a full length feature that answers some questions that don't seem important while ignoring obvious flaws. The acting is above average, for the most part and there are some funny moments but I just felt unfulfilled by this movie.  Some movies do well to leave us with questions to ponder, but not when they make us question the use of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Creativity sparks a fantasy through time and transition.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't we all wish the world is pleasant again, even in the year 2000? It's too bad the clock doesn't turn back to the good old days of prosperity. Now we are left behind with artifacts of memories that once was. Remember the milkman, the paperboy, the wife who always prepares the dinner table.PLEASANTVILLE is an entertaining nostalgic trip back in the days of black-and-white television shows, and fantasizes the past pop culture through a deep blending of a modern-day unruly society. It sounds like a new and rewarding concept, and it goes even further by examining two different worlds the happy, shiny, rock n' roll 50s and the dark, decaying, alternative 90s. Writing and direction have its bold merits, expressing a masterful view of moral values in a properly known fictional town called Pleasantville. If we wanted to escape the world where sex and violence would create a problem, then this is the right place to be. Rather, this is a movie to watch because it will stir some deep emotions for choosing to look back into a bygone era when life was enjoyed peacefully. Emotions alone wouldn't have been totally necessary for a movie like this, which focuses on the 50s way of living. In the end, the importance lies within the history to be remembered, and how it builds up into the present, and even the future. But the movie wouldn't have been anywhere near as pleasant without Don Knotts, magnificently cast as a handy-dandy reliable TV repairman stuck in the tube.Originality aside, PLEASANTVILLE whisks us away when we think about the wonderful possibilities life had accomplished, and how changes in society must always phase. And remember to think about your affections over positive values that sure would be needed right now. A winning treat that comes out satisfying.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant themes, weak movie","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Some of the themes dragged on for a lot longer than they should have (the sex/masturbation situation). There were many unanswered questions, such as how do the people know what colors are which, when they never were exposed to them? Although there were some deep imagery, including a pro-reading and a race relations theme, this movie is grossly over rated. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville challenges you to 'open your mind' by removing your brain.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a cinematic tragedy, a truly schizoid piece of filmmaking that is in moments brilliant, but in many more moments maddeningly condescending, contradictory and shallow.I suspect that people who found that What Dreams May Come to be a profound theological contemplation will find Pleasantville to be a profound sociopolitical one. This is a gentle way of saying that this is a dumb movie that may be confused for being important.You no doubt know the story by now siblings get sucked into a 50s-era black-and-white television series called Pleasantville. Much hilariousness follows. (And important, weighty social lessons, too!)At least that is what Gary Ross, the auteur behind this mess, would like you to believe. In truth, whatever comedy could've been wrested from the fishes-out-of-water premise was all milked perfectly by Back to the Future over a decade ago. In retrospect, Back to the Future seems a smarter social commentary, too, even as it is also an exponentially more entertaining story, with memorable, endearing (and enduring) characters.But I digress. We were speaking of Pleasantville.Tiresome and hypocritical, the film makes its strongest case against simple-minded moralizing by being the embodiment of that which it indicts. It is a irony beyond explanation that a film can so closemindedly assert and repeat ad nauseum, open your mind. To what, exactly, you ask? Well, anything, really. Promiscuity, changing your routines, a new job, masturbation, racial equality, unleashing your inner artist, all sorts of important STUFF. Why, you inquire? Because if you don't, you are a 1) A Nazi 2) A Repressed Zombie, or 3) a VERY WHITE MALE.If you think there must be more to Pleasantville than Gary Ross finding a variety of challenging ways to insult your intelligence, you're right. There are a lot of very boring storylines involving utterly uninteresting characters that evolve slower than mankind. You will be amazed, by the story's end, at just how little you cared about anyone in the film.Much like its theologically-retarded sibling, What Dreams May Come, Pleasantville is SUPERBLY acted, and BEAUTIFULLY shot. The failure of both films lies solely in the clumsy, ham-handed storytelling.Rather than watch this two-hour bumpersticker, do yourself a favor and rent a few superior films with complimentary themes1) Woody Allen's spectacular The Purple Rose of Cairo, 2) Robert Zemekis' Back to the Future, 3) Woody Allen's Crimes and MisdemeanorsI know this review isn't exactly a well written criticism, but by this point, I'm sure you understand why.  "},{"Title":"A triumph of technique","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A triumph of technique, but, story-wise, a muddle.  Could Gary Ross possibly have tried to cram any more poorly thought-out ideas into the already weak plot.  Fascism, racism, sexual freedom, the joys of masturbation--all strung along an overlong, subpar episode of The Twilight Zone.  I was so busy being wowed by the superb cinematography, art direction, and the like, that I--almost--didn't notice the huge plot holes I kept falling into.  As always, Joan Allen and William H. Macy are great, but here's hoping I never see Toby Maguire again.  He and Reese Witherspoon should be bound and gagged.   "},{"Title":"Hands-down, the best film of 1998","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw more than 60 movies released in 1998 -- including nearly all of the Oscar-nominated films and performances -- and I think Pleasantville was the best of all. I found it unfortunate that the Academy did not see fit to reward this fine achievement, which represents what American movies should be -- fun yet meaningful, beautifully acted and visually stunning, and accessible to everyone. Joan Allen's failure to receive an Oscar nomination for her outstanding performance as the movie's subtle but pivotal character was extremely disappointing. I believe the film will become a cult classic on video.  "},{"Title":"What a Pleasant Surprise!","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, having seen very little in the way of previews for this movie, I didn't expect much more than a slapstick silly movie.  I must say that I am extremely impressed by the writing talent of Gary Ross.Being a big fan of old TV shows myself, I enjoyed the magnificent display of Black & White alongside Color on the same screen.  Anyone who watches B&W TV programming knows that you don't need color to be able to tell what color Herman Munster's skin is or what color dress June Cleaver is wearing.  Ross did a great job of capturing that look, and then showed everything to us again in color, which I personally enjoyed a great deal.That, however, is not the really surprising part about this movie.  After all, Ben Hur had some amazing sets and wonderful costuming, but that's not why it's a great movie - it all comes down to what story is being told. Pleasantville was an incredibly unique take on oppression in its many forms, and as much a political statement as a comedy.  I couldn't believe I hadn't seen it coming sooner.I give Pleasantville an 8.  The story was great, the directing was very good, and the cinematography was beautiful.  I did see some room for improvement from most of the cast.  Other than Jeff Daniels, who performed about as well as he always does - nothing amazing, but no major problems, and Tobey Maguire, who did a great job, I saw a lot of over-acting.   "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but flawed.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a great and original idea, and it's a visual masterpiece.  But Pleasantville didn't quite live up to what I thought its potential was.  The plot itself seems rather aimless.  By that, I mean that it touches on a few themes here and there such as racism and how change can polarize a community, but it never really does anything with them.  You never get any sense of why you should really care what's going to happen next from anything other than a visual point of view.  There are also some rather large and obvious plot holes, such as how Jennifer's disappearance is going to be explained to her mother.  Pleasantville was written, produced and directed by the same person.  Sometimes, such a singular vision can prevent a movie from being watered down; other times, it can cause a movie to not reach its potential.  In this case, it seems the latter has happened.  The performances are all solid, but the film just seems to me like it needed a story editor to go through it a few times and tighten it up.  I gave it a 7 for good performances, original concept, and technical excellence, but it could have gotten a higher rating if it had been tighter. "}{"Title":"Pleasantville, a parallel of America's growth.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Brilliant and surprizing script from Gary Ross.  This film digs much deeper than it's covering (two kids trapped in a TV show).  Watch this closely and you can see tons of parallels with the building of America.  For instance, the black and white Pleasantville is representative of the Puratins.  Go from there and you'll be surprized with what you find in relation. However some may be offended by it's do what you feel theme. "},{"Title":"In Living Colo(u)r","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's hard to know where to start with this because so much of this film is so outstanding. The acting, particularly Macy, Maguire, Allen and Daniels deliver subtle sensitive performances that go way beyond the standard that The Academy would consider for nomination.The direction is superb also combining the breath-taking cinematography with a score that stays on the right side of sentiment. But the most remarkable thing about this film is the quality and standard of the script itself.At first thought the film's subtext seems straight-forward; that one should live life to the full in order that you can realise your potential. This is most obvious in the fact that Jennifer/Mary-Sue stays in Pleasantville to go to college because she wouldn't make it in the real world. But this is not the only point. One has to accept that things change. Pleasantville exists in the eve of the 60's, and this was something that some of the characters could not accept. Racial intolenrance was another theme (demonstrated by the courthouse segregation a la To Kill A Mockingbird). The most fundamental such feeling is that of destroying what is not understood (the park bench through the malt shop window). The most shocking example is the Nazi-like burning of books which represent a different way of life, and also a change. The suggestion of rape, a theme in To Kill a Mockingbird, is also potent in the sight of teenaged girls with ripped clothes. Sex is another theme. The 60's would see a sexual revolution, shown by the antics in Lover's Lane, and the idea of Betty masturbating shows not only this but her breaking away from her husband, pre-empting feminism. Censorship is a running concept, with the afore-mentioned bonfires, blank books and disgust at the nude paintings evoking memories of McCarthyism, and making the Patton spoof that much more meaningful.In short, this film has the perfect setting for its many themes a town on the cusp of change plauged by the narrow-minded. But the town itself is a theme. The point is not just that it never existed, but that it cannot exist. The spirit of imagination, emotion and curiosity is something that can never be contained.I walked out of the cinema feeling elated. I valued what I had more. I even appreciated colour more. I found this film moving on a very profound level. The reference to The Shawshank Redemption was a master stroke however. Never has a film reference been more skillful, natural, and emotional than that single shot. But then what do I know. I liked The Avengers.  "},{"Title":"Artwork of Shakespearean proportions!","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What if *we* were the people of Pleasantville? What if it is our world which is black and white and knows no sensuality, no love and nothing about the great, vast universe of beauty and stimulation that exists outside of our own, little neat idea about what the world looks like?What if our capacity to grow intellectually is tied to our sensual and sexual practices? What if we could enter a sensual lifestyle that in turn opened up our ability to let ourselves be stimulated by art, literature and science, enabling us to discover the immense and deep beauty of the world and ourselves? What if we - you and I - could get just one small glimpse of that senses-shattering colorfulness that underlies our every emotion, but that we have forgotten, and buried deep down inside our moral structures, engendering wide-spread apathy and alienation?What if we could truly know - beauty?The answers are all given in the film. Make more love. Love each other more. Read more. Be more creative. Change; don't stay the same. Be open to new things, expect constant revolutions in your world view; seek them out! Act; don't just react. Release yourself, and be what you areWhat a piece of work is a man! How infinite in reason, how noble in faculty! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action, how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a god! Paragon of animals! The beauty of the world! - Shakespeare, HamletIn Gary Ross, Shakespeare has found a soulmate. "},{"Title":"Another glossy high-concept movie","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Ostensibly a piece of pre-Millenial nostalgia with pretensions of being something more, this sits more comfortably in the 'high-concept' camp alongside 'Groundhog Day', 'Back to the Future' and 'Sliding Doors'. Ie Rather than building a milieu around a central concept (cf 'The Truman Show'), the basic premise as a pastiche of the American media's portrayal of 50s surburban America here amounts to little more than a change in scenery. Unfortunately, Ross' portrayal of contemporary US teenage life is equally ersatz and seems like it was lifted from any one of a dozen Hollywood films, so any attempt at juxtaposition is nominal. If read on the same superficial level as the aforementioned films, it fails too. There is never really much feeling of involvement in the story, as characterisation, and especially character interaction, is both simplistic and unsubtle (I don't think the brother and sister talk to each other for a least half of the film, and the mother/son relationship in both time zones is equally poorly sketched). As a lead, Tobey Maguire (so good in 'The Ice Storm') is painfully miscast, becoming more and more irritatingly smug as the film progresses, and ultimately hammering home the film's rather trite message (that things change, but not for better or worse, they just do) vocally and repeatedly to the wide-eyed adoration of all of the female members of the cast. Aesthetically the use of colour is effective, but as a metaphor it rapidly degenerates into self-servitude, and any higher message becomes progressively more cryptic. Despite the gloss provided by a generous budget, the film is clumsily constructed, and routinely scripted, and not half as clever as it thinks it is. "},{"Title":"Almost a great film.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although the acting of Maguire,Macy et al was great I think that Gary Ross, the director and writer of the film, must take responsibility for Pleasantville being ignored by the Academy.  What was shaping up to be an excellent satire was ruined by a stupid pointless ending.  Are we really supposed to believe that Jennifer's(that's the slutty one played by Reece Witherspoon)whole character is to change because she reads one book?  Also what about the real world mother will she not notice that her daughter has vanished off the face of the Earth.  I am afraid that it is oversights such as these and the overstatement of racism that ruins this movie's Oscar chances.P.S.  Did anyone else think that the masturbation scene was a little over the top for a movie rated 12? "},{"Title":"Excellent. Recommended.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very intelligent movie. The general idea of the film sounds daft but it really is good viewing.I only went to see it 'cos there's been nothing but romantic movies on lately and we were desperate for a flick fix. I was very pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Too many huge, obvious mistakes","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I could have easily loved this movie.  I mean, it had all the elements of a great moviegreat acting, original idea, humorous at times, and great special effects.  But I just thought it had way too many mistakes that could have easily been noticed by the filmmakers.  Here's a list of some of themhow did the people now what color was before they started seeing it?...How did the people know what rain was before they started seeing it?...Why did the earth around the people slowly change color with them?...How did David get back to his home without that old tv repairman?...Another thing that kind of made me think less of this film was the typical courtroom ending with the whole typical thing happening, which is, of course, that everyone stops hating the accused and they all cheer and stuff.  This is what made me hate Patch Adams so much...but still, I have to admit, a lot of stuff from this movie, especially the middle, was pretty good, it just turned out to be an unoriginal(and stupid) second half to an original and weird beginning.  Also, if you stayed away from this movie thinking it strikes a big resemblance to the movie Stay Tuned...think again...it's a drama... "},{"Title":"Very good, just misses great","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Without giving away the key elements of the plot, it's hard to express my reservations about what happens in Pleasantville. I feel that just at the climax, there's a small but significant change in the rules of the universe of Pleasantville.  What's annoying is that it would only have been fifteen seconds or so of screen time to do it right.The mixture of comedy, drama, and romantic elements is excellent, and the concept is well-handled. "},{"Title":"simple minded propaganda","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well acted and directed, Pleasantville clearly wants us to believe current society is so much more sophisticated that maybe we should go back in time and teach others about expression.  Of course sex didn't exist in the 1950s and everyone was racist and adultery is reasonable response in this new world.  All performances were solid, but the over simplification was insulting.  The same could be said of a film where someone from the fifties teaches us about civility and community without addressing issues of civil rights or individuality...This type of blatant preaching is as bad as anything Oliver Stone has ever done-and that is saying a lot. "},{"Title":"The moral of the story","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the most poignant moment of the film was the last five minutes, after Bud had been in PleasantVille and got back home, and realised that there was no such thing as the right way to live.However, this moment comes after two hours of excellent screenplay, in which we are drawn into the hidden desires and personalities of the residents of PleasantVille.An excellent film, with thought-provoking material to be found at all levels; do the stunning special effects need to be mentioned?  "}{"Title":"Enjoyable movie with something to say","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie because of the positive reviews on the IMDb. I wasn't disappointed. Very enjoyable movie with something important to say. While it debunks the 1950s it isn't (too) cruel in its treatment of the era. If the idea of two teenagers moralising about sex, life and everything doesn't appeal then don't worry - they do it very well. My only criticism is that it's a little slow in the middle. What's happening to Hollywood? Two movies this year (The Opposite of Sex and Pleasantville) that try to deal with complex issues (sex, hypocracy, morality) in a mature way. Wow! -) The son and mother steal the show. There are some great moments in this movie (like the mother masturbating in the bath). BTW the 12 rating in the UK is surprising. This is an adult movie and should have been rated higher. Like good sex, this movie leaves you feeling better the morning after.  "},{"Title":"So, just where DID they go to the toilet?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gary Ross wrote, produced and directed Pleasantville. Unfortunately, though, there isn't much evidence of a singular vision. It's unfocused and confused about the direction it wants to take. It's alternately obvious and heavy-handed. It's obvious when it's trying to be funny (which it sometimes is, but the targets are very cheap), and it's heavy-handed when it trys to tackle social comment (actually, it's also pretty obvious when it's tackling social comment).The acting is uniformly excellent but one can't help but feel that the actors really ARE living inside a quaint unrealistic slice of Americana. Pleasantville has no edge, there is no genuine accompanying darkness. The small-minded small-town aggression presented towards the end is very brief and glossed-over. The only blood we see trickles from the mouth of an ignorant (see black and white) character when he is punched for harassing an enlightened (see colour) character.Get it? We're all the same colour on the inside (Sheesh!).The characters are depicted as being liberated in positive ways, mainly through sex (even Jeff Daniel's passion for painting is sexually charged), but there is no down side. It could have traveled down some much more interesing paths than it does - teenage pregnancy (or at least teenage acne!) could have been addressed. It's all pros and no cons.The gradual colourisation of the town is interesting visually (and technically) but conceptually it's inconsistent. Initially it seems that the changes happening in the town alter the characters own perception, they begin to see things differently. This would seem to make perfect sense, their outlook has been expanded by experience, but the film changes tack quite quickly.These newly-aware characters blossom into colour themselves, and characters who are against change (and remain in black and white) can perceive the colour as well as any of the characters who have blossomed. Conceptually it's muddy and half-baked. It could have been much more interesting if the characters who had blossomed remained invisible to the characters who hadn't. They could have played with a more subtle political comment rather than a sledgehammer approach to race issues. I guess they wouldn't have been able to use the line no coloreds allowed (groan) if they took this path.Oh, and just where DID they go to the toilet? (we know that they ate a lot of cheeseburgers).  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a fantastic film with great effects and a wonderful script, powerful direction. But it is the acting that I really liked, it was great to see the late great JT Walsh in such a wonderful finale. Five members of the cast really shine Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon are two of the most gifted actors of their generation and they are both fantastic, William H Macy and Joan all never give bad performances they play the sitcom parents to perfection and Jeff Daniels is fantastic to giving one of the most moving perforances he has ever given. They all deserved Oscar nominations, shame on The Academy for not nominating them or the film, up there with The Truman show as one of the best films of the decade. "},{"Title":"Unpleasantville","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There's a cute movie in this hodge-podge, just screaming to get out. Unfortunately, it never manages to escape.  Too bad.  A waste of a clever premise.  There are countless holes in the story (I don't care if it =is= a fantasy--the storyline should be water tight!), many big enough to fly a B-52 through.  Ultimately, this flick is a big disappointment.  Some nice production design, but it's not enough to save it.  Thumb's down. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 98","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was a very surprising film for me, I was brought to it after hearing it had more visual effects than Independance Day, Jurassic Park, and Titanic combined (over 1,400 believe it or not).  The effects were very stunning but what surprised me was that it became one of the best films of 98 instantly, right up there with Saving Private Ryan, American History X, and Out of Sight.I just recently saw it at the dollar cinema in town because I figured if it sucked than I wouldn't feel so bad for leaving the film early since I only wasted a buck.  Ten minutes into the film, despite Reese Witherspoon, I was actually thinking about doing that but once when the 2 main characters warp into Pleastantville and William H. Macy came out that instantly changed. The message here is a very different one but has a good point, some people cannot take serious changes in life even if it could be for the better.There were only 2 things I didn't like about this film that I felt could of been taken out or changed.  The whole TV Repair Salesman was annoying and having the main characters just wake up one day in Pleasantville would have actually seemed more acceptable even though it wouldn't be that original. The salesman just bothered me by his overacting and he had way too much of a childish feel to him.  The other problem was the whole masturbation bit. For a movie like Pleasantville it just didn't really fit in that well, just felt like it was being put in bad taste.  However, these two aspects I didn't like don't even get a total of 8 minutes of screentime combined so they can be overlooked.Pleasantville was a one of a kind experience.  Bulworth and The Truman Show were among the other 2 creative films that were released this year but surprisingly Pleasantville is more enjoyable.  There is a lot to see in this film and not all viewers should be disappointed. "},{"Title":"overrated and not very 'illuminating'","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was beautifully filmed but soulless and somewhat predictable.  The movie does not take full advantage of the idea of mingling 90's people with characters from a 50's sitcom.  Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon are both overrated, and Joan Allen does NOT become radiant when she switches to technicolor.  The awaited antagonism from the conservative town leaders comes about far too late and then too abruptly, and the climactic courtroom scene is not climactic.  William H. Macy is wasted.  Don Knott's character was actually annoying.  This movie disappointed me even more than the thoroughly overrated Truman Show.   "},{"Title":"Great acting, confused message","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I left the cinema having seen Pleasantville annoyingly confused at the messages the film seemed to be delivering.Boy's world sucks because of divorcing parents, social awkwardness, etc.  So boy gets sucked into the TV show he watches to escape these problems.  Then boy becomes committed to adding colour to make TV world more like the place he just escaped from...but this time everything happens to turn out perfectly.  Perhaps this could have been done very well, but I wasn't left with the impression that it had been.There were some great moments, the acting was superb and I enjoyed much of it, yet the overall message just seemed confused and lost. "},{"Title":"Bland.","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My hackles start to rise whenever it's assumed in a film that teenagers know it all and can show old fogies how to really behave.Pleasantville, which is sort of a mix of The Truman Show, Father Knows Best and Back To The Future has a pair of 90's adolescents drawn into an early 50's TV sitcom where they of course introduce a bit of colour into nerdsville.The nerds in Pleasantville aren't all young of course, but it's mostly the oldies who are the most resistant to change, especially the older men.Sex seems to be the most urgent item on the syllabus; the good citizens of Pleasantville haven't any idea of what that's about, but there are other home truths that need to be imparted to the poor bland souls of the citizens of Pleasantville.Do the personalities in the older sitcoms ever go to the toilet for example? Is there ever a fire, or a car accident? Did anyone smell badly? Were the scones ever burnt?And most importantly, what would happen if 90's morality was introduced into such an environment? Would the citizens understand what was happening?The first part of Pleasantville establishes the ineffective agents. One is male (Tobey Maguire). He's a bit of a nerd and a devotee to the Pleasantville TV series (which shows how much of a nerd he is!)  The other is female and is played by Reese Witherspoon. She's sexually active and more combative in nature.Upon entering their new environment they infect the locals such that before long the teenagers are screwing each other in lover's lane instead of perhaps holding hands, and isn't that wonderful?? Then in the final third there's the reaction to change and then the rather hazy conclusion; an ending that leaves as many questions unanswered as it resolves, especially in regard to the moral majority political movements in present day U.S.A..However there isn't an issue raised in Pleasantville that hasn't been much more adequately addressed in plenty of other films. Check out Life Is Beautiful or Bulworth if you want to see strong comment on racism.The special effects are pleasant as the film begins in black and white (in Pleasantville) and gradually gains colour as the citizens become more enlightened and there are plenty of good performances; especially from Tobey Maguire, Joan Allen , Jeff Daniels and Don Knotts but the overall impression is about as bland as Pleasantville must have been. "},{"Title":"Joy, hope, and wonder beautifully put together!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had no idea what I was going to see when I first sat down to see this film, and I was impressed beyond all belief. This was the first movie to really move me, with its buoyant, optimistic take on life and reality. I left the theater happier than I had ever been after a film, and even after a second viewing it still holds up and puts a big grin on my face, nudging me to go outside and LIVE!This film is beautifully done- the effects are gorgeous and stunning as color is sneaked into the perfect world of Pleasantville. The acting is excellent, and while the storyline and dialogue admittedly run towards the overly sentimental, overall the story is too enchanting to cynically dimiss as tripe. The many allusions in the film (to segregation, To Kill a Mockingbird, etc.) are added bonuses for those who care to look.Undoubtedly one of the best films of the year.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, if a little predictable","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Very entertaining, if a little predictable. I like the play on colour (sorry,...color) which gives it the twist it needs. Very good acting performances from all the cast and nicely shot, capturing its target genre perfectly.  "}{"Title":"Well-acted fluff","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While the cast of this film is first-rate, I can't help but point out that this is a rather pointless film. What's the target of the satire here? It's not exactly aiming at the actual 1950's, but rather the flimsier target of 1950's TV sensibilities, which were paper-thin representations of reality to begin with. When you start imagining the real lives of characters that were cardboard to begin with, the results are not all that interesting. And the ending of this movie ... what was that all about? "},{"Title":"Forget Saving Private Ryan! This is the best movie of 1998!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a sweet, moving, funny slice-of-life movie with great symbolism, excellent visuals, good performances from a top-notch cast, and a feel-good story. The plot involves two teen siblings from the '90's who are magically transported inside the storyline of a 1950's TV show, where everything is black and white -- there are no toilets, the parents sleep in separate beds, and the basketball team never misses a shot. What starts out as a culture-clash comedy changes to a moving commentary on what effect even the simple pleasures of life can have on those who have never experienced them before, as well as a parable about what happens to normally idyllic communities when change is opposed harshly enough. The cast is perfect, with Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon cast as the two teens - they will soon be on to bigger and better things. William H. Macy and Joan Allen play their clueless onscreen parents with just the right touches. Don Knotts is pleasantly odd as a TV repairman who sets the plot in motion. Jeff Daniels is good as the guy who runs the soda shop in town, and J.T. Walsh is good in his final role as the town's mayor, who doesn't approve of the changes in Pleasantville. All of this adds up to the best film of 1998, and one that was severely overlooked by the Academy this year.  "},{"Title":"Very very very very very good","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I expected something different, something most common. But this movie surprised me. 10/10Well how can I make this world... technicolor?  "},{"Title":"Entertaining and thought provoking. A must see","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Suppose you suddenly found yourself trapped in the old television show Father Knows Best. The world is black and white and life is perfect. The basketball team never loses, Mommy dearest cooks four course breakfasts, and it never rains. Perfect right? Unless, of course, you refuse to follow the script. Once you deviate from the script, everything starts to fall apart.This is the clever and very effective premise of Pleasantville. David and Jennifer are brother and sister in a very imperfect 90's family. In a fight over the television remote control, they are transported into the television show Pleasantville. David is the reigning Pleasantville trivia champ and a devout fan. He can quote scripts word for word. (Danger, danger Will Robinson! I can quote Monty Python scripts until my fiance kicks me under the table. In the shins. Hard.)  Jennifer, however, thinks it is stupid and corny. Once it is clear what has happened (even if the Why? is as yet unresolved) David is thrilled and Jennifer is outraged. David finally has the nuclear family he has always wanted. Jennifer is aghast at her pasty complexion. While David slowly recognizes which episode they have been trapped in, Jennifer charges off on her own, refusing to follow the script.The nice, bland, white-bread world can't handle the variety. When Jennifer seduces the high school hunk, the scripts fall apart. Couples who previously were contemplating holding hands are suddenly discovering the Kama Sutra in the back seat on Lover's Lane. Suddenly the basketball players can't make a shot. They actually lose a game and the entire town is quietly nonplussed. The men in the barber shop suddenly understand the phrase You can't win them all. More importantly, the world starts to turn into a color world. At first it is just a patch of color here and there. A rose, an umbrella, a young girl's tongue. As the people in Pleasantville start to explore possibilities their world leaves the old black and white behind.The change from black and white to color is handled very deftly and it serves a number of functions. First, it provides a visible symbol of the sense of freedom and possibility that gradually seep into Pleasantville. Second, it serves to give rise to an exploration of prejudice (it gives rise to a very clever visual pun on colored). The gradual transformation to color is quite effective. Although we have seen the same technique in isolated scenes or ads, the effects here really serve the story well.If this movie were just one clever idea, it would be like a Saturday Night Live skit-a one liner dragged out for twelve (or in this case ninety) minutes. But writer/director Gary Ross has more up his sleeve than just a clever idea. He has created a charming and warmly felt movie. We are given two wonderful stories that draw the plot out in fine detail.First, David and Jennifer's parents start to have a few problems. Betty (played by Joan Allen) turns colored as she explores an art book with soda shop owner Mr. Johnson (Jeff Daniels). Johnson has always loved painting his windows for the holidays. With the coming of color, he is given an art history book that brings his artistic soul from a banked ember to a full blaze. Betty is drawn in, and she poses for an expressionist nude in the soda shop window. Trapped in Pleasantville's first thunderstorm, she spends the night with Mr. Johnson. Meanwhile, her husband George arrives home, puts up his hat, and cries out Honey, I'm home! Betty is nowhere to be found, dinner is not on the table or in the oven. When she does turn up she is in full color. George tries to reassure her that the color will go away. But I don't want it to go away! she replies. The breach is irresolvable, and she leaves him for Mr. Johnson. (Later, when George visits David in jail, he brings a bottle of martini olives, the only food in the house he can find.) It's a touching scene, well rendered.The later exploration of prejudice/racism arises very believably. Had it been handled poorly, it would have felt gratuitous or merely tacked on. But here we see its source. As life slips from its comfortable, reassuring ruts, some are not happy with the change. They don't like all the color, changing roles, new music and upheaval. They are not evil, just weak, frightened, and unequipped to cope with the new world. At first, they seek some sort of compromise. They decree a new code of conduct legislating music, allowable colors, etc. Of course, it is perfectly acceptable if you want to remain in the rut. For many of the liberated coloreds it is just another form of surrender. As the coloreds are persecuted by the black-and-whites a huge wall of graffiti becomes a form of protest, leading to a courtroom showdown.This is quite a tribute to the power of the individual and the importance of freedom. We have seen the police state held up as the opposite of freedom, and we are correctly frightened of it. But this movie shows us an altogether more insidious version of such repression. Repression does not automatically mean nasty, evil, or cruel. It can be pleasant, palatable, and prosperous. This is the kind of prejudice that everyone faces in every day life. And the sources of prejudice and control are not just radicals. They are our own family, our friends, our coworkers. Their expectations and need to pigeon hole us have a subtle, cumulative force that takes strength and courage to oppose. And it shows how, in many ways, it takes very little to oppose those forces.   "},{"Title":"a masterpiece","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this is the first film I've seen in a long time that captured my heart, and changed the way I look at life. The acting was superb, and the script was equally wonderful. It had comedy, drama, romance, and some very tender moments. The Mother/son make-up scene moved me to tears, as did the courtroom scene. The movie should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"Great technically, great acting, but heavy-handed","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a little overrated as far as I'm concerned.  Technically, yes, the transitions between black-and-white and color are tremendous and stunning to look at.  And the cast is excellent; in addition to the two teen leads, I particularly liked Joan Allen (whose bath scene is one for the books) and Jeff Daniels (who remembers restraint here).  And I hope Marley Shelton (she plays the girl in Pleasantville who falls in love with Bud) goes on to bigger things; she's beautiful and shows great acting promise.  But it just seemed that director Gary Ross laid it on too thick.  The climatic court scene had This is where we preach to you written all over it, and some of the other scenes did as well.  This is not to say this is a bad film, it just didn't wow me like it seems to have wowed others. "},{"Title":"Who ya gonna believe?","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Would you believe those that emit the same disgust and rascism portrayed in the movie.  Those that believe the movie should be burned and banned like Catcher in the Rye.Or will you consider the deeper message of the movie.I believe the movie dealt with the teen promiscuity and fornification, by Witherspoon's character (who started as a slut) realization that their is more to life then just sex.  Sure the message doesn't slap you in the face, but this is not some dumbed down movie either.If you pause and look at the movie neutrally you will discover many of the messages. "},{"Title":"Nice but a bit overly drawn out","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's hard to imagine me saying it, but I found the film a little too didactic. The message was made and then it was hammered and hammered and hammered again.Aside from this, it is a really nice film. Touching and sentimental yet at the same time challenging a status quo. This is one of its greatest features...it offers an alternative to conservative family values without being radical and threatening to a contemporary audience.Then there's the visual work. I am simply amazed at the amount of wonder that can be produced by slowly adding color to a film. Very effective. Too bad we can't all see trees burst into flame in our front yard from the sheer intensity of our feelings. "},{"Title":"Great Idea -- Poorly done","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This could have been much better.  What was Don Knotts doing?  Was he good? Was he evil?  What was the point?  Disjointed and morally questionable.  Bad things come in all shapes and colors, not just black and white... "},{"Title":"Life isn't black and white","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Burning bush, enticing apple- the symbolism of this movie was subtle and well done.  I was moved by the scene when Jeff Daniels sees Picasso for the first time. Sure, I knew I was being manipulated, but it was okay. Joan Allen is incredible as a woman who wants more than her narrow slot. What took me so long to realize that the colors were there all the time (one man says my door has always been blue!) it was just they wouldn't recognize the need for individuality. Reese Witherspoon is someone to watch- her change from slut to a girl who respects herself was nicely done.  Pleasantville nudged me into realizing that I don't have to be a perfect mother and wife- and not to expect that of my husband and son.  The dolby sound adds a lot to the sound track. A book by Lois Lowry- The Giver explores the same question- what is beyond the world we know- the one that someone else has manufactured for us.   Everything changes, Pleasantville shows that it's okay to change.  "}{"Title":"Decent, but missed a great opportunity","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Phenomenal special effects, good acting, great premise. But it got too touchy-feely at the end. It should have either stuck to the comedic beginning, or gone completely dramatic with real conflict and perhaps no solid resolution. The end was completely predictable and the second half of the movie was not even spent wondering how they were going to take you there.This would have been a fantastic movie had, say, people started reverting back to black and white because that was their very nature (or *something*, *anything* to provide some real conflict...like, what if they followed the Fahrenheit 451 references a little further). Either that, or stick with the jokes to make an amusing comedy/romance.All-in-all, I feel like it was money well spent, but it's not a movie I will remember in future years.  "},{"Title":"Profound movie with a campy premise","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The first twenty minutes of this film gave me acid-like flashbacks to that John Ritter catastrophe Stay Tuned. But unlike Stay Tuned's one-joke premise (when Ritter flashes into an episode of Three's Company), Pleasantville engaged me on many levels.The film stimulated my intellect while entertaining my eyes with amazing colorizing effects. Unfortunately, the director felt it necessary to bring the film full circle by tacking on a sappy and drawn-out conclusion.Aside from the goofy beginning and ending, the silly concept of a magical remote control and the occasional interruption by the irritating Don Knots (also from Three's Company), this film presents about 80 minutes of highly enjoyable and profound cinema.  "},{"Title":"A movie like no other film ever made. You will thoroughly enjoy it!","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville, written and directed by Gary Ross, will entertain you, make you laugh, make you think, and make you cry. How many films can do that folks? I don't know when I have seen a movie so well acted, even by the bit players. In my opinion, Toby Maguire, Reese Witherspoon,William Macy and Joan Allen should be up for Oscars next year. Jeff Daniels, Don Knotts and, the late, J.T. Walsh were outstanding in their different roles. Yes, the film is preachy at times and tends to stretch its points a bit too much, but I still strongly recommend it. As an added bonus, you will see some, no doubt, award winning cinamatography. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought the movie was slow, predictable and simplistic.  The only interesting part had to do with the conflict between the greys and the coloreds.  It had obvious parallels with racial and ethnic strife worldwide. Except the solution reached in the movie has no relevance to those real world problems. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie I've ever seen, but not the best","Date":"21 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was not what I expected it to be. I enjoyed it, but I'd like the creators of this film to know something THERE WAS ALREADY A TV SHOW MOVIE THIS YEAR! IT WAS CALLED THE TRUMAN SHOW! The Truman Show was innovative, and this one was also, but not AS innovative. "},{"Title":"Beyond the comedy, there were things to think about","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There were so many funny lines and scenes, but what made themfunny was the underlying (and often sad) truth of how peopleresist change.  Those who found color were learning to embracechange and accept things that were different from themselves,and what they were used to.  Those clinging to black & whitedefined their world in those terms.  Thus, I saw some strongsocial commentary here, but above all, it was hum "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed the movie and will definitely see it again!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a movie like none other.  The story line in itself was brilliant.  The idea of being out into an old sitcom and changing it's world was completely unthought of before this movie. Besides having a fantastic story, the special effects are amazing.  Watching the color and black & white together in one scene gives the movie a great effect. Along with The Truman Show, Pleasantville is adding a new look at television and its shows. Without a doubt, Pleasantville got my attention and satisfaction. I will definitely see it again before it leaves the theaters. "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The only thing that was enjoyable in the film was the technology in changing form black/white to color. My friend and I both dozed off.  The story and plot were boring.  "},{"Title":"a good well made film","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great special effects but it went on just a little too long. I also thought the messages were a little heavy handed. Still I enjoyed the film. "},{"Title":"Manipulative but entertaining","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville falls into one of the traps of any number of movies that try to take a contrived situation and turn it into a grand symbolic statement. That said, I found it to be an entertaining way to spend two hours of my life. Certainly, there were instances where the dialogue fell extraordinarily flat, but the movie had many impressive visual achievements that drew attention away from a shaky transition in tone and an unsatisfactory resolution. I was impressed with the cast, but the attempt to tell several stories at once left me with no real character on whom to focus. I thought the plot was a little too clever for its own good, but it was clever, and that's more than one can say for a large percentage of what's out there. Joan Allen is given the most to do, and she acquits herself admirably; Reese Witherspoon is not given enough to do, which is a shame; Tobey Maguire's character is the least fully realized (I cringed every time his character just stood wide-eyed and slack-jawed while everything happened around him, which is pretty much the entire movie), but he does a good job with what he's given. Although I found this movie entertaining, I feel like it didn't control its theme enough, and most of the pleasures in it were incidentals. The climactic trial scene works, minus any sense of actual resolution. And did I mention the tone? The last movie I saw that was this schizophrenic in tone was Carrie, which made it work in its favor more than this one does. Ultimately, I'll recommend this movie; don't expect too much and you won't be let down. "}{"Title":"Good message, bad framing","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked a lot of the concepts of this movie, and many of the scenes were powerful thematically, personally and dramatically.  Powerful social commentary arising from ingenious direction.however....the framing is awful.  I can forgive the beginning not being explained, as somehow the characters must enter the situation.  but the ending is confusing, unresolved (in a bad way), and does not do justice to the idea or the movie. "},{"Title":"With a bravura performance by the great Joan Allen, Pleasantville is the sunnier mirror image of The Truman Show","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville has uniformly wonderful performances, but I think the great Joan Allen is a standout as the cheerfully happy 50's mom who realizes there's more to life than making meatloaf. What a superb actress!Pleasantville is a beautifully designed and directed film which in some ways is like the flip side and mirror image of The Truman Show all at the same time. Though I think it gets somewhat heavy-handed in its message and could use a bit of cutting, it is still one of the best films in a long while! Extremely creative and most emphatically worth seeing. "},{"Title":"almost too pleasant","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had wonderful visuals, a good storyline, and a likable cast.  There were, however, a few things that kept me from putting the movie on my all-time favorites list.  First, there seems to be a simplistic one-to-one correlation made between sex and enlightenment, and though there are events later on in the movie which suggest that this isn't quite the case, sex and (secondarily) art seem to be the only really powerful coloring influences. Second, though I realize that Pleasantville is essentially a fable about censorship and the silliness of trying to separate life into acceptable and unacceptable categories, there are some cloying inconsistencies For instance, the black and whites harass the coloreds in a violent manner, and they don't suddenly turn colored (though the mayor's transformation suggests that they should have).  Notably, the only people who act unpleasant in Pleasantville are the black and whites.  Those who become colored are not really transformed into real people(as the film would seem to suggest) with flaws, they are transformed into a sort of idealized enlightened society.  Like the 50s sitcoms they lampoon, the film-makers have chosen to ignore those things which might possibly be unpleasant.  The characters bring art, beauty, and enlightenment to Pleasantville, and suddenly everything seems hunky-dory.  The End.  Roll Credits.  I guess I'm cynical, but in my imagination, after the end of the film, the inhabitants of Pleasantville start having to deal with teen pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, spouse abuse, alcoholism, and pollution; then the good citizens of Pleasantville start thinking, It's nice that we can read, and go to the bathroom, and have sex, and see pretty colors, but was it really worth it?  "},{"Title":"Good movie...original idea...","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It was a great movie. Fast paced in the beginning, but other than that the effects were placed perfectly and I didn't notice any glitches or mistakes. It'll be an award winner... "},{"Title":"Think and feel good at the same time","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is indeed a pleasant film. It manages to avoid many of the cliches and pitfalls that its storyline would suggest and gives us an entertaining and insightful look into our own hearts and minds. The word itself will undoubtedly find its way into the common language as an adjective for a certain mindset or way of thinking. "},{"Title":"One of the year's best!","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was such a sweet-natured motion picture, turning in sensational performances by the entire cast in an unforgettable experience.  Tobey Maguire upgrades himself to leading man status.  This is Jeff Daniels' best role in years.  Him and Joan Allen make the cutest couple of the year.  I wish Reese Witherspoon did more because she's an intelligent actress, just rent Freeway.  And let's not forget a wonderful farewell to J.T. Walsh. William H. Macy was stellar also, I can't wait to see him in Psycho.  This was SO MUCH better than the over-hyped The Truman Show.  This had better performances and storyline that lands it also on my all-time list. "},{"Title":"misleading","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The innocent but shallow advertisements lured my wife, our 13 year old and I into seeing this movie being unaware of the sexual immorality it was promoting. "},{"Title":"Caught between Cheesy and Genius","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville made me argue with myself whether I liked it or not.  It was a beautifully filmed movie.  I thought the cinematography was as good as movies get.  There were many times that the movie plot seemed tender and began to draw me in, however, there were just as many times that it made me roll my eyes.  Some scenes were as cheesy as they come.  I felt the film could have been funnier if the writers hadn't tried to cram so many of their inside-out morals into the film.  I think Pleasantville would have been a huge success in the earlier part of the century as a silent film. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a decent movie.  It is didactic at times and its fuzzy carpe diem attitude ultimately comes through as trite as a result .  But it is clever.  I just wish it had been true to the metaphor and ended with an angry Don Knotts destroying Pleasantville with a huge flood.  Pleasantville is enjoyable, but the ending is disappointing. Be prepared to find the meaning of life for $7.50. "},{"Title":"a nice twist on longing for the past, until reality hits...","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For me, Pleasantville was a nice movie, with many sub-plots and symbols, nicely twisted together to make a good story. I found it so close to what many people probably do themselves, when thinking about more innocent times. After the original bliss is over, the reality of the banality of a life left unexamined or unlived is not a life.  "}{"Title":"Leave It To Beaver meets Dawson's Creek.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I was looking forward to it for quite awhile. This movie takes something that never really existed and turns it into reality. That perfect world of Pleasantville never really existed which, I think, is why some would find it quite appealing. The whole colorizing scheme was quite clever. Life is boring without chaos. What is most interesting about this movie was the actual visual appeal. Everyone raved over the visual appeal of What Dreams May Come, but I think this movie was much more appealing to the eye. In Pleasantville we come to appreciate what we truly would miss if it were ever taken away, disorder and beauty. Not only was this movie touching, but it was very funny. The fact that everyone misses their shots in basketball because they learn what sex is is hilarious. I was kind of confused by the fact that there were no toilets. If there were no toilets because they were never referred to until All In the Family, why would the people in Pleasantville have sexual organs. They obviously procreated some other way than sex since a mother of 2 was unfamiliar with it. There were several other flaws I picked up on, but since I enjoyed the film so much I'll let them go. I really suggest you see this movie, but don't wait for it to come to video, it's really a theatre movie.  "},{"Title":"Don't try to figure it out...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Fantastic movie.  I consider myself a buff, and have nothing but good things to say about Pleasantville.  It offers thought-provoking metaphorical undertones with appealing allusions and a perfect amount of comic relief. The acting is superb, the idea original, and the cast very well-meshed.  The cinematography attempted to be a little to poetic at times, often leaving the viewer in wonder as to what emotion was supposed to be felt, but that made it all the more interesting.  I recommend it to movie-goers of all types, but leave the kids at home.  Most of all, don't try to figure it out. By nature, this movie can't work, so don't make it... just let it take the intrigue-receptor in your mind for a little ride...Questions to ponder during viewing  What exactly made people change colors (it requires more thought than you think)? ... Were the writers/producers attempting to condemn or promote change in Pleasantville? ... Why does the girl stay (vague as to not ruin the movie - you'll get it if you see it)? "},{"Title":"Truman Show Lite","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film had great potential and was very entertaining and unique. If only it hadn't got bogged down with heavy handed, unfocused messages toward the end it may have been a great film instead of just a good one. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville (Sequel) - just around the corner?","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Without giving anything away--the end of the movie is the beginning of the sequel (no dah!).Evidently when writers don't have much to write about they tend to make up something, like creating two-dimensional characters in a three-dimensional world.While the plot is totally unrealistic, not so in a virtual reality scenario. Food for thought!!The film was enjoyable, but can lose its appeal rather quickly.One of the untapped resources of the plot was the fact when the brother-sister were dropped into the TV program, the TV characters they replaced were not shown in the real world. Had the writers done that there would have been two storylines about how each set of characters responded in world they had been place in--a rather more intriguing story complicated enough already and limited by viewing-time.Very entertaining!Rating 9 out 10 stars  "},{"Title":"Pretty good film","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I like Pleasantville but I didn't absolutely love it.The whole idea of the film was an interesting concept that was both original and creative.  The cinematography for some of the scenes was absolutely incredible and beautiful (i.e. the scene where David/Bud and the girl who likes him are driving to the teen make-out point and the pink petals are flying everywhere).  I loved the music (After Five, the re-make by Fiona Apple of a Beatles song) and I will probably buy the soundtrack.  The acting was suprisingly good from Tobey Maguire (even though at times I thought it was a bit much and I liked his acting in The Ice Storm much better than in this film) and Reese Witherspoon.  Joan Allen and William H. Macy gave excellent performances, of course.  A face that I remembered because of his looks was Paul Walker, a very handsome man.It's definitely a film that I would recommend people to go see but I wouldn't say it's one of the best movies of the year.  What made me not think it was not the one of the best films of the year was because the writers attempted to make a statement with the film about the thoughts of society that really existed in Pleasantville's timeframe (the 50s).  It was a little too melodramatic for me and the film began to lose me from there. I really didn't like the ending; it really lost me.  The ending was like the perfect endings of the Pleasantville episodes-definitely did not like that.Go see it if you haven't because it deserves a look. "},{"Title":"Liked it but didn't love it","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was an interesting concept and turned out to be a better film than I originally thought.  The only time I thought it went a bit too far was when the writer tried to recreate the whole court scene in To Kill a Mockingbird and also when they tried to do the whole black and white v. colored a la how it was in fifties society.  It was still a pretty good film and I would definitely recommend it to people.  The actors did an excellent job and Paul Walker is definitely a cutie! "},{"Title":"Good but preachy and long","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The first half of the movie was entertaining and thought provoking. The colorization effects were excellent. During the second half, however, it became too preachy and I no longer cared about the plight of the main characters. If 30 minutes were cut from the running time, it would be a better film. "},{"Title":"A Confused Mess","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A proper editing job could have saved this movie and made it one of the best of the year.  However, this overlong (2 3/4 hrs) film appears to have NO cuts of any kind made.  At least an hour of this film could have been excised (primarily the goofy, unnecessary, tedious contention between the coloreds and the grays) could have been eliminated entirely, leaving a funny, touching warm movie behind.  However, they decided to include a very pointless, ham-handed morality play which served no purpose whatsoever other than to allow the writer/producer/director/guru/hack/sandwich boy? to say he made an important film.My advice...show up early...get decent seats..and watch the first hour and a half....then leave...if you want to come back the ending is relatively decent. "},{"Title":"Fuzzy-headed morality play/fantasy","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was disappointed.  Once again I was hooked in by a clever ad campaign. Film itself is reborn?  Please.The movie starts out (without an exposition, unfortunately) as a fantasy. Then it becomes dramatic as the teenagers cause problems in Pleasantville with their modern influences.But then the movie starts mixing too many meanings together.  It turns into a pastiche of progressivisms, and gives some mixed messages.  The only consistent meaning I could take away from it is It's bad to deny your own nature or feelings.Also, the movie lacked a conclusion.  It even devoted much of the final scene to close-ups of a character whom we had not even seen in the whole rest of the movie.  A serious breach of cinema rules.Like another commenter, I was confused by the two men on the park bench switching at the end.  It made no sense, and seemed apropos of nothing.I can't recommend it too very highly. "},{"Title":"A must see! Funny, entertaining, and it makes you think.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Take a trip back in time to 1950s America where everything was wholesome, good-hearted, and nearly totalitarian. Pleasantville attempts to show us that too much freedom can bring about bad results, but too little freedom is just a gray, mindless world with nothing to look forward to. This movie wants us to live a little. Add some color to your life. Open your mind! There are many parallels to the Nazi book burnings and racial strife. I came away feeling like a free spirit. "}{"Title":"Good film, could have been great","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What keeps Pleasantville from being a great movie is the heavy-handedness of the last segment of the film, particularly the trial scene and its aftermath.  The film's moral, that we should accept the world in its diverse and flawed beauty rather than seek security in conformity, should have been obvious by that point to any viewer who was paying attention.   Despite this flawed ending, there is a lot to like in the film.   First off, the cinematography is beautiful- the blending of color and black-and -white is simply astounding.   There are some fine performances here, notably William H. Macey as the sit-com father who must face his fear of change.  There are many fine moments in the script, and much of the early part of the film is quite funny.  Overall, I would recommend the film, with the caveat that the last 15 minutes or so can't maintain the quality of the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Possibly On My Best Of The Year List","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that PLEASANTVILLE is a visually stunning film. I was amazed and mesmerized by the look of the film. The performances in PLEASANTVILLE range from excellent-ok. For me, the stand out performance was Toby Macguire. He was excellent and should be remembered come Oscar time. The scene in which he turns color is so powerfull, I was amazed. Joan Allen gives another one of the films good performances, as do Reese Witherspoon and William H. Macy. I was disappointed in Jeff Daniels though. His performance was too held back. This movie may be on my ten best list, but I think its one flaw is that the movie is, at times, as light and fluffy as what it is satirizing. The lessons it teaches should be imbraced however. Go see this film****1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"I liked it ...","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  That is a good movie. The effects (nb/color) are really nice. Some parts of the movie are really boring and long. I like the end of the movie. This is a nice comedy. I liked the direction, and the soundtrack that I bought. People from all ages can like it. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Pleasantville is a truly enjoyable film... especially if you understand it.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been reading several reviews on Pleasantville and I find it disturbing that some of the reviewers didn't understand it, and therefore didn't like it.In one such review, the writer says that he really wanted to love the film. But he gets it all wrong. He says that the reason he didn't like the movie was because of a major inconsistency if emotion is what's changing things' colors, why do the outraged conservatives, led by Big Bob (Walsh), remain in black and white?The answer is simple. Emotion is not what is colorizing Pleasantville. It's one's acceptance of change. With that in mind, this reviewer may want to watch the movie a second time to see what I mean. All the people in Pleasantville, Bud and Mary Sue (Maguire and Witherspoon) included, turn colors when they realize that they want things to change. Even inanimate objects begin to change colors as if they were accepting what the humans around them were doing. In that way, the script and the effects remained very consistent.What I thought was going to be a fun lampoon of 50's sitcoms turned out to be a truly moving fun lampoon of 50's sitcoms. And Don Knotts really freaked me out. Okay, so some of the dialogue was a bit cheesy, but ya gotta overlook that stuff sometimes. Pleasantville is one of the best movies I've seen so far in 1998, with great special effects and production design, zestful writing and direction, and masterful acting by all performers. I'm pleased that J. T. Walsh's final performance was a memorable one. "},{"Title":"Absolutely brilliant acting, technical aspects made the film.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A few movies really sneak up on you.  Pleasantville is one of them.  Hiding behind the facade of a formula written comedy, it attacks you with your pants down.  For once, a well done technical aspect of the film, the interspersing of color and black and white in the same frame, adds to the film rather than distracting the viewer.  The acting was brilliant, both on the psuedo 1950's side, and the 1990's side.  This movie displays complex social issues, and lets you decide what you think rather than spoon feeding you the correct way to think.  Pleasantville is truly beautiful. "},{"Title":"Great biblical and social allusions.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I especially enjoyed where the movie alludes to Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden, the civil rights movement, book burnings, etc.  The black & white and color effects added to the film rather than detracting which is the definition of a good special effect. "},{"Title":"Delightful Surprise!","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The film was a surprise. It kept me interested in it from start to finish. 1 of the top ten films of '98. Excellent acting by William H. Macy and Jeff Daniels.  "},{"Title":"Movie of the Year","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be the most unique, most entertaining, most thought provoking movie I've seen in a very long time.  I loved the visuals, the acting, the script, the message and the comedy which accompanied this movie. It probably won't get the respect it deserves, so YOU go see this movie. "},{"Title":"General Comments","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a mighty swell movie, full of comedy, love and surprises. It brings out the warmth in everyone's heart, even the hearts of those who didn't know they had warmth. Plus, Marley Shelton (Margaret) looks 99% like a ninth grader at my school named Lorin. She Lorin has the most beautiful hair. "},{"Title":"funny, great cinematography, a bit heavy-handed at times","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a good movie. It's mostly just funny, and the more serious parts are handled nicely. There is a message, but it's not delivered with a sledgehammer, and there is even a bit of subtlety. I thought that the movie glorified sexual promiscuity a bit, and its choice of great literature and art was rather one-note, too, but I don't go to movies for deep thoughts, and I think that the critics that I've read that complain about the movie not being substantial enough are just pinheads trying to appear smart. When Pauline Kael or James Agee complained about shallowness I always thought that they were on the mark, but they didn't complain as a form of preening. Enough ranting -- if you want some fun that is about at the same intellectual level as The Truman Show (but I think not quite as well done, and completely different subject matter), then this movie should work for you. "}{"Title":"Starts off great, turns into Boomer tract","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The filmmakers have crafted a beautiful movie that unfortunately services a dangerously simplistic philosophy.  While this comedy-fantasy about two kids who get transported into a Father Knows Best-style TV show turns out to be very ambitious thematically, it will only have the intended inspirational effect for those ready to buy its message.  At the mid-point, the movie essentially becomes an apologetic for the rebellion of the Baby Boomers, conveniently leaving out all of the negative fallout of their hyper-individualistic ways.  For this non-Boomer viewer, the truths espoused here rang very hollow. Down with colorization! Duke Ray "},{"Title":"Clever idea.  Too much philisophical baggage.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For the most part, Pleasantville was a clever and interesting film driven by a very unique concept (a Stay Tuned meets Quantum Leap sort of deal). Had this movie JUST been about two teenagers whose actions disrupt (and colorize) the fictional black and white town, it might have passed off as a heart-warming family film (or brainless feel-good entertainment, depending on how you look at it).  Certainly the idea was original and well developed enough to hold my attention for the duration of the movie, but apparently the author couldn't leave it at that. The problem with Pleasantville is that it begins to take itself too seriously.  By the middle of the movie, the author takes to drawing rather blatant connections to racial prejudice (no coloreds), a topic which has been more than adequately explored in numerous movies of a much higher caliber than this one.  Such dry and unfocused social criticism certainly will not bring to light any new insights on the nature of racism. I reluctantly admit that by this point in the movie I was coming dangerously close to mistaking the film's clumsy, surface-deep moral probing for actual profundity.  However, this sentiment is smartly struck down in the movie's climax, which is weakly done and lacks any sort of metaphorical foundation.  Pleasantville solves its problems so easily and unambiguously you'd think the author forgot he was writing about just a moment before. Prejudice, violence, and hate are not so easily solved in Care Bear fashion as this movie suggests. All that aside, you can enjoy the movie well enough if you try not to employ critical thinking.  In my opinion, this movie stands somewhere on the favorable side of mediocre, but I doubt it will be showing up on anyone's favorite movies list.  "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this movie, but I suppose my hopes were so high that they could only be let down.  Part of the problem was that the trailer summarized the entire movie nearly point by point.  But mostly the problem is that it's overly ambitious.  There is a nice but strange little philosophy at the core, but the philosophy gets awfully muddled along the way.  It simply tried to do too much.  It compares '50s sitcoms to Nazi Germany (the book burning scene is eerily similar to a sequence in Triumph of the Will), but does this comparison need to be made?  Are the ideals of the '50s, as embodied in shows like Father Knows Best, really a cause for such an attack?  Satire is one thing, but this film goes far beyond satire. It throws in so much symbolism and social commentary, of a widely diverse nature and seemingly on the writer's whim, that, in the end, it's not really about anything at all.  It's just a jumbled mess of messages.  It was entertaining, and I enjoyed it while I was watching it, but the more I think about it the less I like it.  The Truman Show, it is not.  "},{"Title":"Quite a nice movie","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had a better, deeper story than previews and ads hadlead me to believe. In addition, it wasn't a 'gimmick' movie inthat it used the color/B&W as an effect to support a story -- itdidn't dominate the film's plot. I liked it a lot, as did myvery picky w "},{"Title":"Very Clever","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed Pleasantville.  With elements of Back to the Future, The Wizard of Oz, and others, it's certainly an enjoyable 2 hours. "},{"Title":"Better than Truman!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was much more enjoyable than The Truman Show and carried a number of the same messages -- but more effectively. The acting was superb! (Finally, Jeff Daniels seems interesting to me.) "},{"Title":"I'd like to see the Director's cut!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is an ambitious movie. It approaches a wide range of rather serious themes. The most fully-developed and satisfyingly managed theme is that you can't go home again, or, forget the past, it wasn't all that great. In the version that I saw, it seemed that a lot of ends were left untied. My husband and I both agreed that it seemed like the movie had been edited down from a longer version and not to its benefit. It's a very good movie, elegantly filmed and well acted. It suffers from either too ambitious an agenda, or too aggressive editing. I'd like to see the director's cut of this. I have a feeling that an extra 20 minutes to 1/2 hour of movie would take this from being a very good movie to being a really great movie. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville is a pleasant surprise!","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"   From the previews, I expected this movie to be a lighthearted fantasy of what would happen should a 90's teenager be drawn into the b&w world of Leave It To Beaver/Father Knows Best.  While this is true, what follows is a well written, thought provoking and heart-warming film that lingers with you after you the lights come up.  I truly enjoy it when a movie not only entertains you, but also gets those brain cells working.  Now, don't get me wrong, don't avoid this movie because you want light entertainment in an effort to get your minds off of things, it can be that for you too.  It's just an added bonus that such an entertaining movie can tickle a few questions up.The general plot of the movie is that two teenagers, David and his twin sister Jennifer, are drawn into David's favorite television show, Pleasantville.  While this fulfills David's fantasy, it is his sister's nightmare.  David tries to conform and maintain his roll as Bud, but Jennifer just can't help but be herself, causing a ripple of change to spread throughout the town.Screenwriter Gary Ross who also wrote Big and Dave, once again creates characters you can both identify with and enjoy watching.  Taking you on a journey that is delightful and unpredictable.  If you liked either of Gary Ross' other movies, you'll enjoy this one as well.With the impressive cast, the acting is, of course, first rate.  Joan Allen and William H. Macy as the twin's b&w parents, show off the reason why they've been nominated for awards and Reese Witherspoon as Jennifer is intriguing to watch.  Though at first, Tobey Maguire is a little annoying as the squeeky-voiced nerd David/Bud,  as the movie progresses, he really improves and becomes quite endearing.Now, let's not forget Pleasantville's incredible digital effects.  While the effects in this movie may not be as dramatic as those in What Dreams May Come, they are nonetheless just as impressive.  One scene in particular featuring Joan Allen is quite striking where David/Bud helps her apply b&w makeup to cover up her colored face.  How'd they do that?So, after a summer filled with big-budget explosions and flying fists, Pleasantville is a refreshing change, and well worth spending the money to see on the big screen.  Don't let it pass you by.  "},{"Title":"More than you expect.","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie because it looked like it might be fun. It was!  But more than that it had many messages woven into the story.  The use of symbolism throughout made this movie even better than it should have been. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I found Pleasantville to be amusing but I was disappointed.  Asa friend asked me what was that all about.  I think I got themessage but maybe I'm too dense because it isn't obvious.Technically it was interesting and the acting was very good "}{"Title":"Crafty, canny, and funny","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There's some comparison going on, so for what it's worth Pleasantville is The Truman Show's subtler, and probably also wiser, little brother.The plot people get liberated in a quasi-spiritual way in what had been a shallow but happy little town.  An example of its savvy is this what many people think is real liberation -- free sex -- is, in the end, shown as a shallow ultimate destination.  The young sister admits to tiring of being a self-proclaimed slut, and the real-life mother realizes that one more fling is not going to fill her emptiness.  (Ironically, the Pleasantville mother leaves at the end to try a similar path; if this were her answer, she could have stayed with Jeff Daniel's character, with whom she has an earlier affair.)  The film manages this without clever moralism -- indeed, its moral center, let's remember, is a teenaged boy; well-meaning but hardly the epitome of wisdom --  and has such charm, wit, and sylistic panache that one can't help but cheer it on.  When it ends, and that cover version of Across the Universe plays, it feels that we've actually been somewhere, seen some new thing.    These days, that's saying something.Fine work by all involved -- nary a misstep -- and thanks to the wildly underrated Soderberg for helping to put the project together. "},{"Title":"Not much better than The Truman Show","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you liked The Truman Show (which I did not think was so brilliant), you'll probably like this film as well. Best scene is the attack on the soda shop with its 60s civil rights movement iconography. Unfortunately, the resolution which follows (including an attempt at a Perry Mason-esque court room genre) is very disappointing (as are other parts of the film). Though worth seeing, given its pretense, the film could have done much more.  "},{"Title":" A Sweet Story Painted on Film","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sometimes we need to take a look back to see where we are going...I know that line has been taken, but it fits so well.  This canvas on film is a true spectacle of today's technology without the monsters, gore, or such.  The way the attention to details and how the colours pop-out make this movie extra special. There were some areas that I would not agree too, particularly the sex-on-demand aspect of Mary-Sue.  The acting was really well orchestrated.  Tobey took the lead rather well and Reese was captivating as she so wonderfully portrayed the 90's teenage slutty girl clashing in the classic family values of a 50's TV show.  And Don Knotts was none other than himself.  It was nice to see him on the big screen again. For such a plot, it was wonderfully crafted and sculpted, not corny as I was expecting.I'd recommend this movie to anyone (over 14) who wants to be taken away and could use an emotional up-lifter. "},{"Title":"So close to perfect, just a shade off...","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville has to be one of the most original concepts since the Wizard of Oz. Take one geek mix in a twin who is a slut and you have the perfect setting for extreme behavior modification.Plunged into the ultimate 50's paradise our heroes try (sort of) not to upset the very balance of Stepfordian glee. However, as each character finds that certain something that gives them life, we see it come out in full colour.The first 2/3rds of the movie are stellar and rank among the best written and directed pieces out there. The effects do _NOT_ overwhelm the plot.Unfortunately, the plot does get overwhelmed towards the end when the movie turns to social and racial commentary pitting 'normals' vs. 'coloreds.'Mind, you. It's not the attempt on commentary that brings this film off the top mark, only its execution; which becomes haphazard and  uneven.Nonetheless..A must see! GAT/fqa "},{"Title":"A 'pleasant' surprise","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although the plot was revealed in the trailers and ads, I was surprised at the tone of the movie. It was more serious than I was expecting, yet it did have some funny moments and some clever twists. The film touches on social mores in the latter half and the film holds up admirably despite its long running time. (Slightly more than two hours) The casting was inspired. Pleasantville is inventive and entertaining. I enjoyed watching people leaving the theater appearing to not know what just hit them. "},{"Title":"A thorough delight","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie at its world premiere at the Austin Film Festival and again at a sneak preview.  I thoroughly enjoyed it both times.  It received a rare enthusiastic standing ovation at the premiere (the only one I saw at the fest that did).  There are several homages that the director included. Among those I recognized are to Citizen Kane, To Kill a Mockingbird, and Patton (the bowling alley scene the scoreboard behind = the American flag in Patton).  I know there are more & would like to hear about them. "},{"Title":"Pleasant is an understatement.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those full-forward, full-back films. The two couples sitting in front of me thought it was the worst thing they'd ever seen. I thought it was one of the most inventive movies of the year. The movie is worth seeing for the effects alone. The use of black/white and color is truly mesmerizing. I thought tighter editing could have been employed in a place or two, but overall this was one heckuva film. "},{"Title":"A Black-and-White Romp with a Colorful Message","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The designation of Pleasantville as a comedy was perhaps a marketing necessity, but there's much more to this film than the laughs generated by the juxtoposition of nineties teenagers into the sterile Eisenhower era of the fifties.While following the Yankee in King Arthur's Court formula in the same manner as the Back to the Future movies and other stuck-out-of-time entries, Pleasantville, to my surprise and enjoyment, took on a deeper and stronger meaning as the story progressed.  Whereas Woody Allen uses black-and-white cinematography to capture the ambiance of the cinema of the past, Gary Ross, who directed and wrote this film, used the lack of color as a symbol for rigidity, sameness, and intolerance.  Between the sight gags and the innuendo, the message emerged with gathering force throughout the film the fifties were not so pleasant for those whose ideas were not mainstream, and whose ideology didn't conform to the close-mindedness of the times.Images borrowed from many other films depicting the ugly middle-American penchant for intolerance are used throughout Pleasantville, and although a bit too obvious, they worked well enough to trigger a shudder in me.  I thought that the casting of Joan Allen as the robotic Stepford-like wife was a coup, considering her former role as Pat Nixon (in the 1995 film Nixon). William H. Macy, as the Father who apparently didn't know best, was superb, and the late J. T. Walsh was once again perfect as the intimidating small-town bully.Many will see Pleasantville and enjoy it purely as a comic portrayal of the stodgy fifties vs. the cool nineties.  It works fine on that level, if you're willing to resist allowing the strong images of intolerance from making their point.  However, this film should be seen for the more important messages it delivers, and in that endeavor, it succeeds enormously.          "},{"Title":"Good casting, good special effects","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Very enjoyable movie, although it was a little too long. I especially loved the cast, from Don Knotts as the TV repairman and Joan Allen, always luminous and totally underused in most roles. Her eyes convey so much pain. I loved the use of color and special effects. I also am planning on buying the soundtrack because anything by Randy Newman is worth owning. And although I'm not a Fiona Apple fan, I loved her version of the Beatles Across the Universe Overall a very worthwhile movie.  "},{"Title":"I have a few questions.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Does cherishing individuality mean that teenagers should be having sex? Is it uplifting to see a woman cheat on her husband for no apparent reason? There might be a good message in this movie, but it was hidden behind a disturbing, liberal, if it feels good do it banner.If the intent of this film was to champion individual thinking and tolerance thats great. But why does sex have to be the catalyst for change? Does individuality have to mean the dissolution of morals?And in the end what do we take away from this film that is so emotionally satisfying? Does the pleasure and triumph of free thinking make it any easier to accept divorce, broken families, teenage mothers and aids. All too often these are the products of Pleasantville's and Hollywood's free thinking. "}{"Title":"Liberalism reduced to a '50s sitcom level.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought there was a lot to enjoy in Pleasantville, despite a slow start. I particularly liked the cast-you can't get much better than Joan Allen, William Macy and Jeff Daniels-but when the film turns serious towards the end it turns kind of chowder-headed.  I'm a card-carrying liberal myself, but I thought the whole-hearted assault on white male privilege was a tad overdone and downright insulting.  It's a pity as some of the treatment of this sitcom world accidentally invaded by real life is really quite well done, particularly the music choices. "},{"Title":"A swell movie","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a thought provoking film which examines many pertinent themes though the use of allegory. A fine cast..expect some Oscar nominations. The endng is a bit week but still a highly recommended movie. "},{"Title":"Rather Grey...","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Big disappointment...I went to Pleasantville hoping to be inspired....I rather found myself wallowing in Dullsville.  It was a shame to see such a wonderful cast and a terrific concept all go to waste in a story that was as binding as the imaginary town the movie was named after.Although humorous at times, the very weak issues the movie focuses on just seems to be the very obstacle that kept this production from becoming a success...and knowing this made it that much painful to watch.Prediction Will revel at #1 for two, maybe three weeks...then will nose dive out of the top ten just in time for turkey dinner. "},{"Title":"nice, but missing something","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Caveat - I'm a white, middle aged male.  These are my thoughts as such.Saw the movie two days ago.  I didn't know what to expect, the trailers seemed more like a comedy.  It was an engaging movie, and it gave me much to think about - primarily the concept of race, which was an obvious theme especially considering the signage No coloreds allowed which highlighted the climax of the movie.   Yet I left the movie with little peace over the solution.  I can't recall one African-American person in the movie, and yet that angle could have been a powerful means to address what continues to be a sensitive issue.  If there had been African Americans in the movie and they had appeared in both greyscale and colorized, it could have been a powerful statement that would have allowed me to accept the moral conclusion of the movie.  I accept the determination that we are all the same on the inside, but not because of this movie.  When you bring this theme into a movie, I believe you are forced to properly deal with it - I feel unsatisfied with the movie becuase it doesn't really do this.Technically, the contrast between grey and color is just as powerful as Schindler's List.  While the movie is thematically quite different to Schindler's List, the appearance of color is just as powerful.  I've always valued my sight above my other senses - this movie reinforced that.  "},{"Title":"Many Themes","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film contained a lot of smaller and interesting messages.  The overtones in this film include, Fahrenheit 451, 1984, The Twilight Zone and Hitler's youth movement, as well as our own prejudices about race.  I left the theatre amazed by the subtle messages hidden within this movie. "},{"Title":"Warm fuzzy feeling and quite a few grins in this one.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was just as I expected it to be -- funny, witty, charming, and wonderful special effects.  Reminded me a little of The Truman Show, in that it is a semi-parallel universe where the people are relatively clueless to the truth.  Both a good science fiction (other world) story and a human nature wins in the end story.  Warm fuzzy feeling and quite a few grins in this one. "},{"Title":"Emotionally Satisfying","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is not a perfect movie but it will do until one comes along. Gary Ross has a Capra-espue love of humanity on par with Robert Zemeckis. On both a technical and emotional level this film sets its sights high and succeeds.  Probably the most emotionally satisfying journey since The Shawshank Redemption.  This movie lifts the spirit while entertaining at the same time(something the conservative moral watchdogs of our time fail to realize is necessary to get their points across).  The cast is top notch all around(even Don Knotts)and the little touches such as the colour reflection in a black & white window are a joy to behold....See This Movie! "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While there are some good moments in this film, including excellent performances by Joan Allen and William Macy, it was pretty bad overall. The concept was interesting but poorly executed. Tobey Maguire was a standout as being a terrible actor. Avoid this one. It's not worth it, and I saw it for free. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gary Ross creates an interesting film in Pleasantville, something that one could admire from afar and enjoy watching -- but its value fails to go beyond that.The viewer would have to be blind in order not to recognize John Lindley's paramount cinematography and the film's consistently strong visuals. Although it regresses time and again to canted frames and low camera angles in an attempt to make statements about characters or atmosphere, the visuals still run this movie.  The scenes with only faint traces of color have great power and a subliminal beauty that should not be taken for granted.  I've never seen contrast in color and in worlds used so effectively before.I enjoyed the story too, but after awhile it degenerated into self-important preaching that came off as watery and ineffective.  The film repeats familiar messages so boldly that you can't even form your own thoughts on them -- they resemble worthy lessons, but are spoken in terms as basic as Facism bad!  Thinking different good!  I agree that our rather conformist society needs to see the power and value of individuality, but this was too much.  By the end I felt that Mr. Ross was trying to give his film more meaning that it had.Still, I think Pleasantville employs humor far more effectively than most comedies have this year.  Watching Joan Allen ask what's sex? was worth the price of admission alone, and the general cluelessness of the citizenry never ceases to amuse.In the end, it is a concept film that makes a great effort, but does not measure up to The Truman Show. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife and I had high hopes for this film, and it exceeded our expectations. Some aspects hit close to home. The story holds a different escapist quality from most. Low-key special effects blend into the storyline instead of setting themselves apart from the plot. An example How the library books react. We encourage others to see this special film.  "}{"Title":"Seriously surreal","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a quirky, charming, but disarming movie, that blurs the distinction between the myth and reality of life in the Fifties as portrayed on television, to liberate characters from an oppressive life that was fictional to begin with.  But our teenaged daughters loved it, and one caught an allusion in the courtroom scene to To Kill A Mockingbird that went right past me.  I want to see it again -- one, to figure it out, but two, to enjoy it again.  "},{"Title":"This one's gonna be a classic","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  We were absolutely delighted with this film. Great casting, really wonderful special effects, funny, smack dab accurate to the period, surprisingly moving, and generally keen. Not to give anything away, but when Jeff Daniels was looking through the book, my immediate thought was, This is how I was *supposed* to feel in 'What Dreams May Come.' Absolutely recommended. "},{"Title":"What a pleasant movie!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was remarkable. I thought that the way the cinematography and color was used was magnificent. This movie steals scenes right out of other movies (Titanic, Shawshank Redemption, Fahrenheit 451, To Kill A Mockingbird, and Citizen Kane, just to name a few) yet it still creates its own identity. I also loved Don Knotts as the TV Repairman. Watch for the scene when Bud runs into the firehouse. This should be nominated for Best Picture. "},{"Title":"A wonderful social commentary!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie Pleasantville is a wonderful social commentary on the changing of attitudes. This movie did a great job of showing how change is a natural and necessary part of life. All the actors were brilliant and brought their own individual charm to the movie and the special effects are awesome. I recommend this movie to everyone, especially to those people who have a fixed definition of family values. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In the year of the critically lauded The Truman Show Pleasantville turns out to be the better film in my opinion. It has its flaws, chiefly a surprisingly smarmy first half, but the film's tone goes dark about midway through which elevates it up from the realm of the juvenile into something interesting (unlike The Truman Show which I never thought was particularly interesting at any point). There are some nice references to movies like Do the Right Thing and Schindler's List in the 2nd half. Joan Allen is superb with her role as the mother, but,  even more importantly, the young male and female leads who carry much of the film are extremely good as well. "},{"Title":"Truman Show did it better","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Despite outstanding acting by Tobey whatever and Don Knotts and the always reliable Bill Macy, Jeff Daniels, Joan Allen and (surprise!) Don Knotts, what stands out is the clever story which really didn't make it. A friend fell asleep (he often does). It might have been more interesting had not The Truman Story been there first, even though there was little (but SOME) similarity in the plots. Especially good were the spots of color when the rest of the scene was in black and white. The NY Times reports this was accomplished by filming in color (as opposed to adding color to b&w). Worth seeing? It depends on what else there is for you to see. Or you may prefer to see this in video. It lasts 116 minutes and you DO feel it. Coming Sunday Beloved, which friends who have seen it call very dark. Is that a pun? Oh, and they say (as Siskel & Ebert did) that it takes a few times to understand the story...or one reading of the book and two viewings of the film. --Terry "},{"Title":"This movie was more than I expected.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to Pleasantville fully expecting to laugh and be wowed by the colorful effects.  I did laugh a lot during this movie.  Several times my mouth was hanging open at the glorious colors on the screen.  But this movie also had a very good story to it and a great lesson about tolerance and learning to accept new and different things in our world.  I was blown away by Pleasantville and it is my early Oscar pick! "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I goosebumped","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just got home from attending the premiere of Pleasantville, held in Ann Arbor, Michigan and hosted by Jeff Daniels.  It is the best movie I've seen in ages.  It rocks along at light speed, keeping you laughing while making you think.  (Yes, those two activities are compatible.)  Visually, it is a delight, using color to comment on the human condition in a way that could never be captured in any other medium.  This is the movie that movies were invented for.  Do you get goosebumps in the Wizard of Oz when Dorothy leaves her drab black and white world and emerges into the dazzling technicolor of Oz?  I still do, after seeing it at least 40 times.  If you do, too, then you're going to love Pleasantville!It is a fable, a fairy tale for the TV generation.  (That would be me.)  It is the answer I've always wanted to give to the young'uns now who seem to think that life was sweeter in the 50s than it is today.  I could never manage to put into words in any coherent way just how wrong they are, but this movie says everything I wanted to say and makes it fun to watch.  I hope everyone under 21 sees this movie and gets the message!  (And has a hell of a good time doing it.) "},{"Title":"Great movie full of interesting, clever and fun references.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this at a preview screening in Toronto and thoroughly enjoyed this movie! - Fun use of Biblical references. - The court-room scene is visually similar to To Kill A Mockingbird. - And if I'm not mistaken there's a kind of Fahrenheit 451 thing going on with the fireman who don't put-out or understand fire and then the burning of the books.Lots of social/historical commentary from the use of the word Coloured to doctrine of the black and white people using Nazi and apartheid phraseology.You can watch this movie as pure entertainment (which it is) and then start thinking about what it might be trying tell you afterwards; if you are so inclined.  "},{"Title":"Trying Too Hard","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this film at the Chicago Film Festival. I was disappointed by a film which I had greatly looked forward to - while I thought the actors did an excellent job, the script and the movie itself was to much of a mish-mash of other films. The references to other films and television programs were too plentiful and left the movie with no time for original ideas. The number of ideas represented (e.g. women's lib, Nazi Germany, sexual revolution) overwhelmed the interesting concept and left the script hopelessly fragmented. Also contains VERY explicit innuendos for a PG-13 movie. Overall, the film tried too hard to be intelligent and unusual, but did manage to avoid being hokey or take advantage of the possible cheap laughs.  "}{"Title":"Is that all ?","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've been hearing about this movie for years. We watched it last night for the first time and all I have to say is  Is that all ? The first 30 minutes or so looked promising but it soon became apparent that this would be still another 'Hollywood treatment' of a not bad idea. Everything was so predictable and as expected. And it seemed that it could not decide on an ending. The Reese W. part started with a bang but an hour into the story she had mostly vanished. Toby M was engaging enough but Joan A which I usually like very much was bland and grey even in full color ! I found the entire film juvenile and uninspired. Tedious ! "},{"Title":"Nothing Is as Simple as black and white","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville (1998) Starring Tobey Maguire, Jeff Daniels, Joan Allen,William H. Macy, J.T Walsh,Reese Witherspoon,Don Knotts,Paul Walker, and Marley Shelton Written,Produced&Directed ByGary Ross Review Nothing is as a simple as black&white Is everything pleasant in your life? Are you always happy? Or are you like me when nothing ever goes your way? If the answer to the first two questions are no and the third one yes then you should watch this film. You should know that the film references some cult black and whit television but I don't know which. But this film is going to hit with it's message and it lasts. That hope is still in the world even if you change. In Pleasantville David is young man in high school who watches TV times Pleasantville and has watched every single episode and is going to watch the marathon while answering the questions. And he has a crush on a girl in school but doesn't have the courage to ask her out. His sister on the other hand is a fad girl who hangs out with her friends and is trying to make a date with the hottest guy in school. But everything changes when a TV repairman comes at their door and gives them a new remote. He starts asking David questions about Pleasantville, when the repairman leaves David and his sister start arguing over the TV again and they pull the remote and it sends them to Pleasantville, where they begin to discover something in themselves and the town. You will appreciate this film more if you do what I did and go in to it knowing very little. It will be the greatest joy you will have with this film. You might like it if your a self-effacing person because nothing ever goes your way,if you just want a good laugh or if you just want to smile after a bad day.Because it has some memorable characters played by wonderful actors. Tobey Maguire plays David who once he goes into the world of Pleasantville must become Bud and sticks with that name because he is changing. He gives an amazing performance, Tobey Maguire notably does when he plays characters similar to these. This is the best performance I've seen from Reese Witherspoon who plays David/Bud's sister Jenifer/Mary Sue, Her character's always spice things up to her taste, it makes Maguire's characters eventually play along in his own way. Joan Allen(who's work I've never seen)plays Betty the mother of the television characters Bud and Mary Sue. Her and Reese Witherspoon share one of my favorite sequences in the film. Marly Shelton plays Margaret who gives cookies to one of the characters from the TV world but decides to go with the change that she's happening around her. They all feel something in their guts these characters and that's the best thing about them they don't know what to do, they would usually feel scared of getting out of their comfort zone but they have the courage to do so. The film has great cinematography, it's the best looking even when it's in black and white. Plesantville is one of the best films you will ever see,it looks beautiful,has memorable characters with knock out performances. It's well shot too, Plesantville is a pleasant 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A great nostalgic movie","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This was such a incredible movie, the way they blended color and black and white at the right times to convey different emotions rather then just music was very well done. After seeing this movie you start to realize that there was a purpose to integrating black and white and color. A main theme of the movie was living life to its fullest, taking the good with the bad, taking a chance once and awhile. Tobey Maguire's speech at the end when he talks about sweeping things under the rug and basically acting pleasant all the time isn't the right way to live. It is a part of life that bad things happen. When you show yourself having passion its going to come with positive outcomes and negative, when you keep in the passion for the sake of being kind or cordial it becomes a empty life. Its a everlasting key to the human condition. People quite often fear change, its universal from beginning to end of time. The film does a great job of showing this fear and when society comes together they grow as a society and it becomes a good thing even when scary. The transitioning from black and white to color expressed this fear perfectly. Some would say that the director is promoting promiscuity, out of wedlock sex. Although there was a suggestion of a point about openness and not conceal ones feelings. Reese Witherspoon's character was already promiscuous but when she finished a book with no pictures the act of completing something and changing her behavior is what changed her into color. The catalyst of people changing in the movie is the eagerness to experience new things and to become vulnerable. I feel that movies like Pleasantville confront the viewer and compel them to think are very rare in today's world of Hollywood movies. Which should be treasured by any avid film-goer. To wrap this all up this is more than the old way and the new way after change. We need to see ourselves inside and out. If you live a life that is stuck and not changing then what you get is black and white. It is when we allow ourselves to mature as people that we are granted with the ability to see in colors or outside the box. The town is only opened up to the rest of the world when everyone is in color and then they are all able to travel outside the few streets in town. Its odd how everyone knows what color is but then don't want it or change when it appears everywhere. "},{"Title":"How could someone NOT like this movie?","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is a beautiful coming of age story. Jennifer (Mary-Sue, in Pleasantville) and her brother David (Bud) both have a lot of growing up to do in their own ways. After being sucked into Pleasantville, so to speak, they both open a whole, big world to the members of Pleasantville. Starting with Skip, who's Mary-Sue's love interest. She opened his world to the wonders of sex. I have read many reviews about this movie saying it's just all pro pre-marital sex. Not even close to what this movie is about!!It's about discovering the beauty that out not-so-perfect world has to offer. I love that the people in this movie discover themselves sexually, artistically and intellectually. Even rain is a beautiful thing.Bud even gets the Mayor to see the emotion that is inside of him all the time. I cry at this movie every time- of course, I cry at a lot of movies. I am in love with how creative, beautiful and deep this movie truly, truly is. "},{"Title":"In a word, pleasant.","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon play feuding siblings in the 90's who are forced into living inside of a 50's sitcom in Pleasantville, a surprisingly moving and satirical film from Gary Ross, the writer of such feel-good fare as Big and Dave. While the film nails the tone one would expect from the writer turned director, what Pleasantville has in store for its viewers is &#x96; for lack of a better term &#x96; a pleasant mix of satire and sentiment as well.If you're not sold by the unique narrative or the gorgeous cinematography at hand, then look forward to the film's brilliant cast. Sure, a young Maguire and Witherspoon are engaging enough, and you can't beat William H. Macy and Joan Allen as the TV parents, but it is Jeff Daniels as a short-order cook turned artist who steals the show. His role in the film and the way he executes it captures both the humanity and humor of the film and ultimately goes a long way to make Pleasantville the unique experience it is and is definitely one of the most criminally overlooked performances in an often over-looked film.While the movie doesn't exactly encapsulate the turn of the century quite in the way that it sets out too, it does bear a few lessons that you're never too old to learn. The main message of the film is to live life to the fullest, to not be afraid to take risks and not be afraid to fail and make mistakes. For every good experience, there's a bad experience to counteract it, something that the folks of the fictional town don't come to realize until the two teens arrive on the scene. To that end, the film is a success, and in essence, Pleasantville is timeless. "},{"Title":"Worth A Lot More Than Given Credit","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I very much liked this movie and found the analogy to Nazi Germany was very well done. The book burning scene and crystal night scene could have been taken right from Munich. Not to mention all of the scenes showing hatred against the colored people and how friends & families turned against the colored people. Then the courage of some people to save those who were being persecuted.The movie was a nice combination of romance, sci-fi & the problems of family life with a surprise ending. Not to mention the humor throughout, especially the scenes in the barber shop and bowling alley (at least we are safe. Thank God we are in a bowling alley).The start of the movie with a gradual transition into color was also well done. Finally, the actors & actresses did a very good job portraying the characters.It should have won a lot more than for just the score when Toby McGuire is relating how books work. "},{"Title":"Battling the guardians of the forbidden fruit","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A fascinating exploration of moral choices the comforts of social conformity vs. the wild ride of personal liberation. Pleasantville is a movie I hadn't seen in a while, then loading it into the DVD player I realize it's been almost 10 years (1998) since it came to the screen. Seems like yesterday. For some reason&#151;perhaps seven years of a full-frontal, faith-based political regime&#151;the film deeply moves me now. The theme is as timeless as the central issue posed by those hysterical autocrats who pontificate(d) the Old Testament do I accept or defy God? And if I decide to leave my warm family home on Superstition Mountain, am I prepared to accept the consequences? ... For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2007 "},{"Title":"surprised by the film","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched Pleasantville on cable after having seen Spiderman recently, so thought I'd take a look at Tobey in another role.It seemed at first to be such an insipid film. I was about to flip the channel . . .Until the color metaphor occurred.It soon became clear to me. Other things then unfolded. By the end, I was quite amazed at what I had just seen and had to think back through the film about some of the scenes.Pleasantville is an excellent film. The coloreds reference is powerful and anyone part of a minority might see and appreciate the point being made. You might have to watch it 2 or 3 times, as I did, to catch some of the gist.This movie is not Hollywood propaganda, nor leftist garbage; it is simply a story of how simplicity, conformity and no change can be stifling, if not stultifying. Color may be threatening in a way, but is part of the beauty of life.The film has a philosophical challenge to the viewers, to decide yes or no to the following Change is good. "},{"Title":"An Original Film","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" David watches television a lot and his favorite one is a sitcom, Pleasantville. Luckily, there's a trivia contest that he can win $1000 and a place to visit to. So on the day of the marathon of Pleasantville, her sister, Jennifer, is going on a date and they soon fight over a remote because her date is coming while he wants to watch the marathon.The remote ended up begin broken and weirdly, a TV repair guy shows up at their front door. He gives them a new remote and they ended up fighting again, teleporting the siblings to the 1950's sitcom where their influence begins to profoundly change that complacent world.This film is very good. It has an excellent score and great acting by the main cast. I have heard of this film when our English class was reading The Giver, which has a similar theme. Our teacher showed us some clips of this movie and I decided to look this movie up and ended up watching it.The special effects were also great, leaving Pleasantville having colors and some having black and white. The film has great dialog and each cast member have their great moments.Pleasantville is unique, original, and fresh. It filled with emotion, humor, and political issues and overall, this is a great film. "},{"Title":"Kids from the real world fall into a TV one","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 1998's Pleasantville is an interesting film with a great concept that somehow doesn't come off. It seems like a simple story at first but as the plot deepens, the film becomes unwieldy though fascinating in sections.Tobey Macguire is David, a teenager who is looking forward to a marathon of his favorite TV show, Pleasantville, a '50s comedy similar to any that baby boomers grew up with. When an unsolicited TV repairman (Don Knotts) appears, he leaves David a special remote. David manages to zap himself and his sister Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) into the black and white world of Pleasantville. David warns Jennifer that they cannot do anything out of character for the town. However, being modern teens, they are not in step with the people of Pleasantville and sure enough, the TV town begins to change...from black and white to color.What makes Pleasantville the movie a fun experience is that everyone seems to have a different interpretation of what, for instance, the color means, and the message of the film. I can only give my own impressions. For some, the film promotes sexual promiscuity. As the kids become more sexually active, led by Jennifer, and turn into color characters, they are then faced with sexually transmitted diseases and become objects of prejudice, black and white versus colored. Get it? Then pages that were blank in books are filled in as Jennifer and David tell the stories of Huck Finn et al., which causes books to be burned.For me the color wasn't equal to sexual promiscuity but to emotional life. And what the movie was trying to say for me is that the black and white world of the Pleasantville TV show only existed on television. There were enlightened people in the '50s and plenty of dysfunctional families and illegitimate babies, so someone was having sex; television just didn't show them. TV did mirror much of society, but people have been people through the ages even if the identities men and women have in our culture has changed. Jennifer is a sexually promiscuous teen; in Pleasantville, she starts reading and studying and understands that there's a lot more to life. David's TV dad (Bill Macy) realizes that he loves his wife (Joan Allen) even if she doesn't have dinner on the table at 6 p.m. every evening.I found Pleasantville absorbing but something was a little off-kilter about its execution. Perhaps it was in the set-up of David and Jennifer winding up in Pleasantville, which initially made it seem that the film was going to be a wacky comedy. Despite fine performances from Bill Macy, Jeff Daniels as a coffee shop owner/frustrated artist, Joan Allen, Knotts, Witherspoon, and Maguire, in the end, Pleasantville bit off a little more than it could chew. "}{"Title":"the real point of this movie","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The point of this movie is sometimes lost on people because they think it is either too simple a story or a story that lacks any real depth. The point of the movie (as far as I'm concerned and from listening to the commentary track by Ross on the DVD) is that life is never simple and life does not follow any set of rules that are found in the fictional town of Pleasantville. Rules can be made, but all rules are broken at some point or another. Some people don't need a movie to tell them that, but others like to be reminded that life isn't as simple as some want us to believe. There are rich metaphors in this movie and a great deal of symbols that you sometimes need to look for and other times are very straightforward. This movie doesn't preach as much as it entertains (if not just for the art direction) and I whole-heartedly recommend this movie as it is one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Discover your passion","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I loved this movie. It totally spoke to me. It is all about discovering your passion in life.The movie is a great representation about how some people live life in the status quo, and others dare to go find what they are passionate about in life. The clash comes when the seekers come face to face with the status quo.When Toby Macguire and Reese Witherspoon enter Pleasantville, the town is completely happy with their existence. The fact that no one in the town knows what is outside of Pleasantville is so indicative of people that don't know that there is anything else in life other than their routine lives. When Reese begins helping the teenage boys in town discover their passion and Toby Macguire helps others discover their passion through art and literature, Pleasantville is turned upside down. Excellent movie! "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Trip Back in Time","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The story of two teenagers, David and Jennifer, whose lives are completely different, in the present, and in the past. It is on this one night that both of their lives will change forever. One wants to watch a marathon of the old television show Pleasantville, and the other wants to watch a concert with a guy friend she has invited over. While arguing and fighting over this very subject, the two both let go of the television remote and it hits the wall and smashes into pieces.As David rushes to try and fix the remote, there is a man at the door ringing the bell. Great news!! He is a television repairman. As he is getting out his equipment, he asks David questions about his favorite show, Pleasantville. He then gives David something for his television set that he, nor Jennifer will never forget. To know what this something is, you must watch this film. There are more surprises inside, more than you can forget, and this is not a film to forget.Great actors, writing and directing make this film a notable one. I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Thought-Provoking and Clever, but Tremendously Misunderstood","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I really like Pleasantville, though it runs off track a bit towards the end, with unnecessary violence and confrontations. I like it on its terms, though, not the terms that everybody seems to impute to it. In short, it is the story of two 1990's average teens (one an obsessive fan of a 1950s family drama about an ideal town in the mold of Father Knows Best) who are transported magically from their own shabby world to the world of that TV show.OK, let me get out a couple of thoughts up front. Pleasantville is not an attack on the Fifties. It does not contain any references to Nazis (though there is some unnecessary fascist imagery). It is not a polemic about the Civil Rights movement. Sorry, I know that's what everyone wants to believe. But it isn't so.The use of a 1950s-style TV show to develop the plot is what throws everybody off about this film. It may as well be a movie about the 1850s as it is about the 1950s, but the film happens to be set in 1950s suburbia, so immediately everybody's opinions about that milieu rise to the surface. But that is a red herring. The actual point of the film is much more interesting.The film is not saying that the 1990s (or whenever) is better than the 1950s. It is saying that real life, with all its messy situations and complications, is preferable to some perfect fantasy-land. It also is saying that obsessing over an old, completed body of work - here, the old TV show - is a dead end. It is static and unchanging. That story is written and will never change. But real life isn't already written, and is vibrant and infinitely preferable. Not realizing that is missing out on what life has to offer.So, if you are a big fan of, say, Charles Dickens (to get back to that 1850s comment I made above), that is all well and good. But his novels aren't going to change. The endings are whatever he wrote, and he's dead. His works can be enjoyed, but they are no substitute for real life adventures, which don't have endings yet.Note the beginning of film, when the Tobey Maguire character sits through lectures about the horrible things happening in his world. That's the key - the film is not trying to say his world is more perfect or anything like that. He is such a big fan because his own world (broken home) is so horrible, and he longs for a touch of Pleasantville perfection. But his world is his reality, and finally he realizes that that is way better than any fiction.The best scene in the film, for me, is at the very end. The Don Knotts character, when all is said and done and the Maguire character has learned his lesson, gives a knowing smile and drives away. I like to think that he knew the movie could just as easily have been called Mayberry. "},{"Title":"A great portrayal of clashing values","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film dealt with many issues racism, freewill, art/literature and music in our society, and even used the Garden of Eden as a backdrop for the story but portraying it in a way that most don't usually think of it. What stuck out to me, however, was the director's brilliance portraying a circumstance of clashing values. The two clashing values in this film are free expression and order. The people of Pleasantville valued order before David and Jennifer arrived. These characters valued free expression and did not understand why they couldn't express freely in a town such as Pleasantville. As they expressed themselves freely, other people in the town began to do the same while the rest of the citizens tried to keep order. Change was considered undesirable in a town like Pleasantville, especially when it was rapid. Eventually most people realized that although it isn't desirable, change is sometimes necessary for a society to grow. Soon, the citizens realized that they had something in them that wanted to express. As this happened, the changing town seemed easier to deal with. The people of Pleasantville found that if they open their minds toward others and allow each other to be who they are instead of who society wants them to be, they will become not only richer in color but richer in any other way they can imagine. "},{"Title":"Spectacular fantasy fun, that's now one of my favorite movies, with brilliant effects and outstanding performances!","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is spectacular fantasy fun, that's now one of my favorite movies, with brilliant effects, and outstanding performances!. All the characters are wonderful, and the story is one of the coolest I have ever seen, plus Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, and Joan Allen are all simply amazing in this!. In my opinion this should be in the top 250, and you never know what's gonna happen next, as it's always unpredictable, plus it's extremely well made and cleverly written as well. It's quite hilarious at times, and Reese does an absolute perfect job of doing a sudden change in character from bad girl/good girl, as she was amazing as both! plus her and Tobey Maguire had fantastic chemistry together!. All the characters are extremely likable, and Jeff Dainels had some fascinating scenes, plus I loved all the references to the racism in the 50's (sign in the window saying No Colored's), and the Nazism(Reichstag fire where they burned all the books). Paul Walker has a small part here, as he does a decent job, and Tobey Maguire amazed me here, with his boyish charm, and his extreme likability, plus I loved it when Bud (Tobey Maguire) helped out Betty Parker (Joan Allen), with the bullies by punching one of them out.I really loved the music, and another one of my favorite scenes is when Joan Allen asks Reese what sex is, plus William H Macy is wonderful as the father. The ending was just perfect, and even at over 120 minutes it was never overlong, as I actually wanted more! plus it was just so engrossing. Another one of my favorite moments is when Mary Sue (Reese) kicks Skip (Paul Walker) in the balls so he Doesen't burn her book, and Don Knotts has an amusing role as a quirky TV repair man, plus Gary Ross does an incredible job of directing. I had extremely high expectations for this and I must say it actually exceeded them big time, and it;s also wonderfully thought provoking as well, plus I also loved the attire&costumes everybody wore!.I will be watching this movie often, and this will have you smiling throughout, plus Dainels and Joan Allen had some really good scenes together. It will really make you think after you are done watching it, and I can't decide whether I liked the black and white scenes or the color scenes best because they were both incredible! plus I'm sure everyone had a blast working on this. Marley Shelton is absolutely charming and beautiful as Margaret, as she had great chemistry with Toby, plus I loved the dialog as well. It's also one of the most creative movies I have ever seen, as it's astonishingly clever, plus J.T. Walsh is excellent as the stubborn asshole. This is spectacular fantasy fun, that's now one of my absolute favorite movies, with brilliant effects, and outstanding performances and if you haven't seen it, please do so right this instant, you won't regret it trust me!.The Direction is simply incredible!. Gary Ross does an incredible! job here, with amazing camera work,wonderful angles, beautiful scenery, and just keeping the film at an extremely engrossing pace, he did a perfect job!.The Acting is outstanding!. Tobey Maguire is amazing here, he is incredibly likable,had a great geeky, boyish charm, had fantastic chemistry with Reese Witherspoon and Marely Shelton,and I can't understand why anyone would dislike his performance, as you can't help but love him!, he was amazing (Tobey Rules!!!). Reese Witherspoon is also amazing as always, she is stunningly gorgeous, does an absolute perfect job of switching from good too bad, had fantastic chemistry with Tobey, was often hilarious, extremely likable (even as a bitch), and like Tobey, was one of the main reasons why this movie was so successful! (Reese Rules!!!!!!!!!!). Joan Allen is also amazing here, she is extremely likable, beautiful, absolutely charming, gives one of the best performances in her career, and had some wonderful scenes with Jeff Dainels I loved her! (Joan Rules!!!). William H. Macy is wonderful as the father, he was very likable, and was often a riot, he is such a terrific actor, that deserves more credit!. Jeff Daniels is fantastic as the soda shop owner, he had a great goofy character, was extremely likable,and was just too cool overall!. Marley Shelton is gorgeous, and does fantastic with what she had to do, she had great chemistry with Tobey, played a girlfriend everybody would love to have, as I absolutely adored her character, she was just awesome!. J.T. Walsh is excellent as the stubborn asshole, you will really dislike him. Don Knotts has a great quirky role as a TV repair man, and seemed to be having fun. Paul Walker is actually pretty decent as the school Jock, and did his job well. Rest of the cast do fine.Overall if you haven't seen it please do so right this instant you won't regret it trust me, it's one of the best movies ever!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Pleasantville","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first heard of this I thought it was some kind of horror film, but in fact it turned out to be an interesting drama comedy. Basically David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) are fans of a popular TV show called Pleasantville and have a small fantasy together of being in a peaceful world like in the show. No arguments, no despair, just happy family life. When they get their wish granted by some unknown magic on the TV, they don't exactly approve at first. They have to get used to being part of the Parker family, George (the very good William H. Macy) and Betty (Joan Allen). After a little while of being in the TV show they start to effect the TV show being black and white. Because they are using emotions and actions that aren't usually in the show, other characters are and the town is starting to turn colourful because of it. Also starring Jeff Daniels as Mr. Johnson. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Costume Design and Best Music for Randy Newman. Very good! "},{"Title":"It's really about world culture, isn't it?","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'll be quite brief in it's own, humorous way, I believe this film to be a very poignant comment, not only on the development of American values from the 50s up till today, but also, in a global perspective, a comment on other cultures that now have to adapt to our standards. Although occasionally crossing the border to semi-schmaltzy, Pleasantville is not afraid to tell us that amid all the terrors of modern life - ozone depletion, unemployment, and AIDS are mentioned in the beginning, and the independent and divorced mother's struggle to find herself and a few others opens and closes the film - we still have to believe that our values are right. Simply because we wouldn't want to do without them. And I believe the film to be right. A very clever movie. In my mind, it beats The Truman Show (and I'm a great Peter Weir fan). "},{"Title":"A Great Film...Joan Allen Shines","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is a fantastic movie with original performances. Reese Witherspoon and Tobey MaGuire lead the all-star cast in a delightful movie. The innocence of the characters and the age they're living in is so fascinating. The characters are very likable, because they're willing to go where they haven't gone before. Joan Allen delivers a performance that had me tearing up. Her portrayal of a lonely housewife was incredible. Their are some genuinely funny moments and some ridiculously sad moments. William H. Macy, Reese Witherspoon, Tobey MaGuire, Joan Allen, Jeff Daniels, Paul Walker, J.T. Walsh, and Marley Shelton round out the magnificent cast in the 1998 classic, Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"WOW! Go see this film.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A surreal mixture of The Stepford Wives and Back To The Future, it's such a shame that this film was so overshadowed by The Truman Show, because it's a true film masterpiece. Although this film is mainly described as a comic fantasy, it's not all funny. There is a serious side to it, and underneath the fantastic special effects and nostalgia jokes lies a deeply woven subplot of racism and sexism which takes inspiration from things like the Holocaust. It's there to be seen if you look close enough.The basic plot is two modern day teenagers being paid a visit by a smiley happy TV repair guy (Don Knotts) who gives them a very different kind of remote, which somehow sucks them into a black-and-white 1950's TV show called Pleasantville. Forced to assume the roles of Bud and Mary-Sue Parker (cue Spiderman joke), the two teenagers try to get along in a world that is absolutely perfect, where firemen are required only for getting cats out of trees because nothing can catch fire, where double-beds are unheard of and where the basketball team is undefeated because they can't fail to put the ball in the basket.The acting in this film is very good in some places and not so good in others. Reese Witherspoon is perfectly accurate in her portrayal of Jennifer, the spoiled, sexy sister of the slightly geeky David (Tobey Maguire). Although Tobey is good in some films, I don't think he was a strong enough actor to support the character of David, especially at times when he has to swear and hit people, although he does well in quieter, more sensitive times of the film. Also, keep an eye out for a member of the Buffy cast in a very minor role.This is definitely a film to suit anyone. If you're a real thinker you can appreciate the underlying issues and hints at other points in history. If not, you can just enjoy the fun and surreality of the film, especially the great way they mix colour with black and white. If you get the opportunity, definitely take a couple of hours to watch it.  "}{"Title":"Pleasant, but pernicious","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In 'The Wizard of Oz', Dorothy dreamt of an exciting life outside her native Kansas and was whisked into a colourful (and then revolutionary) fantasy world. In 'Pleasantville', this scenario is reversed David (Tobey Maguire) dreams of (and then visits) the idealised world portrayed in a 1950s, black-and-white soap opera, in contrast to the exciting real world in which he is just a geek. His trendy sister, played by Reese Witherspoon, travels with him (though only under severe protest). The need of the characters to adapt to, and not to upset, the past has elements of 'Back to the Future' about it; while the contrast between the real world and a santised utopia, whose inhabitants know nothing different, resembles 'The Truman Show'. 'Pleasantville' is less obviously comic than either of these films, but it is beautifully executed and William H. Macy in particular seems perfect for his role as David's fictional father. Dramatically, however, it suffers from the fact that Maguire never manages to convince that he truly believes in the reality of his situation. And when films such as 'The Last Picture Show' and 'What's Eating Gilbert Grape?' have addressed (with great subtlety) what is lost, and gained, when the values on which small town communities are based break down, it seems strange that 'Pleasantville' offers us only a pointless dichotomy between a world where everything is nice but dull, and another equally unreal world, where the pursuit of individual gratification always results in its acquisition. As a result, the film does little more than lazily peddle the standard Hollywood myth, that we can be anything we want if we believe it; a sad end for a work of some artistic distinction.Dorothy tired of Oz and came to wish for Kansas; likewise, David returns to the real world, and in spite of knocking down a conservative straw man, 'Pleasantville' is truly a conservative (and smug) film in itself. David's manifesto is supposedly that there is no right way in life; but as David himself becomes cooler, while his sister learns the joy of books, the standard happy medium is thrust upon the audience with no apparent awareness of the blatant contradiction. In fact, the film's vision of modern life appears no less rose-tinted than the vision of the 1950s it rejects. A pleasant, but pernicious, film.  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the best film I have ever seen in my life","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  We know the rules of the game; what happens when we start breaking them? 'Pleasantville' is a film that explores this question freely. The story involves two 90's teenagers (Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) who get sucked into a 50's sitcom called, you guessed it, Pleasantville. In the show, they are the son and daughter of the characters played by William H. Macy and Joan Allen. Of course, when you have someone from another time, there's bound to be some changes. And they are. Pleasantville's youth starts experimenting with sex, rock n' roll, and books. And Mr. Johnson (Jeff Daniels, in a wonderful performance) the local soda jerk discovers art and begins to paint freely. All in all, this is a beautiful, uplifting, and sad film. I give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"All is well in Pleasantville","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What I liked about this film is how Tobey Maguire's and Reese Witherspoon's characters introduced change in the perfect little town of Pleasantville. I like all of the references that it made to real life; about accepting change, overcoming hard times and prejudice against a certain group of people.  The way the black and white people tried to hold back the people in color and the things that caused it really stood out for me.I thought Tobey Maguire's character, David Wagner/Bud Parker, was the coolest.  He knew so much about the show `Pleasantville,' loved the idea of living in the show and yet he when things started to change from black and white to color, he embraced the idea of things changing in a perfect world.The scene that left an image in my mind was the scene where the black and white people trashed Bill Johnson, Jeff Daniels character's, diner because of the color art on the window.  There was so much hatred and violence in that scene that it left an image in my mind.I would definitely recommend this movie to people who are fans of Reese Witherspoon, Tobey Maguire, Jeff Daniels, or William Macy. "},{"Title":"Gary Ross is the heir-apparent to Frank Capra","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a masterpiece of thematic cinema wrapped in Gary Ross's tenderly-handled powers of visual storytelling.  It is a human story about human aspirations and human failings.  In the end it is life-affirming, but nothing is white-washed along the way.TOO MUCH TVPleasantville is the title of a fifties-style TV show whose reruns dominate the viewing habits of cynical siblings Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon.  They scoff at the perfect world portrayed on the TV, but their own lives are on a cynical downward tilt.  When their personal negativity reaches critical mass, they are sucked into the TV set and into the absurdly positive world of Pleasantville.WHAT'S OUTSIDE OF PLEASANTVILLE?But the human kids in the TV world soon discover that all is not as it seems in Pleasantville.  The smiling people all around them are only black-and-white representations of human characters.  They don't smile because they're happy, they smile because they're on TV.  In fact there is no joy nor sorrow in Pleasantville, and nothing of human emotion is allowed to show--until Tobey Maguire goes to work.YOU CAN'T STOP SOMETHING THAT'S INSIDE OF YOU!Tobey plays the well-meaning snake in this monochromatic garden of eden. It is Tobey who prods the Pleasantville People into revealing their hidden colors, their humanity.  But it is not just human beauty that is let loose, but human ugliness as well.  Ross is determined to show us that a chaotic, real world where truth and beauty vie against our darker impulses is the only world where humanity stands a chance of not just persevering, but prevailing.  Otherwise, we will simply fade to black-and-white.Pleasantville, released in 1998, was the first feature to be processed digitally in its entirety (and NOT Star Wars Episode One).  Although this is not an effects movie, techniques developed for Pleasantville are just now being adopted on a similar scale by effects movies.  Gary Ross was ahead of his time both thematically and visually. "},{"Title":"When Leave it to Beaver becomes a soap opera","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  That's what this movie is. Pleasantville is surprisingly good. With excellent performances and a well-directed movie, it leaves you wanting more. David(Tobey Maguire)is a teenager who knows everything about his favorite t.v. show Pleasantville. When a big marathon is coming up, his sister, Jennifer(Reese Witherspoon), has other plans with her date to watch the MTV music awards. When they brake their remote, a T.V. repair man pops up out of no where. And is suprised by David's knowledge of Pleasantville. He gives them a weird looking remote, when Jennifer and David start fighting over the T.V. again, they press the wrong button at the same time and get sucked into Pleasantville themselves. And they try to figure a way out. But end up adjusting into the Pleasantville ways.9/10 "},{"Title":"DIY Happiness","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film about liberation from oppression through the art of masturbation. As soon as the mother discovers self-love, colour flows into her life, and so it goes on throughout the film until everyone is doing it.The moral of the story? If you're feeling a bit 'grey', a quick hand shandy should soon sort you out. "},{"Title":"A diamond in the rough, with many lessons to teach!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A great movie many passed by. If you don't like to think... at all during a movie (XXX, ARMAGEDDON, TITANIC) this isn't the movie for you, stay away! To those who do like to learn, be inspired, and use that history stuff you learned at school this movie is it. This movie could be shown in school is my opinion, because it has so many historical references. Some of which are; civil rights inequality in USA (obvious), Kristalnocht in Germany, Pogues in Germany, Biblical references (obvious), Hitler-esc speeches and nationalism, and Censorship battles. If that ain't enough, see J.T. Walsh (Big Bob) play an amazing character, and one of his last before his death in 1998. Reese Witherspoon (oh soo soo hot), Tobey McGuire, and William H Macy serve up some other best performances as well. This movie got shafted by viewers at the box-office so pay it some dues and rent it soon, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Fascinating!","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  how can there be something or someone that or who is different than you? no idea, but it must be bad and thus be forbidden. life can be great if you allow it to be great. feel free to quote me.this movie is fascinating. its great actors and actresses really show off what they are capable of, the really beautiful cinematography, the wonderful and original fantasy story with very serious sociocritical content, and of course the amazing special effects that not just combine black&white with colour in a way it has never been seen before make this movie one of the best ever of the fantasy/drama genre.the sociocritical parts of the movie reminded me of racism (eg. coloured people are bad or people that believe in different things are bad), nazi behaviour (you do what we want, otherwise we'll get you ... read the first sentence in this review, you'll see what i mean - and of course this also includes the years where nazis burnt the jewish books), oppression of women, and so on.however there's also a lot of parody on the 50s lifestyle and on the 50s in general that keeps you laughing. not just parody but comedy in general. imagine you are living inside a black&white tv show where everything happening sticks to a prewritten storyline, where you cannot set things on fire and where the fire brigade does not know what to do when there's a real fire, where citizens are generally dumb like hay... wouldn't that make you laugh your a** off?last but not least the fantasy aspect is really there. next to all that funny parody and stuff and next to the serious and dramatic stuff there's that fantasy aspect that doesn't get lost throughout the whole movie. there's the core that is trying to tell you that life could be better if you would just allow it to be better.a must-see for people that are able to think deeper than the action kinds of movie fans, basically a must-see for everyone who loves great and moving cinema. however if you're a person that is not able to show some sentimentality ignore this movie cause you'd obviously hate it.anyway i'd also recommend this movie to people who are in some way affected by the negative aspects of life thinking that their lives suck. you'll see that life is not just something annoying, but what you make from it. speaking for myself, this movie made me even more open-minded.and here are my ratings for this beautiful movie story 10/10, acting 9/10, drama 7.5/10, fantasy 8/10, comedy 7.5/10.overall 8/10 ********..  "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who doesn't like this movie must have something wrong with him or her, or at least have nothing artistic inside of them at all.Pleasantville is an enduring and priceless movie that shows the true side of people and the way that people treat each other, it displays love, jealousy, friendship, intelligence, stupidity, fear of change and total innocence (along with other emotions)... it is quite simply, one of the best movies I have ever seen and is on my top ten favorites list. Great acting, laughs, tears, humility.... LIFE.See this movie, you won't regret it!9.9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"In the end everyone shows their true colors.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An Animal Farm for the nineties, this is a priceless allegory about hate, prejudice, as American as apple pie, and the shallowness of the values of people who can't see life as livable anyplace outside of their narrow sphere of existence. This movie shatters the values of those who have no values worth having. My last comment, Reese Witherspoon looks good in black, white, or any color under the sun. "}{"Title":"My goodness...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is morally reprehensible and builds its theme around false dichotomies.  They create a world in which abstinence is bland and promiscuity is exciting.  Maybe this is the way some or most people feel these days.  Some people, however, feel that traditional morality isn't diametrically opposed to variety, love, and passion.  This movie tries to make conservatives into an unruly mob; it is truly offensive.  Men are stereotyped to a negative extreme--well, all but one.  The one man who isn't wicked sleeps with another man's wife.  This movie is post-modern to an evil extreme and I wince every time I think of it.  But this is where our culture is going.  But what can ya do, right?  Just love 'em. "},{"Title":"A better tribute to Twilight Zone","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As has been commented before this movie shows clear influences of The Twilight Zone. Not spooks or thrills but elegant strangeness just as Rod Serling would have shown it. Whether it be intentional or not, this is in my opinion a much finer tribute to Twilight Zone than Twilight Zone, The Movie was. Subtle and optimistic. Even the black and white parts had that television black and white flawed contrast of those days. Wonderful. "},{"Title":"A nice place to visit...","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville has been described as a cross between The Truman Show and Back To The Future, but falls short of both - the former was sharper, the latter funnier, and both were more inventive (although The Twilight Zone's thematically similar A World Of Difference predates the adventures of Truman Burbank by about 40 or so years).You can't fault the acting or the setup (what would happen if two present-day people were zapped into an anodyne show from the past? Apparently things would start to become flawed - in other words, become just like us), and the colour effects are wonderful, both for their use and restraint (we only actually see a change from monochrome to colour once in the entire movie, making it all the more effective) - but Gary Ross, making his debut as a director after good work as a mere writer (Big, Dave and - er - Mr. Baseball), can't quite cover up some glaring problems with his tale. That there's no adequate explanation offered for how this comes about is fine (this is a fantasy, after all); that it gets sentimental is also no problem (I don't have a problem with schmaltz, as can be judged from the fact that I loved What Dreams May Come).What IS a problem is that it's never explained how a place that's been in black and white since time began can a) know how to tell one colour from another and b) have any concept of colour to begin with; more seriously, the movie overdoes its racial allegory aspect (nowhere more so than in the courtroom climax)... and when you think about it, would it really have been so acclaimed if the situations had been reversed? A decent - very decent - but flawed effort. "},{"Title":"The single most moving movie i ever watched!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie combines the traditional craft of composing masterpieces with a compelling and significant story. It is well-composed, masterly directed and with pictures which made me weep...I cannot recommend this movie enough. In other and more commercial words its one to watch.  "},{"Title":"Remarkably amazing","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The concept is simple transport into a movie through the tv screen into the tv program and then - attempt to get out. But somehow the story writers managed to make it a lot more complicated than that. Adding a remarkable change from one world into another, one can see the simple things in life that we take for granted. Though at times this movie seemed a little slow - aspects of it never seemed to amaze me in such that there was so much more to the movies that meets the eye. A sweet, touching movie, glossed over with outstanding actors and ability. Leaving the audience gripped to the characters and their will to alter whatever life the Pleasantville folk have into what the perceive it should be. A gripping story that will capture the minds and hearts of all but the stone hearted. "},{"Title":"Wow!! One-of-a-kind film that has so many messages, so well done, a real 10 on my scale.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Pleasantville can be enjoyed on two entirely different levels - as a very entertaining fairy tale with great creative use of B&W or color scenes, or as an inspired comentary on the human existence. In truth it is both, and is best enjoyed as both.I will take this opportunity to say that the DVD version is so much superior in every way, it is an injustice to view it any other way. It has a fine making of feature showing how the color/B&W tricks are done. But the most useful feature is the selectable commentary track by the writer/director, Gary Ross, who also wrote a couple of other hit fantasies - Dave and Big. Ross is the son of a scriptwriter, grew up in that environment, is a virtual walking encyclopedia of films, and of course his films like Pleasantville invariably incorporate ideas borrowed from older films. This is not a fault. It works seemlessly to create a great total package of viewing enjoyment.The whole film centers squarely on one subject, which is dear to Ross' heart - Is it better to live in a society with strict rules to ensure absolute safety and happiness, but no choices, or is it ultimately better to have a free society which permits choices, and danger, which we have to learn to deal with, but which may ultimately make our lives more fulfilled?  He does this by transporting teen twins David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon)into a fictional 1950s black and white TV series, Pleasantville, where they become Bud and Mary Sue.  Their TV parents are played by Joan Allen and William Macy. Jeff Daniels plays the local soda jerk and hamburger cook. Don Knotts is the TV technician who provides them with the magical TV remote which causes them to be transported.Their first reactions are understandable. Jennifer wants to get back to her big date on Friday night. Bud realizes where he is, because he is a trivia expert on the TV series, and he just wants to insure everything is preserved just the way it has been scripted.  As viewers, we see them actually in the world represented by the TV series, not simply as series characters. The B&W world that Pleasantville residents live in represents the black and white of right and wrong. The temperature is always 72 degrees, day and night. It never rains. No one ever questions what's outside Pleasantville? The wife always has supper ready at 630PM when each man comes home after his workday. The books have no writing. The bathrooms have no toilets. The residents do not know anger, fighting, or even what sex is. As was in The Purple Rose of Cairo, all they know is what has been contained in the various scripts of the TV series.There are exactly two events which trigger everything else in Pleasantville. One is when Jennifer, as Mary Sue, becomes the sexual aggressor by taking her date to lovers lane, and eventually exposes him to the concept of sex. The second is when David, as Bud, shows up late at the malt shop and finds Daniels' character standing there, rag in hand, rubbing the counter until he had almost eaten through the formica, because his scripted existance didn't allow him to do anything until Bud showed up. Until Bud explained that he could deviate and do things himself, even if Bud weren't there yet. All other changes that Pleasantville goes through are a result of the domino effect as an outfall of those two events.  Don't take my word for it - that's what Gary Ross says about his movie.So, we see color gradually coming into Pleasantville as a result of changed attitudes.  First a single red rose, then a face, a car's tail light, whole people, the sky, and finally the whole town. They introduce conflict of ideas, a defensive punch in the face, rain, lightning, fire, expressive paintings in color.Ross' use of sex in this film has been criticized by some. As he explains in his commentary, from an animal and human existence, recognition of sex and sexual urges are so basic that without them, you cannot fully explore other aspects of your existence. Of course, no one in Pleasantville knew anything about sex. So, this sexual awakening, for the most part tastefully done, among residents of Pleasantville was used as the catalyst, if you will, to lead to all other awakenings. As the story develops, sex becomes very secondary as the characters develop towards more lofty ideals.By the end of the film, David/Bud and Jennifer/Mary Sue each are also very changed, and they don't get colored in Pleasantville until they make these basic changes. Jennifer goes from this shallow, sex-obsessed teen girl, into one who actually values the books she reads and the society she is in, and plans to stay in Pleasantville and to go to college. David gains a real empathy for those around him, embraces change, and in a touching scene back home, consoles his divorced mother who is sad that things aren't the way they are supposed to be. He tells her, It isn't supposed to be any particular way, going on to encourage her to learn to love and live life and just see whats happens.So, in total the whole film comments on the absurdity of blindly trying to preserve our rules, for longing for the good old days, for resisting and fearing change, for such things as discrimination because of the color of a person's skin. And it specifically shows how people can change, as did David, Jennifer, and the residents of Pleasantville, to gain a fresh appreciation for life's possibilities.This film is so well done on every level that on my list it stands as one of the best of all. A truly inspired work. A film that I will enjoy periodocally for years to come.BTW, some have attributed the burning tree to the Biblical burning bush. Author, Ross, says there was no intention there, just a desire to show a fantastic effect when Joan Allen's sexual awakening occurred, and fire, which had never been seen in Pleasantville, seemed like a neat way to do it. However, he does acknowledge the Garden of Eden allegory in the apple scene at lovers lane. "},{"Title":"Very, very, very, very, very, very, superb!","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A brilliant film! When I started watching this I thought it was going to be about two people stuck in a TV show. If anyone thinks that's it then they are WRONG! I found myself compelled by the effect of our modern day lives on this 'perfect world' and by how all the characters developed in it. This film is definitely more than a romantic comedy.The method of showing social changes through this 1950s TV show was a brilliant and original idea, and the film so cleverly shows how this happens even in todays society (for even so much as owning a double bed?). There are no clichés here, and the whole film is ofset with humor that almost satirizes what is happening and what has happened in our own society.Good choices for actors, very well-written, and the effects, although not mind-blowing, are good enough for the film and don't detract from the main focus. Some brilliant lines in it (Fire!Fire!Cat?) and a wonderful world with some wonderful characters too.A smart film with a very apparent social message, but still light and humorous, Pleasantville is a gem to watch. I have it as my number one, and I think it is severely underrated. I would advise anyone to watch it. "},{"Title":"Not What You Expect A More-Than-Pleasant Surprise","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A lot of movies, it seems, start out with an interesting concept, and then quickly degenerate into formulaic, unimaginative teenage fodder. Pleasantville, in more than a pleasant surprise, does the exact opposite. Using the same plot device seen before in much lesser movies, two children of the 90's get zapped into a 1950's sitcom reminiscent of Father Knows Best and Leave It To Beaver. They suddenly face blending into a town where everything is in black-and-white, and everyone has charming, naive good nature. You expect it to get silly and go nowhere after the first few clever cross-genre jokes.Except that in this film, we get a big surprise just when we expect the film to lose its charm, it becomes a far more intelligent, sophisticated and beguiling film than we thought it could be. First-time director Gary Ross actually decided to go somewhere with the plot; we expect that the two modern teenage siblings (the nerdy David and his slutty sister Jennifer, played by Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) will slip up and in doing so reveal witty differences between the two time periods. However, Ross delivers his surprise not just in how the two modern kids react to an ideal, white-bread 50's-style society, but more immediately in how that society reacts to their hedonistic influences. As David comfortably fits in to a world he is more at ease with, his sister instantly rebels, taking teen-dream basketball player Skip (Paul Walker) to Lover's Lane, where she shows him how to do more than hold hands, and shocks him into a very human male reaction (Skip, it's -supposed- to do that!). But as Skip digests and accepts this amazing experience, he sees a single rose by the side of road in color-and everything goes uphill from there.What is truly most surprising in this film is the unexpected nature of the underlying messages about the two disparate time periods. In an age where middle America looks back in fondness and more than a little longing for those clean, innocent days of a generation forever changed and gone, we get an interesting mixture of commentary not just on what was wrong, but also what was right. Director Ross subtly builds his exposition based upon the metaphor of color, representing change. The primary message is that while the good old days of a utopian suburbia may have been pleasant, we paid a price for it; when everything is swell and keen, we avoid the very bad-but also we avoid the very good. Discord is not too high a price for the true joys of life.Along the way we are treated to some beautiful imagery and sly metaphors which catch you by surprise, from Eve giving Adam the apple to fascist destruction of art and literature-with just the right cast to convey the messages with subtle conviction. Brilliant actors such as Jeff Daniels, Joan Allen and William H. Macy recognized a good film and helped deliver it, Daniels as a kindly-but-dumb soda jerk who realizes a love for art, Allen as perfect housewife discovering a repressed desire for freedom, and Macy as a good-natured dad, not forcefully unwilling to change, but rather woefully befuddled by the passing of his ideal life. Add to that exceptional performances by J. T. Walsh (in his final role, as the hard-headed civic leader who fights the change) and Don Knotts (of all people! as the TV repairman who facilitates David and Jennifer's transference to Pleasantville).This is not to play down the performances of the film's two stars Maguire and Witherspoon, who help deliver the film's subtle message, which is not just portrayed in the changes to the fictional characters of Pleasantville, but is also represented by the changes in the two protagonists. David and Jennifer's initial states of chaste nerd and high-school slut (metaphors for the 50's and the 90's) blend into their final, sensible common state somewhere between the two, suggesting that there are good things about both eras. Not only does the film suggest that the 50's were too good to be good, it also tells us that perhaps we would be better for putting a little of that era into our present lives.  "},{"Title":"Not worth watching","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There are going to be a line of reviews before and after mine, so I will excuse myself from repeating the storyline and characters (or, should I say, lack of storyline and character originality). The only worthy thing in this movie is cinematography -- the movie beautifully incorporates black'n'white with color pictures. However, cinematography in great movies like Braveheart beat this one by a mile. Unless you deeply care how a colored character will look into a black-n-white movie, spend your time and money somewhere else.Rating 4/10, I saw it on an airplane, it beats watching through the airplane window by a narrow margin.  "},{"Title":"What a shocker!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those lovely films that gets you feeling quite smug and makes you think you've seen it all before, then changes the script, gets you caught up in some beautiful characterisation, and leaves your jaw on your lap, as the movie becomes more and more gorgeous!The teen comedy that leads you in, takes second place to a fable about perception and the nature of reality; a lesson on the importance of identity and self expression; and a political message about how easily the bigotry that plagued WWII and the McCarthy era could come back and haunt us.Always entertaining, but addressing the audience on so many levels, this is a must-see movie! "}{"Title":"An Incredible Achievement","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"   I can say, without a doubt, that Pleasantville was a truly breathtaking and brilliant film. I cannot rave on about it enough, but I'll try right now. I didn't get the part at the start (looking at all the teachers in different classes, talking about future problems with sex, disease, employment, etc.) until later in the film, where it dawned on me that this was simply pointing out how different life in the 90s is to life in the 50s. I myself cannot verify whether life in the 50s was really like this, as I am only sixteen years old, but it was still interesting to compare them. That was what this film really achieved it showed that while lifestyles have changed enormously over the past 40 or 50 years, human nature hasn't. The same racist and prejudiced attitudes still occur today, and this deeper meaning that lies under the surface of Pleasantville is what makes it such an achievement. But I'm jumping to halfway through the film, so I'll get back to the start. I also laughed at the part where Jennifer and David are fighting over the remote, and it is mirrored in Bud and Mary-Sue fighting over the transistor radio. I cracked up at the basketball team missing all their shots at the hoop after Skip has just spoken to them. I also laughed at Betty Parker asking Jennifer what sex was. These, among other moments, lifted the movie up, allowing it to be serious and get a message across, but at the same time being full of laughs. The special effects and photography in this movie were truly a masterpiece. For once, they were put to good use, rather than being used for crashes or explosions. The special effects department here obviously devoted a lot of time and effort to the colour differences. The part where a black and white tree bursts into coloured flames was excellent. The combination of coloured and black and white people in the courtroom was also well done. But what was truly visually stunning was the part where a black and white David/Bud and Margaret are driving in a yellow convertible down the road, while millions of pink petals blow around. This was one of the most beautifully made moments ever put in a movie, and I pressed rewind several times when I got Pleasantville on video, just to watch that part again. That is one of the rare moments you can find in a movie that never fails to make you smile. The lush photography in this movie further adds to the whole experience, making it even more worthwhile. Some criticism has risen about several aspects of the movie. DON'T LISTEN TO ANY OF IT. People have complained about the dramatic second half of the film being a miss. This is completely untrue the second half is direct, straight to the point and gripping. The changes that make the people turn to colour in Pleasantville, when people break away from their normal selves, were also excellent. In particular, when Jennifer stops being a tart and starts enjoying simpler things like books. Also, the script was excellent. The film flowed seamlessly, and the acting was a dream. A lot of the actors here were relative unknowns, except for Reese Witherspoon, who I have also seen in Freeway, Cruel Intentions and Election. I must admit, she is a talented and convincing actor, and has shown that she can play a variety of roles country gal, bimbo/sl*t, good girl and ambitious, ruthless schoolgirl. Both her, Joan Allen, and Tobey Maguire deserved to at least be nominated, and should have won, academy awards for their superb acting, and once you add nominations for art direction, special effects, best film... Pleasantville deserved to get at least about eight nominations, not just one or two. In short, Pleasantville was not about sex, or television (although it was much better than those other television-dissectional savvies, The Truman Show and EDtv), or 90s versus 50s. It was about breaking away from yourself, changing, and facing up to the prejudices that are ever-present in our society. I cannot recommend this movie enough, and it easily earns an 11 out of 10. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Good premise takes wrong turn","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"     What a great idea - take two kids from the 90's and send them back 40 years or so.  This could have been good comedy with some light social commentary thrown in.  Instead, the script takes a nasty turn - and suggests that moral folks of past generations are simply unenlightened boobs.  The old folks may have been hypocritical in their own way, but to suggest that today's social fabric has lots of lessons for the past seems somewhat backwards.  A major disappointment off a good premise.    "},{"Title":"More than merely pleasant - but that, too","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fantasy about two teenagers who get transported into the world of a 1950s TV show.Maybe I should repeat that sentence - you'd think it's the one fact about the film no-one could fail to notice; but apparently not.  Some people who ask the question, `What's the movie about?' aren't happy unless the response is full of abstract nouns.  Hence, I suppose, the misconception that it's really some kind of comment on America in the 1950s, or lost innocence, or some such.  Viewed that way the film is obviously weak and confused.  But it can only be read that way in wilful defiance of the evidence.  Respond to the fantasy first; hunt for metaphors later.View it properly and you'll notice that `Pleasantville' has nothing to do with a Vanished America or How Fictions Reconstruct Reality or Lost Innocence or any of that tiresome stuff.  It's really a story closely akin to Pygmalion.  (I'm talking Greek myth, not George Bernard Shaw.)  Or perhaps Pinocchio.  It's the story of people who have been created for the purposes of art - statues who have come to life - who gradually attain more and more humanity.  It's a story that can ONLY be told by means of fantasy. You'll notice that the central protagonists (the ones who were real all along) are, in a sense, not fully human either.  Indeed the David/Bud character starts out as one of the most stunted and unlikeable protagonists you're likely to find.  It's the film's triumph that we empathise with him in the end.It's also gorgeously shot.  (It mustn't have been easy - a combination of colour and black and white can so easily look a ghastly mess.)  Special effects show that some people, at least, know how to properly use computers for effect, and when not to use them.  None of the wonderful images was generated by computer - every one of them began as an image should begin, with light striking film.This is really lovely - and worth seeing on a big screen. "},{"Title":"A film that truly shows you the colour of life","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was a truly entertaining and enriching experience.  The visual effects were extremely well done and the message of the movie was something that we can all learn from.  The bottom line is that life is shaped by all of our experiences and emotions.  It ceases to move forward if we ignore or run away from any of them.  A definite 10 and a must see for people from 9 to 91. "},{"Title":"Let's talk about it. Shall we ?","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Can somebody please tell me what this film is about. Is it a technical spin-off of Spielberg's little red colored girl in Schindler's List, is it a new version of Adam and Eve banned from the Garden of Eden, is it a film-theoretical analysis of the early sitcom, or is it just silly entertainment? My idea so far a little bit of all...and in the end completely nothing! "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is an amazing experience. This film is just great, there's no doubt about it. The director/screenwriter Gary Ross has created a brillant film, setting up a mood of its own from the first few frames. The cast is awesome, not a bad choice in casting this film at all. Witherspoon and Maguire are great together, and William H. Macy is great playing the ultra stiff father. Joan Allen turns in a great performance and Jeff Daniels gives another example of quiet acting. This film is just amazing...I'm close to speechless.  "},{"Title":"A phenomenal film","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is an extraordinary film, one that stirs up as many emotions in the viewer as those being felt by the characters.  I agree with other people who frowned at some of the immorality in the movie, but I don't agree with some of the comments which said that people in the movie only turned color when they were sinning.  They turned color when they were experiencing deep feelings for the first time.  When did Mary Sue/Jen turn color?  When she had delved into a book for the first time.  When did Bud/David turn color?  When he stood up for someone that he cared about. Then there is the bathtub scene.  Maybe I'm way off, but I don't think that Betty actually you-know-what.  I think that her oohing and aahing is supposed to make us think that she is before we realize that she is really oohing and aahing at the colors she is seeing.  It is all a question of interpretation and point of view, as is everything in the movie.  It is about our most human feelings and how we choose to address them.  Do we deny our feelings and live robotic, ignorant lives or do we acknowledge our feelings and nurture them?  These are questions that all of us must ask ourselves. If you haven't thought about these things before, this film will bring those questions to the surface and make you put your own life under the microscope.  It is truly a marvel that draws you in as much as the two 90's teenagers.  "},{"Title":"Unique idea is wonderfully executed.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wonderful example of filmmakers fantasy turned to reality as writer Gary Ross (Big, Dave) takes the director's chair for the first time in this marvelous story of contemporary values thrust upon the 'Father Knows Best'-like world of the 50's.Could Marion Cunningham (Happy Days) lust for another man? Could Wally (Leave it to Beaver) go 'all the way'? Those are no longer conundrums in the fictional town of Pleasantville, after a couple of 90's teens, through what might only be described as 'movie magic', are swept right into 'TV Land.The story has every bit the charm of both the other Ross pictures, and a smart cast of William H Macy, Reese Witherspoon, and Joan Allen, with a wonderful performance by Don Knotts.The visual effects are superb, the use of color deliberately to accent the stark b/w landscape of Pleasantville, is worth the price of admission alone.  "},{"Title":"Innovative and Original","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What a clever premise; two teenagers from the jaded '90s are thrust by magic into a '50s sitcom.  The inhabitants of Pleasantville are clueless to any world outside of their black-and-white existence.  No free-will, no sex, no art, nada.  But what a nice group they are nonetheless.  And as the two teens set out to teach them all that they're missing, slowly, the black-and-white Pleasantville turns to color.  It's not all peaches and cream however, there's unpleasantness in Pleasantville, and this is where the movie almost loses itself.  It becomes somewhat preachy, massing imagery on Nazis, southern bigots, women's liberation, et al into a series of scenes that almost upturns the movie.  Almost, but not quite.I recommend this movie highly.    "},{"Title":"Left wing propaganda film. Not entertainment.","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Hate me if you will but I hated Pleasantville.I didn't think this film was for entertainment at all. It felt like a political brow beating. To say that being immoral will better your lives is just the sinners way of justifying their own bad choices. Now I don't have to agree with the ideology and morals of a movie to enjoy it or appreciate the message or statement but this film and story was so flawed in it's delivery that I found it to be of very little worth.If I really expected all films to match my own personal beliefs or convictions in order to enjoy them, I'd probably not like very many films. I know that there are many lifestyles other than my own. I expect to be shocked, scared, enlightened and otherwise affected when seeing a movie. In the instance of Pleasantville, I was simply insulted.Masturbating will make me a better person, huh? Having rampant sex will enrich my life while remaining morally clean means I'm a hate monger and my life is drab? Please.The film depicts people who are in black and white until they show their true colors and experience a new emotion. Usually one that is completely out of character for them. This is literal as all of the people ARE characters in a sterile 50's tv show. There's a major flaw in this concept played out on the screen. Once Joan Allen turns color after discovering that her husband isn't needed for sexual gratification, she is chased around and taunted by some boys who remain black and white despite this current action. The towns mayor turns color after emitting anger and hate. Why then did these boys not turn color when they were acting out their emotions? They weren't exactly living up to the standards of Pleasantville. And what about the rest of the towns people who stood in judgement of the colored people. Are these not converse emotions as well?Parallels are attempted to be drawn between the treatment of the now colored people in the film and the actual colored people from the same era in our real history. This is not accurate. In the film, it was the immoral acts and sins of the people that brought about a change in them, making them appear in full color. They were persecuted and even kept out of certain establishments. In real life, it was not the behavior of colored people that brought about the bigotry. It was the ignorance and hatred of others projected on a whole race, regardless of their morals or behavior. To attempt a comparison of the two is asinine.This movie was just an attempt to give a stamp of approval to doing whatever you want as long as it feels good.If you liked Pleasantville and didn't like this review, consider  this Gary Ross wrote something that is dear to his heart and he spoke his mind. I too wrote something that is dear to my heart and I spoke my mind. I too hope to make films one day. When I do, they'll reflect a part of me. Some you'll like, some you won't. But that's what movies are all about. Pleasantville deserved to be made as does every film. I look forward to Gary's other ventures as a director. He did a fantastic job of bringing Pleasantville to the screen and the message was loud and clear.Until next time, I remain in black and white, and I still love you. Wait, does love make me technicolor worthy? Let me know. I may change hue yet.  "}{"Title":"spot-on","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasant is the word for it amiable, entertaining, likable, blissfully reassuring, lovely to look at, and ultimately toothless.  I give it a 7 (marked down from an 8 for Fiona Apple's soporific trashing of Lennon's Across the Universe over the end credits) "},{"Title":"Guess I was expecting too much","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really wanted to like Pleasantville.  The previews looked spectacular. I was quite happy with the acting and visual effects. I loved the score by Randy Newman.  I liked all of the characters (and the actors portraying them).My major problem with the film was with the disjointed script.  I don't believe it was focused well, and I don't believe it was written with a clear vision of what it wanted to convey.  There were many holes.  I felt no emotion and only mildly chuckled two or three times.  I wanted something to make me FEEL something -- essentially to bring color into my life.  For the first hour, I was under the impression that it was sex which gave the characters their color. Then I thought maybe it was passion, but by the end of the film I was still unsure.  I liked the references to art and literature and music giving life its color.  And while I am certainly no prude, I think sex was overemphasized, and I was especially disappointed with the idea that Mom's bathtub masturbation scene was what brought color to her life. Oh how I wish that was all it took to achieve color in one's life.  In that respect, I believe the film stumbled and failed in getting at its intended point -- that  our realization of our own unique place within the universe is what ultimately illuminates us.  Simply experiencing rage, passion or orgasm alone won't get it.  "},{"Title":"Must see...","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting a satirized bit of fluff when I paid my $3.50 for a matinee yesterday - boy was I surprised! This movie made me think in more than one way... it made some powerful statements about tolerance, rascism, fascism, and the old idealized style of living, as contrasted to our current lifestyles. There were plot holes that you could drive a truck through - yes, but get over them! The quality of the movie more than makes up for them. There were some moments that came across as hilarious (Wm Macy looking for his dinner) but at the same time, that scene made a statement about the limitations of the small world that they lived in - it was absolutely inconceivable to him that there could ever be a different reaction to his actions that he had repeated each and every day for his entire existence... a very deep movie, if you'll let it be. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking, Excellent","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was an amazing film to watch. From the scene where Tobey Maguire's real world character was talking to the girl, it was definitely wonderful. The directing was interesting, and the effects were certainly cool. Several scenes were memorable, such as the first burst of color, the first fire, the first rain, and especially the picturesque view of the colored rainbow and trees (or something) against the black and white town proper. Breathtaking.The film works on many levels of interpretation; finding out what they are was fun. The premise was unique (to me, at least), and the acting was superb Reese Witherspoon was wonderful when she first appeared as Mary Sue, her emotions a mixture of wanting to go back home and staying to get hooked up to the basketball player (whose name escapes me). William H. Macy and Joan Allen were both fantastic, as well as Tobey Maguire and Jeff Daniels.What escapes me is why the film wasn't nominated for more Oscars, or that Randy Newman's fantastic score didn't win. Also, here in the Philippines the film was rated G, despite the whole sex thing (as well as Betty's, um, self-discovery).It's a pleasant movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Good actors. Average script. Way too much politics.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is no truman show. The main characters are superman and superwoman (gotta be politically correct huh) who save the city which doesn't think in the right way. If this movie was filmed in 50s, these would be two white guys who save a 30s city which treats blacks in the fair way. Way too much politics and brainwashing in this movie. 4/10 (all four points are for actor performance).  "},{"Title":"As subtle as a brick.","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Just for the record, Pleasantville was as subtle as a brick to the head. It began with a quite promising concept, subtly stating it's little agenda about liberation from societal rules and the 'shackles' of morality, it then ended up pounding us over the head repeatedly with its underlying message, that was no longer underlying. Do we really believe as a society the premises that the film portrays; that self gratification,promiscuity and marital unfaithfulness are the doors to living a full, 'colorful' life. Methinks not squire! If you are going to try to persuade me otherwise, be a lot more subtle in communicating a erroneous little agenda. "},{"Title":"A must not see!","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It is tragic that a movie glorifies immoral behavior, by putting rainbows in the sky when a married woman has an affair.  People do not become more colorful or enlightened when they choose to live in immorality.  The movie neglected to include scenes of teen pregnancy and STDs caused by having promiscuous sex, or the pain and suffering caused to spouses and children when one has an affair.  This is not a movie for children--adults either. "},{"Title":"Press the off button on your remote","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The topic of this movie is excellent. Also the characters are very interesting. However, the story is boring. No surprises. You know the end after 20 minutes.And the special effects (everything turns from B/W into color) become also boring after a few minutes. Always the same special effects, jokes, ... were used during the whole story.The actors/actresses made a good job, but weren't able to put some surprising elements. "},{"Title":"It was great.....","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't get it when her husband turned into Jeff Daniels....Was it that anything can happen thing????  "},{"Title":"I've never seen a movie to be powerful on so many levels.  See it tomorrow, but only if it's too late to see it today.","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely loved Pleasantville.  Everything about it is perfect....and the plot is riddled with attacks at modern society and values. Pleasantville is a satire, and allegory, and a metaphorical work all in one.  Bud, who I believe was played by Tobey Maguire, was a DeGaulle-Christ-King-Christ-Leary-Warhol-Moses figure, while his sister represented a force of change.  Though inclined to push for change in Pleasantville due to her alienation from those around her, she found that she too was not above change and soon found herself to be alienated again, but this time as the one of the innocent schoolgirls whose innocence she tried to destroy.  A masterpiece.  Don't miss it.   "}{"Title":"One of the year's best!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Saw this at an advance screening and I can't stop saying how good it is! It's not like The Truman Show at all, in fact this was filmed first, I think. It's more Twilight Zone-ish. All the actors are fantastic, especially Joan Allen, Jeff Daniels, Tobey Maguire, J.T. Walsh, Don Knotts among others. See this movie-believe me it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Different, but simply perfect.","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every so often do you come across a film that speaks of someone who stands up to 'the man', and rallies everyone to be bold. Every so often is there a film that screams the banal message, 'safety is overrated'. This ideology has been repeated so many times in numerous films (though it may fall upon deaf ears), that the message behind it all has become hollowed out. Truth be told, I've gotten bored with this sort of movie.Then comes Pleasantville, the movie that executes this idea so differently, it's simply perfect.Pleasantville is a make-believe town in the movie that is the generic stereotype of good ol' 1950s America; everything's swell, simple, and there was no such thing as no-strings- attached sex. It was a mundane black and white world with no hiccups or atrocities. Pleasantville was, well, pleasant. Then, everything changed when a pair of siblings (Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) arrived. Trapped in time, the two siblings are overwhelmed by oddities like loving parents, old-fashioned values, and a plethora of innocence. They soon learn to join this 'backwards' society, bringing colour to this small town. As the naiveté fades, the teens begin to wonder if their 'modern' perceptions are really the better option. I loved this movie, to say the least. The fact that this movie was set in a 1950s sitcom made the colour versus black and white contrast that much starker. I guess you could blame my inner Literature student for saying this, but this metaphor used made the movie a great deal more enjoyable, and the message so much sharper. The characters changed. They tried new things. They got more intrepid and spontaneous. People painted and had sex, wives no longer made dinner for their husbands, and the world was a technicolour wonderland. As the characters became more willing to try new things and take risks, they become people, and colour trickles into their black and white world. The characters literally had more colour in them as the movie went on. How is one to live passionately if they cling on to good old fashioned values, innocence or caution anyway, right? The concept used in this movie is brilliant. It puts its message across so effectively. Pleasantville is a movie that will make people sit up and go, 'Hey, I get the message. It makes sense.' The concept is so startlingly simple, but it's the most ingenious one I've seen. It grabs the audience's attention and entertains us no end. The setting, characters and plot are all woven together so fittingly. The development of the cardboard cut-out characters to real people, the demolition of awful stereotypes, and the fantastic screenplay make this movie worth your time.Pleasantville is more than pleasant, it is remarkable. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville is smart and funny and full of surprises","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film sweeps you up in its welcome escape from the woes of modern family life, back into the world of Father Knows Best where stability and homogeneity comforted millions. By the time I found myself laughing hysterically, I had my own experience of awakening. When it steered rather cleverly into social commentary, I cheered for the scope of its thematic invention. As much as I loved Seabiscuit (also written, directed and produced by Gary Ross), I do feel this earlier film has even more heart and guts in it, and certainly plays with our imaginations by virtue of its very recognizable yet fictional world grappling with change.If there is a film I would love to show in a Jesus Camp, it is Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"Wanna life ?.. get one here !","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This 1998 Gary Ross film is set in a small US town in the 1950's.Playing a teenage brother and sister contemporary with the film's release, Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon find themselves back in the era of their own parents or grandparents, having arrived there via the medium of an old black and white television show with which they know well from TV re-runs.Star-struck and confused in disbelief at first, they begin to get to know the disarmingly straightforward characters from the show. Apparently too good to be true in the TV show, David and Jennifer discover that these people are somehow for real and endearingly child-like in their outlook on the world.Indeed, the whole town is somehow black and white, in a way that parallels their uncomfortably incomplete personalities and grasp of their own potential.Even more disconcerting for the two teenagers - they quickly find themselves parents to these inexperienced human beings who populate the Garden of Eden that is Pleasantville.It dawns early on David that they have a special responsibility towards these fragile individuals whose simple lives they unwittingly challenge and complicate by just being there.Skilfully using the metaphor of the progressive change from monochrome to colour to mirror the rapid personal development and coming of age of the whole community, a warm and gentle comedy threads through their reluctant progress towards a functional and independent existence.There's something disquieting about this film and something wonderfully reassuring. With Tobey McGuire's character David we see a heart-warming transformation from a squabbling teenager at the opening of the film into a resourceful and dependable catalyst for the essential personal obstacles that these outdated black and white characters must overcome.In Reese Witherspoon's character Jennifer, we feel less comfortable. Confronted with their obvious vulnerability and naïveté, she is not slow to play the situation to her own advantage with little grasp of what is special about them, and why they warrant this careful handling that her brother is at pains to supply.Wrapped up in this film is much of the confusion that seems to underpin family relationships over the lifetime of any individual. It's not always clear at any point in the film who's in need of looking after and why, but by some mysterious process almost everybody is transformed and enriched by the subtle revolution that is wrought by these unlikely visitors from the future "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is no doubt the best movie I have ever seen in my life. It makes the viewer THINK about, well, everything. It has a plot that could fit into any number of genres. Comedy, Romance, Sci-fi.. So many people look back to 'way back when' and bring up the views that Pleasantville shows, they believe it is a wonderful time, when, in fact, even for the most pleasant of lifestyles, things are taken away...such as free will, individuality, love. This film brings all these issues into light Finding your own passion, allowing to be individual, not following the status quo. It shows topics such as racism and other bigotries tastefully and intelligently. I'd recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Already too often I've seen movies of which I thought I've seen this concept so many times before, why do I actually keep watching? But from time to time, something original pops out. Pleasantville is one of those original movies.It's about two teenagers (brother and sister) with completely different characters. They hate each other, but get stuck in a fifties sitcom and will have to make the best out of it. Because her brother is a big fan of the show, he knows everything about the town and its inhabitants. At first it all seems perfect, but than they find out that the little paradise isn't that perfect at all and that it is really nothing more but a hollow shell without any meaning. Gradually they influence their new world in such a way that nothing is left of what it was like.This movie is actually a great satire. It shows that people have developed an idealistic image of the past that is far from the truth. Everything in the fifties was great, everybody was happy, it never rained, no-one had sex before marriage... It's all wrong, but today there are still people who think we all should go back to these moral standards. In fact this movie shows these people that that ideal image never existed, that there was racial hatred, that not everything went well... and we would never be able to live by those standards.What I liked so much about the movie was the way the perfect world was contrasted with the real world. The real world is in color and the perfect world in black and white. As the perfect world crumbles down, you get to see more and more colors. That's by far one of the most original ideas I've seen in any movie lately. Add to this a lot of good acting, a good pace and good directing and you know that you have found yourself a special movie. I reward it with an 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece within a retro fable","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Usually a great movie is one that has a strong concept, with the details filled in faithfully to that concept. Since I intend to deliver here nothing short of a rave review of this film that turns that wisdom on its head, let me qualify it up front with a slam or two. These are SPOILERSThe initial concept is a shallow one. A teenage brother and sister, Bud and Mary Sue (Kevin Connors and Reese Witherspoon), fight over possession of the remote control to the family TV. The control flies out of their hands and is smashed. Horrors! - now Bud will miss the 1950s retro show he was looking forward to seeing. This is the cue for a strange (read irritating) TV repairman to knock on the door. The mystic unsolicited repairman (Don Knotts) hands the teenagers a replacement more powerful TV controller and drives away. Our teens squabble again over this controller, a button is pressed and suddenly they find themselves sucked through the TV tube and they become characters in an idealized monochrome 1950s world.Does this much set the scene for anything better than a mediocre look-at-ourselves-in-the-past B-movie? Is it any advance on time-jump yarns like A Connecticut Yankee at King Arthur's Court? Does it help that at some point we get it spelled out for us that the TV repairman is God and that 1950s Pleasantville where colours, sex, rain or a basketball failing to pass perfectly through the hoop are all impossible and forbidden is an allegory for the Garden of Eden? Yes, yes and yes, because what we have in this film is brilliant satire about, and rebuttal on humanistic grounds of, the doctrine of Original Sin.Even so, the wonder of this film lies not its concept but its details. Of course the 1950s props, the cars, bobby socks, picket fences, are perfect. If anything, the camera seems to strain too hard to show us a kind of 1950s poster world that our sibling heroes have to find their way in, eventually to shatter it.The movie's gimmick, which it somewhat overworks, is COLOUR. In Pleasantville when Bud and Mary Sue arrive, everyone has been indoctrinated to accept their stereotype lives and routines as normal and unchanging, and there is no colour to be seen. When our pair begin to make a mark on Pleasantville by introducing their 1990s attitudes and knowledge, we see the effect as colours gradually brought into the monochrome life. Most of the film documents this irreversible process. Herein lie the details, some of which work less well than others, but others of which raise the movie to a masterpiece.An over-facile first step to colour is provided by the liberated sister of the pair, who short-circuits the courting ritual that her Pleasantville beau, the captain of the never-defeated basketball team, tries to follow with her. Instead she whisks him to the Pleasantville Lover's Lane, hitherto a place for couples to sit only and hold hands, and guides him into his (the town's ?) first sexual consummation. This brings colour to his face, and sets the code that will be used throughout the movie, that colour = loss of innocence. I felt sorry for the young man's premature rush into manhood, that leaves him in a mixed confusion and pleasure, but I was also sorry for the actors having to deliver corny double entendre lines such as But it's impossible for you to pin me!Fortunately the writers seem to have realized that 1990s sexual liberation of a 1950s society is not an adequate theme alone. There is a parallel theme of artistic expression, but this theme starts slower and hesitantly. The cook at the burger joint gets bored with his job routine; apparently this dissatisfaction with the status quo is the first cloud in paradise brought in by the new teens. Bud shows him a book of classic paintings (the selection shown is quite interesting I noted Michelangelo, Titian, Van Gogh, Picasso...). This triggers more than just an outpouring of colourful painting by the cook (on the diner windows, on a canvas and on the whole side of a building); our new artist also launches into a sexual affair with Betty, the paradoxically virginal mother (in Pleasantville) of Bud and Mary Sue. This development greatly strengthens the film in two ways the liberation (colorization) of Betty (Joan Allen) was, to me, amazingly touching, and the inalienable human right to creativity in all colours provides a far more arguable rebuttal to the die-hard monochrome repressors in the final courtroom confrontation than the admittedly selfish claim to sexual liberation.Betty's awakening is wonderful and touching. There is a funny set-piece scene of role-reversals where the teen Mary Sue has to explain the facts of life to her own mother. When two people love each other very much, then they.... Since the still-grey father George (William H. Macy) is unready to perform in the way that the F.O.L.s dictate, Mary Sue advises her mother, it is implied, to masturbate in her bath. This she does in a little cameo, the camera showing only her head and ankles, that is brilliantly done and must have been more fun to act than Meg Ryan ever had at the diner table in When Harry Met Sally (1989).There is more colour fun in store. Betty has to hide her newfound womanhood i.e. natural coloured face, by applying grey makeup, to avoid being rejected by the grey-only society. This was not only a striking reversal of the usual role of makeup for women, it was also the point in the movie where it hit me that skin-coloured Betty represents all of us who for temporary advantage choose to hide what we really are.There is also a line where a not-yet-reconstructed youth who is rounding up attendees for a town meeting to protest the recent changes sneers at Bud for spending time with a coloured girl. We understand this in the context of the movie where natural skin colour allegedly means lost innocence, but at the same time it reminds us in obsolescent language (i.e. coloured > non-Caucasian) of a wholly different scenario of racial discrimination which we know to be existing somewhere in the inapproachable territory outside all-white Pleasantville. Signs in shop windows that say No Coloureds make sure we get the point.I didn't mention music. It was there, it didn't intrude, and somehow Dave Brubecks's Take Five tried to signal teenage awakening. There was a little bit of Elvis too but that jarred in my ear, a different revolution perhaps. I have no further comment on that.An enjoyable, funny, touching, intelligent movie. This is the way movies should be. "},{"Title":"'Pleasantville' is a 'pleasant' film","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  ***Starring Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, William H. Macy, and Joan  Allen.A brother and sister in the present-day world are suddenly transformed into the black and white television world that they watch.  They must find a way to get back to the real world and not alter anything that was originally in the show.The movie has a great idea and delivers it perfectly.  There are some scenes that are unnecessary and useless, that I felt should've been left out.  Still great film.  "},{"Title":"A joke on a phantasy TV program","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It is a nice film with an original argument although with plenty of phantasies. It is good to show that sin is also part of our life and without there won't be failure and success, love and hate, and sex and adultery. It is true that TV several times tries to create fictitious paradise in its programs as it is the case of pleasantville, but the reality is different, and this is well explained here. The film goes smoothly without scenes of violence, so it is really PLEASANT to watch it.     "},{"Title":"Movies that shake their finger at you are suspect","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The film goes overboard in its disdain for the images portrayed on television during the 50's. While we can all laugh at the cheesiness of Leave it to Beaver and its 'golly gee whiz' look and feel, I don't feel that such shows deserve the scorn Pleasantville heaps upon them. In fact many shows from that era have a loyal following and continue to appear on rerun channels. Thank goodness the bimbo Mary Sue Parker was able to go to bed with everyone and save Pleasantville from its goody-goody nature. Since no one ever did any hanky-panky in the 50s, it was fascinating to envision what that would have been like. The only redeeming moment for her was her change of attitude, her realization that this kind of life went nowhere.The notion that movies or television have an obligation to address every one of society's ills is as narrow minded as many of the antagonist characters in Pleasantville. While there are lots of good films that do that, many successful films do not. Pleasantville exaggerated the flaws of its characters to the point of being overly unrealistic. The film sure has an awfully arrogant premise. It's as if the film is saying Look how enlightened we '90s people are and how politically and culturally deprived you '50s people are. The people in the 2030's are going to say the same things about the people of today. What else is new?Pleasantville's message is nothing new. To be culturally enlightened you have to read Catcher in the Rye and like nude paintings and sculptures. Only 10 million literature professors have said the same thing.When I saw the trailers about Pleasantville, I thought it was going to be a satirical look at the cheesiness of 1950s entertainment. This is an approach that could have been quite successful. I was looking forward to seeing this instead of being lectured for two hours. "}{"Title":"Effects were neat but an over-rated movie.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had heard what a great movie this was supposed to be but I was really disappointed.  Sure, the colorizing effects were neat but that's about it.  The story is a sort of moralistic tale about how everything was not as good as it seemed in the fifties,etc...  As if anyone really believed that anyway.   The movie is full of all kinds of preachiness that is too obvious and heavy handed.  Sure, a world such as depicted in Pleasantville would have problems but I know of no-one who thinks of that world as an ideal. This movie got real old and boring real fast. "},{"Title":"Special effect can't save this clunker","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the only movie I have walked out of in years!!  It is heavy-handed, didactic and VERY predictable.  The special effects (I should say special effect) wear thin very quickly.  And I was very annoyed to see the film pay homage to To Kill A Mockingbird in one of it's numerous visual references to great films. Pleasantville should NEVER be mentioned in the same sentence, no...same book as THAT treasure. The waste of the acting talent in this film is a crying shame. If you don't mind be aggressively preached to and aren't easily bored by the repetitious use of one special effect, this may be your movie. "},{"Title":"Not everything in black & white makes sense.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The trailers for Pleasantville were compulsive.  This was going to be big hit material - clever cinematics, nineties know-how trashing fifties schmelz, but old-fashioned feel good triumphing in the end.Well, yes and no.  Initial reviews in the UK were lukewarm, certainly not scathing, but two weeks after opening and in the aftermath of the what's'it awards, I had to travel outside the megascreen temples, where life is suddenly beautiful and Shakespeare is in omnipresent love, in order to find a screening.  It really wasn't worth it.  The visual jokes - you know, single beds, perfect sports players, milk everywhere - made me smile, as no doubt thirty minutes of the TV series would have done, but the dark undertones of book burning and racial segregation didn't sit well.  And as for Joan Allen's sexual awakening in the bath!  The Bergman school of comedy all of a sudden?Luckily I had recorded Coronation Street to come home to.  Back to reality. "},{"Title":"Astounding","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When Pleasantville ended and the credits began scrolling down the screen, I was speechless. Pleasantville is a film that begins as an innocent comedy and transforms into a moving drama. It asks philosophical questions about a person's beliefs and lifestyle. It is much more than just black and white.On the surface, it is a film about two teenagers who are zapped into Pleasantville, the utopian 50s town where nothing ever goes wrong. The teens introduce the gray citizens to emotion and knowledge. Colors begin appearing, and soon the whole town has changed. But the film also asks its viewers to consider the situation of the town. Do the leaders of a country have the right to control what their citizens think? Should the pursuit of knowledge be allowed? Is freedom of speech so precious? This film will leave the viewer with something more than entertaining fluff. It will leave you with strong images, those of hate, love and hope for the future. It certainly helped me better appreciate the colorful world we live in, and the freedoms we have.  "},{"Title":"Heavy Handed but Clever","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie wields a very heavy hammer and bludgeons you with its theme. It also suffers slightly from hypocrisy. It suggests that media entertains us with sanitized environments that we then assume are normal and thus we get caught trying aspire to them. However, the film ends with its own happy endings, that were for me, just as contrived as the conclusion of a Brady Bunch episode.As a result, the film ultimately can become as hollow and simplistic as the very media it pretends to deconstruct.None the less, the film is worthy. It is technically marvelous, it has genuine moments in it and the soda shop owner has a fine evolution in the film. In many ways for me, he became the most real character in the whole film.The film also pays heavy homage to other movies. For example, the courtroom smacks of To Kill a Mockingbird; at one point the protagonist proclaims victory in the rain in direct reference to Shawshank Redemption, there are biblical allusions as well and scenes stolen from situation comedies and supplanted into the film with ironic twists.While I enjoy the film and hold it higher than most fare out of Hollywood, ultimately the theme is just too black and white. The convervatives in the film transition into narrow paranoia too quickly and there's never any consequence to the people who choose to liberate themselves. Every choice made to break society's mold makes the characters happy, free and comfortable. Every change in this film is good, every single one.Life doesn't work that way, but this film does. As a result, the notes it tries to hit are just a little too heavy and sharp.Ultimately the film is pleasant, it doesn't challenge you too much, it provides happy endings and lets you know pretty clearly what is bad and what is not, and makes sure the good guys win out.It is a very pleasant film indeed. "},{"Title":"Sloppy, weird, and insulting","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" (Note I assume anyone who reads this has a general idea of the plot; I don't feel like giving a huge plot summary.) When I first started watching this, it seemed pretty good. The beginning was clever and funny, and I was really enjoying it... until the color began showing up. It was at that point the movie lost any sense of humor it might have had, and got increasingly garbled and pretentious.The idea of two teenagers bringing 90's values to a 50's sitcom is a good one, but director Gary Ross exposes his prejudice by making it clear he equates 50's television with 50's culture in general. As if he could be any more out of his league, he doesn't even seem to be familiar with 50's TV in the first place (what on earth is Pleasantville supposed to be a parody of, anyway? Leave it to Beaver wasn't NEARLY this bland).Back to the Future, a fantastic movie with a similar premise, was about a teenager discovering his parents were really not so different than him when he was young. Pleasantville is about two teenagers discovering their parents' generation was hopelessly backward and ignorant, and it is up to them to set things right. How mean-spirited is that!? Setting things right basically involves teaching everyone how to have sex, which didn't exist in the 50's, so by the time the movie ends the town has become a giant group orgy, although thankfully pregnancy still doesn't exist. I could hardly believe this was supposed to be taken seriously. Another user put it very well saying this movie is like Adam and Eve leaving a black and white Garden of Eden, only to go straight to a color heaven (an Islamic fundamentalist heaven, apparently).Skewed values aside, the movie is even more annoying because of its unnecessarily slow pace, and a plot that keeps getting sloppier and sloppier. Of course you're going to get people who say, It's just a metaphor; you can't pay too much attention to detail. Well, even a metaphor has to have some coherency. I'm referring specifically to the ending, where David goes home and Jennifer decides to stay in Pleasantville. Yes, if you haven't seen the movie and you're not sure if you read that correctly, let me say it again Jennifer decides to stay in Pleasantville. What is David going to tell his mom?? Where's Jennifer, honey? Oh, she got sucked into the TV set and decided to live in a sitcom. She probably won't be back. And like that's not weird enough, how exactly did he explain the situation to his Pleasantville mom? Mom, I'm not actually your son. I know you think I am, but I'm really a kid from the 1990's who got stuck in Pleasantville, and I'm going to go home now by traveling through your TV. I think she took it remarkably well.I will say that it's worth watching for the mixture of black and white and color. I can't imagine how long it took them to edit all this. Scenes like hundreds of pink flower petals falling against a gray background are simply amazing. Visually, it's a great movie. If you watch it with the sound turned off and pretend it has no plot, I'd give it a 10/10. Otherwise, it's a 4/10 at best. "},{"Title":"Fresh, unique and contemplative","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I cannot recall seeing anything like this movie before. The way it plays out, it's almost like I'm reading a book (and I mean that in a very good way). This is not only a pleasant movie, it's got a lot of great symbolism too. Because I don't want to give too much away, I won't go into details. Suffice it to say, it's a well-crafted film that I think is great for kids coming of age. It addresses many of the issues which continue to plague our world. It's evident that the entire cast and crew put a lot of themselves into the production. Yet, it manages to stay seemingly light for those of us who just want to vegetate. Although I saw the show when it first came out, it's remained one of my favorites. I loved seeing Don Knotts again! "},{"Title":"Fell flat on its back","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It started out so promising. An original idea, mystery, atmosphere, technically stunning ... And then suddenly midways it falls flat on its back with heavy handed morality, spoon feeding the viewer. If the film makers had relied on a little intelligence, subtleness and left some room for the viewer to think, it would have been a winner of all times.A film can be as magic and fantastic as it may be but it MUST be true to its own inner logic and framework. This one isn't. Suddenly nice squares turns into monsters. Hocus-pocus. It's another vehicle for the old cliche that old - or just mature - people are square, evil and fascist whereas teenagers are broad-minded, caring and loving. BS! And the deep painter character is so overdone it is laughable, what a shame.I got the feeling of a slick producer/director sucking up to the teenager group telling them they know it all, that they are always right whatever they do BECAUSE they are young. Although they are closely linked to the subject of this film, the concepts of experience of life and knowledge are happily ignored in this politically correct disaster.  "},{"Title":"Becomes an unconscious parody of itself","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The premise of Pleasantville seemed irresistible (another sure fire Hollywood idea), but the execution turned out to be not so easy. The problem is, it is very, very difficult to sustain a satire over an entire movie (although Kubrick did it in Dr. Strangelove); things can get especially confused if you try to make the satire into a morality tale with a pleasant ending, as Director Gary Ross does here. He knows that life is too complex for easy answers, and that seemed to be one of the things he was trying to say, e.g., monogamy is not necessarily superior to, or inferior to, adultery. Ditto for chastity and fornication. Rain for a change is nice.But he got confused somewhere along the way and ended up with a smug, sappy movie with ideas as shallow and black and white as the 50s milieu he was trying to satirize. The feel good ending is beyond redemption, in its way even sappier than the mythical sit-com it tries to improve upon. Yes, it is kind of neat to see things turn from black and white to color accompanied by stirring orchestral strings, especially as a result of something-like socking a bad guy in the jaw-that pleases one's prejudices. But where are the shades of gray? Not all red is fire engine red nor all blue, baby blue.Reese Witherspoon plays a skanky teen (Jennifer) who teaches (as Mary Sue) the Pleasantvillians to fornicate (and her TV mom to masturbate) while she learns that reading is worthwhile. Tobey Maguire plays her brother David/Bud who begins as a nerd, but ends up heroic, attractive to the opposite sex, and wise beyond his years. (Yes, and we live in the best of all possible worlds.) Strange how this movie manages to satirize itself.Joan Allen is grim as the stay-at-home sit-com housewife, and William H. Macy is appropriately bland as her simpleminded husband. Jeff Daniels as the soda jerk/artiste-and her unlikely lover-is tolerable.Through the film meanders a kind of confused extract of the Biblical story of the Garden of Eden. In the Bible, eating the fruit from the tree of knowledge of good and evil forever removed humans from paradise. In Pleasantville, knowledge of anything outside of town or of anything unpleasant has the same effect, while bestowing wondrous color. We even have a very red apple presented to Bud by his TV girl friend Margaret (played with wholesome sexiness by pretty Marley Shelton).What began to wear on me was the easy choice of target. Going after fifties-style prudery and conformity is like shooting fish in a barrel. I should add here that human desire is infinite too much is never enough. So perhaps it is better to start modestly with a soda at the soda fountain holding hands (the 50s style made fun of in the film) instead of immediately coupling below the dashboard with legs in the air (90s spin on same, lauded in the film).Gary Ross, for your next flick, how about taking aim at today's violent, mercenary, duplicitous society? Bring a cannon.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"where the hell is this thing going?","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What's everyone see in this one note flick? Geez both Bewitched & My three sons made the transition from B&W to color. So...? What's the goddamned point. Super BORRRRINNNGGGG!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I may have expected too much from this movie and that is why I gave it a low score. Being generous, I have to say that I thought it was pleasant, enjoyable and entertaining. What bothered me is that it was also trying to be profound and instead it was just a cliché of all the false ideas that people have of the 50's. If you were born in the 70's or later or even as early as 65, you probably think the 50's is like what you see in old Ozzy and Harriet shows. It was far from that. WWII had ended in 1945. It was a blood bath. Many people lost their lives. Women and children were left bereft of their husbands, fathers and lovers. The people that came back had a hard time adjusting to civilian life - they were not the same people who left. Crime broke out and marriages broke up, for illicit sex was rampant. It wasn't just that people were horny, they had too much evil going on in their heads that they needed some way to escape it. With Hitler, every American learned the meaning of genocide. With Stalin, our former ally, becoming a greater butcher than Hitler, people wondered if anything had really changed. The terror of the atomic bomb was strong, and the treat of Communist aggression was real and had people building shelters under the ground. What people wanted on TV was normalcy. There was enough fear, terror, death and injustice in life itself. We didn't need to see it on TV. So TV gave us a fantasy world where there were good people who had good clean fun and everything worked out. It actually helped. It gave you something to shoot for, an idea that reality can be better. Pleasentville parodies a life and an America that never existed. It is stereotype that is as bad and, in my humble opinion, as reprehensible as a watermelon eating black man. The idea that there was a black and white world that is suddenly made colorful by sex is simply a heavy-handed and overly simplistic use of symbolism. There was plenty of sex in the 50's. I know, because I was there. It was rampant and good and dirty, with no excuses or apology. People didn't need to see it on TV. Unfortunately, it seems that the modern generation thinks they invented sex, or at least good sex. Trust me they didn't, any more than it was invented in the 50's. I wonder how they think that they got here? There is something comforting in thinking an earlier age was so wrong and we are so right. Dream on. This movie is so popular, so my review will probably be hated. I'm not sure why I wrote it, even. Maybe because not everyone likes heavy-handed, stereotypical productions that pretend to be saying something. They should be warned. The movie tries to parody a overly simplistic world that never existed in an overly simplistic way. In doing so, it is its own self-parody. "},{"Title":"readjusting conservatives.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville would a good film, I suppose, if not for the insulting subtext.  Basically, the film is suggesting that liberals are persecuted endlessly in a society plagued by boring, homogeneous conservatives.  Secondly, the film suggests that conservatives are simply less evolved then their liberal counterparts.  And of course, conservatism breeds intolerance of anything and everything not considered to be normal.  When seen in this context, the film is merely two hours of propaganda. "},{"Title":"A movie that had potential...","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  PLEASANTVILLE definetly had potential and was thwarted by the use of sex. Explaining that sex will change us forever. Or if we hit someone in the face. I am saying, yeah maybe things like that would change us. But then it leads people to think that premarital sex is the only way to go. It comes off as a cheap movie trying to be a phenomenal motion picture. Affairs...ok. That changes us for the better? I think I will go cheat on my spouse. I am a better person. The special effects were good, but it couldn't save this one. I thoroughly enjoy Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon, and I love the late J.T. Walsh and William H. Macy. But not enough to try to like this stinker. Waste of time and morale. "},{"Title":"Starts out as a satire and ends up trying to make deep points.","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville has a promising enough beginning. As a matter of fact the first hour is pretty good-what with its technical wizardry and light campy comedy. Unfortunately, it ends up trying to make many statements about our culture. It becomes overly judgemental and shows the characters of American situation comedies as hidden fascists. There was nothing deep about these characters, and that's the way they're meant to be remembered - as giving us moments of light entertainment. We end up getting lectures by an eighteen year old who knows more than everyone in the town put together. What he doesn't get is that that was all there was. If you try to analyze a joke too much, you lose its meaning. "},{"Title":"Laughably preachy","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great idea, terrible movie.  This movie was way too preachy.  Rather than entertain, this movie chooses to present moronic stereotyped characters instead of anyone with any type of accountability.  There are a number of places where you will find it very hard not to laugh out loud at the movie's condescending nature.  The first 30 minutes is actually somewhat interesting but the movie falls apart fast and goes nowhere, and worst of all, it drags on.  Nice video by Fionna Apple on the dvd, though.  "},{"Title":"People of Color","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't know where this movie was going from one minute to the next. It could have been written by Rod Serling while possessed by a Dybbuk. It has touches of A Short Walk and A Stop in Willoughby in it. But Serling, brought up in Binghamton, New York, usually saw the past as something regrettably lost. A kind of cultural childhood, a Golden Age, a period of innocence, rather like Spielberg. What are we to make of the clash of values that Bud and Mary Sue bring back to 1958 with them? Bud is happy enough to be in the black and white world of stability. (Stability? I mean obsessive-compulsive rigidity.) But Mary Sue runs around like a warthog in heat with nothing in her head except whatever impinges on her body sheath. And then there's this colorization gimmick. People change colors as they, well, evolve maybe. The kids' mother has her first orgasm (self induced) and a tree on the lawn bursts into colorful flame. She turns colored. Mary Sue begins to wonder, since she's been rutting with all the young studs in town, why she remains black and white, and Bud suggests that maybe it's not just the sex. Well then what IS it? It's not simply the capacity for change because Bud's already got his dose. At one point Bud tells a townsman that people get colorized because of something human inside them, something trying to get out, and he demonstrates his point by enraging the mayor (great performance by J. T. Walsh). But something has been trying to get out of the local soda fountain manager, Jeff Daniels, for a long time -- the desire to paint modern pictures a la Picasso -- and it finally does, but he remains black and white for a long time afterward. Cars turn color too, although something has been getting out of them fairly often. I'm stumped. Some of the incidents seem no more than arbitrary.The clash of cultures is interesting though. It's easy to make fun of the 1950s from our current perspective and this movie, unlike Twilight Zone, milks it for laughs. Married couples sleep in separate twin beds and never have sex. (They pollinate, I suppose.) Young couples go to Lover's Lane -- to hold hands. The books in the library are all blank because nobody reads or knows anything about life outside of Pleasantville. That last is a cheap shot, and untrue. Mary Sue, of all people, introduces them to reading and studying, and the books magically fill up with text and engravings. And it's a weak argument that claims we read more now than in 1958.Well, the two kids wind up colorizing everything and everybody and practically wrecking the town in the process. It's supposed to be an improvement, but is it? The black and white townsfolk were dumb but happy. Now they get into fights, insult one another, trash art works they don't like. They screw like minks before they're married. One can imagine what this does to the crime rate and the teenage pregnancy rate -- and taxes. (Is this what been trying to get out of them?) Sure, it was oppressive in the 1950s. We can see that now -- all that conformism and complacency. Is it less oppressive now? Perhaps not. Perhaps we don't recognize the strictures we live under because we take them for granted. We may be in the same position as the guy Mark Twain mentioned who suddenly realized he'd been speaking prose all his life. From inside the box, the commonly accepted assumptions, we seem to have a good deal of freedom to do what we want. The good folk of Pleasantville felt the same way -- and this movie treat them as airheads.I want to mention something about the score. It insinuates anachronistically Dave Brubeck's Take Five into one of the scenes, rather prominently. This is followed, again anachronistically, by a piece from an album I revere, Miles Davis's So What. I'm glad that it wasn't drilled into the viewers' ears in 1958 because it's unforgettable. How easily it could have become a stock piece, like R. Strauss's Also Sprach Zarathustra from 2001 A Space Odyssey, or the last movement from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. I can almost hear it now, playing over and over and over on all kinds of TV commercials for shampoo, kitchen cleansers, pimple removers, and condoms. It may be hard to tell but I kind of enjoyed the movie, although it left me as much puzzled as satisfied. Joan Allen's performance is the only one with true depth; Macy is always interesting but his part gives him less to do. The kids are routine, except for the momentous 1950s bosom Reese Witherspoon has to strap on. Jeff Daniels fits his role as a reasonable but timid person very well. The only role in which I can remember his displaying energy was that of Joshua Chamberlain in Gettysburg. Rod Serling didn't always have a perfect answer for his longing for the past either, but I usually felt it was the result of ambivalence on his part, not, as here, confusion. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Movie!","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Every once and a while movie get in a slump. It was one of those years and then *poof* out of no where this unusual movie comes out! This was a good movie and if it would have had the right promotion it could have been a classic. Black and white meets color...interesting! I don't own this movie but I would like to. 1-10 (7) Z. "},{"Title":"A heavy-handed mess","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, I figure anyone reading this already knows the premise (or at least can surmise it from the oodles of comments already posted).  Just to throw in my $.02, this movie is a mess.  It's basically a bad episode of Star Trek.  That two 90's teenagers could enlighten a 50's sitcom town is frankly simple-minded and obvious.  Unfortunately, this point is driven home again and again in the movie with the subtlety of a pile-driver.  This movie has the same problem as several other movies that are intended to satirize tv and movie unrealities, and yet plays directly into them (e.g. Last Action Hero, The Hard Way).  The characters have laughs at the absurdity of the freeze-dried 50's TV family, and yet the movie comes together EXACTLY like a freeze-dried 90's comedy-drama.  The boy (Tobey Maguire) learns to express his anger (and turns to color, to show he is now an honest, self-aware, self-actualized person, I suppose) and the slutty girl (Reese Witherspoon) reads one book and suddenly...oooh!  She's in color and wants to go to college!  How nice and convenient!  How so quaint and...Hollywood. Shouldn't throw a stone from a glass house.  This movie's political agenda is blatant and silly.  The biggest laugh in the whole movie isn't even intentional, when the ice-cream guy (Jeff Daniels) paints an illegal mural that shows nudity, kissing, and books such as Moby Dick with angels wings to epitomize all that is free-thinking in the world (like I said, subtle it ain't).   The B&W vs. color effects are excellent, but that's the only thing in this movie that can be described as such.  What could have been a reasonably funny premise is lost in the preachy, illogical screenplay and direction, which reduces the movie from being simply overlong and trite to being pretentious and calculating.  Big, BIG thumbs down. "},{"Title":"The world is a better place because people just do whatever they feel??","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was confused and concerned about the message that this film presented. Does it suggest that everyone just pursue whatever instincts - with reckless abandon and no thought for the consequences?  Further does it suggest that those that believe that society needs some kind of order via rules are the problem?   I wasn't clear on this and for whatever reason I felt my ability to reason and root belief that one should at least consider how one's behavior effects those around you let alone one's self was being attacked. I gave it a 2 for the special effects. "},{"Title":"Weak, overpraised, simplistic","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am giving this a 2, simply for enjoyable performances by some of our best actors -- Bill Macy, Joan Allen, J.T. Walsh (one of his last roles). Otherwise this film is a cheap shot at what I guess the director seems to think was bland 1950s conformism. Pleasantville is not the only film recently to make this kind of simplistic social critique -- think about Mona Lisa Smile or Far From Heaven. It's awfully easy to take potshots at a target as easy (and old) as 1950s culture, and it's interesting that these films are pitched at an audience which is far to young to actually remember the fifties, even if they were just barely old enough to have been born then.What is Pleasantville, really? It has elements of an episode of Twilight Zone (some things, like the town you cannot escape because all roads lead back to it, are direct lifts)crossed with Leave it to Beaver and Father Knows Best, among others. I'm old enough to recall when these shows were actually ON television, and I can assure you that nobody at the time actually believed these were solidly realistic depictions of actual day-to-day life -- they were SITCOMS, for God's sake. They were meant to be amusing and funny. They were also aimed at families with children, and shown early in the evening, which is why they don't deal openly with sex. (Unlike much of modern programming, which is so pandering and graphic -- even early in the day -- that it would have been considered pornography 25 years ago.) If you actually WATCH shows from the 50s like Beaver and Father Knows Best, instead of just clips or what you THINK you remember, these were actually not bad, and not as bland as Pleasantville wishes to remember them. Especially Beaver, which I have seen in recent re-runs, was a well-written family show and the characters were far from being depicted as being perfect (in fact, they often were shown as flawed, and in need of learning life lessons).I find it hard to believe that anyone really takes sitcoms to heart (then or now), and actually believes that they depict a realistic slice of life, and then bases their real-life decisions and activities on this! (If Gary Ross does or did, then he needs a shrink, not a job directing movies.) So when contemporary films reach out to expose the emptiness and lies of old sitcoms, they are basically being cowardly --because the real job of art (whether books, movies, etc.) is to shine a light at YOUR OWN CULTURE AND TIMES and criticize THAT. But to do that would take courage and vision,and that is sadly lacking in our current crop of directors and movie studios.I'd also like to add how very very tired I am of movies that basically exist to show off expertise and set design in terms of CGI (computer graphic imaging). The conceit of Pleasantville is the contrast between B&W and color images, something that was already being done heavily in TV commercials even in the mid-90s. It's a cool effect, but stretched over the length of a film, it quickly becomes a tiresome gimmick. CGI does not substitute for good writing, witty dialog or the clever conclusion to a story.Need I add that the real 1950s (like EVERY time in the existence of the universe) occurred in color? That color movies were very common by 1950? That color photography existed in abundance? That B&W was only used where it was more economical, but that everyone was quite aware of the existence of color film, movies, printing, etc.? Or that everyone everywhere since time began has had sex, and that it was not invented in the 1960s? "}{"Title":"Provocative Film","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Who ever would have thought a seemingly innocent little satire like Pleasantville could bring up such a multitude of strong personal thoughts and emotions?  The film's basic premise is moot . . . rather like saying an adult is superior to a child.  It's no great accomplishment for one with a fifty year advantage to look back and down upon one's '50s predecessors.  Children are expected to stand on the shoulders of their parents and surpass them in awareness and performance.What becomes a real copout is to support condemnation, ridicule and judgement of our ancestors . . . all the while ignoring the faux pas of our own culture.  Sure, it's much easier to externally blame than it is to take responsibility for our own experience.I failed to buy into the philosophy of Pleasantville, finding it skewed and sour.  It's inference that color is somehow better than black and white, or that the latter is equated with the sterile, closed minded, naive and stark, while the former is beautiful, lifelike, rich and rewarding--is spurious and fallacious.Out with Vaughn Monroe, in with the Stones.  I feel fortunate indeed to discern artistic quality, even from a pop music perspective, and turn away from the raucous, discordant, and grating as being out of harmony with the human soul.  Ditto for the dazzling Disney-type distractions, the surface glitter of high tech commercial packagings, and the myriad of clever but vacuous products being sold to the public today. Let others revel in this foolishness.  I'm going my own way ... in the opposite direction of the ideology of Pleasantville.     "},{"Title":"Life in colors in much beautiful","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Two brothers who do not get along all the time arguing one day for the TV remote, each wanting to follow their favorite show and end up by destroying it. The next moment a mysterious old man appears at their door asking if they have a problem and solve the problem offering a new remote. With the help of this new remote the two will get to be part of the David favorite show and his sister Jennifer wants to go out of there sooner. So she makes some unusual things for these natives who have not even heard of fire and triggers a series of events that will eventually animate each inhabitant and the city. In this world of their own in black and white, a rose starts to catch color then a chewing gum, a dish, a jukebox, a car to the first person and slowly the whole city. Mayor does not agree with these changes but he ends up being the same and has nothing to do but to comply the situation. It is a unique film that has it all. A touch of science fiction, romance, drama, comedy and fantasy. In the eyes of every film fan must see this as a masterpiece you need to have in the collection. "},{"Title":"A reminder to keep looking at things from a new perspective","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is beautifully shot. It's mostly black and white, but it has specks of color inserted into the image. The colors are textured and tasteful, they remind me of old Technicolor films (which are referenced in this film!) Interestingly, the guy who's behind Pleasantville also brought as Hunger Games, though these movies are hardly comparable.Pleasantville is a charming film which shows us how an utterly conservative, closed universe goes through some major changes. As always, there are those who can't stand change and do everything in their power to stop it -- parallels are drawn to fascism and racial segregation. The force that overcomes the stiff conservatism is, largely, human goodness and art. The film has a lot to do with classic literature and paintings.So it's more than an adventure about teens getting stuck in another dimension, but it's that, too. Pleasantville has good character development, romance and conflict and trouble of all sorts, but it doesn't get too dark. It's got a great sense of humor. While at times it gets almost too clever for it's own good, it still has a light heart and a great emotional impact. "},{"Title":"There is some truly horrible comedy here, but there are also some very beautiful moments.","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Here is a strange film. Not strange in it's intriguing plot, but strange in the way the film is set up. It starts off visually ugly and comically overstuffed with predictable and clichéd fish out of water humor, but by the 40-minute mark, it becomes more serious, and the last hour plus of the film have some really wonderful moments in it, taking an unexpected thematic turn. A magical TV repair man (Don Knotts) places brother and sister David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) into a 1950s sitcom called Pleasantville. The brother and sister are placed into the roles of the son and daughter on the sit-com, complete with their wholesome parents George (William H Macy), and Betty (Joan Allen) Parker. This black and white world soon turns to color as these innocent characters experience newfound passion towards aspects of life they weren't aware of before David and Jennifer arrived. Some members of the town are unhappy at the changes happening and try to stop it.The first act of the film is pure comedy, and by far, the worst part of the film. Whether it's purposeful or not, the color opening before the teens get thrown into the show is just plain ugly. It looks like a She's all That corny comedy, and the lines in these scenes are just as bad. Then we get the fish out of water portion of the film once the siblings arrive in the show, and that is nearly just as bad. Predictable, corny humor everywhere, in addition to almost theatrical overacting. Characters having sex in cars over exaggeratedly, and Reese Witherspoon's horribly written oversexed teenager character mixed together is almost cringe worthy. Then, oddly enough, once the movie settles into dramatic mode, it actually becomes really good. The subject matter becomes more interesting, as thematic connections to race relations in the 1950s show up, and the cinematography is at times really stunning. A scene where David sits with his television girlfriend by a lake in the rain is great looking, and sort of moving in a way. What this last 2/3rds of the movie has, that the first half doesn't is both a point, and a soul. Mr. Johnson (Jeff Daniels), the town soda shop owner, is really a large portion of the heart of the film. He begins to learn about paintings, and color, and begins wondering about what life truly is about, and his character has a completely natural, and unforced progression, with kind of an innocent wide eyed way about him. On the other side, we have Jennifer, who has a corny and stilted progression that doesn't really work, but luckily that's not a huge focus. The movie goes into racism territory, when the newly colored people are treated as second class citizens, by rule of the town council. And the movie goes into completely unpredictable territory, which makes this second half of the film all the more wonderful.The acting is very good, and is only dis-serviced by the script (especially early on). Almost every character is relatable in some way, through their own problems with change and over reliance on nostalgia. Jeff Daniels and Joan Allen are especially good, and work well together in the scenes that feature the two of them. Reese Witherspoon gives as fine a performance as she can, but her dialogue and character arc is pretty lame a lot of the time. She's clearly trying though. The music by Randy Newman is very fitting, and especially fits in during the more dramatic and moving scenes in the picture. The black and white and color mixture is often wonderful to look at, especially in the scenes that are making a point. Director/screenwriter Gary Ross has made a really bad late '90s comedy that turns into a pretty fantastic black and white (comedic) drama about the necessity of change and how people deal with it. After an ugly opening, the film looks great, and once it settles in, it becomes exciting, unpredictable and intelligent. If the first forty or so minutes were better, this would have been thoroughly wonderful. Alas that's not the case.My rating *** out of ****. 124 mins. PG-13 for sexual and thematic elements. "},{"Title":"Black and white may be simple, but real life requires color.","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Fire! FIRE! ....Cat?Cool movie. If you've ever found yourself wondering what it would be like to live inside one of those 50's family TV shows, Pleasantville has your answer. Absolutely absurd.Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon play a pair of teenage siblings who end up inside the idyllic show of Pleasantville, in a town where there is no trouble, everything is predictable, innocent (separate beds for married couples) and the overall mood is (you guessed it) nothing short of blandly pleasant. They turn the black and white town upside down with sex and distinctly non-routine, non-Pleasantville ideas about life, and suddenly, color starts to seep into the world. Everyone doesn't like it, and Pleasantville starts to become a lot less pleasant. And the two teens end up go through some changes, themselves, of course.   The movie starts off fairly light-hearted, but goes in a much more serious direction as the story moves along. It was a good enough flick to keep me I interested even after the novelty started to wear off, but I do think it was a little longer than it needed to be. Overall, though, I thought it was pretty decent. There's a nice supporting cast of Joan Allen, William H. Macy, and others, and fans of Maguire and Witherspoon will be pleased with their performances. This may not be the best movie I've seen, but it's certainly a pleasant way to spend a few hours. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Film.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Before he was wearing tights and swinging from high rise buildings he was black and white and trapped in a town that was deemed perfect. Before she won an Oscar and dated an American psycho, she was a slutty sister who was trapped in a town that was deemed perfect. Oh yeah, the town was a fictional TV show called Pleasantville.This is the first film from Gary Ross, and I was surprised to learn it was his first directorial effort. The film feels like it was crafted by someone with year in experience in film-making. Sure he's written stuff before, like the Tom Hank comedy Big, but Pleasantville is something completely different. It's a film that works on so many different layers. It's a beautiful story and craft that work together to give us one of the best film to come out of the 90's.First, the cast is wonderful. The supporting cast is perfect and I thought William H. Macy delivers the hardest performance as the husband who doesn't want his wife to stray from her routine. Joan Allen plays the wife who discovers so many different things, one of them is self pleasure. Jeff Daniels works at a diner, but his true passion is painting.The most notable part of the film is the brilliant use of colour and black & white. If people have never seen this film, but loved the way Sin City was done, check out Pleasantville. It is one hundred times better and actually means something to the story, not just used for artistic flash. Not saying that that is a bad thing. I just think that the use of something as artistic as that that can drive a story is much more interesting that having it in there because it looks 'cool'.Even though it is billed as a comedy, I found it to be much more dramatic and more important that what people give it credit for. I think it has found it's audience now and is being remembered for what it should be instead of that film where they mix colour into black and white bits. This film is much more then that.Yes, this is one of the best films of the 90's and I recommend it with two big thumbs up. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly serious-minded success","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 1990s teens are magically sucked into their television set and end up living inside the world of a 1950s black and white sitcom. That sounds like a sure setup for some lighthearted comedic fare. But this movie goes in a different direction. Pleasantville has its funny moments but it's certainly not a typical comedy. It turns out to be a rather serious-minded film, a movie with a message. Some may quibble and say the film lays it on a bit thick, beating you over the head with its message. But all in all the film works. It's both enjoyable and thought-provoking and the premise ensures it will be rather unique.Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon play the central roles of David and Jennifer, twins who have very little in common. Jennifer is concerned only with being popular. Her only goal in life is apparently to date, and sleep with, the resident hunk at the twins' high school. David on the other hand is a little awkward socially. As we meet him his big plans for the weekend consist of watching a marathon showing of reruns of his favorite 1950s sitcom, Pleasantville. To David, not entirely comfortable in the world in which he lives, Pleasantville seems like the ideal, perfect place where everyone is always happy and life is always wonderful. Then a television repairman, played by the always terrific Don Knotts, unexpectedly shows up and gives David a rather unusual looking remote control. One press of a button and David and Jennifer find themselves in Pleasantville. And David will soon see that the residents of this fictional black and white town desperately need some color in their lives. Things in Pleasantville are not as perfect as they seem.David and Jennifer find themselves living as Bud and Mary Sue, the children of the idyllic Parker family upon whom the sitcom centers. Once he comes to grips with the situation David can fall into his role rather easily as he knows absolutely everything about the sitcom, its characters and its world. Jennifer on the other hand is well and truly lost in this black and white world. Her brother insists that she must act as the sweet, innocent Mary Sue Parker would lest she upset the delicate balance of the wholesome Pleasantville world. But Jennifer is determined to bring some 1990s attitude to this 1950s world. And as it turns out that delicate balance in Pleasantville could use a little upsetting. Yes it appears to be an ideal place, everyone seems perfectly happy...but at what cost? They have no free will, no ability to affect their own lives. They go through the same mind-numbing routines day after day and never have any idea what they're missing. There's a great big world out there and perhaps with the influence of their visitors from the future the good folks of Pleasantville will finally have their eyes opened. Maybe for the first time they can really live rather than simply exist.It must be said that the process of bringing change to Pleasantville is a rather slow one. The film does proceed at a rather leisurely pace, seeming to drag at times. And some could have their own interpretations of the film's central message and see it as an attack on traditional values. But that's really not the case at all, it's about personal freedoms. Life is not going to be perfect, you have to take the bad with the good. But enough about the message, the film has so much more to recommend it. Perhaps the most notable feature of the film is the beautiful cinematography and wonderful effects. It may seem now that through computer effects all things are possible but when this film was made it was simply revolutionary. Vibrant color is brought into a black and white world, bit by bit, and the effect is stunning. And the whole story is performed beautifully by a terrific cast. Maguire and Witherspoon are excellent. In playing Bud and Mary Sue's father, a man very content is his predictable black and white life, William H. Macy is reliably brilliant. And Joan Allen and Jeff Daniels do perhaps the best work of all. Allen plays the sitcom mother and Daniels runs a diner and it is the way these two characters react to the changes in their world which gives the film much of its heart. But it is not just the 1950s characters who have changed, our teens from the 1990s evolve as well. It's a very smart, well-crafted story. It's not a perfect movie, there may be a few missteps along the way. But in the end a journey through Pleasantville is an enjoyable and rewarding experience. "},{"Title":"a triumph","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" i really enjoyed this movie.i thought it was very clever.it also deals with themes that are as relevant today as they were in the 1950'snad it touches on themes that were relevant in the 1940'sthis film is set both in the 90's and the 50's.it's multi-layered in terms of story and content.there's a lot of depth here. a lot of thought was put into the characters,as well as the story.it's very thought provoking,as well as entertaining and even funny.not only is the story well written,but so are the quirky characters.Reese Witherspoon and Tobey Magiure are wonderful as the two leads.Jeff Daniels,Joan Allen,William H.Macy,J.T.Walsh,and the great Don Knotts also star and are equally good.Credit must also go to Gary Ross,who not only directed the movie,but also produced and wrote it.even though there are some dark themes,i think this a movie that could be,and should be watched by the whole family.but parents should use their discretion.for me,Pleasantville is a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great, creative movie!","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. It is one of those movies that you always enjoy making fun of but you really enjoy. There are so many deliberate mistakes in this movie that it makes me love the movie all the more. The movie follows teenagers in modern day who are transported back into a fifties television show called 'Pleasantville.' What is Pleasantville? Well it is you typical perfectly pleasant fifties soap show. When they et transported back there they begin teaching everyone about whats cool and having sex. Tobey Maguire was great as the nerd who knew everything about the show and Reese Witherspoon was terrific as the rebel who teaches everyone about sex down at 'lover's lane.' Soon when everything begins to change from black and white to color they find themselves really enjoying being in Pleasantville. The story is terrific, my only problem is the ending which is probably the biggest joke of the movie. It felt as if the director had no idea where to stop so he just decided to suddenly stop there. Besides that, a really good movie. "},{"Title":"i though this was a good movie","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" i really liked all of the special effects that this movie had. i don't know how they made everything black and white with some colors. Reese Witherspoon did a really good job as Mary Sue. but she kind of seemed a little old for that part. Tobey McGuire also did a very good job playing bud. He really looked like a high school student. i thought it was really funny when he went to the firemen to tell them about the fire and he was screaming fire at them and they did nothing but when he said cat they got up and went to help. I gave Pleasantville an 8 out of 10 because it was boring in some parts. Other than that i thought it was a really great movie and it was well made/directed. "}{"Title":"More of a Critique of the 1950's Than Anything Else","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When most people see this movie, they think of a coming-of-age for both David and Jennifer; David from a geeky, couch potato addicted to a television show from 40 years prior, while Jennifer is a wannabe bad girl, both struggling with living with their mother as she goes through a mid-life crisis. What most people don't see, and the country can thank a lack of effective history lessons in schools, is that the entire world in that television show was the United States in the 1950's.Being born in 1983, my first impressions of the 1950's was what I saw on Nick at Nite. The Patty Duke Show, Leave it to Beaver, Father Knows Best and Doobie Gillis made anyone who's parents grew up in that decade think that the 1950's was all white people living in the suburbs, when the children only feared the bully who played football, the teenagers would only be concerned about the football game or just saying hi to the cheerleader, and the mom did nothing but play bridge with the other housewives on the street until 4pm, when she would start making dinner that would be ready just in time for her WWII vet-husband to get home from his decent-salaried job at the financial institution, just so the whole family could eat and spend the rest of the evening watching television shows like The Patty Duke Show, Leave it to Beaver, Father Knows Best or Doobie Gillis. Pleasantville, before David and Jennifer became Bud and Mary-Sue, was inhabited by people like normal Americans of that time, who did not want to know that there was a big, scary world, and only wanted that pristine life.They felt sheltered from, and were almost ignorant of, the Korean War, Joe McCarthy's Red Scare, the quiz show scandals, the beginnings of the civil rights movement, and the Cuban Revolution. To most Americans of that day, they didn't want to know any of those problems, so, they just didn't know of those problems. This is just like the people of Pleasantville, who didn't know of any problems like fire, color, rock music, art, books, and even sex. It wasn't until David's and Jennifer's Bud and Mary-Sue from the 1990's that anyone knew of any of those problems existed. The actions and reactions inside Pleasantville mirrored the actions and reactions of the 1950's America.What's tragic about the movie is that the end result wasn't a full mirror. In the movie, all ended well, things were fine. In real life, the world went from care-free to the 1960's, where things weren't fine. But the product of the movie can be related by anyone who grew up in the 1950's and the 1990's. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville preaches freedom from societal brigandage. Conformity steals that source of life that creates, disallowing us from being who we really are. Souls wither in an atmosphere where they can't be different because we are all different. Try expounding on those themes in a two hour movie that has to sell tickets and you realize how successful Pleasantville is. My favorite scene takes place in the Malt Shop where the lead character explains Huckleberry Finn. They realized that they were already free. A perfect explanation of mankind, in reverse. This isn't saying Pleasantville is perfect. The courtroom scene grates more than a bit, and while morals can be overdone ethics can be underdone as well. However a freed prisoner is likely to stretch his legs unless-he's still afraid. Don't get on too high a horse and you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Oh, that's so swell","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There are films we lovingly refer to as feel good. You all know them and have your own list. I heard this of this film and read a review and thought it looked like fun. Just watched it last night and I was totally delighted. First of all, it is my own personal rule that any film that has a soundtrack by master Randy Newman is already a hit in my house. Newman's soundtrack, it has been argued, are the laces and connectors that hold this film together. While it is true to say this, it can be misconstrued as a weakness of the film; to say, for example that the film would have suffered without Newman's always deft touch is misleading - it has enough depth and strength to stand on it's own. Of course these type of movies work well with lots of music and while not all is Newman's, when his work is called for, he brings all his talents into view. In this film, as in so many other films, he is firing on all cylinders. Think of his great soundtrack work Awakenings (a personal favorite), Toy Story, Ragtime, and so many others. Sometimes a great soundtrack is non-obtrusive, like a soft background glow that we sense quite subconsciously. Other times it's really in your face and that sometimes works. This film has all kinds of period piece music which most viewers will know. Newman's additions finish and complete all the musical color you could ask for. The actors as many reviewers have stated are all superb, with Joan Allen a particularly strong presence. What lends this film to that feel good place in our hearts is the obvious charm of the fable. Only a mind made of stone would not see the parables, the metaphors and moralizing. The script is written to be open and yet with enough complication to make us stick around to see how it all winds up. While it is easy to say that it's a film about how love conquers all, it is more. This film also functions as a mirror and several times in the film a mirror is used to reveal the changes in the coloration of the person. The motif is fitting and again if you're not too dim you can see that the mirror is held up for all of us to look into. This is not a deep film nor is it philosophy for dummies. In the best tradition of classical Greek comedy, we locate our identifications with ease and recognize our own shortcomings. Rarely does a movie present this concept without falling into a morass of preaching and sermonizing. With everyone in the mythical town devoted to making things in life nice, it alone keeps the center, as it expands into awareness and discovery from exploding into chaos and anarchy. If in our own child like state we realize how black and white our own minds are, the alternative (as we gain color and gravitas, as we loose our innocence) to....Fighting in the streets as an outlet....is this movie. (The one overtly violent moment when the men rioted after seeing the naked painting is subsequently handled with calmness. The coloreds are encouraged to just clean up; retaliation is not an option they have grasped and it is wisely not introduced by David or Jennifer. How fitting it was to hear the fabulous John Lennon tune Across the Universe close the film. While he wrote that ...nothing's gonna change my world...we know that this was not true of his life or his philosophy. Lennon strove his whole life to change, to evolve and to shake others up. Maybe the director is saying the same of anyone who claims that nothing is going to change them. It is not possible to be alive and not be affected by change. This film is not a panegyric to revolution; it is the softer awakening of self awareness that can, if people choose, to move with love. This is a really terrific film and everyone shines. Superb. "},{"Title":"Two kids ruin paradise","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is one of those movies that you here people say I just happen to catch this and it was good. I was locked in while watching Pleasantville, and after watching it I was trying to think why I liked it so much. There was no action, there wasn't any particularly great acting, but there was definitely something appealing about the movie.Well after giving some thought, I realized that it was good because watching Pleasantville go from black & white to color was like watching a child come of age. The movie began with two teenagers from the late '90s being warped into a television town from the '50s known as Pleasantville. The town is just like the name indicates, it is pleasant. The town, and everyone in it, is black and white, everyone is always chipper, and the high school basketball team never loses.Eventually, things start to become colorized, and the town starts to go in an uproar. As characters in the town began to find feelings of passion, lust, anger, desire, and other feelings that lead to immoral behavior, they turned from black & white to color.Pleasantville was a town that just about everyone would love to live in but nobody does. Pleasantville was more than just a perfect town, it was a perfect existence. There was no crime, poverty, or problems. Everyone was happy, polite, and swell. Even though we would all like to live there, we don't want to see it on television. People like to watch programs that are closer to real life, where there are issues, problems, and bad habits; and where the emotions have a wider spectrum than just 'swell' or 'sore'. Now, we are not sadistic, in that we just want to see others suffer, but on the contrary, we want to see those issues, problems, and bad habits overcome. Pleasantville offered none of that until David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) showed up.As the town experienced new and foreign feelings, they also gained color one by one. As each person became hued, the basketball team started losing, the mens' dinners weren't ready, and controversial books got words. It was interesting to see the transformation of the small Leave it to Beaver town if for no other reason than the town became more normal. "},{"Title":"Who are you haters?  The citizens for racism -- uh I mean morality?","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Catch a clue. There was nothing good about the U.S. during a time when non-whites were mistreated in every way possible. NOTHING can overshadow that, not even a perky wife waiting to serve her boring husband dinner at the end of the day. The No Coloreds signs in the movie obviously hit a chord with some of you that makes me chuckle. Racist folks will stop at nothing to attempt to prove a point that simply does not exist--racism is not okay, not even in the fictitious world that you long for. Please take this ill-informed, ridiculous commentary back to the hate forums. I'm sure you all know where to find them. "},{"Title":"Those are **Whitey's** cookies, Bud.  They belong to him!","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" How good? This goodCASTING Let's see, we get future A-lister Tobey Macguire (David/Bud), future Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon (Jennifer/Mary Sue), three-time Oscar nominee Joan Allen (Betty), Oscar nominee William H. Macy (George Parker), and for good measure, Emmy-winner Don Knotts (ex-Barney Fife, ex-Mr. Furley, Serlingesque TV Repairman). Not since The Breakfast Club has such an impressive cast of relative unknowns with great futures and veterans been assembled.CINEMATOGRAPHY Brilliant and deserving of its many awards. You FEEL like you're smack in the middle of a 1950s sitcom, in a way that goes beyond any specific set design.WRITING The writers seemed inspired by many sources, including Rod Serling (Twilight Zone), Gary Larson (Far Side comic strip), and the movies Back to the Future and Last Action Hero for time-travel and injection of real people into the fiction they love. This movie surpasses each of these insprirations in their areas of strength.PLOT The plot is the most open to interpretation, as many read their views of the 1950s into it. The metaphors are deliberately obvious, as the movie touches on issues of civil rights and the general conformism of the era, but the bullseye in its sights seems to be the Hayes Commission, the Hollywood industry group which set the standards for fiction during that time. This film SCREAMS Hayes in its presentation of Pleasantville, a town where the weather is always good, everyone is happy and productive (and Lily white), the music is elevator and not disliked enough by anyone to be banned, and life is predictable.Thanks to Don Knotts' repairman character, the boring David and the slutty Jennifer (who seems to have an unwritten, unspoken crush on the boring David that is hinted at just enough to avoid controversy) are transported into the world of Pleasantville, a soap opera set in middle America in 1958. The time travel is a necessary plot device over which neither the movie nor the characters obsess over, beyond David wanting the remote back from Knotts so he can get back to the present. Since they are in fiction, the space-time continuum is not in constant peril as it was in Back to the Future, and this enables the characters to mess with the past in ways that movie could not.One plot device central to the movie involves the characters changing from black and white into color as they evolve spiritually. For some, sex accomplishes this, but not for others like Mary Sue, because sex was nothing new for her (or for a surprisingly large number of Pleasantville residents). This device enables the film to address the serious issues of racism and civil rights in the context of people not liking what is different. In one scene suggesting gang rape, Betty is surrounded by young thugs because of the color not of her skin, but her dress, but the behavior is identical to that dark side of racism and rape. The courtroom scenes were designed to reflect the many legal battles endured during that era.Despite the political overtones, the movie focuses more on individuals than society. Society will do what it will do, but each resident of Pleasantville reacts to coloreds and their own coloring, in their own way. They realize that a lot of the world has been hidden from them, and become either scared or obsessively curious about what lurks behind the world's curtain. No one is BAD in Pleasantville, but uber-conformism has suppressed everyone's true nature, leaving them as black-and-white shells of their colorful selves, and it is up to all of the characters, including David and Jennifer, to push their own boundaries in order to become whole and spiritually fulfilled.Whether or not you agree with the message or the film, it was an incredible achievement for any filmmaker to be able to blend so many complexities into a single film without boring the viewer or going all over the map.Let's not forget the microcosmic, triple-entendred line from the repairman, commenting on the colored Bud accepting cookies from Whitey's girlfriend Those are WHITEY's COOKIES, Bud! They belong to him! Easily the best picture of 1998. "},{"Title":"#1 on my list of movies I would see again.","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" *** SPOILER WARNING *** On the surface, Pleasantville seems like a fun, sci-fi genre, time machine regression into the past, much like Back to the Future. Not even halfway through a first viewing though, you will feel compelled to rewind (metaphorically in DVD world) and rewatch the film from the beginning, lest you missed something important.Black and white TV sitcoms stand as a symbol of America's recent, modern past. They represent the last age of innocence, just prior to the assassination of President Kennedy, which history books will one day regard as the seminal event that set into motion a new age of disenchantment. Yet, under that veneer of innocence seethed a pervasive atmosphere of racial and religious hatred, political fear, intimidation and the lingering grip of fascism. The veneer was there just to help people escape.Pleasantville revisits that nice world and uncovers it's ignorance and didacticism. That's not so nice. The process never is. But it also uncovers that world's beauty and restores its peoples faith and sense of self determination, as well as their pigment. The film so adroitly handles the issues of racism that one commenter here thought that the issue was entirely missed, merely because a black person was not included. The point missed is that our traditional concepts of what it means to be colored, physically and by happenstance of birth, are not necessarily valid. Merely being the they in a we/they relationship is sufficient to feel the oppression.The change of each character from monochrome to color occurs when the individual grows, accepts knowledge and becomes self-aware. In this marvelous allegory, to be colored is to be whole. "},{"Title":"Charming premise but loses its way in the second half","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is a cute movie that tries hard but has some problems with the story. The actors are all top notch with Tobey Maguire (Spiderman), Reese Witherspoon (I Walk the Line), Joan Allen, William H. Macy (Fargo) and Jeff Daniels.Pleasantville has its moments especially when the characters begin to be affected by Maquire's appearance in their town. I don't want to reveal how they change because that would spoil the movie. My problem with the film is that the second half seems to lose its way and to not know what it's about. As a result, it tends to drag. The cinematography is clever and Pleasantville is charming. Reminiscent of Back to the Future, in a way, but more serious. The story idea is clever full of potential but the script gets muddled, probably because there are so many characters there is just not enough time to develop their stories properly. Still, Pleasantville is definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A newer version of the good old days","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" *Possible Spoilers* The white picket fence, twin beds, and dinner on the table by 6. This is the way we like to think of the good old days. But did we ever think What if somebody shook the formula up. That's exactly what this movie does. It throws two modern day kids and throws them into the 1950's sitcom Pleasantville. Luckily the boy, now known as Bud, is a huge fan and knows what to say and how to act. His sister, on the other hand, hasn't a clue. Bud fills her in and they realize that they've got know choice but to play along. But Bud soon discovers that the dream world and family he wished his own could be like is not as pleasant as he thought. his sister goes to the bathroom only to discover that there aren't any toilets. Why? Because in their perfect world, nobody ever had to. Pretty soon, things start to change. The star basketball player has sex and can't make a another shot. All of a sudden large beds come out for two!! And the biggest change of all when things start to turn into color. People experience new things and that makes them turn color. But there are still those who want things to keep pleasant. When Bud is persecuted for painting in color the whole city hall is divided between those in color and those who are still in black and white. I don't want to give away the ending but I will leave you with this thought Our word my be unpleasant in many ways. But at least we have the choice for it to be so. "},{"Title":"Imaginative surreal fantasy drama","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There have been films that follow the idea of real life merging with a television show before; Woody Allen's The Purple Rose of Cairo being the first that springs to mind. There have also been films that see outsiders coming into a society; and Edward Scissorhands stands out here, both for the reason mentioned and for it's surreal atmosphere - but there's nothing else QUITE like this film, and aside from presenting some very nice visuals; there's also a good message here, and Gary Ross' film works on a number of levels. The main theme on display is the way that society has undergone massive changes. We follow a typical pair of teenage siblings in the 'real' world, who find themselves in the idyllic TV show 'Pleasantville' after a run in with a strange TV repair man. The morals in their new world are a bit different to their own, and it's not long before the pleasant little town, that is filled with pleasant little people, is starting to discover a whole range of new ideas from their new inhabitants; and most strikingly, they're bringing colour into the black and white world.While I enjoyed this film very much, it's not without its problems. There's so much that can be done with a plot like this, and even with a running time of two hours; not everything can be fit into it. Things such as the relationship between the kids and their parents are hardly realised at all, and the film spends more time on changing ideals, than allowing us to see the difference between then and now. The entire plot is also very pretentious, and really quite closed minded; but it's delivered with genuine emotional and, while watching, it's hard not to be entranced by it. The film benefits from the pairing of Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon. Neither of these has ever particularly impressed me, but they're very good here. Despite being young, both actors have a sort of old-school look about them, which blends well with this setting. The idea of having black and white and colour, in a film together was met with a lot of praise upon the release of the recent 'Sin City', but this film did it seven years earlier, and the colour scheme allows the director to come up with some very picturesque scenes. On the whole, this is perhaps not as great as it could have been; but Pleasantville is still an excellent surreal drama, and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it. "}{"Title":"Naked woman on store overstepped","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Although this movie was excellent, any culture at any time usually prohibits the display of nudity in public whether it's actual or in a painting. When the drug store owner painted a naked lady on his drugstore window he overstepped common social values. Liberals have always been looked at as using freedom to impose sexual content on the public, or they're are looked at as being just perverted in someway. Nothing is wrong with sex or nudity, but it shouldn't be displayed openly in public. Pleasantville misses this point. If the drugstore owner hadn't of painted the naked lady on the front of his store, it would have made a stronger point of how conservative, reactionary values are always trying to inhibit life and freedom. "},{"Title":"an amusing parody that moves on to commentary","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I initially walked into this movie, I was expecting nothing more than a parody of many of the 50's sitcoms that we've come to know and love. While the element of parody is still there, I found this movie to provide much more.This movie follows the story of David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) as they get sucked into the show Pleasantville (which is named after the town the show takes place in). The two are forced to take on the roles of Bud and Mary Sue Parker. David, a massive fan of the show, struggles to maintain the status quo of the nostalgic land that he loves so much. Jennifer, on the other hand, is out to be her own woman, never minding the ramifications that this may have on her new environment. Along the way, the two find themselves pushing against the rigid social homogeneity and the psychological repression that is unmistakeably characteristic of this TV genre. With each push, the town's citizens and the town, itself, find themselves in ambivalence of the newfound color that the two have brought.The use of color is an obvious technical marvel for this film. The contrast of colored environments and characters with their black and white counterparts is amazing, and it's easy to see why this movie earned so many technical accolades. In addition to the technical aspects, the cast is wonderfully assembled. Both Maguire and Witherspoon give some of the best performances of their career. Joan Allen, Willam H. Macy, and Jeff Daniels adeptly play the 50's character stereotype yet also give a smooth transition for their characters' evolution towards their more enlightened colored selves. Some of the imagery used is both hilarious and insightful, combining some biblical themes with a slightly more modern context.I've re-watched this film several times on DVD, and I never get tired of it. I only wish I could get my hands on the amazing mural used towards the end of the film. "},{"Title":"symbolic","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw this film in the cinema (I was 20), I thought that it was the worst film that I had ever seen. However, I saw part of the film again on television earlier this year, and I did not think that it was nearly as bad as my impression of it when I was 20. I think a lot of the impression of the film was that it seemed to be a little bit dull, plus the film's main focus is about sex and corruption. The film is about a teenage boy, who is a bit old-fashioned, and his sister. The two get transported back into the 1950s on the set of the show where everything is wonderful and a utopia until they come along. The problems start with the boy's sister, who introduces the old-fashioned and laid back people to sex and fun, which ultimately leads to affairs and prejudice. I did not care for the message, but I did think that the film had an original idea, and for that, it will get points. "},{"Title":"Romanticized Nostalgia  Shaking Up the Status Quo.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Nostalgia for teenager Bud (Toby McGuire) is the idealized representation of Americana in a Leave It To Beaver style of television that was 1958 USA, until he and his sister, Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) are mysteriously transported into the television storyline by a metaphysical t.v. repairman (Don Knotts). In Pleasantville, everything is black and white, a disturbing setting of seeming perfection with the notion of non-whites absent from the setting. Pleasantville is a haven of the myth of all-white, suburban post-war neighborhoods reflected in colonial 2 story houses with gleaming white picket fences but surrounded with gray roses. Bud's TV parents (Joan Allen and William H. Macy) live without problems, concern, need, and sex. The Pleasantville high school basketball team always makes every basket, they always win even without a Kobe or MJ, and the girl's poodle skirt sweater sets and flip hairdos are the convention for every giggling teenage virgin. Enter Reese Witherspoon in 1950 torpedo bra and saddle shoes, headed for lover's lane she initiates the basketball captain (Paul Walker) with flaming colorful results.The perfection of an unchanging society and existence is not Camelot however. Nothing is amiss for Pleasantville until color begins to seep into their reality. Color becomes a means of deviance and normality with implications that arose with the changing social conventions of modern art, abstraction, and the contentions that were brought to the forefront by the Amory Show in the United States in 1913. Through color, the world is enriched and forever changed. Eve's apple is red, so are her lips, and it is obvious to everyone that a new awareness has come into their everyday existence. Color denotes emotion, sexuality, and change for Pleasantville's population.The nostalgia surrounding Bud's perfect t.v. world begins to crumble as color blooms. Perceived with trepidation and reluctance by townsfolk, the growing awareness of difference and changes expressed with the subtle insertion of color becomes a tool the film maker injects. Its first emergence is beautiful but as the color theme spreads becomes a tool for a McCarthy like prejudice and witch hunt. As residents slowly come to see in-color, the difference between the status quo and those colored individuals divides and sorts out who is and is not appropriate in the disintegrating paradise. Happiness is ignorance according to the demonic TV repairman, but the citizens of Pleasantville are further torn by their inability to stop the rapidly unavoidable changes.This is subtle storytelling done with the cinematographer's eye toward how powerful the change created by uses of color to connote difference. With sexual, social, and cultural implications towards difference vividly presented, expectations for thought and acceptance is immediate. Questionable characters and behavior is not an overt message in Pleasantville. As the society breaks down and becomes more McCarthy-like through gang witch hunts and public denunciations against difference, the neighbors turn, suspect, and torment. Ultimately the perfect society is on the verge of fascism as government tries to impose conformist rules a la Nazi restrictions against Jewish communities of WW-II, later the 1950s HUAC hearings, and the 1960s anti-Vietnam activities. Prejudice is perhaps a too simplistic notion in Pleasantville, but the story is told in an altogether solid and entertaining message that deserves attention and is more than time well spent. "},{"Title":"Don Knotts, RIP","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Don Knotts's death yesterday brings to mind his various roles. Pleasantville probably wasn't his most famous movie, but it's one that I would recommend to everyone. It portrays real-life teenagers David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) getting transferred into a 1950's Leave It to Beaver-style TV show. Aside from the fact that everything is black-and-white, David and Jennifer (now called Bud and Mary Sue in the show) have a hard time adjusting to a world of wives wearing fluffy dresses all day and gray flannel suit-clad husbands saying Honey, I'm home! But David and Jennifer's presence just might change everything.All that I can say is that it would sure be neat to experience this movie. More than just a goofy story, there's a clear reference to racism as colors start showing and everything starts changing. And the way that they use the song Take Five is also quite eye-opening. Great performances from the aforementioned cast members, plus Joan Allen, William H. Macy, Jeff Daniels, J.T. Walsh (in his final role), and even Jane Kaczmarek right before she got the role of Lois on Malcolm in the Middle, make this one cool movie. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, life-affirming film","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So many teen movies are superficial and glib, but this moving and joyous film never fails to make you swell with happiness as things start to change.In today's threat-filled world, it can be tempting to yearn for a seemingly simpler age, but as Pleasantville points out, simple times may have lacked the layered texture of the modern world.The feeling of liberation as the veils are lifted from each character's eye, is incredible, and the score greatly and subtlety assists.The final court scene is as rousing as any high-powered court drama, and the overall feeling of this film is one of tremendous optimism.In an age of superficiality, or manipulative, overly arty movies, Pleasantville still stands out as a beacon of quality writing, acting and directing. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly pleasant Pleasantville","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" 8/10 Pleasant wry look at 50's America through the eyes or a couple of modern teens. Everybody learns something, everybody grows and it all turns out nice again, thank you very much. Toby is, again, excellent at playing the wide-eyed yet knowledgeable-beyond-his years lead; the rest of the cast members are superb; cinematography beautifully simple (and simply beautiful); added to that the connections that we can all find to adolescence and its 'wonders' I think this is a thoroughly fine movie.Metaphor upon metaphor, this movie is a veritable Hero sandwich of metaphors! And all dressed up real pretty too. Burgeoning sexual awareness, Personal liberty, Fear of the unknown, Individuality, Social growth and a scary wee man in a TV! It's all here&#133; Well worth a watch.Some (mostly lighthearted) references to sex. "},{"Title":"Better than you might expect...not as good as it might have been","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Technically, the film is great. I think we're all agreed upon that. Have to admit though that, when it first turned to black and white, I did feel like turning it off. Not because I don't like authentic black and white - but because I thought it was going to be the faux variety Well it was, but for a legitimate reason that becomes self-evident. I'm glad I stuck with it.It felt like the film had a lot to say but I don't think it did so articulately enough or effectively enough. It is sometimes confused. Example? Reese Witherspoon as the slutty sister who turns into a bookworm (like Grease in reverse) whilst, conversely, her Mother is liberated from the kitchen? What was that about? And Tobey Maguire's cookie-baking girlfriend? Just another damsel in distress role in the time honored tradition that remained noticeably unchallenged.Yes, the film has good intentions. It wants to say something worthwhile but somehow it fails - however, at least it tries! And, it has to be said, it is a damn sight better than Jim Carey's The Majestic - a film set in its own Pleasantville - that never manages to either challenge or entertain. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The only thing I didn't like about this film is the idea that the nineteen fifties were some period of eternal virginity. Having lived through that decade I can tell you that one singular and notable difference had to do with privacy not abstinence. People simply didn't talk about personal  stuff  on daytime talk shows. Brutality existed just as it does now but in some ways was less democratic and less psychologized. The issue of colour returning to the characters centres about their discovery of emotion not (just) sexual mechanics. David realizes that the retro world which he enters as an escape from his pathetic family is just not that wonderful. They have problems just as we do and the solutions are the same honesty, fairmindedness, intellectual curiosity and most importantly showing courage in the face of evil. I give Pleasantville a seven. "},{"Title":"unforgettable film of all time","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" David Wagner (Tobey Maguire) is a 90's school-kid with an addiction to a 50's black and white TV show, Pleasantville. However, his hip twin sister Jennifer (Reece Witherspoon) prefers more up-to-date TV. This causes arguments and life takes a bizarre twist as the twins are zapped into Pleasantville. The peace and tranquillity soon disappears as Jennifer introduces the residents to her 90's attitude and colour starts appearing.This film is ultimately the best film to be released so far. If you are into modern day issues or concepts, then this film is a must see! Personally, I give this film a 10 for top quality special effects and the issues that appear in it such as discrimination, adultery, and racism. The way the people and the objects in this film are gradually colourised is a delight to watch, and overall, the ideas within the film are some of the most creative ones to emerge from films in recent years. It is really worth sparing two hours of your time to watch Pleasantville. I wholeheartedly recommend this movie, with the exception that it's not for young children, in spite of its PG-13 rating. This film is worth every penny that was spent in making it. Pleasantville really brings to life the controversy between people in society these days. "}{"Title":"Excellent comedy that's reminiscent of old sitcoms from the 1950's","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In my opinion, PLEASANTVILLE is an excellent comedy that's reminiscent of old sitcoms from the 1950's. The first time I ever saw this movie was when I was on my way to Boston for a competition in May 2000. When David (Tobey Maguire) and Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) got sucked into the TV, I thought to myself, What is this? A spin-off of STAY TUNED? I said that because I was reminded so much of that movie. It is, incidentally, a version of STAY TUNED. If you ask me, this movie had terrific performances, predominantly in the 1950's. Now in conclusion, if you like Tobey Maguire or Reese Witherspoon movies, this is definitely one to see. When you see it, prepare for a smashing good time and laugh. I also guarantee you you'll want to see this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"Need Info about movie","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If anyone knows, was this filmed on location or a set. The town looks like Nelsonville, OH, where the movie Mischief was filmed. My hobby is to travel to movie sites(if possible) and I've been to Nelsonville, OH. What I like most about the movie is the way David(Toby McGuire) and Jennifer(Reese Witherspoon) change personalities with one another. She's cool and he's a nerd when they start and when it's over. Well, you know. The concept is cool, also. What we don't like when it changes, we try to stop from changing. The only thing that doesn't change is that fact that things change. We should all be as wise a David to understand that all change isn't bad, it's just change. "},{"Title":"But they wouldn't know what colors were...","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not trying to be nitpicky with a movie I absolutely love....but how would they know what green, red, or pink was??? I know that sounds ridiculous, but if the idea of color in their world is so crazy, and foreign, how would they know how to identify it with names? Maybe the director thought that would be the simplest way to handle this subject - that they just knew what green was. I don't know...I think a better way to handle it was if they just said it looked different. That would be more in sync with the ideas the movie presents...All that aside, I love the movie - I'm just wondering out loud, and seeing what anyone else thinks. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Fine but  not great","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time the summer I got my high-school degree, in 2002 (I was already too old for what I think being the real target of this movie). I found the first half of the movie quite boring,much better is the second half where the plot becomes more complex and reaches its climax.I think this movie definitely suits more with American teenager taste rather than with the European teenager one. However the movie is not pointless, its criticism over some of the attitudes which characterized American society during the 50's is carried on pretty well, even though sometimes the director overdoes the sense of the plot becoming in several spots dull and tedious. I dislike Maguire (Bud) in his role of the wise and sensitive boy, while Reese Witherspoon (Mary Sue) was just fine in her seductive girl role. "},{"Title":"All is well in Pleasantville...","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The premise of Pleasantville is one that is both ingenious and imaginative. Without a doubt, this is one of the most underrated films of its generation. With great visual effects and a plot that ranks up there with Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, this movie is a joy to watch. In a world so concerned with self image preservation of youth, people have began to miss out on what is beautiful in life. This movie truly shows what to do and how to change your bad habits. In the beginning of the film, Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon are brother and sister. Magurie is the geeky know it all of the classic television show Pleasntville and his sister Witherspoon is the sometimes slutty and always self absorbed teen. Due to the remote control breaking and the coincidence of have a TV repairman right at the door, the new remote isn't an ordinary remote. The two are transported into the television, specifically Pleasntville. The two are changed into character, the two children, Bud and Mary Sue, of the Parker family. Now they must find out how to contact the repairman who is distraught over their anger with their new position. The only way to go on living is as the beloved characters of Pleasantville. Now the real fun starts. They begin to show the town what living really is. Jenny (Witherspoon) shows the town sex and David (Maguire) introduces the world of literature and art to the townspeople. With this new way of life, the black and white world of Pleasantville is beginning to turn into color. The local burger joint is run by Bill Johnson played wonderfully by Jeff Daniels. He brings to life a sort of insecurity to what would be a normal situation like making burgers. Daniels is perfect for the role. Other notables are William H. Macy, Joan Allen, Paul Walker, and J.T. Walsh perform marvelously to create a surreal way of life in Pleasantville.Overall, the movie lacks luster in no department. Acting, cinematography, story, and of course, entertainment are all here. Pleasantville is a landmark in American Cinema. "},{"Title":"This movie was awesome!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a wonderful adventure about two siblings that don't get along, and soon find themselves in a new town, wearing new clothes, and what not. One sibling is popular at school, and the other is a total nerd. They soon find themselves in a 1950's school where people dress, and socialize differently than their used to. As much as I would love to give away the end of the movie, I'd rather have you guys see it yourselves because this movie is a comedy, and a dramatic one at the same time. The reason I liked this movie was because I love everything about the 50's, including the music, the clothes, and just their way of life. If you love a good movie that you can relax to after a long hot bath and after being smothered in lotion, than Pleasantville is right for you! I give it a 10!! "},{"Title":"Why April 1958?","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As much as I admire this movie (which is really a time-travel story; more A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, than Huckleberry Finn), I'm puzzled by the choice of April, 1958.A little research suggest 1954 was the watershed year for all the Pleasantvilles in the U.S.Googling can help us return to April, 1958.The covers of Life Magazine for April 1958 featured the following personalities on the covers April 7, Sugar Ray Robinson's victory over Carmen Basilio; April 14, Broadway legend Gwen Verdon; April 21, the John F. Kennedy family; April 28, Willie Mays and the Giants move to San Francisco. All in color by the way.Elvis is drafted March 24, 1958.1958 is the year of the Ford Edsel. (Actually introduced in the fall of 1957, I believe).The Donna Reed Show begins, but not until September.And now for 1954 RCA begins broadcasting in color and markets the color television more or less as we know it today. (A CBS attempt at TV color had failed two years earlier.) Brown v. Board of Education (Topeka, Kansas) established desegregation in public schools as the law of the land. (Kansas, the home state of Dorothy and Toto, from that other movie filmed in black and while and color; I mean the Wizard of Oz.) Father Knows Best begins.Another interesting confluence of dates Gary Ross was born in 1956, the year that most unlike Pleasantville novel Peyton Place was published.So I repeat, why April 1958? I had hoped that the director might comment on the date during his DVD commentary, but when the calendar appears he says nothing at all.I was born in 1943. I was a high school sophomore in 1958. I learned to drive on my father's '56 Buick. I would really like to know why April 1958. "},{"Title":"how pleasant-ville criticizes pop culture","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was wondering if anyone could give me their views on how pleasant-ville relates to pop culture today? On how peoples influence change they way others think and act, and how if you agree with the fact that everyone wants to be just like celebrities and if we continue this way than there is no individuality? I believe that the movie dealt with the black and white people not wanting any change in their lives. They were closed to new things and new ideas. On the other hand the colored people felt free and felt as if they were new people and were happier for the change.This film hit on some very important basis, such as racism and segregation. For example in the courtroom the colored people were separate from the black and white people, just like back in the civil rights era in the movie theaters the blacks sat on the top part of the theater and whites sat on the bottom. Also the no colored signs in the store windows. I personally believe that this movie relates to todays pop culture by everyone trying to be something their not. Everyone needs to be their own individual. With out individuality there is no diversity, no change, and no character. If we were all the same we would be like robots, talking, moving, and acting the exact same way. Just like Anthem by Ayn Rand. Without change there are no new discoveries in the world. Without change the world is just a close- minded monotonous place to live. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When this film begins it looks like it may be a silly film directed mainly at teens. But the action soon takes us to a very different place - something that is dark and almost frightening. This film is a wonderful allegory of how covering up what is real and genuine in us can lead to corruption and pain - and also of how we can be redeemed. I had a hard time convincing my husband to watch this - and then to get him to sit through the first twenty minutes or so - but then he caught on and was as riveted as I was to the changes that occurred in Pleasantville when people actually gave into their real emotions and actually did something genuine. "},{"Title":"Thought-Provoking Film, Handicapped by the Weight of its Symbolism","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Contains SpoilersColour, and the absence of colour, provides the English language with a number of metaphors. To say that a person is 'colourless' or that a thing is 'grey' or 'monochrome' is to imply that that person or thing is boring. The adjective 'colourful', by contrast, when used figuratively, implies that something is interesting. To see something in 'black and white' terms is to make a simplistic judgment about it. 'Coloured' is an adjective sometimes used of black people or others of non-European descent. (Or at least it was so used; in Britain it has largely fallen into disuse). 'Pleasantville' is a film that plays upon these various linguistic usages. 'Pleasantville' is the name of a 1950s television comedy set in a fictitious town of the same name. The town is supposed to be the epitome of the idyllic American small town- an easygoing place where everyone is polite and pleasant to one another and where misfortune and unhappiness are unknown. At the centre of the film are two 1990s teenagers. David and Jennifer are brother and sister with contrasting characters. David is a geeky loner who takes refuge from his worries about the state of the world in the escapist entertainment provided by re-runs of the 'Pleasantville' series on television. Jennifer is the sort of dumb blonde who is less likely to worry about the state of the world than the state of her makeup; her preoccupations are her boyfriends, her popularity with the other girls at her school, and cultivating the art of bitchy sarcasm, with her brother as her main target. The central concept of the film is that David and Jennifer find themselves trapped in the fictional world of Pleasantville, courtesy of a magical TV remote control device supplied by an eccentric elderly TV repairman with strange powers. This world is a very strange one, where anything not mentioned in the TV series does not exist. The series was broadcast in black-and-white, so that is how the world appears. The series is entirely shot in the town itself, so the people know nothing of the outside world; indeed, they do not even believe that there is an outside world. Certain topics were taboo in 1950s television, so the citizens of Pleasantville are ignorant of sex, and there are no lavatories. Nobody is ever seen reading, so the books in the town library all have blank pages. The weather is always sunny, and rainfall is unknown. As nothing bad can ever happen, nothing ever catches fire, so the fire brigade's sole task is to rescue cats from trees. (Something similar occurs in the British children's TV series 'Trumpton', which also features a fire brigade which does everything but put out fires).The arrival of David and Jennifer, however, provokes a number of changes in the town. David tries, at first, to fit into his role, but Jennifer rebels against the town's conformist ethos and seduces her boyfriend, providing Pleasantville with its first recorded sexual encounter. Printed books start to appear in the library. The high school basketball team loses a match for the first time in its history. (One thing that is never explained is where the opposing teams come from if there is no world outside Pleasantville). Rain starts to fall, and a tree bursts into flames. People begin to rebel against conformity and act in hitherto unprecedented ways. Most significant of all, colour begins to appear in this formerly monochrome world. At first only small objects, such as a red rose or pink bubble gum, appear in colour, but soon this spreads to larger things such as a car, and even to people. These changes, however, lead to discontent as the more conservative citizens see them as a threat to the town's values and fight back against the 'coloureds'. Before long, a riot breaks out. The film reminded me of another film from1998, Peter Weir's 'The Truman Show', which had at its heart an inverted version of the same idea. In 'Pleasantville' characters from the real world find themselves transported to a fictional one; in 'The Truman Show' the central character finds out that the world in which he had been living, and which he believed to be real, is actually a fictional one created for the entertainment of others. Of the two films, however, I preferred 'The Truman Show'; although 'Pleasantville' has its good points, it tends to be handicapped by the weight of its own symbolism. The colour/black and white distinction is given two separate symbolic meanings. The main symbolism is 'monochrome = conformist; colour = free-thinking'. Those characters who break away from established habits of thought and action are, generally speaking, the first to appear in colour, while more conservative ones remain in black and white. (I am here using the word 'conservative' in the sense of 'conformist' rather than 'politically right wing'). This theme- the need to be oneself rather than being bound by convention or acting in a conformist way- is well handled, but the treatment of the film's racial and political themes is less assured. The scenes of the riot, in which a group of 'monochrome' youths attack the 'coloureds', seemed to me to be particularly heavy-handed. The breaking of windows, and even more the burning of the books that have recently started to appear in the library, were obvious references to the excesses of the Nazis. Nazi imagery is something that should be used with caution, and its use here gives the impression that Gary Ross is equating the conservatism of small-town America with Nazi ideology. If this impression is deliberate, it is offensive hyperbole; if it is inadvertent, it is an example of clumsy film-making. Although the population of Pleasantville is shown in monochrome it is, in racial terms, exclusively white, but there is nonetheless an attempt to make the film a parable about racism. With an obvious pun on the two meanings of the word 'coloured', monochrome is used to signify 'Caucasian' and colour 'non-Caucasian'. To strengthen this interpretation, there are signs reading 'no coloreds', and references to a monochrome character having a 'colored girlfriend'. Unfortunately, this usage conflicts with the film's other symbolic use of colour. By the end of the film, all the citizens of Pleasantville have changed from black and white to colour, and there are references to 'colouredness' being something that is within us all. Colour is on the one hand used as an emblem of our shared humanity, and on the other as a symbol of racial division, a contradiction that was never really resolved. There were also attempts at religious symbolism (a scene where a character eats a red apple is an obvious reference to the Garden of Eden story), but these are never really developed. Despite my criticisms, my overall impression of the film was a favourable one. It has a visual inventiveness reminiscent of the work of Tim Burton, especially in the scenes which mixed colour and monochrome effects. A scene where pink blossoms fall from grey trees was particularly striking. (The coloured scenes in Pleasantville, although not those showing David and Jennifer in the real world, are shot in not-quite-accurate colour, reminiscent of certain fifties films, which gives them an otherworldly charm).There were a number of good performances, notably from Jeff Daniels as Mr Johnson, the timid soda-store owner who becomes a daring artistic radical, from Joan Allen as the repressed mother and from JT Walsh as the town's authoritarian mayor. An interesting and thought-provoking film. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Nostalgic Sci-Fi Gem. Sure to be a Classic!","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" An American Soap-Opera (set in suburbia ca. 1950) about a carefree black and white town, slowly taken over by intruding colors. The stars are 2 teenagers who get a chance to interactively visit Pleasantville. Promised that they could return to reality anytime they wanted to, they are kept there until the towns people insist the intruders had to leave.An interisting premise. The visitors expose biggotry, double standards and corruption amongst the towns people. The film is packed with symbolism and visual effects. State of the art cinema technology has been used to make this a delight. At the end of the film we are reminded not to take our lives for granted, that not all places are as pleasant as the name may suggest. "},{"Title":"chaplinesque","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  yes...especially the book-burning and the trial scene had a bit (a little) of the dictator... did anyone notice the high-lighted shaking-hands-symbol behind the judge/mayor that could have been a svastika? as well as the straight haircut of the judge..(which doesn't of course mean, that anyone wearing this kind of haircut is a potential neo-nazi!) ..and the short monologue of bud/David reminded me of the final monologue of the Jewish barber for tolerance and freedom.. so really a deeper movie than it might seem... as for the actors, they seem quite perfect - especially, when you see toby mcguire, it's hard to imagine him as the later spiderman.. luckily, it was not only a serious drama-thing..i surprised myself laughing hard at the fire-fire......cat ? -scene with the firemen, not even knowing what their equipment was made for, except for saving cats! i would recommend this movie to anybody who does not just want pure action!  "},{"Title":"as pleasant as always.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  pleasantville was in perfect correspondence with the part of it's title of being pleasant. toby maguire's performance was very sweet and innocent. i enjoyed the movie and i recommend it also to the retro 50's era lovers. it's an adorable movie. and the morals toward the movie can go anywhere.i thought it provided various amounts of morality. it could have been political. it could have been a deal that was dealt with in the past between stereo-typicality and society itself.the clothing and attitudes of reese witherspoon were fantastic. joan allen's portrayal of innocence was impressive as well, if you had already seen the bourne supremacy. ha, good movie.its a recommendation, i enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"A movie for all time","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My family has passed around an old joke which reminds me of the movie, `Pleasantville'.  One Easter a little girl asked her mother why a good hunk of the ham was cut off before it was put in the pan and into the oven. Her mother hesitated and thought a moment.  She told her that her grandmother had always done it that way.  The little girl asked her grandmother who was there for dinner why she always cut a big hunk of ham off before cooking it. The grandmother pursed her lips and thought for a moment.  She called her mother who was 97 and in a nursing home.  She asked the same question of her mother.  Her mother replied, `Well.  We never had a pan big enough to fit the whole ham onto, so we cut off a hunk so it would fit.'This movie asks the question, `Do we do something a certain way without question just because others have always done it that way?'  Is change always good?  This fine ensemble cast have raised acting to a new level. They are true to their characters and evolve in a believable manner. Thrown into the mix are themes of racism, the fall of innocence, and risk-taking at its highest form.  The monochromatic/chromatic characters are shown in a new and fresh approach.  See it with somebody else and be prepared for good discussion afterwards.  "},{"Title":"Good fantasy film that is poignant in its views","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is cut from the same cloth as the Back to The future movies but it's a lot more serious than they in terms of what its trying to say are. It deals with intolerance, and the way people refuse to change for the better.  Toby Maguire and Reese Witherspoon are great as the brother and sister duo who travels to this fictional television town and causes mayhem with their modern ways of doing things. In their wake find a town that is devoid of feelings and maturity, and find out that people in this town are not what they seems once they get a tasted of the outside world. William H Macy, Joan Allen, and J.T. Walsh rounds out the cast as this film becomes darker as it progress, and more serious are it tackles real life issues concerning racism and the propaganda spun from the towns people who rather not change for the better. It's a well rounded movie that really hits the mark on what its trying to say, and its probably one of the best movies to come out in recent years.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely 'Swell!'","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having watched this in media studies in school, there is more to the film than meets the eye. There are symbols showing you different things, such as the apple that Mary-Sue gives bud near lovers' lane. You may not realise it, but this film is really quite clever, using 1998's special effects to the max.An unusual film, but it does get boring after watching it since september 2003!Reccomended if you want a film to think about. If you want a film to relaxe in, try Pixar's Finding Nemo! "},{"Title":"A true classic made with true creativity","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to say that this is my favorite film of all time. It doesn't really have any close competition. It's an artful classic that uses special effects the way they should be used all along to tell a story, not to create flash and spectacle. And it's actually fun to watch.Beyond all of the quirky scenes and jokes about old sitcoms, it had a powerful message pulled off with imaginative symbolism black & white turning to color. It has so many layers.Look at the fabulous cast Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, William H. Macy, Don Knotts, Jeff Daniels, Joan Allen, J.T. Walsh (who died before the film came out). There wasn't a bad or even mediocre actor or actress in the bunch.  "},{"Title":"fascinating","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'd been hearing about Pleasantville for a long time and didn't even really know what it was about until I stumbled across it one night. Am I glad I did. What a DIFFERENT kind of movie. It was fascinating, and just really really well done. There's a bit of of a Stepford quality to this but it's less a thriller and more a fascinating and absorbing drama. Should be a must view for all people who like their teen movies on the complex side.I thought the contrast in the black and white and color-changing back and forth was just so well done and the effect was perfect for the movie. Pleasantville, although I had known of it before seeing it on television, isn't(or doesn't seem to be) that well known. Although this is really a movie for all ages, with all the garbage out there as far as teen movies go, Pleasantville is refreshingly different and thought provoking. Would definitely recommend. Will really make you think about life as you know it. "},{"Title":"Different kind of film","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you watch this film now you will be shocked that actors and actress that are unknow before the went on to make great films.You have Paul Walker from fast and Furious Reeses Witherspoon From Legally Blonde Tobey Maguire from SpidermanAnd lots more u will be so shocked by how many will known faces there are in there is in this film.The film deals with 2 of the main charaters get zapped into a tV show. That is Black and White but the charcater slowely start changing into colours.It is quite funny it is like something you have seen before but it is enjoyable.It is also very pretty with the contrast to coulor and black and white film. "},{"Title":"refreshing and moving modern movie","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although Pleasantville can be interpreted as saying that the only truly good life has to have the prejudice, the unhappiness, and the clashes of culture, along with the love, the imparting and sharing of knowledge, and the loss of innocence (even the eating of an apple is as significant as it was in the Garden of Eden), the performances save it from miring itself in a messy script it can't surface from.Tobey Maguire and Reece Witherspoon play two modern American teenagers (he's a fanatic fan of old sitcom Pleasantville; she is a typically sulky and cynical gum chewer) who find themselves sucked into the very screen program he admires and she despises.  Worse, this new world has none of the 'real' (i.e. unpleasant) things they take from granted - no such thing as fire, sex, bodily functions or changes from routine.Quickly the teenagers exert their influence and their knowledge of what is 'outside Pleasantville' to slowly change things and bring some colour to this literally black and white world.  Of particular note amongst the performers are Joan Allen, as the repressed mother, William H Macy as the bewildered father, and Jeff Daniels, as the art loving guy in the burger joint.  JT Walsh is in there too, in one of his last films, and gets one of the funniest lines in the movie Thank goodness we're in a bowling alley.What really impresses about Pleasantville is the way it uses Randy Newman's wonderful music and the impressive visual effects to paint a picture of a changing world, a new world which is developing and learning to live, in a way which is ultimately very moving.  A film with a heart and a brave new way of expressing it. "}{"Title":"Refreshingly creative","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A nerdy brother and a popular sister from a divorced household, fighting over a remote control find themselves in a black and white 1950's TV sitcom with perfect teenagers who say swell, and perfect households where the husband comes home to find a warm cooked meal punctually prepared by his congenial housewife.The movie is disguised as Beaver-Cleaver meets the Al Bundy and the gang, but it's much more than a farcical story of misplaced characters in a strange world.  With references to the loss of innocence, like eating the forbidden fruit, and to racism, that is dating colored people (of techni-color persuasion), it chips away at the way people idealistically view their past, ie the good old days.  Perhaps the past was not so innocent and wholesome after all.  Add that with the theme of radical-personal change, and you have a film appreciated on many subtle levels, most of which passed over the head of the previous reviewer. "},{"Title":"absolutely AMAZING","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie is incredible! i love the way the writers incorporated the various racial segregation problems of history into the movie. the movie is brilliantly acted, written, directed, etc. this is definately one of my favorite movies of all time. rather than boring anyone who is reading this with a long opinion, let me just say this I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS WONDERFUL MOVIE! "},{"Title":"darkness on the center of Pleasantville","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  David Wagner is a rather unlucky teenager he's out of luck with girls, his parents are estranged and he leads a dull life with his sister Jennifer. His sole comfort, he finds it thanks to a soap opera Pleasantville. One night, following an odd meeting with an old man, he finds himself with his sister inside his cult soap-opera! They won't take long to spread disorder in the peaceful city...Pleasantville is a beautiful success and enjoys a dazzling performance. To begin with William H.Macy and especially Joan Allen. Moreover, the movie introduces a sharp and sometimes caustic humor. It also includes clever visuals and a bright photography that combines black and white and the color.This is also the occasion for the director Gary Ross to make a veiled reference to the soap-operas that take place in the USA during the fifties.Of course, Pleasantville isn't an absolutely perfect film, it includes a few faults you can judge the David character conventional at first, he's introduced as someone clumsy and even shy who only swears by his cult soap-opera. But his adventure in Pleasantville will make him mature and confident towards him. You can also think that some sequences are a little predictable, especially the ones when David and Jennifer spread (unwittingly or not) disorder in the city.No matter, Gary Ross' film remains a success.  "},{"Title":"Spirituality","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Our class deided to watch Pleasantville in our spirituality and film class to see how it relates to the class.  I was surprised to find out how much it actually did end up relating to things like Platos Myth of the Cave and God itself.  The movie was not only entertaining but it teaches things like follow your dreams and maybe what you really want to do in life is something you never expected.  I kept wondering during the movie if I was the kinda person that took risk and made mistakes.  When a person does things like this they end up learning more then if they did the right thing.  You learn to be a better person and to be yourself and to have the strength not to follow somebody else in making bad decisions that might do harm to you or others.   I highly recommend that other teachers show this movie to other high school students and see if they realize who they really are.  I ended up completely changing my opinion about the whole movie after I watched it but not only do I recommend this to highschool students I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Wouldn't it be great","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've seen this movie a number of times and have now purchased the video so I can go back in time to a place that I'm sure I should have grown up in ( my friends think I did ) It's a great Idea for a movie and all the characters play their roles so well. The mixture of the black and white then colour is brilliant. This is one of my Fav's.   "},{"Title":"Very Interesting Comedy about Social values, Sexual Revolution, 50's cheesy sitcoms, Fear of Change and Differance,","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A very interesting and engaging movie about emotions, ppl afraid of change, ppl afraid to embrace difference and tolerance, kinda root of all the problems of world today. The movie shows a happy world which ppl THINKS existed before 60s era. when sexual revolution and civil rights changed much of everything. No person is bad its just the perception, The perception of life that people think is good and right and when something disrupts this life style, it is feared and stopped. the films obvious analogy of racism and color and black and white is very well done. so is the reference about the sexual revolution and the changes it brought, a movie about fate and life. Highly recommended, Also watch the director/writer/producer's commentary , Excellent "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved Pleasantville. I thought it was the best movie I have ever seen. I loved Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon, in it. I thought they did a terrific job. The movie has drama, comedy, and romance! If you haven't seen it yet, trust me, go see it. I promise, you'll love it! "},{"Title":"What an incredible movie!!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was such an amazing movie and one of the best that I have ever seen. The story had me captured from the moment that it started. The cast of characters was stellar and the acting was incredible. I always thought that Tobey McGuire was a fine actor, but after seeing him in this movie, I have upgraded my opinion. His performance was charming, heartwarming, and real. Joan Allen's performance was beautifully performed as the stifled housewife. Most importantly, the story line was brilliant, showing the prejudices and narrow views of people in subtle ways and not dehumanizing the characters. The message was well conveyed and sent with the humor that I think was intended. I hope people will see this movie because it is a great learning lesson for us all. "},{"Title":"Worth a viewing","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a well thought-out movie that is just a little bit too long. It is drawn out in parts and some of the movie just isn't necessary. Don Knotts is terrific in his limited role while the rest of the acting is average. Pleasantville is worth viewing but only once.My rating  @@@1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a good movie. It was so based on Lois Lowry's book The Giver. Even the endings are formatted the same. The people in pleasantville can't see color;they don't have feelings. When the people start to get feelings they begin to see color. I highly recommend this movie. And if you want good reading read Lois Lowry's The Giver. "}{"Title":"Original and thought provoking","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A little gem. Works as a great drama, and also as musings on life, segregation, art, racism, philosophy, teenage behavior etc... basically anything you want. The sharp directing and inventive use of color frame a greatly written film with a lot of appeal, and strong performances.Hollywood should actively make more films like Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"Great premise, flawed execution.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have always noted how the term the good ol' days seems to have an automatic association with the 50s and that this view seems to be perpetuatied by the sitcoms of that era.  Though I think that are few who would openly claim life was really like that back then, I think on an unconcious level we tend to idealize that portion of the past. (For what it's worth I don't think we are a whole lot different than our 50s counterparts, we are just more apt to show our ugly side today via a lack of decorum or simple pride--think Jerry Springer).  So the idea to enter this antiseptic world with real people with modern values was a good one (though not orignal of course).Though this film has numerous flaws (the inconsistency of color-changing, the ever-preaching main-character, the overwrought, forced ending, the silly fact that they were transported into the sitcom world via a TV remote--just to name a few) its overall merit still makes it an important, thought-provoking work.  It is a strong study of reality vs. fantasy/memory and how life is lived in respect to both.  In fact I think that a compelling thesis could be made in comparing this work with two other existential films The Truman Show and Groundhog Day.One note for the reviewers that complained that too many comentators were overanalyzing this project, listen to the DVD commentary, it's informative (is what a commentary should be in my opinion--10% technical film making, 10% antedotal behind the scenes stuff, 10% comment on the actors and 70% dicussion of the themes, characters and what was trying to be expressed), but borders on the pretenious.  "},{"Title":"Warm, feel-good movie that descends into the dreaded C-word","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville starts out nicely with a good premise, but its plot gradually devolves into cliche themes that we've seen countless times.  By the end, it had completely lost my interest, and I wasn't entirely paying attention.It's a shame because it starts out fairly well.  What better comparison than the utopian view of society in the 50s versus the problem-plagued issues of today?  But as I watched, I couldn't help but feel that there was so much more the makers could have done to explore the world of Pleasantville and contrast it with David's and Jennifer's view of life.  So much untapped potential.  It was cute how there were no toilets and how the bball team couldn't miss; I think the movie could have delved a little deeper into other Pville quirks.Plus, I KNEW I shouldn't have let my mind wander, but I did... I began to see more and more holes and unexplained, fuzzy elements.  So is whether or not someone gains color more dependent on the person himself or the beholders of that person?  The movie would suggest  the subject himself, but then again, how do inanimate objects then gain color?  If these citizens were so incapable of doing anything outside of the norm or outside of the script, then how could they function at any level once David and Jennifer began to affect Pville?  For example, how could they conduct a court trial if nothing had ever gone wrong before in Pleasantville?  Wouldn't the entire town plummet into chaos very soon?  All these questions detracted from the movie for me.  I know I shouldn't have been so critical at a fantasy movie, but then again, the whole movie is about asking questions, right?In the end, Pleasantville is just another movie about challenging norms.  A hero(s) enters a new environment, starts to make some noise, opens peoples' eyes, causes a repressive counterstrike by the ruling conservatives, but then ultimately triumphs.  Hey, that's exactly what happened in Footloose!  Throw in some odd, out-of-place, almost inappropriate references to racism and you've got your typical what makes America movie.But this does touch on an aspect that DOES set this movie apart; because they do not state exactly where Pleasantville is located, the entire story happens in a political vacuum.  Is it in America at least?  Presumably, but then again, the residents of Pleasantville seem to be unaware of ANYTHING outside of town.  This has an odd effect on many of the themes in the movie.  For example, the whole issue of the paintings and the rock music are no longer issues of freedom of speech, since there is no Bill of Rights in this town.  In a way, the issues are more basic and fundamental than typical what america is all about movies.  So all in all, I was a little disappointed, but I still give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Makes an excellent point","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well thought out, with a strong cast, Pleasantville, is a classic story about how life is not as simple or as complicated as we think. It shows us that having the right car, or living in the right neighborhood, or having the right job is not what makes life great. You're life doesn't get made by being perfect, it gets made by being lived. "},{"Title":"Flawed story","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The main character of this film should have been the sister played by Reese Witherspoon. The movie would have made more sense. There are big problems with this story about two teenagers who live with their mom. The colorization of the Pleasantville residents should have come about because the main character, Toby Maguire, grew emotionally so the world appears more rich and colorful to him. Instead everyone else changes but he changes very little, and only in a trivial way at the end. The sister's choice ruins the plot. No reason is given for it and noone seems to care. The ending is creepy in an oedipal way.  "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning--Yet still a great movie!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was actually a great movie which was not only original but it had a great plot and nice performances as well. What's weird and original about this movie is that all the characters with the exception of Don Knotts are dynamic characters. It's a nice movie so I suggest you check it out, if you haven't.3 1/2(***1/2)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"This movie makes me want to make my self turn color!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a brilliant movie with an allstar cast! Toby Maguire was the perfect man to play the part; the boyish light in his eyes seems completely genuine through this movie that is much more than it seems.  Anyone who watches this movie intently should want to start seeing more color in their life.  I highly recommend! "},{"Title":"A Fun and Interesting Film","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I wouldn't say that Pleasantville is one of the best movies I've ever seen, but it's really quite good.  The story is one of fantasy and definitely takes some suspension of reality, but is done quite well.  The story is very much about change and the things that happen around us all the time and learning to cope and deal with those changes.  The film takes a very odd and interesting route to convey that message.All the actors did a fantastic job, Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, Jeff Daniels, Joan Allen, Marley Shelton, J.T. Walsh, William H. Macy, Don Knotts and Paul Walker, to name a few.  I was very impressed with all of their acting abilities and was very happy to see all of them in this film.  I also though director Gary Ross did a superb job with this film.  The use of color vs. black-and-white is done very well.  I wouldn't think this type of film was an easy thing to do, but he pulled it off quite nicely.If you aren't sure whether or not you should see this film, then I would say go ahead and see it.  I like this film a lot and I hope you do too.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Turning colors for Pleasantville","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just have to say, for those who havent seen Pleasantville in the theater or rented it even now...see it! Its a story about change, and its really funny at times too. It also reminds us of some of the issues brought up going into the 60's and the sexual revolution. I also like the film work with the black and white + color work, of course, innovative at the time. I'm surprised that no other movie even uses this film style. At last...I give this movie a 10!  "},{"Title":"So, why are they changing colors?","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't think I would enjoy this movie, let alone find it introspective and psychological.  I was fairly certain it would be simply an anti-suburbia, anti-housewife, anti-fifties liberal comedy. None of which I generally enjoy. Frankly, I expected to turn it off within fifteen minutes. Obviously, I didn't.  For one thing, Tobey Maguire was, as previously mentioned, is an Actor.  (That can't be taken for granted in today's movies, unfortunately.)  Also, my mother asked a very relevant question during the five minutes she watched Why do the characters turn into color from black and white?  I said it happened when they changed.  But I don't think that summed it up.  Many of the reviewers mention sex, liberation, and open-mindedness as reasons for the change.  Before I saw the movie, I would have agreed.  I've decided, though, that the difference is in depth. Depth of character, life, emotions -- these were what was lacking in Pleasantville.  These were what was lacking in Mary-Sue/Jennifer and Bud/David.  It was realizing the innate depth of character of Real People, renouncing former shallowness as incomplete life, that made the characters more complete (ie. colored).  How I wish there was a way for real teenagers to discover this as easily!Not a perfect movie, though.  I could really have done without all the sex stuff (along with the lack of morals encouraged by the kids).  The ending was admittedly weak, but not enough to ruin the film, in my opinion.  I especially liked the growth of Bud's character from the standard, shallow-but-pretends-to-be-deep social reject into someone who had a reason for his life.  I thought this was aptly demonstrated in the final scenes, particularly in his choosing to go home.Perhaps this is a film best rented, though not bought. "}{"Title":"Good look, good performances, but don't think about it too much","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Pleasantville is the story of what happens when two 'real' kids enter the world of a '50's sitcom.  This seems like territory that would make for great satire, and in the hands of the Farrelly brothers it could have been a great send up of 'white-bread' mores.  Instead it only slightly works as an allegory against bigotry and intolerance.  This is a well-crafted movie. The performances are first rate as are the visual effects.However, it misfires in it's own logic.  If thinking outside of the banality of life in Pleasantville gives color to ones life, why don't the folks who riot and vandalize Bill Johnson's (Jeff Daniels) diner become colorful.  Near the end anger turns Big Bob (J.T. Walsh) into a 'colored'. At the end everything and everyone is in color.  It seems 'unreal' that there wouldn't be at least one person who wouldn't hold on to the ideas/ideals that made Pleasantville, Pleasantville.It's dumb that the diner would have a jukebox that no one has ever used.  How did Buddy Holly get there?  Someone had to put him there, the David & Jennifer didn't bring him with them.  Heck, even Ozzie and Harriet had rock n' roll.And why destroy a marriage.  George (William H. Macy) becomes colorful feeling and expressing the love he feels for his wife Betty (Joan Allen). The very last scene has George and Betty sitting on a bus stop laughing because they don't know what awaits them in this new life.  There's a pan from George to Betty and back.  George has been replaced by Bill, roll credits.I could nit pick more but the real jump in logic is that these pleasant characters in this sitcom would behave in any manner other than pleasant no matter what happened.  These kids from the 'real' world could have had everyone wrapped around their fingers.  It would have been funny for mom to say `Bud, you robbed another bank.  I just don't know what gets into you sometimes.  Have a cookie.'  "},{"Title":"multifaceted and enlightening","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's difficult to categorize the the social commentary of this movie. Bigotry, small mindedness, routine bound, denials of emotion, and mostly ignorance are attacked in this film.  The only advocasy is that ideas are not something to be frightened of.We can try to be emotionally safe, but what do we gain and what joy is to be had from this sort of conservatism.  Often, what seems the safest is the most detrimental to us all.When most everyone changed, Mary Sue and Bud turned to each other and asked, why are we still black and white?  Bud had to find his dignity and Mary Sue, her intellectual capacity.  And this begs the question, what is inside us that we need to tap.  Is it a sense of beauty, like the soda shop owner? The revelation when he saw the works of Rembrandt, Monet, Cezanne, Van Gogh, Picasso and Turner.  Most of these artists were scorned during their lifetime by the establishment of art.New ideas are difficult to accept.  That's not to say that all things new are good, but change is inevitable nonetheless, and so with technology. The world of Pleasantville suddenly grew where buses took people off to college, as opposed to a circular street.There are several epochs in human history where change was resisted, but ideas are hard to thwart, and that process of trying to hold back that change sometimes is ugly.  This is seen in the Code of Conduct, but you know this could have been during the sixties when schools measured girl's skirt and boy's hair length.  Why for?This movie offers a great deal to think about.   Read a book, see painting. Get out of your routine lives and LIVE. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of recent years","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A work of genius, a modern classic. I don't want to rave about it too much, because I started to watch it with quite low and completely wrong expectations, was pleasantly surprised, gradually became sucked into it, and then was completely bowled over by how good it was, and I'd like others to have the same experience.So I should just say, it's quite good, watch it. But I'll also say, it's a rare work of art that can make you change your mind about something, and it did this for me, not by preaching, but by one brilliant, tender, wordless scene between Tobey Maguire and Joan Allen - you'll know it when you see it.It's a rare film that, without hiding anything, can make you feel better about the modern world, and reconcile you to your own messy life. This film is funny, moving, consistently brilliant and genuinely cathartic. "},{"Title":"Very creative movie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a brilliantly, creative movie.  I thought the most imaginative part of the movie is the changing from black & white to color with a bunch of imaginative ideas to do that.  Reese Witherspoon and Tobey Maguire give very delightful performances and so do William H. Macy and Joan Allen.  The art part is very good and the Shawshank Redemption rain scene was cool.Overall the whole movie is creative and the acting is superb.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A nice, pleasant movie.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       I'd say Pleasantville was a pretty good film for the most part.  The acting was good.  This is the first movie I've seen with Tobey Maguire and he's not a bad teen actor.  I loved Reese Witherspoon in Pleasantville, I definitley believe that she gave her best performance in this movie than in any other films she's been in.  This movie has a lot of creativity and uses visual effects which make it all the more interesting and fun to watch.  The story and plot was a little corny but I'd say the movie was good nonetheless.  I give Pleasantville 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"An Oft-Misunderstood Fairy Tale","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A lovely little fairy tale that I see more and more has been misconstrued and misunderstood.  It's been called a race tale due to it's use of the phrase colored.  It's been called liberal because the townspeople who refuse to change tend toward the conservative, and because by definition, conservative means resistant to change.  The heart of the movie is that people change, life is ever changing and the people that embrace that change live more full, colorful lives than those who attempt to hang onto the way things always were before.  In the world of Pleasantville, nothing ever changes.  Tobey Maguire's character knows them all so well that he has memorized the episodes and the dialog.  But the introduction of his and Reese Witherspoon's character brings change and disruption, until they learn to deal with the differences, and then they change and have color as well.An enchanting little fairy tale and one that I can still go back and watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Quiet and thought provoking innovator","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This quiet and thought provoking movie is filled with gentle laughs and subtle tears as you connect with a family learning to build a reality that is more filled with life, love, and laughter.Don Knotts has an amusing sleeper of a role in this film well worth renting.If you haven't seen it yet, check it out. Recommended for people who also enjoyed The Truman Show.  "},{"Title":"Any film that...","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Any film that can successfully sum up the transition from the 1950sto the 1960s while casting Don Knotts as God is bound to go over people's heads. It is unfortunate because this is really a wonderful film that probably would have been reviewed better if it had taken itself more seriously. The comment about the door always having been blue in the courtroom scene is missed by almost everyone but is such a wonderful summation of the films attitude about the changes it is examining. A must see.  "},{"Title":"Colourful look at American values","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Just seen Pleasantville, which I absolutely loved - it looks like another one on the bandwagon following the success of The Truman Show, but it's much more than that - it's by the same guy who did Big (Tom Hanks is a kid in a man's body) and Dave (guy looks like the President), and uses a similar sort of vehicle to tell the story - this time two American teenagers end up in a 1950's sitcom, Pleasantville, and have to live the lives of two of the characters from the TV series. However, much like in Time Machine, their prescence upsets the delicate balance of nature and starts a snowball which no-one can stop. Lots of clever use of digital effects enable us to see both colour and black and white images on screen which is used extensively to portray the changes in this otherwise very homogenous and stable environment. Gary Ross uses this situation to talk about the role of society, rules, values, personal freedom and also looks at what would happen if we actually had the perfect idealised world we think we remember...It's beautifully shot and visually demanding with a huge amount of effort going into many of the shots to help tell the story. Reese Witherspoon and Tobey Maguire take the leads and are both great but special mention must go to Joan Allen, who plays their Mom and is mesmorising throughout. In summary, a fascinating study of life in America, both now and then, with some great comic touches and fine performances from the cast. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A marvellous, rich piece of work, even before it got colored in. Gary Ross, who effectively created Pleasantville (he is writer, director, producer) has had a hand in Big and Dave, two more of my favorite films. They are all about escapism and things working out in the end - I'm not even going to say the C name! - and we don't see nearly enough of that these days. If for no other reason, buy this movie for Fiona Apple's beautiful rendition of John Lennon's Across The Universe.  I had to hunt down an imported single to get the track on CD. "}{"Title":"Intelligently entertaining","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that's both creatively entertaining, with interesting social commentary behind it - and played with a satirical punch.My fav scenes are the before and after versions of the basketball practice.  The opening gag concerning the quadrangle is also very effective cinematic humour.  I also think the original application of the prejudice against colored folk is very fresh and provocative - without being racially biased.This was the first time I noticed Tobey Maguire, and I think he played the lead with both affection and intelligence.  It's also good to see classic comic actor Don Knotts show up again, as well as the final performance of the late great character actor J T Walsh.This is slightly reminiscent of an earlier movie STAY TUNED, only with more social bite.  It's a real shame this didn't do so well in initial release. "},{"Title":"Swell!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one funny and romantic movie. I liked Tobey Maguire's acting. He looked cute in it. Reese Witherspoon was not bad too. The soundtracks are great and the movie plot is very nice. I liked the part where the basketball players shot the basketballs into the hoop and all of the balls went in. This movie is swell! I rated it 10 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"This movie is swell!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An incredible compelling drama is a good way to describe this movie. It starts out looking like a bad sci-fi movie that would be shown on the sci-fi channel late at night but then as the 2 kids start messing up Pleasantville's tiny, little world, The story echoes that of our own past and how we went through similar ideas of censorship and prohibition. Funny at times and in the end comes out real nice with no one getting hurt and a bright future coming up. yay! play it again! again! "},{"Title":"Warning  This movie contains ideas! ;-)","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie.  It's a good companion piece to The Truman Show  Both movies have similar themes that complement each other well. I can see that some people who thought they were just getting a simple, mindless comedic romp might not like it.The movie is a fairy tale, and as such you have to let some of the implausibilities slide.  However, fairy tale does not mean kid stuff - not until Disney came along were the two so closely equated.Many people are nostalgic for a perfect past, but this perfect past never really existed.  The point of the movie isn't have sex and you'll become enlightened.  The point is that having real experiences and engaging with life will open up your mind.  In the movie, what really opens people's minds is art and the Library.The movie isn't preachy it just contains ideas.  You are free to accept, reject or ignore them, but I do not think that an expectation of an idea-free zone is reasonable. "},{"Title":"Moral corruption glorified","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I get angry every time I see this film because the overall message seems to be that loose morals (fornication, adultery, etc.) are the right way to live and we're to believe that the old-fashioned town is made much better by getting all the teenagers into the back seats of cars and the wives into the arms of men other than their husbands.  I'm not a prude and the film is entertaining enough, but I find the underlying message quite questionable. "},{"Title":"A faultless film.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great plot, great script, great dialogue, great actors.I was prepared to walk out on this one but became engrossed as the story unrolled. Of course it's unreal but that puts that extra need on the actors to perform accurately and plausibly and they really rise to the challenge here.  "},{"Title":"so much deeper then what meets the eye","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw the movie and even though time has passed for three hours I can only think of the same comment for this film...WOW! It was an absolute surprise for me. I didn't want to watch the film because I thought that it would be a flop.(I didn't know who the actors were, so I didn't know what to expect) My mother rented it and so I sat down to watch what I thought was to be a mediocre film. After an hour, I completely changed my mind. The film which started out with the story of two teens- a brother and a sister. They both lived in a regular house, alone with their Mother and they didn't get along at all. After a fight over the remote control, they both end up magically falling into a black and white T.V. program called Pleasantville. There they meet the type of family they never even heard of, the perfect one. The type of family were the Mother is home as a house wife and the father is at work making money for the family. While David(now called Bud) and his sister Jennifer(now called Mary Sue) try to fit into this abnormal setting, they realize that the town is not really...well real! Every child is perfect, there's no sex, drugs, or lying.Bud likes the new life-but his sister absolutly can't stand it! After she starts to muddle with the people's lives in Pleasantville, something peculiar starts to happen-everything starts to become colored!Now what seemed to start as a comedy, turns into something serious. The film starts to show the darkness of human behavior and what happens when people are frightened of things that they don't understand.Even though this movie has a wonderful plot and setting, a movie would not be complete without acting skills. I was quite surprised to see young Tobey Maguire play such a role. I haven't seen him in anything else-but am looking forward to it in the future. He portrayed the young, innocent boy Bud very well. His partner Reese Witherspoon who played Mary Jane was a match that I have to give Ellen Lewis and Debra Zane, the casting crew a thumbs up for. Together, Tobey and Witherspoon made the perfect match to show what a good kid can do compared to the bad one!The movie was absolutly perfect. It told a very important lesson that some people forget because it is not seen as clearly anymore. It showed how one family can stick together and fix anything if they work together. I recommend this movie for all ages.  "},{"Title":"Nostalgia can be dangerous.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has some fine points mainly satirising how people view their own past.Does anybody realy believe the 1950's where a better and more sensitive decade?Has anybody forgotten the censhorship in every form of expression?Or the flaming liberals of the time becoming the moraly decayd of the 1960's.The 1950's were a revolutionary period for the U.S.A and nobody should forgot about but pleasant they certainly weren't.Who ever decides to praise the past,distant or near should remember the problems of this past. This movie decides to take a liberal point of view.Forget about that decision.Take a look at the mayor and actualy understand that what makes you decide is your own point of view.Those people don't start to be humans when they turned colored.See them burn books.From being just indifferent to them they decide which ones express them and destroy all the others.It is an expression of thought and feeling too.The mayor who had nothing to do turns into a leader.Those kids,who were walking around doing nothing,actualy take sides in an ideological conflict. As for those of you who complain that these movie doesn't touch issues like unprotected sex,unwanted pregnancies and drugs just think about thatThey are given the freedom to choose.Some of them will surely choose badly.It makes you think about the implications of free will doesn't.Watch this movie and then start taking a refreshing look in history.It is worth it.Just don't decide if you are liberal or consernative based on this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Films Ever!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is awe-inspiring. The b&w/colour effects, plus other effects like a blazing tree, are pure magic. The cast is great, the music perfect, the dialogue witty, the acting fab. I was mesmorised. It works on different levels & is open to interpretation. I think it's about the transformation of film from b&w to fabulous colour. It's also about freedom, change, personal growth, racism, family values, rain, relationships. Alright, it's far fetched but in fantasy that's what you need. I've watched it over and over again and if you've not seen it, you're missing out.  10/10 "},{"Title":"one of the most best films i have ever seen","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i don't need to say much....but i thought more people would like this film...i find it to be one of the best and most beautifuli happen to be very interested in art and movies,and this movie says so much about beauty, stereotypes,prejudice, women's rights, freedom of speech....also the acting, directing, score, and special effects were great. "}{"Title":"A wild ride that provokes thought...","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is one of the best and most unique films of recent years. It's plot is simple on the outside (brother and sister are transported back to 50's sitcom and try to come back), yet upon further examination this film is actually a powerful social commentary on racisim and discrimination. David and Jennifer are two siblings from 1990's America. Their mother is on her way to visit her boyfriend (who is 10 years younger then she is), and in school all they seem to hear about is how the world is being destroyed. While Jennifer is pretty and popular, David is an outcast who seems to be obsessed with an old sitcom called Pleasentville.  When one night the two of them are transported back into this sitcom they begin a journey to understand the concept of change. Along the way the people that experience change, become colorized. This begins a provoking and uplifting film about the power of individualisim, and the evil of racisim.When you decide to watch this film take time to notice the small things that make this movie worth watching multiple times. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Smart, amazing, deep - more than meets the eye!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  At the time of this comment, I've seen the movie 3 times, and enjoyed it every time. I kept finding new things in the movie, new symbols, and there aren't many movies like that. The beginning is a bit slow, and for those who don't like science fiction it may seem silly. However, the movie is far from it. The plot picks up a pace and suddenly the seemingly silly movie is serious... You'll find yourselves in the middle of the storm. The characters (and not only the main characters!) evolve and grow throughout the movie, and some scenes may send chills down your spine... At the end, I found many statements that the movie was making, and I expect to find more the next time I see it (and I will see it again). As far as I remember the critics didn't like it, and I think it was highly underrated, and for no good reason. As I was saying, I highly recommend it. Last note - for those who have seen Chocolat, you'll probably like it, as much as those who have seen it will like Chocolat. "},{"Title":"Good idea. Bad movie.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really impressed with the first 1/2 of this movie. It was a bit ridiculous, but I expected as much when I went to the theater to watch it. When watching the second half, I found it just went on forever and ever. It had a really weak ending, too. I thought that the movie, basically, was too long. It had too much detail, and not enough story. In the end, you come up a bunch of ridiculous details that have a bad ending. 4/10. "},{"Title":"A lovely film","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is probably my favourite film ever. The humour, the brilliant use of colour and, above all, the warmth of the characters, shine through the whole movie. Almost the entire cast give lovable performances, but my particular favourites are Tobey Maguire as David, the catalyst of the story (also the saving grace of The Cider House Rules) and Joan Allen as the initially naive but wonderfully sympathetic mother.(Possible spoilers)The people who criticise its politics and take it as an apology for a life without morality or responsibility seem to have missed the point completely - that, in life, there are no simple answers. The sexual and moral liberation of some of the characters is NOT a one-way street - Reese Witherspoon's (in one of the film's best scenes) actually retreats from her hedonistic lifestyle and finds fulfilment in study.A feel-good film par excellence that is the perfect antidote to the cynical nastiness of films like Pulp Fiction. The only minor flaws are the ease with which the villain is overcome and the unsubtlety of some of the social comment. Nine out of ten - wonderful. "},{"Title":"A Rainbow of Delights","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  How interesting it is that the statistical rating for 'Pleasantville' plummets nearly an entire point between people under 18 years of age and people aged 45+. 'Pleasantville' is a lot like an actual teenager- bright, amusing, rebellious and possessed of a fierce and passionate sense of personal freedom. This is not a subtle film, but it has a lovely, misunderstood message, cool Crayola effects and nice performances. The point here is not strictly that the 90s and color are better than the 50s and black and white. The point is that black and white can still exist in a world of color, but color can not exist in a world of black and white. The point is not that the 50s were evil, but that the backwards-thinking idealization of that time brings with it the cultural sterilization that flourished then. The 50s were the 50s and they were as they were supposed to be- there's nothing particularly wrong with that. People have responded strongly to this film because the 50s are falsely seen as some sort of promised time for America and there are those who find that image appealing. That was a time when these people think that their morals ruled supreme, and Manon forbid that their morals be attacked as they attack ours. It also takes people of the 90s to task a bit- as Jeff Daniels' soda jerk notes, we don't even realize how lucky we are. 'Pleasantville' is not saying, as has been alleged, that sex equals free expression. The basketball team captain doesn't spring to color after Jennifer deflowers him. He stays in black and white and tries to make her burn her book. Sex is one of many tools used by this bright, passionate movie to metaphor- and *embrace*- the Fall. Sex doesn't make one 'colorful'. Self-awareness and free-thinking do. The idea is that self-awareness and freedom of thought are good things. That's it. Of course, the human being is not a perfect animal, and with self-awareness and freedom of thought come a higher saturation of some things that are problematic- witless promiscuity and drugs. But promiscuity and drugs existed in the 50s, along with racial and sexual hatred, violence, and thoughtlessness. All of these are not reflections on a lack of cultural moralizing- they are reflections on a lack of widespread personal responsibility. They are also not products of the 90s- they are products of the state of being human. But do we really want to give up self-awareness and freedom of thought to live in the 50s again, just so we can cover up all the problems we have now and HAD THEN AS WELL with hypocritical and constricting 'black and white' moralizing? That is the question 'Pleasantville' asks. There is a saying that anyone who gives up freedom for safety deserves neither. This is the message 'Pleasantville delivers. And besides that, it's a really cute fantasy flick. "},{"Title":"Deep in meaning.  A truly great film destined to become a classic.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I watched the film Pleasantville I was deeply moved by how much meaning there was in the film.  I don't know of course if this was the intention of Mr. Ross, but I did get a lot out of the film.The film to me seemed to touch on several things all at once.  The biggest thing I think I got out of it, however was that to see the true colors of the world we need to enjoy life to it's fullest and understand ourselves and our society. "},{"Title":"A Gem of a Movie, and please, this is NOT a P.C. diatribe....","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The director-writer has not endorsed liberalism or  condemned conservatism. This is a film about people, and it has a lot to say. It's not an endorsement of sex or promiscuity either, it's about people!Nobody at IMDB is more opposed to political correctness than myself, nobody. Pleasantville is not PC !!  This is a film that can be enjoyed lightly, or examined for more content than meets the first glance.  American Beauty was politically stacked.  American Beauty was PC with a golden plum!  American Beauty was filled with characters and conflicts that do not ring true but are satisfying to those who wish it to be so.Not Pleasantville.  This is a home run of creative filmmaking with brilliant performances from it's cast.  Keep your mind open and watch closely.  See this film. "},{"Title":"A fun movie that's also food for thought","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie. The premise is a little old (time travel, back the 1950s America) but it's treated in a novel way - characters go back to a 50s sitcom - that makes for an interesting ride. Tobey Maguire is good in this, more interesting to watch, I thought, than in the later Cider House Rules. Once the initial novelty of the situation has started to wear off, the movie starts to change - now the focus is no longer how to get the heroes home, but how they affect the sitcom characters. It's a culture shock that affects both sides. The gradual introduction of colour into the black and white world is wonderfully done and has dramatic meaning. Some reviewers have seen a political statement in the movie apparently their brains switched off the second they saw the sign in the shop window No coloreds. However, I saw this as a kind of joke, and the point is not pursued, certainly not belaboured. The point, rather, is the age-old story of how people react to change, and how they deal with the inevitable fear and uncertainty it brings. A fun viewing for all, teenagers and older (there are a couple of simulated sex scenes). By the final showdown, the focus has become emotional sterility and how to break through to a more fulfilling experience of life a lot of themes for a comedy, and on the whole very well handled. "},{"Title":"A wanna-be The Truman Show","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville left a lot to be desired. Doubt it was unfortunate timing (after The Truman Show) as it lacked more than it gave and seemed to rely on the 'color' gimmick to put forth its message. Time would have been better spent on a sense of wholeness and, in general, more energy. The characters didn't seem to be really growing, simply 'acting' as if they were. I'll pass for a more genuine article. "},{"Title":"more than a pleasant movie","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i loved it. the whole thing about being on a 50's TV show, and turning into color because of presence of emotions and such is so wonderful. this is a very original movie for me because of what it depicts of those small things.aside from that good looking Tobey Maguire, the cast was splendid. lovely even. everyone did a great job, including a Reese. watch it, and you'll feel good. "}{"Title":"An excellent picture","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  About 30 minutes into the film I wasn't sure if this idea was going to work, I thought the director/writer had taken it in the wrong direction but my fears were put aside when I started grasp the thinking behind the camera.Pleasantville is a parallel of what America use to be like. The scenes of racism mirror the deep south in the 50s. The idea of change was unexceptable because people were stuck in a routine. Sex was a taboo subject, until the 60s. The screenplay brings out these subjects in the film effectively. It's only once colour is added that things begin to change, a parallel of the enterance to the 60s. The social commentary is very good, I applaud the director! There is more but I'll you figure them out.The acting is superb, everyone performed really well.Technically, the film is outstanding, the photography is spot on. The special effects which mirror technicolour are beautiful. Some editing of the close-ups are a little jarring to me.There are a few problems, mainly the structure of the film. The opening doesn't have time to settle. The final 20 minutes could've been fleshed out.Overall, an excellent picture. "},{"Title":"give it a little time","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  At one point in the film, a housewife will slip into her bath and pleasure herself, and her whole world is changed for the better.  Like a lot of viewers, this scene made me want to stop the movie.  But if you were not like me, and did stop watching the film here, I plead with you to continue. Just give it a little more time and you will be surprised.  This is a brilliant film, existential (like so many films recently  The Matrix, The Truman Show, Dark City), and . . . well, pleasant.  Some of the best use of cinematography, and most certainly colour, that has ever been conceived of will be found here.  But that's all technical.  The film is at heart a morality play.  You can't stop something that's inside you.  As frightening as this quotation is to ponder, it is true.  Everyone will see the Paradise Lost allusions, but the movie isn't saying paradise was bad. Just this paradise, that of idealism, of sitcom situations (redundant, I know, but for a purpose), that's hell.  Life is about exploration, metaphorically as well as physically.  Sure, some exploration will scar you, but you will be the better for it in the end.  That is the film.  Please, give the film a chance.  It's absolutely pleasant, but this time, it's honest as well. "},{"Title":"Comes Close To Been A Modern Day Masterpiece!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this is one of those films that has to be seen twice to be liked, you know? The first time I saw this film, I wasn't very impressed. But after watching it again, I was not just impressed, I was amazed! Pleasantville is a highly enjoyable, poignant, witty and unmissable drama that turned out to be one of the best films I saw in 1998! The screenplay is highly original and unfortunately turned down by the Academy, the whole cast give excellent performances, and Gary Ross's direction is noticeable and effective.Pleasantville comes extremely close to been a modern day masterpiece, it is an un-missable and creative movie.Rating 9 "},{"Title":"It can be analyzed multi dimensionally.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie reminded very much of  The Truman's Show where everything is perfect but there is no freedom of choice.  Every day is nothing but repetitiveness, acting, memorized scripts but nothing spontaneous. No insight into good and evil. I thought the idea of adding color to the scene every time a character had an insight or became aware of what was good and evil was brilliant. The movie is clever! Fun! It can be analyzed multi dimensionally.  One of the most important issues raised in the movie to me is that; for there to be freedom to choose there has to be the ability to think. When one individual thinks, the community can be shaken, so said Aldous Huxley in Brave New World. If one cannot think there would be any difference between such  people and an animal. However, sometimes I wonder about my dog, he is so clever and insightful that I wonder if he really does not think up to a certain level. Somehow he let's me know what he wants, how he feels, and even if he was naughty, I can tell by his face and doggie body language.  Whether this is behavioral or not, I don't know with certainty. The ability to think as given to mankind by God is intriguing as it leads us to things like the woman in the movie giving an apple to her boyfriend to eat and the apple turning red.  This can be traced to the Bible story of Adam and Eve. Then there come the consequences. Colors!!!!!  When they have, knowledge colors will show. I love that!   There is not a good word  in the English language for that - but there a Greek rhema which means that is reality to me now!  It is the wow moment!  I recommend the movie, I found it to be clever, cute, this is a  great movie. Favorite Scenes The red apple; the make up in shades of grey (who would ever think of such a clever thing!).  Grey makeup, that is funny!  Could it be a grey area? Just think! Favorite Quotes  David/Bud Parker They're happy like this.  Jennifer/Mary Sue Parker No, David. Nobody's happy in a poodle skirt and a sweater set.  This quote makes one wonder if mankind could be happy outside the imperfect world we live in.  It seems that the movie implies that a perfect world is possible only with freedom of choice - that is one of the most beautiful gift given to men. Just think about it!  "},{"Title":"Classic looks good feels great","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Anyone who was exposed to the 'perfect world' portrayed by American TV in the 1950s, or by Life Magazine in the 1950s, now recognizes that portrayal as a narrow caricature. The It isn't how you feel, it's how you look attitude.Ain't it great that Don Knotts, once a part of that hideous grey distortion of The Truth, was still alive to serve as the agent of change in this movie. By handing Bud a remote, he admits him bodily to the world of a TV show by which Bud is mesmerized. The result is that Bud somehow infects that make-believe world with his passion.Many movies are moved by passion; Pleasantville forces us to recognize that passion is a necessity. It has a lot more than that to say, and says it in layer upon layer.In the Wizard of Oz, color entered because the technology ripened just as the movie was being made... a happy accident. In Yellow Submarine, color was restored, to a world subdued by the Blue Meanies, by a pop music band. (Pleasantville concludes with George Harrison's Chi Gurudeva tune.)Passion comes to Pleasantville as people unlock what's inside them. A man tired of making cheeseburgers discovers a passion for art. A woman discovers she has no passion for domesticity, but for an old sweetheart.One of those movies that has more to say with each viewing, with genuine humor and genuine affection for true humanity. As deep as you want it to be a classic.  "},{"Title":"A black and white world gone unpleasant","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The story is about two teenagers and a 50`s sitcom.They are not the perfect brother and sister.One loves a old TV show called Pleasantville.Where everything is perfect.And the other one is a teenage punk.Well the Pleasantville marathon is on TV.And the TV is broken.The TV repairman comes and gives them a funny Remote.And they fight over it and are sucked into the TV.They become two characters from the show.One is amazed by being in his favorite TV show.And the other is mad .So she shows to people her 90`s ways.And slowly things start to change from black and white to color.They change Pleasantville. To something not pleasant but normal.They learn feelings that never existed in Pleasantville.And they change themselfs.It is not really a comedy but a drama.Yet it has it`s funny parts.It is a very good movie anyway.See this masterpiece when you have the chance. "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the 90's?","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am aghast at the raves that this movie is getting by fellow commentors.In order for a movie to be remotely considered good, I believe it has to have at least one of 3 things; originality, a message and a high entertainment value. This movie didn't have a message (unless you think have sex and you'll be Colorful is message) and it sure wasn't original or entertaining like many here have claimed. Frankly, I found this movie (like I've heard many describe what they dislike) really lame.At first I was eager to watch it. Pleasantville was endorsed by the American Movie Classics channel- so I figured it would be definitely something to watch. I'm still baffled at WHY they endorsed such a horrible movie. I admit, Cinematography was notable, Tobey McGuire is definitely a talent to keep an eye on, but it's not enough to compensate for horrible plot development, lame 50's/90's clichés and its confusing and distasteful message.  I can't believe people are calling it original. The the film vomited clichés and it was inanely predictable. The movie had several loopholes (like why didn't the jock turn color after engaging in a tryst with Reese Witherspoon?)  and the movie was also full of sexual innuendos, I was appalled that at it's low MPAA rating. I kept checking the box trying to figure that it was a mistake and that the movie was rated R for sexual content.I've seen SEVERAL better movies. Pleasantville... wasn't so Pleasant. It should have been really-lame-ville. If you're into Really Lame movies, go ahead and watch it.  I mean, sure- if you're into that kind of stuff.  "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I have ever seen. It is about a 90s brother/sister getting stuck in the 50s sitcom. Everything is black and white there, and very surreal. Things don't make sense in that world until things begin to fall apart when everyone there experiences things they've never felt before making them colorful. There's a hidden message about racism in the movie as you watch it. This was a great movie. I don't understand why it isn't in the TOP 250 movie list. I believe it should be up there. Grade A+ "},{"Title":"A Very Good Movie.","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I watched this film, I thought 'Jesus Christ this movie sux ass' but I watched it again and I thought highly of 'Pleasantville' it is a very-well done film. I love the way they mixed the colours together - it was excellent!Pleasantville follows the story of a TV Show called, well, Pleasantville! - there is one guy called David (Tobey Maguire) in the world, who is totally obsessed with the show. And woops -way too obsessed because him and his sister, Jennifer (Reese Witherspoon) get transferred to their world and Jennifer starts causing trouble.Don't miss this great film!!My Rating  10/10.Starring  Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon, Joan Allen, William H. Macy, Jeff Daniels.Certificate  M Contains Low Level Offensive Language "},{"Title":"Lovely film","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I find it hard to describe this film without making it sound trite and overdone.  It is definitely not that.  But a movie where two kids get sucked into a TV show from the 50's?  It sounds like a reverse Brady Bunch Movie, or Switching Channels gone bad.But this really is a special film with a lot to say about our world.  For years we have blamed Eve for the Apple, but are we really so sure we want to LIVE in an untainted Eden?This film made me appreciate the times in which we live.  It's so easy to say, times were so much simpler long ago, and pine for the simplicity of life in the 50s, especially if you are a white male.  But we mature and develop intellect for a reason.  Clearly, with that intellect, there is a trade-off, and by learning we cash in our innocence.  Some people would rather not know that bad things exist, and live with their heads in the soil, know that their dinner is on the table, and live in the 'burbs with a white picket fence.  But I, for one, would rather see the blue sky, the colors of the rainbow, even if it means that life is stressful and complex.I loved the way that Ross subtly draws analogies to the civil rights movement of the 60s, and the way that Jeff Daniels' character has love of art, even if his eyes can't see the colors to paint them.  And it is not without its humorous moments, with the breakfast of champions and the cubist Santa Claus.But coming back to it, Gary Ross made a heck of a picture to make me realize how great life really is right now, despite the hassles.  And the acting talent brought it all home to me. "}{"Title":"Pleasant Perfection","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This weird and wonderful film works on level after level after level.  By examining our views of ourselves and our society, it bowls over common perceptions and cautions.  It takes on nostalgia, censorship and self examination in a new and wonderful way.  Kudos to Reese Witherspoon and Toby McGwire in the major roles, Joan Allen and William H. Macy in the show within a show roles.  An excellent supporting performance is provided by the late J. T. Walsh.  Jeff Daniels character and performance bring everything together.But the show is stolen by Don Knotts.  Citizens arrest, Barney! "},{"Title":"Many important messages in this film","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was impressed with this film. The idea was genius, the acting was great too. This film will be recognized for the FX but the quality of story is my reason for voting it a 10. This film expresses messages about liking yourself/your life, as well as individual knowledge and racism. Many other issues are hidden in this film too. Pleasantville is the type of film you get something new from every time you watch it.The creator of this film/story was creative with their ability to weave the 50's to present time. I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Great! Except.....","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is great!  It is entertaining, funny, has wonderful acting, and an interesting story line.  I can watch it over and over again.  But when I do I always cringe at the high school scene with Witherspoon.  Now I can easily say that because that scene is at the beginning of the film it totally puts everyone in a bad mood.  I love the movie but that scene. Grrrrr. Dont you hate that?  "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me just say that I truly love this movie. It is my pick for best film of 1998. A truly wonderful film. From the previews alone, I knew I was going to like this movie.The cast alone is worth a viewing. Tobey Maguire is a hidden talent. Most enjoyable. In my eyes, Reese Witherspoon, cannot make a bad film. I have loved her since MAN IN THE MOON. She is truly talented and is surely one of the best contemporary actresses. Jeff Daniels is one of the most underrated actors of our time and he pulls off a great performance here. The same can be said for Joan Allen who brings such depth to any character she plays and is no different here. As for William H. Macy, he is always a pleasure to see, from FARGO to BOOGIE NIGHTS to right here in good old PLEASANTVILLE.Gary Ross is a true artist. Almost everyone can agree he is a wonderful writer (I remember his masterful work since I saw BIG), but who would've thought he'd turn out to be such a wonderful director as well. This man is a film genius. I can hardly wait for his next masterpiece.PLEASANTVILLE is the best film of 1998 and what I would consider a modern classic. A+! Perfect 10! Two thumbs up! A must see! "},{"Title":"good idea, bad script","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville started off fairly well, with a decent (if hackneyed) premise of being sucked into TV land...Then it continued with some shallow commentary on racism and individuality.  The writing came off as unbelievable (even with the outlandish premise) and the constant tying up of loose ends got real tiring after the fifth end was tied.This movie would have been decent with better writing and/or less time spent on gross overexposition. "},{"Title":"A brilliant idea, a marvelous movie","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is one unforgettable fable about one boy, David, and his sister, Jennifer, that entered in one TV-series of the 50's where everything is happy and beautiful. There, the basketball team of the city always wins, the only work that the fireman have to do is to take cats out of trees, there isn't sex... Everything is pleasant in Pleasantville! But everything was also black and white.David should act now as Bud Parker and his sister as Mary Sue Parker. For David, a fan of this sitcom, everything was OK but for Jennifer, one popular girl, being in one place so calm was very boring. David tried to keep Jennifer doing everything as in the sitcom but she didn't want. So she started a revolution in the city. In each demonstration or discovery of a new felling, the person would get colored.As Gary Ross said, this movie is about people that can't behave, act or adapt with their own changes. It's about people that want to stay in black and white and people that wish the color. It's about people that want changes and more than this, people that do something for that changes to happen and be real.The sexual theme is very explored by Gary. One of the first changes for color happens when Jennifer shows her boyfriend that there are a lot of different (and more interesting) things to do in the car than only hold her hand. Then, she shows her mother Betty (played by Joan Allen, great as ever) how to masturbate. When Betty try to practice it, the tree in the front of the house explodes and burns. This scene is very funny as the fireman had never seen one fire before and he didn't know how to  act in the situation.For me, one of the best scenes is when Joan Allen doesn't want to stay in color and asks Bud to make her up using gray lipstick, powder, you know, gray make up. But why did she want it? Because after more than 90 minutes as a comedy and romance, Pleasantville turns a choking drama. Many people (as me) that read only a few comments about it might be surprised with its end. A enormous revolution happens with blood, fights, fire, protests, stoning and discrimination against coloreds. I loved its end. In fact, I didn't like a single detail of it but even so it's not so important. How can someone dislike one so happy end with the music Across the Universe playing in the back? Well, what I know is that Pleasantville is a small masterpiece that will be forever in my mind and in my heart too.    ** I have to say that the Academy Awards had been unfair with Pleasantville. It deserved at least 6 nominations. And Joan Allen was better than all the nominated supporting actresses.    "},{"Title":"Not a big deal","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was entertaining while I was watching it, and it was out of my mind completely the minute it was over.  It seemed best not to dwell too much, because I know underneath there isn't very much.  All of the actors are terrific, even Joan Allen, whose part was sorely underwritten.  The cinematography is the star of the movie, though, above the story and the actors. "},{"Title":"You must see it twice","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  On a second viewing, I found Pleasantville to be amazing, especially from a Director/Writer (Gary Ross) with such slim earlier credits (The Flintstones, Big).Special effects and the plot mechanic absorb the viewer the first time.  Once you get over wondering, How did they do that? you can listen to the story and appreciate the serious questions posed about popular culture, mass culture and the survival of the individual.I particularly was taken by the trenchant mayor's assertion that only a non-changeous view of history shall be taught in the schools.All of the performers are good, but I think Joan Allen and Jeff Daniels especially rose to occasion, as they deal with the anguish of finding their new selves.  William H. Macy is good, too, but in a role he's played too many times.Change beats us all up every day, but this movie lets us see that it is a precious gift.  I don't know becomes an assurance, not a defeat. "},{"Title":"Hey you, wake up...Get colorized, and return to the true world!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  That's a real awesome movie. I mean, both the effects&actors (the whole thing in this movie) are great. From Tobey Maguire&Reese Witherspoon, to Joan Allen&William H. Macy, the actors (they are the most important things about a movie, i think) are really wonderful. What can i do other than praising everything about this film? Nothing, really nothing. The subject, the script, everything...Wow! "},{"Title":"Nice.","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When a film is made, it has a certain degree of potential.  Some filmmakers have tried to do the two-teenagers-sucked-into-a-TV-show movie before and failed (miserably), Stay Tuned being a horrific example.  So when I started to watch the film, I was interested because it it's quite a gripping theory, but I was apprehensive about the way it would be handled.Happily, the film manages more-or-less to fall into the category of a successful teenagers-sucked-into-a-TV-show movie.  The performances by all are good (but a special mention must go to Joan Allen for a wonderful display of talent as the repressed housewife who discovers the beauty of life, love and the female orgasm Oh my goodness!), and a great deal of attention has gone into the set and props to make them authentic for the period in which the TV show Pleasantville is set.  On a negative note though, the camerawork just isn't authentic for a fifties TV show - normally, this wouldn't have bothered me much, but as I had just finished watching and reviewing The Elephant Man (which makes good use of camerawork in just this manner), I was aware of it.The use of colour is very well done, and the concept of people being susceptible to colourisation when they become passionate (for whatever reason) is simple, clever and competently exercised.  There are also certain points in the film which create quite surprising reactions in the audience for example, a friend of mine described the scene in which Joan Allen uses grey make-up to conceal her colour as very sad - and she was right.  At face value, there is little that is moving about the scene, (it is perhaps almost comic), but it is well played and directed, and evokes a great deal of empathy for the character.It's now time for me to jump on my Equal Opportunities high horse, and explain that the film is also a subtle exercise in discrimination and racism, in the same vein as Disney's The Fox and the Hound.  The signs begin appearing in windows saying No Coloreds, just to make the point staringly obvious for those more excited about the toffee popcorn before the movie (optional).  It makes the point simply and effectively, and it's also worth thinking about.  It also talks a great deal about change, traditional family values, and the society in which we live today (the montage at the beginning of the film through various different High School lessons is a good example, and very grimly comic).Unfortunately, I must also point out two negative points about the film firstly, that the film is a little over-long at 124 minutes, and secondly, that the absolute ending confuses the hell out of me.  There are probably thousands of you who understand the last and final camera shot - it probably ties the film together beautifully and is the best part of the film - but not me.  Maybe I'm being thick.  I'm not going to describe it for fear of spoiling it for those of you who haven't seen it before, but it left me scratching my head after an otherwise pleasant and simple movie.In total, though, Pleasantville is funny when it should be, moving when it should be, and above all, simple.  This isn't a bad thing, by any means the points are clear and effective, but it is also very possible to watch Pleasantville without giving much thought to these issues - it is a light, fluffy comedy/drama, which is ultimately very enjoyable.  Excellent for a Sunday night in front of the video. "}{"Title":"Good film and a redeeming ending","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this film had fine qualities for viewing, but what really suckered me was the ending. The way Across the Universe blended in with images of what we would love America to be and how much we long for innocense.  I thought the dialogue the mother and son had at the end really gave this slightly above the average film of teenage lust/love a redeeming quality like ending.  I am not a fan really of teen based movies, but there was enough comical and tender romance to keep me interested.  I recommend this movie to practically anyone who loves a film that has good direction, and this one has great direction in it. Ross has done an excellent job with an average script and story.  Many kudos for him. "},{"Title":"The best film in recent history","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Anymore its hard to find a good movie. We live in a time in which films like American Pie and Eyes Wide Shut dominate box office and make me antsy about going to the movies. Then, every once in a while something like Pleasantville comes along. I didn't have high expectations for this movie, being that I'm not a big Reese Witherspoon fan. But, after just a few minutes of viewing I was captivated; completely sucked in for the length of the movie.Most teen films (by teen films I mean films with a primarily teenage teen-to-mid-twenties cast) drown themselves in mindless, annoying canter and have no plot. This, I feel, is because they're aiming them at a teen audience. This film seems to be an exception, and I believe that's due to the fact that this one isn't really aimed at the youth demographic. That's not to say that a teen audience couldn't enjoy it, but it's not as generic and mindless as most of the films that they seem to thrive on are.Reese Witherspoon is generally very, very annoying. But recently she's score some good roles (Election is the best example), and she seems to be performing pretty well. Tobey Maguire is excellent as usual. Not to mention the supporting cast, William H. Macy, Joan Allen and Jeff Daniels are all excellent. Even Don Knotts turns an unusually pleasant character.Now, on to the story... Not only does it manage to keep the viewer's interest, but it also maintains humor, depth and warmth. Being that I don't want to wreck the film for anyone, I won't go into a description of the goings on in the film.In conclusion Everything about this film is pleasant, and enjoyable. It's late, so you can't catch it in theatres any longer, but definitely go grab the DVD... It's well worth the time, effort and money. "},{"Title":"Not great moviemaking, but a fine little film","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie works on a number of different levels, and while it may not work overly well on all levels, it does a passable job and does work as an enjoyable film. Not a tear jerker, but one that'll have all but the most stoic of us snifffle from time to time.  The messages here are all positive, ie.  We all have within us that spark of emotion that frees us from our black and white existance.  Whatever our differences, we are all the same underneath.  Even the cliched inside every cloud there's a silver lining. You get the idea.  It's a feel-good movie, one that lifts the spirit, just a little.  I couldn't believe the visceral, almost reflex reaction I had to seeing the No Coloreds sign in one scene.  That chapter of American history still has many wounds that need to be healed.  I particularly enjoyed the irony of the ending.  If I were to pick one of the two siblings to remain behind at the beginning of the movie, I'd have been wrong.If you have the choice between DVD and tape, definitely go with DVD.  The cinematography and CGI effects make it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"WOW! Out There and makes you think!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This picture is definitely in the realm of outer space. When the two kids travel into the TV to help turn the town around, the fun just starts. As we progress into the picture, the players become colorized as they become aware of their surroundings. However, it is definitely heavy on the metaphors, especially at the scene in the courtroom. (See where all the colorized people are sitting)All in all, an interesting film to say the least. It probably would have won an Oscar except that it was released during the year of Titanic. Need I say more? "},{"Title":"One of my absolute favorites.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I figured this would be a cute movie, but it's really a lot more. It's a movie that I got a lot out of both times I went to the theater to see it, and get more out of it each time I see it on video. The premise sounds corny enough- two teens from the 1990s are transported into a 1950s black and white sitcom. However, this movie has so much more depth, in telling us, as Tobey Maguire's character, Bud, says, You can't stop something that's inside of you. My father, when discussing this movie argued that they taught that sex made the people colored, and hence better. But it wasn't that (after all, as Reese Witherspoon's character pointed out, she had sex before them & didn't get colorized at first). It instead teaches us not to be someone you aren't. When you're true to yourself, you become colorized. This movie is also made better by the wonderful performances of everyone from Maguire and Witherspoon to William H. Macy and Joan Allen. Also, little literary allusions- like the To Kill A Mockingbird court room scene, are wonderful little bonuses. All in all, I can't say enough good things about this movie- it's wonderful.  "},{"Title":"IT SEPARATES THOSE WITH IMAGINATION FROM THE DULLARDS","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To put it simply, it is shocking that there are ANY negative reviews for this fine film on the IMDb. It was creative and charming; an extended Twilight Zone episode where the addition of color is a metaphor merely for self-discovery and self-exploration; if some resent a message, they shouldn't.  For those with imagination it is easy to appreciate.It was a crime that the politics of the Academy Awards, and the power of Miramax, helped prevent the deserved nominations for this movie, and especially Joan Allen, who I first saw and was struck by in Manhunter.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1998","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although this movie's theme lingers on the fact that nothing is as simple as black and white, Pleasantville divides its viewers at extreme ends.  If you don't like it, you really really don't like it.  And if you do like it, you really like it very much.  Black and White.For me, I greatly appreciated this film.  The smooth transformation of the film from black and white to technicolor appropriately accompanies and enhances the transformation its characters undergo throughout.   It is one of 1998's best achievements in film.   "},{"Title":"A truly pleasant movie in a way","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The skinny David drowns himself out watching an old 50's show Pleasantville (and knows everything about this fictional world).  He and his sister, Jennifer bickering over control of the TV set are magically transported to the show. Thoughts  Although I have mixed feelings with some scenes, especially Mrs. Parker, I find the movie to be interesting in many ways.  Director Gary Ross uses black and white for a lot of range of mood.  It could range from the pleasant scene of families together to 30's like condition in Germany. There's also some subtle scenes to be found in this movie like  the Pleasantville Chamber of Commerce logo looks nice but later turns out to look like a Swastika in the trial or the scene where Bud's girlfriend offers him an apple and homages to past movies like To Kill a Mockingbird. As the story goes,  it's interesting how Pleasantville is also so much like our world.  The disturbing part is that I wonder with all the things David and Jennifer introduced that Pleasantville could also be less than pleasant community.  This is especially so, when you see the ending.  Perhaps it's something to tell you that there are negative by-products of this new Pleasantville.  Also some subplots were rather rushed like Jennifer's gravitation from having fun all the time to studying. The verdict 5 of 5 stars.  The concept (though nothing new), the art direction, the subtle elements included and interesting story makes this one good movie. "},{"Title":"Great escapism","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Savor this movie! The basic Twilight-Zone plot of the blurring (and eventually disappearing) lines between fantasy and reality is not really new, but Pleasantville turns out to be a real original for a few reasons. The Art Direction is superb; the movie looks like a freshly painted canvas. The look of the film within a film makes you want to suspend reality and step into the old TV-show set yourself, to smell the clean air and reminisce about the way things never really were. The cast is charming and unpredictable and really has you rooting for the characters. This one should have won at least a few awards.  "},{"Title":"RUN!","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought Pleasentville was the worst movie ever. I was so excited to see it, but it turned out to be too long and too boring! Oscar nominations? please no! Reese Whitherspoon was so bad. The movie was just entirely weird! Run, do not see it.. "}{"Title":"a masterpiece that deserves more recognition","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My one line summary says it all.  So many people have viewed this film and slept through its deeper meaning.  They live the movie saying it's a good film.  It's more than that.  Gary Ross made an intelligent film.  He shows us that with all the evil, tension, and discrimination the world is facing, we are making progress into a land of true prosperity prosperity of the soul.  The audience must delve deeper into this well crafted plot to notice the allusion to America and to the Human Race in general.  Conformity may leave our minds free from burden, but it is difference that colors our spirit. "},{"Title":"Things aren't always black & white","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, I COULD say that this movie was awesome due solely to the fact that it had Don Knotts in it.  However, there's more to Pleasantville's greatnessFor one thing, I thought its metaphors were very creative.  There was a link to Adam & Eve and the forbidden fruit, also one towards the civil rights movement---where 'coloreds' are shunned by the 'whites'.  I thought that was clever.Then there's the acting.  Joan Allen and William H. Macy turned in their token 'academy award worthy performances' as usual.  And of course the above mentioned cameo by Don Knotts--hilarious.  Toby Maguire was the standout here as a kid who for once feels needed and important in a world he knows he can't stay in for long.  And Reese Witherspoon is cool as his initially slutty sister, who unfortunately decides to cool it and become studious, ugh.Anyways, this was a great film. "},{"Title":"Not Pleasant-ville for children.","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw that movie, I couldn't believe it!!! This movie was funny, but there was non-stop swearing and crude crap!!This is not the kind of movie kids should watch!!Parents, If you rent this movie, send your kids 2 bed, take them to a friends house, just something so the kids won't watch!!!!!!!!This is why kids shouldn't watch this1)Non-stop swearing. ExampleWhen Jen (Reese W. )goes out with some other guy. David (Tobey M.)  said Oh, Sh**!2) Sex-related humer. ExampleJen (Reese) tells her mother about sex.3)Kids doing drugs.(See the beginning.16-year-old girls are smoking thier butts off!!!!!!Don't let kids watch Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"Put a little color in your wardrobe","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville, what a movie, I have not seen a movie this unique in my entire life.  The idea was great, the movie was great, the actors were great, everything was great.  This movie expressed true color and acting skills, Reese Witherspoon was great, she is one of the greatest actors of this time and she showed that in this movie.  All that actors were great and the movie was so unique and so wonderful i'm speechless.  This is a MUST SEE.  You can't miss this movie, you have to see it, it's superb.My Parental ReviewsLanguage  Mild Language 1 F word thoughAdult Content there is not much adult content just a new way of having intercourse shown to some of the people of the town by Reese Witherspoon, she also teaches her pleasantville mother how to masturbate.Sexual situations Some acts of oral sex and one scene of mastrubation but nothing serious.Nudity no nudity is shown through the sexual scenes.Violence the only violence in pleasantville is throwing things through windows and tearing up paintings nothing majorDrug use No drug use except by Reese's other mom. "},{"Title":"A unique and fascinating look at people and change in America","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is simply great!  Just the fact that it has spured so many intense feelings about its importance and meaning ought to be enough to convince one that it is definitely worth a look.  I have seen this movie with so many different people, and -whether they liked or disliked it - they all focused on different aspects of it.  That alone should prove its timeless value and wide range of appeal.  I must say, however, that although it is hands down my favorite movie of 1998 I disagreed with its point that the 50's mentality has more to learn from the present day's mentality than vice versa.  Oh, well.  Joan Allen is terrific!  And the cinematography is, of course, beyond anything I have ever seen!  I applaud Gary Ross, the director, writer, and producer, for creating such a beautiful and thought-provoking film.  "},{"Title":"Another astonishing DVD from New Line","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, the New Line Platinum series is continuing to grow, and this is an immaculate addition.  I enjoyed Pleasantville when it was in theatres, but seeing it again in this first-rate transfer was just incredible. Pleasantville is a really smart movie, and I'm not one to particularly enjoy fables (I loathed Benigni's Life is Beautiful and I thought Ever After was only mildly amusing).  Gary Ross, along with being a great writer (the disc indicates he has written presidential addresses) is a great visual storyteller.  The film is a work of art, equal to those in art book Tobey Maguire's Bud gives to Jeff Daniels.The scene in which Bud takes Margaret to Lover's lane is one of the most striking, and the most impressive balance of black and white and color in the film.  Also, Margaret herself, as played by the beautiful Marley Shelton (the only reason I can think to sit through Trojan War and Never Been Kissed) is a work of art herself.  Those eyes.  That neck.  Those teeth...Anyway, if you're a DVD buff, you'll love also the inclusion of Fiona Apple's video Across the Universe directed by Paul Thomas Anderson of Boogie Nights.  The Pleasantville package also includes an edifying commentary track by Gary Ross, and a second commentary by seasoned score composer George S. Clinton.  There are also featurettes on art design, special effects work, and the complete screenplay which you can print on your PC.  Keep up the excellent work New Line, we really appreciate it. May others learn from you. "},{"Title":"A delightful fable for the 90s (and the 50s)","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm glad I didn't know going in that this was one of those written-directed-and-produced-by monsters.  I still would have bought my ticket, but with an unhealthy skepticism--an inner voice would have been whispering, Vanity project.vanity project.vanity project!  After all, there is something to be said for having an open mind. Writer/director/producer Gary Ross (screenwriter of Big and Dave) has dreamed up an oddball alternate reality in which everyone lives in a 1950s television sitcom not unlike Leave It to Beaver.  Culture clash ensues when two 1990s teen-agers (Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon) find themselves somehow part of the perfect black-and-white TV family.  Their new parents (William H. Macy and Joan Allen) are blithely unaware that anything untoward has happened.  The developing melodrama is delightful and full of gentle humor.  The four principals are fine--Joan Allen, in particular, delivers a devastating performance as a mother  realizing her own ignorance and learning about the fullness of life from her children. The supporting cast (which includes Don Knotts, Jeff Daniels, and J. T. Walsh in one of his final roles) is wonderful.  The integration of color with black-and-white cinematography is stunning, at times direct, at others subtle.  The underlying messages are not hidden, but are there in plain view for anyone to find. "},{"Title":"A good but unnecessary criticism of 50's situation comedies","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If life in the 50's had been like that shown in 50's television series, this would be an O.K. but unnecessary movie.  However, 50's television was nothing like the real life of the time, and most people knew that, and laughed at the bland, whitewashed version television insisted on showing. Unfortunately, Pleasantville implies that this was the way people lived and thought then, thereby setting up a series of straw men, and shooting them down.  Teenagers didn't have sex, there weren't pregnancies and STDs, the pointy bras weren't noticed?  Come on!   The only things that have changed are that now such things are spoken of openly, and we don't punish behavior and consequences as cruelly as we did then.If you want to know what the past was like, there are better sources than old television programs. "},{"Title":"Manipulative, Condescending, and Pretentious","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Rather than fessing up to the fact that he is attempting to make a subversive mainstream movie, Gary Ross utilizes a thesaurus of cinematic devices (such as oversaturated images from our collective American subconscious) to tell a moralistic story, and I think inescapably, an argument in favor of, or at least receptive to, the colorization of classic films.I liked the film technically.  But I question the simultaneously auteristic and totalitarian in-your-face message. I'm not angry, just disappointed with the demagoguery, no matter how creatively employed.My guess is that most audiences do not like to feel preached to, even if, and particularly if, the message is the force-feeding of tolerance.Many films, such as A Clockwork Orange, more matter-of-factly explore repression, self-repression and the consequence of blindly accepting loaded imagery.Unlike Kubrick, Pleastantville gives the audience very little credit.Nevertheless, the shot of J.T. Walsh, exuberant from bowling a strike, is exceptionally brilliant, irrespective of whether or not it is an intentional allusion to Howard Hawks, et al.   "},{"Title":"The Truman Show aka Pleasantville","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The Truman Show seems to be far more subtle in portraying American society, whereas Pleasantville uses a big hammer to get its ideas across. Ouch! Score 8-4 "}{"Title":"Scatter Brained","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The consensus of this movie was that as people became passionate about something they changed color, however, this view did not come through clearly.  Instead some would interpret it on a literal level by which if you engaged in some form of sexual act you were transformed and this contradicts Witherspoon's transformation due to her passion for books.  Like I said the point doesn't come across as clearly as it could have.  For example when the teenage boy reads the beginning of books and it begins to fill in.  What point does that serve?  The movie tries to parallel people becoming passionate about something with the discrimination of people becoming newly colored.  There is a scene where a couple of black and white boys are taunting the other boy and his colored girlfriend.  Now at the end everyone finds out that colored and others are really alike, yet it isn't exactly the truth in the real world.  We will all have unique experiences that make us perceive life in a certain way.  As a society we should all accentuate our strengths, yet accomodate our weaknesses, however, this film doesn't really dwell on this aspect as it should.  Color will always be a race issue which has nothing to do with the issue of all of us having passion or compassion towards any type one type of entity or another. If I've confused you, this film will just confuse you more.  Great effects as far as putting color together with black and white. Other than that, it's best seen if you have a boring or rainy day in store on cable.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Top Notch","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't see this film until it came out on DVD.While I certainly would have preferred to see it on the big screen the DVD version is worth buying -- even if you have already seen the film.There are so many extra tracks that explain just how the effects were handled that it is really worth it.The technical aspects alone astounded me.The one dimensionality of the characters when they are in black and white is the major impetus of the story.Once they are able to think outside the box they become vibrant and truly alive -- and coincidentally in color.I saw this with a friend of mine from Great Britain that had not been exposed to the sitcoms of the 1950's American television.I had to explain to him that the people really were like that.That June Cleaver DID wear pearls to vacuum the living room; and that a toilet did not make an appearance on television until sometime in the mid-60's; and that every married couple really did always sleep in twin beds.This is a movie not to be missed. "},{"Title":"a visual masterpiece","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville, directed by Gary Ross, was a beautiful ride through time. Not only was this film well acted and well directed, but it had a remarkable story line and it was visual perfection. This film integrates color into the picture with absolute technical mastery. It is almost like The Wizard of Oz when the color literally explodes out of the screen. Prejudice and racism are dealt with as well throughout this film. The people who remain black and white will not allow the people who have turned color into their businesses or drink from their water fountains. These colored people cannot help the way they look and they are suppressed by the rest of the black and white society. The end of the film pulls everything together when two colored people are on trial and they manipulate the rest of the town to turn colored. I love the fact that nobody can turn color until they find something that they are truly passionate about, whether it be sex, art, music, or literature. Overall, this film is a true visual masterpiece with a new and interesting story line.  "},{"Title":"Its One of my favorite movies.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought Pleasantville was a great movie. It has Great Acting and Visual Effects. I think Pleasantville should have been nominated for Best Picture in the Oscars it was also funny. I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was seriously disgusted and ashamed to see that the Academy gives awards and props to movies that only touch the story. Pleasantville was a story that touched the imagination in everybody.  The ideas that are presented and the themes that are mentioned can not be taught in 2 semesters of a college course.  That is why many people didn't like it because it was too complicated for the regular movie goer.  The most interesting part was how the black and white people in the community called the people who had turned color colored much like how black people were treated before the 60's.  The music was also one of the most stirring that I've ever heard as well.  It really awakens you, much like how people who became colored in were awakened.  "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  Original plot and interesting characters (not to mention the technical aspect of the b&w/color imaging).  Thought that Tobey Maguire was very engaging as the lead role, Reese Witherspoon played out of place really really well, and Joan Allen added a very touching, understated role to the mix.  Got a little worried when it started getting a little preachy (references to the civil rights movement and even the Nazis), but they backed off before it got really out of hand.  All in all, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A triumph! Outstanding!","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gary Ross' directorial debut is as fine of a film as 1998 saw. With dazzling cinematography and fine performances he guides what appears to be a delightful comedy into waters so few venture, that which is profound and thoughtful. This is by no means a subtle film. However, it takes its premise and runs with it finding a theme of how change is a necessary and often unavoidable fact of nature that is very healthy. Wonderful.P.S. Randy Newman's score is Oscar-worthy. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise which deserved to be a bigger hit","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this film was one of the most original and interesting I have seen in a while.  It managed to be intelligent and thoughtful without being pretentious.  I urge anyone to see this. "},{"Title":"a great original film that is Trumanesque","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  1998 may go down as the year Hollywood reclaimed some vision for its movies thanks to movies like Pleasantville and The Truman Show.  What makes Pleasantville so great is that it has so many layers despite its lack of color.  When color is used for a character it means that that character has passed to a new level of understanding about themselves and their world. They've unlocked some hidden potential they've had within themselves.  I would like to take a moment to defend this movie. It portrays a 1950's sitcom and some have taken this to mean that the filmmakers had something against the 1950s.  I STRONGLY disagree with this.  The key that some forget is that it is a fantasy of two kids with potential thrust into a world that seems to have none and is trapped within is black and white sitcom limitations.  This world is what it is and always will be until the kids change it and turn it from a sitcom world to REAL life.  It is a must see movie and one of the decades top ten. "},{"Title":"A very, very underrated movie","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one of the greatest movies of 1998.  I think that it was also one of the most underrated films of the year.  In a year full of war, disaster, and Shakespearean films, this movie put a new twist on the fifties flashback movies.  Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon are two of the most under-appreciated teen actors of this generation.  They may still be young, but most of the parts that they play are very mature when compared to the teen bop movies that are coming out right now.  Joan Allen is still one of the most versatile actresses in Hollywood today.  William H. Macy always plays small roles that are played to perfection.  I must say that this cast probably couldn't have been chosen any better.  I think that this movie was fantastic and should have been nominated for more Academy Awards because, yes, it is that good. "}{"Title":"Touching Fluff That Gets A Bit Too Serious For Its Own Good...","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Gary Ross has done a nice job with PLEASANTVILLE, a fantasy picture that touches on the differences between morals and family matters then and now. A Leave It To Beaver clone, constantly watched by the hero, played by Tobey Maguire, represents an innocence and perfection he just can't find in his broken world.   His divorced Mom argues in the kitchen and Tobey turns the volume of Pleasantville up.  A Nickelodeon type marathon of the show is starting and the 2 kids (the sister played by an adorable Reese Witherspoon) argue over the remote control.  You figure out what happens next.The first portions of the film are very engaging, especially the absurdity with which the Witherspoon character sees this new black and white world. Slowly, she realizes there is a lot she can do to spice things up, like along the sexual vein.  The predictable world of the 50's sitcom, where the people know only what is possible on the show (similar to Woody Allen's PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO), generates laughs.  No one misses a basket, breakfast is always served, dinner on the able at 6, separate beds, and no knowledge of sex whatsoever.  We see the funny differences between reality and innocent fiction (even the books are blank inside) and people begin to turn to color after certain character traits are satisfied.  This is all hunky dory and sometimes wondrous to watch.  The weight Ross' screenplay takes on during the final third of the film is too heavy for the lightness of the previous acts.  I thought of Ray Bradbury's FAHRENHEIT 451 during one obvious scene and felt they should have left it a light-hearted charmer.You certainly must remember this is a film you must watch with an open imagination and a will not to ask questions.  There are many great things about the movie.  The black and white mixed with color is striking in appearance and the art direction and photography are absolutely beautiful. Some good performances, especially from Witherspoon and Joan Allen, are fitting.  Ross makes it all too serious when things start to turn racial. People with color in the pleasant black and white town are segregated and one question must be asked.  If the people in the town knew nothing about sex or anything else worldly, how do they know to turn aggressive and even violent when things start to change?  I know, disbelief must be suspended, but this was such a promising movie that lost its legs from the weight of the overblown message.  This is well-worth seeing, however.RATING 7 of 10 "},{"Title":"By far, in the top 3 movies of 1998","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The underlying themes of this movie are incredible. The writer is a genius for adding so much depth to the script. The movie isn't about getting stuck in a television show from the 50's; it's about entering a society where things are normal, and an external force comes in and destroys the known society, and converts it into something it's not meant to be. I can compare it to the Prime Directive of Star Trek fame. It's like the degeneration of America that took 100 years, all fit into a 2 week period. This movie is great for anyone; from people that just want to see a fun movie, all the way to people that are serious thinkers. If you see any movie in the next few months, see this one, since it'll give you a new view on life, similar to What Dreams May Come has for many people. "},{"Title":"PERFECT","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Undeniably Pleasantville is the best film of 1998.  It had the best acting, story, and origional concept.  Pleasantville receives a perfect 10.  No film has moved me so much in the longest time. "},{"Title":"A delightful, under-rated surprise","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Finally a movie which delivers what the Truman Show, for all its hype, failed to do show that the best fantasy world you can construct is never as good as the real world, regardless of its faults and shortcomings. This is the best mainstream Hollywood film since the Shawshank Redemption, and in a year of overhyped, over-Oscar-nominated 'great' films it quietly succeeds brilliantly in what it sets out to do. Joan Allen is breathtaking as she discovers (not just in the bath!) everything that was missing from her life before, and the cynical 90s kids get a chance to be something other than merely cool and nihilistic, as all other teenagers seem to be portrayed in today's movies. It's a film about what matters in life, and the fact that it can do that without endless schmaltz, flag-waving, syrupy ballads or ponderous narration makes it that much fresher and magical. This is a true feel-good cinema experience, and it's a pity more films dont leave you like that. "},{"Title":"Deconstructing the '50's","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What would life really be like if 1950's tv sitcoms reflected it accurately? This is the premise which Pleasantville addresses. I found the film both fun and enlightening. What a long way we have come since the black and white days, when bodily functions were never acknowledged on tv! One could argue that we have gone too far in the opposite direction; but I believe that one of the main points made in Pleasantville is inherent in suppression of depiction of sexuality and other difficult topics is an underlying, unspoken, and largely unconscious intellectual fascism.  It is preferable to risk over-saturation, than to repress discussion in the first place. As the characters in Pleasantville become more rounded and human, influenced as they are by the 1990's aliens, they take on hue. As they become colored they suffer fearbased bigotry. It is only education which relieves their plight.      "},{"Title":"What happened to the Oscar nomination?","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was easily one of the best movies I saw all year, and this was a good year for movies.  Yet this movie was overlooked in the best picture category, not only at the Oscars, but also at the Golden Globes, which has TWO best picture categories.  Virtually every review I saw for this movie placed it ahead of The Thin Red Line (including the ratings here on the IMDB), yet it got nominated and Pleasantville got shelved.This movie was original, and NOT a carbon copy of the Truman Show, as some have suggested.  I found it a clever approach to exploring such issues as racism, and I found most of the characters to be rich and diverse.  It was funny and yet poignant at the same time- a combination of comedy and drama that I believe tends to make the best movies.  And I never thought someone saying Where's my dinner? could be so funny.  William H. Macy was also robbed of an Oscar, once again.  The rest of the cast was good, too.As far as the comment that Joan Allen turning into colour didn't make her radiant what movie were you watching? We were not supposed to view her as the next supermodel.  Attaining colour was not about physical attractiveness.  This movie was about discovering yourself, which is what she did, and as far as I am concerned, that was all that was supposed to make her radiant.  Her beauty laid inside her.  If this is not the message a person took away, I could understand them not liking the movie, just as I have not liked movies that I did not get the point of.  If you did not get the point, maybe it would be worthwhile to watch the movie again, because it really is excellent.I also found the notion of the people in Pleasantville only becoming real throughout the course of the movie intriguing.  It is interesting to think of an entire world being created right before your very eyes, to watch the townspeople evolve and develop and mature, a miniature version of our own world, plagued by the same problems and enriched with the same joys.  I've found it interesting to imagine what might happen if such a world were to be created- how quickly would that world become like our own, or would it become that way at all? I don't think the goal of this movie was to instill such thoughts in people, but it did so in me nonetheless, and that is one thing I enjoy in a movie, for it to be thought-provoking.  And Pleasantville, being the intelligent and complex-yet-simple film it is, accomplishes this nicely.  And this is why it deserved an Oscar nomination, aside for for best costume design.  I am not saying it should have won (I haven't seen Shakespeare in Love yet), but it certainly deserved the honour of a nomination. "},{"Title":"One of the most compelling two hours I spent in cinema this year","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A great movie which makes excellent use of the possibilities of modern techniques while focussing on a strong story. The only letdown was the scene with the burning of books which seemed a much too obvious moralic reference to the Nazi era in Germany. Nevertheless, one of the most compelling two hours I spent in cinema this year. "},{"Title":"Extremely timely","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One thing that I think people are overlooking in their comments is the way that a film like Pleasantville mirrors what's going on in America today. Pleasantville shows how inevitable it was that the restrained society of America in the 50's would have to naturally give way to social change.   And when we look at today's politically correct society, which tries to make everything banal and harmless (much like a 50's TV show...) we begin to see the little bits of color peeking through the black and white, and we realize that it won't be long before the world we're living in changes into something that really will bring about racial and gender equality, rather than just give things a new name...  "},{"Title":"Back to basics - but not without quality","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well everyone, Mr. Oscar has gone and done it again.  They have once again over-looked one of the most important and amazing films of our time.  I understand that the Academy wants to look good and promote other countries films, but let's not ignore the quality at home!  This film worked on so many levels, and once you can get past the cheesy openings then you have before you such an amazing film.  From start to finish I sat in my theatre seat literally glued to the screen.  Yes, the film can seem preachy, but only if you let it.There were two different films shown in this movie. The one on the surface - the one that everyone can enjoy.  But then there is the next level - the film only the few and lucky will get to see and appreciate.  I urge anyone who has any taste and or respect for film to see what I consider to be truly one of the most amazing and soon to be classic films of our time. "},{"Title":"Superb.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What can I say about Pleasantville?  Mere words cannot describe the impact this movie has. From reading other people's comments, it seems as though they are the kind of people who watch individual scenes and don't bother to look at a film as a whole.The relationships that are fostered in the movie between all the characters in the movie really provokes one's train of thought.I have to admit, I've seen the movie twice, and am bracing myself to purchase it on DVD when it's released in March.  I've cried every time towards the end of the movie.  No spoilers here, but I just find myself becoming emotionally tied up in the characters every time I see Pleasantville.I think the Academy really has to get off their high horse and actually take a look at all they year's offerings before they make their decisions. Pleasantville had Oscar written all over it, and it seems as though the Academy was illiterate.If Pleasantville is still running in second-run in your town and you haven't seen it yet, GO!  Don't wait! "}{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise (no pun intended)","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having seen a lot of poor movies recently I guess I was in for a pleasant surprise. That came last weekend as I went to see the premiere of Pleasantville.The acting is good, the story quite good and supplies us with a good amount of laughs, smiles and other merry reactions. My only regrets about the movie are when it turns serious seeking to outdo To Kill a Mockingbird and the fact that there were only about thirty people watching.All in all, very good value for money. "},{"Title":"This movie is awesome! It is one of my favorites of the year so far. Everyone should see it!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is awesome! It is one of my favorites of the year so far. Everyone should see this movie. Gary Ross is a genius. William H. Macy has the 50's TV dad down perfect. and once again Jeff Daniels shows his versatility he can do both comedy and drama equally well. There were some things I didn't like about this movie. I thought that the affair between Mr. Johnson and the mother was unnecessary.Rating 9  "},{"Title":"a movie that inspires, yup it's black&white, well kinda","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i loved seeing this movie in the theatre. the problem was i was one of the few people in it.  not enough people saw this amazing movie.  people are so scared to see something in black and white.  well for those people this movie gradually fades to color.  it's a story about how much what's inside you matters, your heart, your soul, and your mind.  and it's visually stunning.  it's not the best movie in the world, but it deserves more recognition than it received.  damn it people, go out and see this, it's definitely not a sleeper black & white.  p.s. FOR THE GUYS, there's some hot girls in it, and they're wearing bullet bras.-YOWIE "},{"Title":"best of the best","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was the best movie of 1998.  Full of great special effects, a wonderful script, fantastic cast. But beyond all of that the movie is an inspiration for living life to the fullest.   "},{"Title":"The most amazing movie I have ever seen.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film will always be overshadowed by the overly-hyped Truman Show because that had an idea which was equally outlandish but heavily advertised.  The difference is that Pleasantville actually followed through with their idea and made an amazing work out of it.  The cinematography, script, and plot are all far and away the best I have ever seen since classics like Casablanca and Citizen Kane.  It is, quite simply, the best movie of all time.  The production company was stupid for not advertising it. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie, possibly overlooked.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie about freedom and the power of collectives (governments) to suppress what makes life worth living.  I found this movie to be awe-inspiring and I left the movie theater thinking.I did not see the book as attacking the fifties so much as it was attacking political systems and philosophies that attack the liberty of the people it encompasses.Pleasantville is possibly my favorite movie of all time. "},{"Title":"Expect something different when you go to see this movie.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was surprised when I went to see this movie. It was not at all what I expected. It was much more. I recently made a dramatic change in my life and this movie beautifully depicts the color change can bring to your life. Many 90's viewers will not find this movie fast enough for them. This movie relies on a strong script, beautiful cinematography, and fine performances. It delivers all three in spades. This movie will haunt me for a long time. "},{"Title":"Welcome to UN-Pleasantville","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie shows us how sterile and stifling the 50's really, were; except that is uses humor and satire to deliver its message. One aspect of the film not covered by any of the critics is the similarities between this movie and Back to the Future George McFly saves his girlfriend, Marty McFly's mother from Biff Tanon and his gang. Our boy, David Wagner AKA Bud Parker saves his TV mom from Whitey and his gang. He is however, not so lucky saving his cheerleader girlfriend, Margaret Henderson from attack. Margaret has a torn umbrella and a torn dress, and is crying. Later she is crying when he leaves her. "},{"Title":"An excellent film (and Leonard Maltin is the worst, most hateful critic towards movies in movie, and world, history)","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film put chills down my spine, and a hundred smiles down my face.  It's about people that are very rigid in their ideas, interests, and traditions. But...I think it is a lot more than that.  It says that we should want to think of life as an opportunity for change...and that we should love life in these times, not wish we had it like the olden days---actually it gives so many messages (which I love) that are so ambiguous that I cannot really explain, just watch the movie...and don't listen to cynical critics. "},{"Title":"Amusing beginning; amazing middle; awful end","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Beautiful, stunning visual effects (think THE WIZARD OF OZ's contrast between black & white and vibrant color in each frame) make up for the unclear premise and weak ending in this interesting film.  PLEASANTVILLE tries to address too many issues and leaves too many important points unfinished and unexplained -- you'll leave wondering why the '90s mom doesn't notice her daughter is missing and where, in fact, the real Bud and his sis disappeared to when they were replaced -- but will still take your breath away and make you ponder not only the plot but How'd they do that ?!  Especially notable performances by the actors playing Betty and Bud; the latter amazingly seems to realize that every phrase he emits is too incredibly pithy and insightful for a no-longer-nerdy high school senior yet gracefully accepts the challenge.  A pleasant film; see it and make up a better ending of your own. "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is unbelievable.  I cannot describe how good this movie is.  You have to see it while it is still in the theaters.  You won't believe the colors.   "},{"Title":"New kind of movie !","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville surprised me. I thought I would be watching a simple comedy, laugh a little and yawn a lot... NO! this movie is really a revelation. It talks about racism and incomprehension in a whole new way! It's fresh and original. Finally something different. But the end left me confused Pleasantville didn't need a happy end like this...  "},{"Title":"Destined to Become a Classic","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a wonderful fantasy/comedy that is literally a social commentary on two clashing decades. I thoroughly enjoyed it and wouldn't be surprised if it took home some Oscars, especially for Cinematography. The visuals are stunning and the acting is as good as it gets, with featured performances by Reese Witherspoon, Tobey Maguire, the late J.T. Walsh, and Joan Allen (sure to garner an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress). If you haven't seen this movie, you are missing out on two hours of pure emotional, inspirational entertainment of the best kind. Rating A "},{"Title":"Superb movie; Best of the year!","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  The best I have seen in a very long time. There are movies that can make you laugh, movies that can hold you in suspense, and movies that can scare you, but in my mind movies such as this one, which make you think, are the most worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Provacative and Profound. Some viewers will not get it.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is a provocative and profound and is quite intellectual in a non-intellectual way. Some viewers, particularly those who see life in black and white terms, will not understand this film or find it boring. There is a lot of social and political  commentary but it is indirect. The film is a metaphor of American history form the 1950's to the present. It addresses conservative and progressive thinking, feminism, racism, diversity and sexism in subtle ways. People change to full color as they grow and their potential for free expression awakens in ways that often challenges the conventional.Some Generation X's may have trouble understanding this film. Many Baby boomers will love it because they were growing up during them 50's and understand the transformation that has occurred in the US.The brother in the film is cautious and conservative and admires life in the TV series. The sister on the hand is very daring and uninhibited. When the two are propelled back in time, the sister becomes the initial agent for change in Pleasantville. The brother is much more cautious and initially tries to keep things as they were. By the end of the show the son becomes the force that transforms Pleasantville into a modern town that has many possibilities. The sister in contrast chooses to stay in Pleasantville and matures into a better and more conventional person.This file can be appreciated at different levels. This is one of the smartest films I have ever seen. It is so smart that it will go over the heads of a lot of people particularly those die hards that still think Richard Nixon was a good president. "},{"Title":"Less there than meets the eye","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I found the movie very slow, very uneventful, and quite boring.The novelty of the plot and the black-and-white to color transition were all there was to it...the characters were as flat as the B/W Pleasantville regulars. "},{"Title":"Surprise film at LFF","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville seen as the Surprise Film at the London Film Festival. Excellent ! It works on so many levels, and the gradual change from B&W to colour works really well. To be recommended to everyone.  "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing...","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I read several of the reviews on IMDB before going to thetheater Friday night and read several differing accounts.  Ireally believe that those that did not like it, just didn't getit.....  There was a lot of symbolism in this movie.  I think itwas very well done and enjoyable.  Do yourself a favor and seethis movie "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but it could have been great","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really was looking forward to seeing this movie, and in many ways it justified my expectations. However, once again Hollywood had to throw in too much sex and spoil the mix. It was OK for comedy, and the first backseat scene, where Reese Witherspoon introduces her date to the joys of sex, was pretty funny. But the bathtub scene (that's all I'll say!) made a lot of people I was with uncomfortable, and didn't add all that much. While the mother was a pivotal character, she could have gained her color in other ways. (I know, I know... this sounds prudish, but it was supposed to be the 50's for heavens sake!)The movie really got good towards the end, when the completely obvious racial symbolism started showing up. 'Pleasantville' did a great job of showing the irrational fears that people get when they encounter something different. And the special effects were some of the best I'd ever seen - not only were they great technically, but unlike most movies, they actually served the story!Overall, I liked the movie. The message about being yourself is right on, and much needed... but in general, the movie could have been more effective if it had been presented more tastefully. "},{"Title":"Exquisite, penetrating","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a beautiful movie!  The idea was brilliant and the skill involved in the project was artful excellence. I laughed aloud and kept back a tear. Tobey Maguire, Joan Allen, William H. Macy and Jeff Daniels were marvelous. One scene is particularly chilling, one extremely tender, and others reminded me what a special gift is 'choice'.  There's a feeling of rightness about how the plot unfolds and although I was so wrapped up in the movie that I hadn't given any thought to how will this end? the resolutions were perfect. On a strictly visual level this movie is beautiful and amazing! "}{"Title":"A lovely film to watch","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an exquisitely beautiful film.  Pleasantville possesses some of the most beautiful cinematography I've ever seen in my life.  The transitions from black and white to colour are superlative, and the scene where Tobey Maguire's character and his girlfriend drive up to Lover's Lane is quite possibly the single greatest filmic image ever.William H. Macy is fabulous in this film, as he is in most of his work.  He IS the father from the 1950's, with that inherent rigidity and innocence that the perfect world of television was enveloped in.  The rest of the cast played their parts well, but on the whole, didn't really do anything extraordinary.  Nonetheless, the film is a must-see.This film will win best picture and best cinematography.  Just as Titanic (though it was a significantly flawed film) had at least one element everyone could relate to or enjoy, so too does Pleasantville.  See it and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A rare comedy that is deep, complex and maybe a bit too ambitious for its own good.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It is no surprise that Gary Ross --the writer of BIG and Dave-- once again brings a very smart comedy to the big screen, but what is surprising is the level of directorial stewardship that he brings to a very complex undertaking. PLEASANTVILLE is a wonderful laugh-out-loud satire that deals with issues such as racism, fascism, artistic freedom, individuality, sexual mores, 90's amorality, group control and some other things I probably missed. But Ross wraps his messages in ambiguity and, most importantly, entertainment. Any movie that uses Don Knotts effectively has really got its wits about it. The performances from every single actor --including extras-- are Kubrickian in their perfection and often hilarious. Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon and Joan Allen are standouts in this standout cast. Maguire is very good at showing the thought processes going on inside his head behind his eyes. Witherspoon's vixen is devious without being mean. And Allen, like she did in FACE/OFF, brings a heart and soul that is key to the amazing things going on around her and to her. This movie tops THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY on the laugh meter and furthermore the way Allen's scene in the bathtub pays off is as outrageous as ...MARY's hair gel scene. The first hour of this movie is as funny as anything I've ever seen. I haven't even mentioned the look of this film yet. It is fantastic. The seamless blend of color and black-and-white ceases to become an issue very early on. You accept this parallel universe for what it is and that is the highest compliment you can pay to the effects crew. Fortunately Ross doesn't miss any opportunity to use it for laughs and social comment. Some people have criticized the movie for waffling on the themes it speaks to, but I feel that any ambiguity that Ross built into the script was simply meant to avoid any preaching and let the audience make up its own mind about what the movie means. My only real criticism of PLEASANTVILLE is that it may be a bit too ambitious for its own good, but I'd much rather have a movie that tries too hard than too little. Next to SAVING PRIVATE RYAN this is my favorite film this year so far.          "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Much like one of my other favorite films of the year (The Truman Show), Pleasantville is a funny movie based around TV with a very strong message about society.  Unlike Truman, it's not quite as subtle with the message, but that's not a bad thing.  The movie is hilarious at times, though it's not quite a comedy.  The imagery (the use of color contrasted with the black and white) is very neat, and works incredibly well for the film.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Truman show with a pulse","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While this movie presented things that are unpleasant (pre-marital sex, adultery, prejudice against people different than you), The large unpleasantness was living outside one's mode of behavior, if only for a little while.The only thing this had in common with the Truman show was the presence of Television (therefore, why don't we compare it to the Cable Guy?)  Truman Show was such a surface level film, making it so popular with the common folk, I reckon.Don't misunderstand, I thought those unpleasant things were inappropriate, but it forced me to examine the quality of life of the initial setting.In contrast, the displaced kids learned to re-orient themselves as well.....Sure it wasn't a family film.  But it did make me think. "},{"Title":"It's a brilliant, nostalgia-puncturing comedy","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a brilliant, nostalgia puncturing comedy that should be a lesson to all those who long for the good ol' days.  Writer/director Ross has come up with a powerful visual motif that shows what films can do that other media like books and theater cannot.  And, like Preston Sturges, he knows the best way to make social commentary effective is to get the audience laughing first.  In addition to a great script and fine direction, there are also dead-on performances by William Macy and Joan Allen.  Bravo!  "},{"Title":"review","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was an incredible movie. The effects were very neat, and the plot was very interesting. The whole being sucked into the tv story is old, but this movie puts a very new spin on things. I would recommend this movie to anybody. "},{"Title":"One flaw.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Only flaw is what happens to Jennifer in the end.  Mixes fantasy with reality and ruins the allegory.  Otherwise, an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Don't let the comedy genre fool you.","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After viewing all the previews; after hearing all the commentary; we just spent a very memorable evening with a very memorable movie.  The claim to being a comedy is true, but the social comment is much more a part of the movie that few of us were expecting.  It is outstanding!!  Consider it a must see on your list.  (And no, I'm not doing the dishes tonight.) "},{"Title":"Maybe the good old days aren't quite as good as we want to remember. . . .","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  We want to remember the good, and we want to forget the less than perfect. Pleasantville was good in some ways, but only those who had been somewhere else could measure the good in it against the bad-- the limits, the lines you could not cross.  The story is simple, the answers we have to provide are not.  We cannot forget the past, neither can we live in it. HWS "},{"Title":"See it. . . Now!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What an incredible movie... It was much better than I expected. Excellent job acting, especially from Maguire, and the woman who played the mother. (Her name leaves me offhand.) I had such an enjoyable time. The plot and the writing was fantastic. Really enjoyed watching the effects with the black and white and color combined. Looked very realistic. SPOILERS Look for this one great scene with Maguire, the Mom, and makeup. Was not expecting the romance that I saw there. But, the whole sex thing bothered me a lot. I would have given it a 10 if they had not placed so much emphasis on that. This is definitely a must-see. Ladies, we definitely have a new looker in Tobey Maguire. Check it out! )  "}{"Title":"It's not just about black and white...","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is much deeper than expressed by any previews or trailers. With many subtle references to discrimination based on race, sex, sexual orientation, etc. this strikes me as being a very revelational film. Perhaps viewers may see themselves in this, whether as the hunter or the hunted. very top-notch directing and use of effects. "},{"Title":"This is a great film that let's you wonder what perfection really is.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw Pleasantville I thought it was going to be a cheesy comedy about some teenagers getting sucked into the television. But in actuality it is a movie about a kid, David, who's fed up with the reality that he lives in. (i.e the violence, disease, and divorce) So he picks up the remote and turns on a cheesy old 50's show called Pleasantville to escape reality. His sister, Jenifer, is a super-popular slut who gets mixed up in the whole sucked into the t.v. business. But when the brother and sister duo start adding some life to the card-board cut-out characters and things start to turn colors does the real meat and brilliance of the movie begin.When things start to turn colors, life starts to breathe into the characters of Pleasantville. The color, of course, is symbolic for life and imperfection. Sure in black and white everything is nice but there is no joy and understanding. The color is the spice of life, like reading and music. For instance when David starts talking about where he comes from to a girl from Pleasantville, who's enjoying the colors and life, he tells her how horrible it is yet she says to him, it sounds exciting!This film asks the question, is perfection what it's cracked up to be? The answer is no. It shows us that the colors and souls and decisions of life are wonderful, even if the side products like war and poverty aren't that great. As David says, you can't stop something that's inside you. That is why Pleasantville is a movie that should not be missed by anyone who is a fan of life.  "},{"Title":"Just plain fun!","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a fun movie that makes you think.  Themes of racism are touched on in a whole different and refreshing way, No Coloreds Allowed. The continuity of the colour/b&w effects are excellent. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I viewed this film on opening night and found it to be very disappointing. The acting was very good but the plot, which looked as though it could be very promising, was boring and seemed pointless for the most part.  I did notice they were trying to present a moralistic outcome but felt that the movie just wasn't funny, and dragged on too long.  "},{"Title":"Rave Review","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was simply amazing!  It was a multi-layered complex film that could be applied on many levels, but at the same time it was still fun!  The visual effects were awesome; they were reason enough to see the movie.  I'm going to see it again, and I recommend that everyone see it at least once. And the paperboy's reactions were priceless!  (Yeah Jason!) "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this with my ten year old son and we both thought it was just ok. In my opinion the movie starts off good and then hits a lull and never really picks up after that. Anyway, my son won a pennant at the movie theater and the movie has some good lines and the special effects with black and white are interesting. I do think you need to see this on the big screen to get the full effect.I gave this picture a 6 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville a Profound Look at our Unpleasant Future","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Every once in a while, a film comes along that makes a profound statement -- or a disturbing prediction -- about the society in which we live and its culture. Citizen Kane and Network are examples. Well, add Pleasantville to the list. In this fascinating and troubling film, we learn how comformity and familiarity can breed fascism. We also learn the pleasure and triumph of free thinking and of striving to explore new possibilities. We also learn the rewards, and the price, of enriching our lives and encouraging others to do so. Pleasantville is much more than a spoof of '50s TV sitcoms. Viewers who consider it so are missing a much greater point. It's really about how we are condemned to a life of bliss on the surface, yet much deeper emotional blandness. We are condemned, that is, if we don't cherish individuality and dare to recognize our differences as our strengths and use them to better ourselves. "},{"Title":"It was wonderful!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to go see it with my brother, thinking it would pass the time on a boring sunday afternoon. Can't wait to see it again! "},{"Title":"A must-see film in spite of social commentary overkill.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Like a lot of movies from the late 90's, Pleasantville is enjoyable to watch from a visual beauty standpoint.  The scene where Bud and his girl are driving out to Lover's Lane when the apple blossoms start to turn pink was so beautiful that tears welled up in my eyes.The movie goes on for a long time with one cute scene after another without really making a point.  Then the second half of the movie bites off more than it can chew on social commentary, and goes off in so many directions.The best point that the movie makes is that art, music, and literature are vital to humankind, and without them our life is so vanilla that it is not worth living.  It makes a basic anti-censorship statement and Mary Sue, the slutty girl from the 90's, discovers new emotions within herself by reading Lady Chatterly's Lover and other classical literature. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Classic","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's easy for a movie to have a gimmick, more difficult for the gimmick to be pulled off with success, but Pleasantville does one better.  It uses its gimmick to become what I believe is a modern day classic.  This movie is a hybrid of The Truman Show and Back to the Future.  Not only is the movie a technical marvel, but the story is fantastic.  Blending elements of such historical events as segregation and McCarthyism, this movie tries (and wonderfully succeeds) in showing us what happens when a perfect little black and white sitcom community begins to turn to color, simply because its citizens begin to act like real human beings.  The movie isn't without it's flaws, is probably fifteen minutes too long, and in the year of Saving Private Ryan it's a shame this movie will be overlooked come Oscar time (for Best Picture and all-around great performances, particularly Jeff Daniels).  I only hope it receives an ample number of deserved nominations, for this is one of the true masterpieces of American cinema. "}{"Title":"This movie is inspirational","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I thought that it would be a comedy with an interesting situation plot.  I was wrong.  This movie has a ton of symbolism and a message that applies to every person who sees it.  I would highly recommend seeing this movie.  When I left the theatre, I left seeing in color.  I think that's the best thing you can ask of any movie--to open your eyes to things you hadn't seen before. "},{"Title":"Powerful Undertones","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the most underrated movies I've ever seen. So many powerful messages within the movie, most of all, how important it is to feel and experience the joys and sorrows of life. Joan Allen's character experiencing true love and passion for the first time. Reese Witherspoon's character finding fulfillment in personal growth. I found one the most important message from the movie is how important it is to embrace who you are, such as being gay, and the power of belief in yourself. To not be afraid of the beauty of being different. Another one of the undertones is color- being 'colored' for example, which certainly fits into the '50's mentality of African Americans. These are some of the reasons why this movie will always be so powerful. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Modern Fairy-Tale","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A lot of Folks have a knee-jerk reaction to this completely original Movie that satirically tackles a common conundrum...is it better to have complete Freedom or how much restraint and restrictions do we really need?Some miss the point. It is not that change is better for the People of Pleasantville, change is necessary. Because literally nothing ever happens there. They are stuck in a loop of repetitiveness and repression. A stilted Utopia where a team never loses and daily routines are never ever changed one bit. Its not that they need complete Freedom, they need some choices. To be able to read diversified thought, see Artistic representations and expressions and get in touch with their inner feelings.To leave Pleasantville the way it was would be cruel to the extreme.This is a wonderful and touching Movie with great Artistic touches and fine Performances all around. It handles its Philosophy and Premise quite well and is a hoot. One of the best Films of the Nineties and a treat for those willing to give its due without leaping to Religious and Social Ideology. This is just a fantastic modern Fairy-Tale and a dazzling piece of thoughtful Entertainment. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and Predictable","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Thanks to a TV repairman with dubious motives, two modern kids are zapped into an extremely dull caricature of a 50's sitcom. In the town of Pleasantville, the worst thing that ever happens is a cat getting stuck in a tree. (What ELSE would the fire department do all day?) The girl (Reese Witherspoon) immediately begins to tear things up. Though the boy (Tobey Maguire) initially likes things the way they were, he begins to change his mind. (SURPRISE ... NOT!)The town starts as black and white, though as things begin to change (for the better, according to the director), color appears. Kids begin having sex and become colorful because they have changed their way of thinking. (Why the girls never get pregnant is a mystery.) Tobey's mom gets colorful after a one-night stand with Jeff Daniels, and Tobey gains color after confronting a conservative stereotype bent on persecuting her. Reese gains color not because she's running around with all the guys like a ho (that's what she did before), but because she starts reading books.BIG SPOILER HERE The entire town gets full Technicolor treatment at the end! Actually, that was only a spoiler if you somehow failed to figure out halfway through what would happen at the end.Of course, we're not supposed to see what a wreck our protagonists made of the town. "},{"Title":"All thing old=bad.All things new=good.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" We all know that everyone in the past was a racist/homophobe/xenophobe,etc.,while everyone alive today is enlightened,but I get a bit worried when movies such as this indulge in back-slapping for the liberal elite. It might be worth reading,say Destructive Generation Second Thoughts About the '60s by Peter Collier & David Horowitz.The authors suggest that the anything goes-express yourself hedonism of the post-Pleasantville generation is expressed in broken marriages/higher murder rates,the spread of Aids,abortion,and sexual disease,while it's difficult now to find a family with a father in it. Are we really right to be smug about the past? I accept that we're ALL much better educated now (ho ho,or at least so the pass-rates suggest),but is it possible that OUR values might be time-specific,too,rather than TRUTHS revealed by Karl Marx and the 'scientist' Kinsey.Can it be that we're smug liberals,who might be replaced by conservatives or Muslims? Have they ever made a movie where people from the 50s hop into our time and show us up as hypocrites and fools in sexual/relationship matters? "},{"Title":"Overlong and too self-important","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville actually starts off, well, pleasant enough. Don Knotts of all people actually puts more life into this film than all of the young whippersnappers. However, what starts off as a nice silly little premise turns into something extremely flawed.There's one major fact that almost everyone forgets about this movie, especially when all the racism stuff starts and the film gets all preachy. The fact is, it is NOT about two kids going back in time to the nice and innocent (and white) 50's where their 90's ways clash, and when they turn colored the racism preaching begins. No, the truth is, the film is about two kids WHO GET INSIDE AN EXAGGERATED 50'S FAMILY TV SHOW. That is what everyone seems to forget when talking about Pleasantville.The show in the movie is supposed to be a takeoff on such shows as Leave It To Beaver, Donna Reed and other shows from the 50's which show the perfect white suburban life where mom cooks, dad goes to work, the boy plays ball and the girl thinks holding hands with a boy is going too far. However, those shows were exaggerations of their time, just like other shows in other decades were. How many times have you heard, about The Huxtables (The Cosby Show) in the 80's, that aw, no family I know is like that (especially black families, which even black people said many times over about the family)? How about The Brady Bunch, and countless other TV families? It's the same thing. Sure, the 50's were a more innocent time and morals were different, kids were better behaved and life was better...for some. Believe it or not people, Leave It To Beaver and Donna Reed were fantasies for an awful lot of people back then, just as family life in The Brady Bunch and The Cosby Show were fantasies for many people years later. That's why when the film starts with the racism stuff, where people who turned color from black and white (the coloreds in the movie), it is not a fair thing to do. Because the film is set in this unrealistic 50's TV show, and not just the 50's itself, it is not right to inject such real-life lessons where real life doesn't exist. And when the film actually imitates the shot from To Kill A Mockingbird where all the coloreds are all in the top seats in the courtroom, you can choke on the lessons being forced down your throat. It's during all this that the film gets real confused. All of a sudden it wants to preach, instead of entertain. Why didn't the film just somehow get those kids into the real 50's instead of a TV show? Because then there'd be no b/w people turning colored, which is an easy chance to do some preaching that racism is bad. It's odd that the best way to teach this lesson was for the movie to go into an exaggerated 50's TV show.For a film that tries to be so smart and clever, the film just kinda becomes, well, really dumb. You can see where everything is going miles and miles before it gets there throughout the entire film. This just may be the most blatantly predictable film I've personally ever seen. If there are any positives, it'd be that there are a lot of cool old cars to look at, as well as some pretty girls in 50's attire. But that's it.   "},{"Title":"I cannot believe I wasted two hours of my life on this crap.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just got done watching this movie and it was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I saw the preview for it and it actually looked pretty good and original. So I finally decided to rent it five years after it came out and I'm been regretting that decision since.Firstly, the fact that they get transported to Pleasantville via a remote control pretty much destroyed any credibility that the movie had. Throughout the movie, it seems like they want you to take it seriously but it is almost impossible given the far fetched premise. Why didn't they just make it so that Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon were originally from Pleasantville?Secondly, I kept thinking to myself the whole movie Why should I care about these people? They are from a sitcom. They are not real. I don't ever like remember watching The Brady Bunch or Leave It To Beaver and thinking Oh I feel sorry for these characters, I wish I could change their universe.Finally, nothing made any sense at all. They always ate and didn't go to the bathroom. They went to school but had no books. They never heard of sexual intercourse, yet how were they born? It made no sense when certain things changed colors.I can't believe how some people have raved about how great this movie was. Sometimes I think that if you get people to watch a blank screen for two hours, you'll get people who'll write in and say that was a cinematic masterpiece. Just because a movie is original doesn't mean it is good. Pleasantville is the classic example of that.  "},{"Title":"Thinly Veiled Social Commentary","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  So I sat through this movie and although there was a definitive feel good attitude throughout, reminiscent of fairy tales and family films...this movie just simply strayed into the realm of politics and social correctness. True, movies that try to rise above the screen should be praised for what they're trying to do, but when the motion is so blatant it just boggles the mind why they wouldn't come outright and say the things that they want to say in some other medium than to try to weakly conceal their commentary behind a feel-good flick. A major theme seems to be that sex adds color to your life, no matter what the potential repercussions. Pleasantville was so completely pleasant that kids can have rampant sex and no one suffers any consequences--only a little color. Or a woman can cheat on her husband and their only consequence is a little color and laughter. Come on. The movie seemed to really enjoy a portrayal of conservatism equals bland, boring and black and white while liberalism equals color and enjoyment. It took it to the level of some insane Do The Right Thing scenes in reverse where I was reminded of early south anti-Afro-American bias and hatred...but in this case it was the evil black and whites versus the good colored folks (referring to those people of Technicolor leanings). A few notes would be the performances of the entire cast . They were all simply astounding in their roles. Randy Newman's soundtrack was a bit upsetting, but then again that usually is. Without giving anything away, the ending was very flat. It seemed to me that the writer had no idea where he was going but he knew he wanted to make this social statement. With that accomplished, Gary Ross was stuck story wise, so you'll likely forget the last 20 minutes and remember the movie fondly or not. Simply put, I would tell persons to see the movie, you may even enjoy it...but don't let it desensitize you to the truth of reality. Like I said earlier, the feel good aspects of the movie may make it enjoyable for many, but that doesn't excuse the movie for what it's trying to say (and that quite poorly). You may think oh it is like real life...just remember, in the real world, there are consequences, in Pleasantville, there's just color.  "},{"Title":"Pablum masquerading as social commentary","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Racism bad. Woman good. Knee-jerk conservatism bad. Thoughtful liberalism good. One-dimensional people bad. Two-dimensional people good. Hate bad. Art good. Intolerance bad. Change good. Repression bad. Sex good. Fascism bad. Freedom good. Self-reflection good. Blaming others bad.Woman pretty. Art pretty. Flower pretty. Book pretty.I am reminded of the tag line Do You Get It?I am appalled at the lack of ingenuity this movie shows. Despite the black/white/color hook - which gets tired very fast - this is a by-the-book hit piece for things that were very safe to hit. There is no cleverness in the script anywhere - nothing that sparks and makes you think. It hides behind the very (tired) images and dialogue that it wants to take down, and then it presents them as new a different. I am appalled that this movie pretends to be deep social commentary when it's just trying to spoon-feed the viewer recycled material with a hook worthy of an I'm dreaming episode of a TV sitcom. It's like a salesman who steals your doormat and then tries to sell it to you because he knows it's something you would buy.Were the actors any good? It's hard to say because the script calls for them to act like they're two-dimensional characters all the way through the movie - this includes all the colorizations and modernizations. On that score, they did perfectly well.Leave this one on the shelf and watch Edward Scissorhands for a much better fairy tale with better sets, better direction, and a better script. "},{"Title":"Clever social satire","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville, the town, is a metaphor. Pleasantville, the movie, is an analysis.Tobey Maguire and Reese Witherspoon star as two American teenagers who magically enter the black-and-white world of Pleasantville through their television set, where they are trapped in a 1950s era of living.The social satire is excellent. The parallels drawn between the squeaky-clean '50s and the grungy late '90s are actually rather realistic so far as outer layers go. In the film, Maguire's character takes it upon himself to live in harmony but his sister decides to pollute the minds of the town inhabitants by having sex with every boy in sight.Soon the pale world of Pleasantville is springing to life with vibrant colors. The more sin enters the town, the more it blooms into our present-day environment.Pleasantville is a really clever satire of society and also a clear allegory for racism. It has a lot of things going on but manages to stay funny enough to recommend solely as a silly comedy to those who demand less intelligence from their films.Overall this is funny and clever and biting and probably much better than anyone ever thought it would be. "}{"Title":"A Missed Opportunity In A Nice-Looking Film","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" One is always in danger of asking too much from a mere comedy, but this film does set itself as a sociological commentary and so invites the criticism on that score.As such, the film is a big disappointment. There is no doubt it looks great and the actors do a fine job, but there is a missed opportunity here. Somewhere else a person has commented that this is the usual Hollywod left-wing drivel, and while I certainly do not agree with the sentiment, there is the beginning of a pertinent point in that the film fails to be a two-way street vis a vis its critique of the respective eras that it pictures. While portraying the fifties as shallow and repressive and sexless it fails to address how changing that is necessarily an improvement, given the times we are living through, and the concerns we are living with. There could have been both a pleasant comedy, and a nice dialectical argument in which neither side wins but both benefit from the investigation. Instead, it is a rather flat-footed film, happy to settle for an easy answer. In truth there ARE very real advantages to the fifties lifestyle, as there are problems. And the same with the more modern era. A comedy works best when it is closest to some sort of valid truth, and this one seems very shallow indeed. "},{"Title":"Excellant Movie","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this movie, I really do. I mean, there are TV Series that are made into movies and then there are movies made about TV. Tobey McGuire (pre-Spiderman) and Reese Witherspoon (pre-Legally Blonde) play a brother and sister who are sucked into an old Fifties series through the magic of Don Knotts who is so wonderfully cast. Instead of going through the farce of meeting the Cleavers or the Andersons (the Bewitched house appears in the background once), they start bringing the real world into the show with them. First it starts out by accident, and then it turns into a new fad among the citizens of Pleasantville. It's a bit Kafkaesque and a bit Twilight Zone as Reese first hates what has happened and then gradually accepts it. Tobey is wonderful and perfectly cast as he issues just the right amount of awe and wonder for the role. Reese and Marley Shelton (Sandlot) are both very beautiful actresses who further heighten the mood for me. The movie as a matter of fact returns the silver screen to the magic and innocence of movies from the Forties. A few dangling plot points leave me wondering if the Reese and Tobey's mother (Jane Kaczmarek, Malcom in the Middle) ever realize they are gone ? Is this like The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe where no matter how long you're gone, you only return a few minutes after you left ? Does Pleasantville join the real world or does it just update itself in whatever reality it exists ? It probably doesn't matter. I'd watch this movie over and over for Reese anyway. "},{"Title":"It was a good thing for Pleasantville....","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It was a good thing for Pleasantville that Barney Fife (Don Knotts) gave that hokey remote (now there's a quality premise for ya) to the right teenagers... I mean, WOW! What if the remote got into the hands of kids that didn't believe in promiscuous sex? I actually know some kids who still hold conservative values (and believe it or not, they are happy, and I know this because they are in color!!!), and what if it got into their hands? I mean what a disaster this film would have been if Barney didn't send a girl who was willing to seduce a black and white character from an old TV show on the first night she's there, without even getting freaked-out about her strange new circumstances (which convinced me that she qualified for her first gang-bang video!!). Really, Pleasantville was very lucky because the remote wasn't even meant for her, even though she was the catalyst to the town finding itself. Of course, David (Bud) is an excellent brother! Not concerning himself when his sister is tells him that she's had all kinds of sex, but staying focused on ridding a 50's fantasyland of it's values, he learned in the end that no place is perfect while helping poor Pleasantville understand the power of choice.Just in case you haven't figured it out, this film disgusted me. Once again we are indulged by the minds of those who detest absolutes yet weave a tale framed in an absolute ideology! I commend Gary Ross, the book burning was a good touch. This movie was politically and socially motivated. Absolutely teaching that Conservatism is bad and Liberalism is good. Choice? I see Ross making a sequel... this time maybe having kids come from out of Pleasantville to the present, maybe getting suspended when they pray in school,or maybe getting blown away after being asked if they believe in God or not!!! This movie should have been about moral decay, not evolved enlightenment!However, I did feel that the special effects as well as the acting was fantastic. That's why a gave it a 4... nope... that's right I gave it a 3. I took a point off just because it was rated too high! I stand alone here in the IMDb's user comments area, and I'm still in color!! How about that? "},{"Title":"Dullville","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie Pleasantville was based upon an interesting premise, but turned out to be a slow moving, boring film.  The social commentary was too overt and simplistic.  It reminded me of the awful film Toys, starring Robin Williams.  Although the acting was good, the characters were as boring and lifeless in color as they were in black and white.  "},{"Title":"Inconsistently developed, but clever, magical and amusing","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Once they magically enter the black-and-white world of a 1950s TV sitcom, squabbling siblings Reese Witherspoon and the ingratiating Tobey Maguire instinctively bring with them their '90s sensibilities, which causes havoc and miracles. Strange though that the residents of Pleasantville are immune to miracles. Gary Ross's writing seems to skip over these developments in order to push the plot forward, but I would rather ponder the details. When Maguire tells a slick-haired teen tough to get the hell outta here, the kid doesn't even react to word 'hell'. Has the town--by this point--become that jaded already? Still, flaws and all, I really enjoyed the idea here, and Ross as a director gets fabulous performances from everyone, particularly Witherspoon (who, up to this point, had left me cold). Not the fluffball, fish-out-of-water comedy I was expecting. A lot of thought went into this, and a lot of emotion comes out. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Pleasantville &#x97; A profound movie with a light hearted facade","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville can be enjoyed by everyone and watched on a regular basis. The depth of its analysis on how we judge others, how we facet ourselves to fit, on bigotry, education, and civil society is well hidden by an all enveloping funny light tirade.Anyone can enjoy the humor of the movie, which has a rib-cracking prevalence in the beginning. However, if you so choose, you can easily explore all the issues it brings up as the story line develops.All the characters are well played. Tobey McGuire is certainly giving a much better performance than in any of his Spiderman movies where there's little room for psychological development. Reese Witherspoon is adorable as she explores the evolving duality of Jennifer. And Joan Allen will tug at each and every one of your sensible chord.Visually, its all subtleties and perfection. The dialogs are powerful, the story entrancing, the editing flawless, as is the scenario.You can watch it many times, until you get every nuance, and then you'll watch it some more just appreciate the real nature of the movie and how it all comes together.A must. "},{"Title":"A perfect metaphor for spiritual enlightenment","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not sure if this movie translated the same way to other people.. On the surface it is a light comedy, perhaps a satire on modern families and values. But wow, did it his me on such a deep level. One by one, the people of this black and white town begin to burst spontaneously into color, or 'wake up.' Even the scene where Joan Allen climaxes in a bathtub to a tree lighting ablaze outside was so meaningful on so many levels, the orgasm, the water, the fire... And it left me with a very positive feeling about life and these kinds of awakenings that can and do happen very literally to certain people. Those people will understand this film more clearly... Spectacular dream like imagery, but very 'user friendly' in a sense that it is universally understandable, but also very surreal... "},{"Title":"Not a very challenging movie","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This was not a challenging movie for Hollywood, ideologically. How difficult it must have been to convince a studio to fund a film in which Smaltown, America is shown for the homogeneous, prudish, uncreative and, worst of all, boring, place that it is.You get the sense the director had an affair and this movie was his attempt to convince his wife it was better for everyone that he did. It's a stupid idea and an entire feature length movie saying as much just shouldn't be taken seriously.The acting was good, the casting was good, the technical gimmick of selectively coloring things was all right (hadn't we been colorizing films for several decades by this point?). But the arrogant premise was just too much. "},{"Title":"Apples and Oranges","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Comparing 1950s television programming to 1990s television programming is like comparing apples to oranges. The movie suggests that 1950s viewers would have liked TV better if it was more like the 1990s.What the movie doesn't tell you is that 1950s TV was different because the 1950s were different. Viewers wanted escape more than reality. Without the birth control pill, the fear of pregnancy was greater. The Civil Rights movement was in its infancy. TV was new. So was Rock and Roll. People were more afraid of Communism and nuclear attack. Kids said prayer in schools. One income families were much more common.All of these things had changed by the 1990s, and television had to adjust to the times.Trashing 1950s programming and portraying actors from that era as naive idiots didn't accomplish anything aside from making me mad.I gave the movie a 5 out of 10 because I enjoyed Don Knotts' performance and the 1950s sets in black and white were a nice change of pace from the movies I normally watch. I also liked the change of attitudes about the past on the part of Reese Witherspoon and Tobey Maguire as a result of their 1950s experience.I have the movie and watch it occasionally, but always find myself losing interest after Don Knotts is through. "},{"Title":"A real cinematic treasure","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm glad to see Pleasantville has such a high rating here on IMDb. This film is truly cult classic material; there is just nothing else like it anywhere in my opinion.All the people who are caught up in this film's plot holes, (and it does have a few, I'll admit), are missing out on the beautiful, as well as simple, message that this film is trying to convey. As put before, it is a real tribute to the human condition and the fact that nothing is as simple as black and white. There is such a bittersweet truth to this film that I think anyone can relate to. It shows how much we truly fear change, but ultimately must accept it, because change is inevitable. Read between the lines and you are sure to find something absolutely profound as well as heart warming.If you are capable of suspending your disbelief a bit and simply accepting that there are some plot holes, I suggest doing so. Pleasantville really is a cinematic treasure that no one should miss out on. It leaves us with a feeling inside that not many movies of today are capable of doing. "}{"Title":"Not Simple Fiction","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To those of us sick of hearing people idealize the fifties pleasantville is a breathe of fresh air. The movie about two kids trapped in an old time tv show of the 1950's isn't really about the perils of being trapped inside a set it is about the changes that life brings and the nuances these changes can create, why sometimes something so new and wonderful can be scary and heartbreaking all at the same time.  Pleasantville is about life and  in all its wonderful chaotic glory and the wonder and challenge of change.  This movie about a sitcom town is about everyone's town, everyone's home, everyone's country, everyone's state this movie is about tv characters about is about what it means to be human. 10/10 "},{"Title":"So many missed opportunities but yet it delivers","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Pleasantville is an excellent movie but with such an unique story you would expect more interesting elements.The movie has an high entertainment and feel good value which is thanks to the nice and special atmosphere of Pleasantville which is a world on it's own where everything is pleasant and seems perfect. The 50's atmosphere of it is simply wonderful.The story is a bit lame and easy at times and filled with some plot holes but however it doesn't take away the fun from the movie. Still it's a shame that they didn't used some more interesting elements that easily could have been used for the movie. There are some serious missed opportunities. Still the story has some great elements and moments that are at times almost magical also thanks to the wonderful musical score by Randy Newman. The story also has some nice references to the bible and even the WW II Nazi regime.The cast is good, especially the male cast of which I especially will mention; Jeff Daniels, William H. Macy and last but definitely not least; J.T. Walsh in an enjoyable role as mayor of Pleasantville, which was one of his last roles before his sudden death in early 1998.As last I want to mention the subtle special effects that were quite good and unique especially for 1998 standards. An enjoyable movie!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A journey like no other.","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pure joy to watch this enlightening fantasy. Two modern teens(Reese Witherspoon and Tobey Maguire)cause a stir when transported to Pleasantville USA where life is just like a black & white 50s TV sitcom. The effective use of DeLuxe color blending with black and white takes on a character of its own and helps enlighten views on independence, bigotry, liberalism, sex, censorship and even rock & roll. The small town begins to change, but not all of the townsfolk are happy with the changes. Change and color come slowly. The soundtrack is great...featuring the music of Dave Brubeck, Gene Vincent, Etta James, Buddy Holly and Elvis. The more than apt cast includes William H. Macy, Joan Allen, J.T. Walsh and Jeff Daniels. Kudos to writer and director Gary Ross. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It' s a very beautiful movie. I own the VHS now so I can watch it as many times as I please ). I praise the brilliant script,the acting of the whole cast, the touching musicwhenever I hear At Last, tears stream down my eyes.The most beautiful scenes hard to say, when you love the whole movie, well let's try anyway ) 1)the romantic park where the Pleasantville lovers enjoy the novelties of the situation (At last- song) 2)The scene where Tobey's girlfriend plucks the red apple from the tree 3)Maguire and Witherspoon's tv Mom getting coloured day by day 4)a comic scene when Reese decides to go to Springfield university (will she meet Homer Simpson? ) Doh! LOL ) In the end.... I love Pleasantville, that's all      "},{"Title":"Pleasantville (1998) Directed by Gary Ross","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To put it simply, Pleasantville is one of the most intelligent films I've ever seen... and trust me, I've seen a lot! At first glance it might be confused for another cliched teen comedy (which is what irritated me so much about the tag-line, From the Co-Creator of Big and Dave!), but it is an entirely different story. The story itself is as follows two bickering siblings are mystically transported into an old TV show named Pleasantville, which follows in the tradition of Leave it to Beaver and I Love Lucy as being a virtually flawless world where couples sleep in separate beds and children use the word swell. Suspend all suspicious disbelief for a moment, however, and try to see beyond the surface once the film picks up it's pace, it becomes less of a fish-out-of-water comedy, and more of an examination on the issues and imperfections of life. In fact, it is one of the few movies that dares to examine every aspect of life -- INCLUDING political correctness -- without being politically correct itself. What I mean by this is that prejudice, sexuality, love, and humanity are for once portrayed as they really are, and not as society forces us to view them. This alone should have garnered it an R rating in my opinion, which would have aimed it at more mature audiences and convinced the Academy to take it more seriously. But the most intelligent thing about Pleasantville is that it refuses to impose a certain belief on the audience. It never hesitates at questioning the laws of society, but it also never attempts to answer them. Instead, it forces us to simply look at them from a different perspective, which is the smartest thing any movie could ever do... though very few have actually done. The BEST thing about Pleasantville, however, is the cinematography. In all honesty, it is the finest filming I have EVER seen. And it's not just the brilliant combination of color and black and white, it's the sheer focus of the picture as well each frame we watch is carefully balanced, making the film both an intellectual AND visual pleasure. Other highlights of the film are the acting (Joan Allen at her very best, William H. Macy playing a character slightly resemblant of his role in Fargo, and Jeff Daniels actually doing something GOOD), the soundtrack (which earned yet another Academy nomination for Randy Newman), and the editing (if you watch carefully, there are very brief blurs in between each major cut, as there would be in any old TV program). While I am disappointed that so few people loved this film as much as I did, I wouldn't have it any other way it is one of the few independents that hasn't gone mainstream or been spoiled by public hype.Grade A "},{"Title":"A great movie that teaches and entertains","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It's amazing how a movie that starts out playing for laughs can turn to a dramatic commentary on society.  I found Pleasantville to be enjoyable, engaging, and educational.  It was just a great movie, that I found easy on the eyes with a majestic palette of colors and easy on the mind with a commentary that was not shouted at me through the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastically original film","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this film because it was different. It's not just a plot that I have watched a million times before. OK so it has the common baseline of one person trying to fight for what he believes in, against something or someone bigger or more powerful than he is, however with Pleasantville there's a difference. What makes this film individual is how colour is used. As people blossom into what they want to be and show their inner passions they begin to change from black and white into colour. Also the cast list is impressive and each actor lives up to the great standard expected of them. This is especially true for Tobey Maguire, Reese Witherspoon and Joan Allen. I'd give this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Marvelous, Touching Movie Magic","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Where does one begin to describe the brilliance and magic in this wonderful piece of cinema?SPOILERSPleasantville's smart, moving, and enticing script deals with two 90's kids (Maguire and Witherspoon, both splendid in their roles) who get sucked into a generic, feel-good, black-and-white 1950's sitcom.  As they bring their own brand of beliefs and values into their new world and others become curious, take notice, and ultimately change their routines, and begin showing their true colors, quite literally.  The result is simply one of the most emotionally touching movies ever filmed.The entire cast is in top-form here.  William H. Macy does an effective job of playing the father-knows-best, and Joan Allen simply shines in her portrayal of his wife, whom is at first ashamed of her new-found, unexpected radiance, but finally realizes it is much more worthwhile than her former predictable dullness.   Jeff Daniels is deeply touching as the soda jerk turned artist.  Paul Walker as Witherspoon's timid beau is himself very cute and plays the role with a enjoyably goofy hilt.Wherever a shred of color is present in an otherwise back-and-white setting, emotional depth is invoked by it. Some terrific, smart, heart-felt and magical scenes include all the basketball players making and missing their shots, non-consecutively; Jeff Daniels being proud of the fact he closed the diner down without Maguire's help; Maguire helping mom Allen apply grey makeup to her colored-face, and both William H. Macy's and Maguire's realization-induced colorization.Pleasantville reminds us what a great film is all about originality, intelligence, and beautiful story-telling.  Do not miss this.9 out 10 "},{"Title":"A wonderful film!!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is one of my favorite films of the 90s.  Very original.  So much has been written here about it already by others.  I am amazed to see some people didn't get it, but then some people think Claude Monet paintings are worthless too so it takes all kinds.  At times this film is just out and out funny (my favorite comic moments are when Macy comes home and says where's my dinner? and then the following bowling lane scene.)  The whole point of the film is that when these characters/people get in touch with their inner feelings then they are in color and a true person, not a caricature of a human who just goes mindlessly through a boring routine life.  When they get in touch with their *dreams and feelings* then they are truly alive for the first time.  People who don't get this message from the film no doubt are leading boring routine lives and are not in touch with their true self...and they probably won't ever be. I've met many a person in my life like that and it's quite sad that they will exist for ___ amount of years but never be *alive*.  Gary Ross did an excellent job of conveying his serious message amid the comedy in this film.  And the special effect photography is marvelous!  Other films that have similar ideas and messages I'd say were  Groundhog Day, Field of Dreams, Enchanted April and Purple Rose of Cairo....I loved all of those too! "},{"Title":"Brilliantly overlooked, a gem","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Toby and Resse, as David and Jennifer, are teenagers growing up in 90's USA. The begining of the movie starts off describing the life they live in.  A school counsleor lectures them on how the chances of them finding a job when the graduate after college (assuming they can pay for it) are to decrease with time, 1 in 150 Americans will contract AIDS, and that the ozone layer will be gone within 15 years.  Dave lives with his divorced mom and finds solace in an old TV show.  David watches a TV show on a station that specialises in old 50's tv sitcoms.  The show that David knows everything about is Pleasantville an old total Leave it to Beaver type show with, the perfect plastic family, including the twin beds and white picket fence of course..  A marathon is about to be on the show which also has a contest where someone could win $1000 dollars.  Hence Dave is set to watch the marathon and escape the world he lives in, and to favour a world where everything is perfect and nothing goes wrong.  However, he and his sister end up in Pleasantville when a repair man comes to fix their TV and are magicaly transported there.  Thus the kids 90's value system clashes with old 50's standards as they try to figure out how to survive.The thing about this movie is that it sets itself up first as a goofy stupid comedy, like that John Ritter movie Stay Tuned, where he got trapped in TV as well which was HORRID.  However, I kept reading reviews about how everyone loved this film and that it was the most overlooked movie of 1998.  And this movie is very special, it evolves into something else.  As Jennifer ends up sleeping with the head of the basketball team, things change.  Colour starts to appear and people start questioning things particularly the kids.  Why do all the books have nothing printed in them?  What is sex?  And what is outside Pleasantville?This film is really sly, I loved how it kept surprising me all the time and evolving.  It sets itself up as a comedy and you think you're going to get a lesson in how things back then were better since the movie starts off so pessimisticaly.. but then it digs more.. You learn things back in the 50's WEREN'T that great.. McCarthyism, sexual represion, cold war hostilities, juvenille delinquecies, and racial tension that had yet to explode.  It is awesome.  Toby does a good job here cause he plays an insecure teenager and it works unlike his role in Cider house rules (which was a total disaster). Resse is good as the permiscouous teenager (Election) who tells her brother that these people have no life in them and that they should wake up.Brilliant overlooked film.Rating 9.5 out of 10.  Definite must see. "}{"Title":"Best achievement in film history","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Stunning film. You can't compare this to anything. This gives you so much more than any other film. Everything that has been done in the film-industry in the last 100 years is just a little footnote somewhere in this movie. You can just forget about all the other moviemakers that have existed and see this one anyway you can. "},{"Title":"This movie is a strange animal -highly moralistic comedy about moralistic TV serials.","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a little bit confused about this movie I cannot agree more that freedom is a great thing and  that truth in presentation of reality on the screen is very valuable thing too. I also agree that only very bad people can burn books and be impolite to women. However, if this movie against some violation of freedoms in 1950-s, it seems that it is too easy to fight what was already defied. If it have something to say about freedom (or its absence) today, I would prefer it was told more directly. If it just says that freedom and individual self-expression are great things - thank you that you remind it to me, but I believe that I knew it already and is more  concerned that saying it is easier thing that reaching it. For me it looks as a movie made by standard receipt use abstract (and good, no discussion) ideas and make an entertainment on their basis. Personally, I don't like it. It's too childish. And I prefer Princess Bride as a children movie. I should say that as an entertainment this movie is decent, at least it is more natural than Truman Show.  "},{"Title":"1998 Best Picture","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Now, I'm usually not too over-effusive with my praise of movies, but this film was brilliant.  My jaw was hanging open at every new special effects shot - one particular sequence of a car driving down the road towards Lovers Lane is quite possibly the finest cinematic moment this year. Granted, its a little sappy and gets a tad heavy-handed with the racist and Nazi symbolism, but this is a spectacular movie all around. I plan on seeing it again.I'm not sure it has the muscle to overpower Private Ryan and Beloved at the Oscars, but I predict it will garner a nomination...  it should at least be heavily considered. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fabulous film!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Truly one of the best films of the year -- and for once, the trailer *doesn't* give away the third act. Don't let this one slip by in the glut of films now on the market -- please, PLEASE go see Pleasantville. "},{"Title":"In a word, Pleasant","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There are a few films of this caliber this year (The Truman Show and Saving Private Ryan being them).  The way that this film brings heavy-handed issues like segregation into its relatively simple premise is a rarity in this industry.  It is a  film that will be remembered as a classic.  One of the Best films of 1998. "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a must see.  It is a magical escape filled with the whole range of human emotion that never waivers from the moral of its story.People from all backgrounds can appreciate the movie, but on a personal basis, I thought it spoke volumes on what it means to be gay, although there is no gay plot, no gay story line and no gay characters.  I'm sure many others will find their own humanity in Pleasantville even if it makes them different from the norm.  I hope you get a chance to see Pleasantville. You will be pleasantly surprised that this is no normal comedy.  "},{"Title":"Loved It!","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Loved It!  It was one of the best movies I have ever seen.  It was really funny and had a real good story.  Seemed like it was real.  It's a must see for all! "},{"Title":"Dull, preachy, patronising ....... and boring.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had no great expectations for 'Pleasantville' but felt sure it would be a solid effort, with a lot to quietly appreciate. Initially everything seemed fine - the premise was good, the performances above-average and I settled back for some low-key but worthwhile entertainment.The story involves a brother and sister who become transported into a 1950's black & white sitcom. Here they are able to influence the limited TV-existence of the people and literally bring some colour into their lives.It's difficult to know what precisely sinks this ship - but I really found it an ordeal to sit through. Firstly 'Pleasantville' is at least 30 minutes too long, the narrative becoming patronising and preachy with scenes added just to force points home. The film tries to convince itself and the audience that it has a profound statement to make, which it clearly doesn't. It certainly has some poignant social comments but as Dirty Harry would say, you have got to know your limitations. By wanting to convert the world, 'Pleasantville' turns into a rampaging, out-of-control, maniac. I felt I'd been subjected to a Cold War brainwashing session by the end of the film - never have I watched the credits move up the screen with such relief. "},{"Title":"Pleasentville DVD Extra Evaluated","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is a prime example of how Hollywood is using the multi dimensional shiny platter to change the business model of the pre-recorded video business from rental to sell through.Roger Ebert rates it a 10. `Thumbs UP' The off beat experience is up for three Oscars on Sunday (Original dramatic score, Costume and Art Direction). Pleasantville has got to be at the top of everyone's `must see' rental list.But, Pleasantville DVD Extras is what makes the disc a must HAVE.  It takes at least 8 hours to go through everything. After you have been through the disc data, you will want to go through the movie again with a focus on the little details that makes the film so interesting, compelling and thought provoking. You want to catch the Indian's mood swing on the TV test pattern change from normal to angry to weeping. In my book, the supplemental material is well worth $12.99 and therefore the movie is FREE. And after you have been through this self paced study course, New Line makes it easy to hop on-line to interact with others that feel like you. Pleasantville is a portal to a connected community made up of individuals sharing insights, experiences and their love for this film.And maybe Pleasantville isn't the movie that will move the masses to DVD, but over the next two years there will be a movie...maybe it is TitanicDVD....that will drive this technology into mainstream households.Pleasantville DVD ExtrasWidescreenAudio commentary by writer/director/producer Gary Ross The insights and passion Gary exudes for the film is well, well worth the platters purchase price. He is the conductor, the earth child and mother/father of this onion skinned art work. After you go through the film with Gary, you want to see it again and again and again and then roll around in the other digital bytes on the disc. He created a jewel we can treasure and be touched by forever.Isolated score with commentary by composer Randy Newman Randy's work ethic approach to making music for movies is very refreshing from the marketing hype that tends to float over big money makers like a blue-white aura. He talks about why and how come this was done this way and the more he tells you the more you want him to go on and on....but it is a disc not the net. If he wins the Academy Award, this feature alone could be a central selling point of the disc! His honesty rings loud and clear. It's very cool.It is to bad the transcripts of the audio commentary from Gary and Randy are not available electronically. It would be a handy reference document when studying the film frame by frame.`The Art of Pleasantville' - a behind-the-scenes original featuretteLearn about lighting, CGI, art direction, the business of buying and selling PCs and the easy going life of a mural painter. Excellent! Another reason why this is a keeper. `The entire movie fits on 370 gig!'Fiona Apple's music video `Across the Universe' Storyboard gallery Original Theatrical Trailer Color television set up (I still can't figure out how to adjust my monitor to the color slide show. Zero instructions. The only weak link on the disc.)DVD-ROM FeaturesScript to Screen with Storyboards 1) Access any scene in the movie directly from the early draft of the script We used this feature to get back to a particular place in the movie when the computer ceased. It is very cool to read through the script, look at the storyboards and then watch the scene in its final form. Excellent resource for the serious student of film.2) Print any section, or the entire, screenplay Welecome to the Internet Movie Data BaseWeb access, links and more! I found a huge Reese Witherspoon photo gallery and fan club within a couple of clicks of surfing the links on the disc. Once you get connected to the Pleasantville web community there is no telling where you will end up, who you will meet or how much time it will take to get there.Prediction Pleasantville DVD will be a sell out and could be the killer app the PC industry has been waiting to arrive.Get it while you can...this disc is SMOKIN' "},{"Title":"A steaming pile of Hollywood morality","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's see.  Start with an idylic vision of mom and apple pie.  Add Hollywood/Clinton values.  The end result is a pile of garbage that tries to sell the notion that casual sex, feminism, etc. are not only A-OK but actually make life a whole lot better!  Pure crap.  But, in today's society where nothing seems out of bounds any longer, I'm sure a lot of people will eat this Hollywood dreck up.  Do yourself a favor.  If you want uplifting entertainment or good family entertainment go see something else.  If you are after sex - go see a porno.  This was really stupid.  I'd like to see someone make a movie about an immoral society and show how someone can come in with moral values and change black and white to color.  We'll never see that from the drug and sex crazed dolts in Hollywood.  "}{"Title":"Yawnsville","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe those who gravitate towards a movie called Pleasantville are more likely to enjoy it. I was suspicious about the title - and in the end, rightly so. I seem to be alone in disliking this film. Well, I didn't know what to expect so I suspended disbelief and settled down to be entertained. I let it roll over me and didn't even question the whole disappearing into the television thing... hmmm, there was not even an attempt to explain all that... but hey, never mind, just keep watching... Well, unfortunately my critical faculty got the better of me. After a few minutes in Pleasantville, you can see exactly where the film is going, and yep, that is exactly where it goes, with all the pace and predictability of Pleasantville itself.It would have been better had it moved a little quicker. It all drags on too long - and the annoying half-wit in the soda shop really slows things down. There is also a mother character for whom your flesh crawls with embarrassment. These people spend far too long on screen in drawn out scenes. Even the normally immaculate William H Macy is made to suffer the scene where he comes home to find his wife is not there just keeps on going. We got the idea as soon as he came in the door, but it went on for about two minutes - either the director was desperate to flog a grin out of the audience, or was just asleep at the wheel.Well, the black and white photography is crisp and attractive (especially when offset by the colour). Reese Witherspoon is delicious, and it was great to see Don Knotts again, but that's about it.The values the movie preaches are just as priggish and tendentious as those of Pleasantville. Moralising, rather than entertainment, took control of the film. I don't know about you, but when I find myself in a classroom, I turn into James Dean. I sure didn't come here to be preached at by Hollywood producers. "},{"Title":"avoid","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're really into black and white movies that eventually turn into color, do yourself a favor, avoid this movie, and see THE WIZARD OF OZ.  If you're really into movies that concern modern teenagers time warped to the 1950s, do yourself a favor, avoid this movie, and see BACK TO THE FUTURE.Ted's Grade C-  "},{"Title":"Good, but THE FIFTIES WERE NOT EVIL NOR BAD","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Reminiscent of an old episode of the Twilight Zone, the movie is indeed a charming fairy tale, and creatively done. I liked it a lot, and Joan Allen is wonderful. BUT. . . THE 1950's WAS NOT THE HORRID PERIOD PEOPLE ARE SUPPOSED TO ASSUME!! Only in PC Left-wing Hollywood would you see the Fifties depicted in such negative terms.The 1950's had many problems. But it also had some strengths missing from America today patriotism (at least before 9/11); strong families; a moral center and moral values in the country; a strong respected Military; our national borders were secure instead of being wide open; better public schools; we had trusted political leaders (Eisenhower, etc) instead of dirtbags such as Clinton; and a lot less sleaze out of the Entertainment industry on TV and the movies. Among other things.So, much of the point of Pleasantville is lost in a morass of PC baloney. It is TOO BAD we DON'T now have families such as that in Father Knows Best or Leave it to Beaver instead of the misfits and weirdos on TV. And if they kept sex in the bedroom where it belongs, instead of anytime and anywhere, such as with shows like Sex in the City all the better.Excellent film - but with a very flawed and false message. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Crap","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie to watch with the sound all the way down.  The visual effects are stunning and it's very pleasant to watch as long as no one's talking.  Don Knotts is entertaining but, otherwise, this is a grotesquely shallow movie with absolutely none of the redeeming social value that it obviously is trying to find. "},{"Title":"A good premise laid to waste by excessive schmaltz.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The film starts off with an original premise, but after about half an hour it goes downhill. The problem is that Hollywood can't help its urge to moralize, preach, and just generally annoy with its simplistic and annoying politically correct social commentary. This premise could have been milked for all its worth for maximum comic effect, but, instead, the makers of the film opted for the safe, easy, and very predictable path which leads to cliché sentimentality, boohoohooisms, and superficiality of the Americana kind. Features the sleepy Tobey Maguire, who always looks as if though a tse-tse fly stung him (about a 100 times).If you're interested in reading my biographies of the sleepy Tobey Maguire and other Hollywood celebrities, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"A Question of Values","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The plot of this movie is straight-forward A modern-day brother and sister accidentally end up in a 1950s TV show called Pleasantville. The film's agenda, however, is clearly to promote multiculturalism.In their present surroundings, the kids live in a neighborhood patrolled by security. Their mother is a divorced woman more interested in her own sex life than the welfare of her children. The cool kids smoke, do drugs, watch MTV, and sleep around. They consider David pathetic for being a decent young man.In Pleasantville, life is harmonious. Children are well-mannered. A family consists of a man, his wife, and their biological children. People are friendly and courteous to one another. With the arrival of the two teenagers, however, things change.Some parts of Pleasantville and some of its residents change from black-and-white to colored. The result? A grocer quits his job because simply because he doesn't feel like it anymore. Betty becomes selfish and belligerent; being a housewife is no longer good enough so she abandons her family to be with someone else. The tension between the traditional black-and-white residents and the colored residents soon comes to a head.The traditional black-and-white people want things to remain pleasant. The coloreds want to expand their horizons even though they know that things will become louder, scarier, and a lot more dangerous.The black-and-white people are invariably portrayed as evil, dim-witted bullies. They gang up on a colored woman in what might have been a gang-rape had they not been stopped by her son. They riot and smash a window-front in a scene reminiscent of one forever burned into our collective consciousness Germans destroying storefronts of Jewish-owned businesses. Not wanting to leave the African Americans behind, the director also places a no coloreds sign in an obvious attempt to remind us of segregation.A colored man, naturally portrayed as genuine and kind (never mind that he's with a married woman) spray paints the brick wall of a police station with graffiti. This artwork shows fires and smoke, couples having sex in cars, snakes, and the town hall sinking. The black-and-white bad people are at first outraged by the vandalism but quickly come to their senses.In the end, the coloreds win. Somehow, I doubt that everyone lives happily ever after.In real life, the coloreds have already won - with more great treats in store. Mutliculturalism and race mixing are glorified by the media. This country has become morally bankrupt. Places that were once safe are now dangerous; even convenience store clerks have to hide behind bullet-proof glass. The decent, hard-working, white men and women who made this country great are maligned and any form of racism is harshly condemned. The only racists shown on TV are redneck buffoons shown on Jerry Springer.In times past, attitudes were a little more realistic ... I can think of no greater calamity than the assimilation of the negro into our social and political life as our equal... millions of an alien, inferior race among us. - Abraham Lincoln A racist is a man who believes in history, genetics, and his eyes. - Voltaire Equality may perhaps be a right, but no power on earth can ever turn it into a fact. - Balzac I warn you, gentlemen, if you do not exclude Jews for all time, your children will curse you in your graves. - Benjamin Franklin The greatest danger to this country lies in the Jewish ownership and influence in our motion pictures, our press, our radio, and our government. - Charles Lindbergh WAKE UP AND LOOK AROUND, PEOPLE! "},{"Title":"Supercilious","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" David, what a supercilious Creep with that arrogant smile across his face whilst he is destroying his adoptive parentslives & marriage all because he can! and introducing anarchy into society because he thinks that's what they want! It reminds me of certain country attributes? the no colored signs seem to be a reference to the coloured racial prejudice of that time, but to me it didn't work.At the beginning I was quite into it but as time went on i was getting more & more angry mainly at the face of the main actor David as he smiles his way thru with how good I am? & returning to his mother to sort out all her problems. finally when he leaves his sister in the total mess he made, ah thats OK she's expendable -- at least she learns a lesson! BTW it was also good to see Don Notts there, even younger than he used to. "},{"Title":"Sophomoric, shallow and full of holes","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is real life through the lens of emotional adolescents who are arrogant enough to believe that they know all that there is to know about life because-- well, just because they are teens and so much wiser than adults. Or, rather, a teen-age boy who is clearly the writer's alter ego.Just because adults in the 1950s were not blatant and overt about their sexuality doesn't mean that they weren't sexual beings. It means that they understood the difference between public and private. Just because teens have a difficult time accepting that their parents are sexual beings does not mean that they are not. Just because adults in the 1950s were adults, not neurotic messes, does not mean that they were emotionless. And just because teenagers think that sex is the be-all and end-all of life doesn't mean that it is.In typical adolescent fashion, women are depicted as loving and nurturing and weak, while men are domineering and rigid and authoritarian. What woman wouldn't think of putting make-up on to hide a blemish? She wouldn't need her oh-so-wise son to think of it for her, and certainly wouldn't need him to apply it.What was the point of sending them into the television show? Yes, the t.v. repairman nattered on about something, but what was the real point? The television show isn't real. The characters aren't real, they are played by actors; the location isn't real, it's a studio set. So, what, really, is the point of trying to awaken them? They'll still be ageless fictional characters. Why try to force them to think beyond the boundaries of their fictional town, when it will remain a studio set? Yes, I understand that it's a metaphor. It's a particularly clumsy, awkward, and ham-handed metaphor.If we are to accept the characters as real, with lives that are not depicted on screen, then where are those lives? The movie can't have it both ways -- that they are real, but only exist when one of the main characters is around. That sex is unknown, but the town is populated with teens who had to come from somewhere. That the men's bland, placid exteriors cover a seething, hateful exterior, while the women are depressed and unfulfilled -- but they have no emotional life until awakened by their teen-age savior. That there is no world outside the town, but they have food, clothing, utilities, etc. Oh, and how was the town going to deal with the rash of teen pregnancies that were bound to occur? Twilight Zone dealt with similar issues in a similar format and did it so much better and all in 30 minutes. But, then, it was written by adults for adults. "},{"Title":"Stupid and Pretentious","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film essentially spends its entirety hitting on the same one-note theme tear down structure. Woohoo. How fun. The moral of the story, no matter how glib and well packaged it may be, is simple the characters benefit from betraying who they normally are. Big whoop. How is this monotony and lazy storytelling entertainment? Is the advice of this movie for every woman to leave her husband? Is the use of color the best stimulus these people could come up with? This film is a waste of time and energy. I cannot even support the performances of the actors since they are ALL purposefully wooden and uninteresting. The film itself reeks of far-left political propaganda. It is not worthy of your attention. "},{"Title":"Do not waste time on this movie.","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was awful. It made no sense. It strayed from one plot line to another. The characters were unbelievable. If you have never seen this movie. DON'T. You will have wasted 2 hours of your life better spent watching whatever was on the WB network. The only thing that would have saved this movie would have been if Tobey Maguire would have been bitten by a radioactive spider, but it wasn't going to happen in this movie. Or if at the end of the movie, Reese Witherspoon was on her way to Harvard. What was the message of this movie? Have sex, see things in color? Or old TV shows need more sex scenes? What did Malcolm's mom have to do with anything? Awful. "}{"Title":"utterly horrible","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie was a waste of 3 bucks it was so boring and it wasn't even funny. it was a disgrace to movies and I don't know why there were great reviews for the stupid worthless movie which was so dumb "},{"Title":"fornicate-fornicate-goooooo Satan!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The premise of this film seems to be that one can only be happy if one throws away all restraint and gives into whatever emotion or desire that is currently floating through one's mind. Libetarians should love this film.  Dropouts from the 60's will finally feel vindicated.  This could have been one of the best films of all time if it had not chosen to promote the accepting of all weaknesses as something to be glorified. In one scene, a relatively innocent guy (innocence = black and white) sits with a girl in the park (eden). She offers him a red apple, and when he bites it, the world starts turning colors. The message seems to be innocence is boring. There are people fornicating ALL OVER this movie! I hate to see how this will warp some teenager's minds. As if Titanic wasn't bad enough. Hollywood is run by a bunch of perverts, and it's too bad, because this movie has more potential than I've ever seen. There were good scenes about book-burning, censorship, McCarthyism, racism, and art, but most of it was about teenagers who couldn't control their hormones, and end up corrupting an entire town. See this movie and DIE! "},{"Title":"A dishonest film, poorly executed","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film has two targets, conformity and the fifties. In the case of the fifties, it plays fast and loose with almost every facet of that decade. I was born in 1934, graduated from High Shcool in 1952 and from college in 1956. I did a two year hitch in the U.S. Army, serving in France. I was an apprentice at one of the best regional theaters in the country. I have now been married for forty-six years and raised three sons. None of this was forced on me by society, the culture, a church or some silly symbol like Big Bob. I haven't always walked the straight and narrow but within my moral code I have no room for some of the freedoms espoused by this film. Most of the folks I knew in the fifties welcomed and embraced change almost daily. We were all very much in favor of retaining what was good in the society in which we lived. As I see cultural development over the past forty years, much that is good about individual responsibility has given way to a kind of selfish indulgence and the results have been anything but good. Yes, the McCarthy era should have been controlled sooner and civil rights came slowly, but only the people most responsible for these wrongs and who profited from them opposed those changes. This film would have us embrace sexual irresponsibility, adultery, lies, cheating, etc. as acts for the common good. Nonsense! There are some polished performances, notably Macy, but they are truly wasted on this trash. In the final analysis this is a very poor piece of film making and I can't recommend it to anyone with a grain of sense. "},{"Title":"Liberal propaganda....","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Weren't the colorful Sixties so much better than the black and white, Squaresville Fifties? Never mind the huge leaps in crime, illegitimacy, divorce, and substance abuse...we owe a huge debt to those free-spirited boomers. Thanks guys!This film is a prime example of leftist Hollywood propaganda. It is dishonest and disrespectful, and anyone involved with its production should be ashamed of themselves. Would it be too much to ask to see Hollywood make a film that affirms traditional values rather than tearing them down? Apparently so.Besides, I'll take the Fifties-era entertainers over the current crop of strident liberal boobs any day. We need a new Frank Sinatra. "},{"Title":"A very unpleasant movie, with an ugly message.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The acting and the special effects were great, but that doesn't necessarily make it a good movie. The message it was trying to get across was very heavyhanded, pretentious, insulting, and very confused. The only consistent theme it seemed to have is change for the sake of change is always a positive thing.I can see some of the positive points the film was trying to make, but these were overshadowed and outweighed by the pseudo-philosophy and blatant extremism of the director, who mixes up and muddles his message and isn't consistent about how and why things change to color.The movie doesn't show any negative consequences to promiscuous sex and adultery and treats them like acceptable things. The movie lost all sense of perspective when it started treating B&W versus color as black versus white. The writer obviously didn't have a clue that using more moderate subversions would have been more subtle and interesting than using aggressive provocations which might have gotten people killed in reality. The movie cops out on a lot of things like that. The enlightened revolutionaries are never forced to question the consequences of their actions.The most disturbing thing about this movie is the contempt and hatred it seems to have for innocence. The worst part was the scene with last B&W guy, when his innocence is forcibly taken from him, and we're clearly given the impression his humiliation from that is an amusing and laughable thing.Those people who think they're more literate and philosophically inclined should be able to infer what that subtext implies.  "},{"Title":"Wolf in sheep's clothing...","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I wanted to see Pleasantville because it looked like a movie that had some neat visual effects and poked some harmless fun at a more docile time from America's past.What I saw was a movie which went from subtle hints that morality stinks to blatant signs that any moral person has absolutely no right to live.I'm not going to go into all the issues addressed (way too many in one movie...), but basically, if you had/have morals, you were/are a boring person with a closed mind.  To truly see things as they were/are, you had/have to throw away everything you believed/believe in and just do something outrageous and/or against the norm.The insidious thing was that by the end of the movie, the 'moral' people were the ones behaving the way immoral people act in real life, and vice versa.  I know 'moral' can be subjective, but this movie is just one more example of making 'good' people look like freaks by adjusting the norm to fit Hollywood's ideals.   "},{"Title":"HIGHLY Immoral!","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Hey kids! Don't listen to your parents or that funny little voice in the back of your head that tells you not to put kitties in the microwave! Don't listen to anything but the sound of your raging hormones. Your parents might frown on any number of the exotic situations that pop up in this seemingly innocent movie. No, self restraint is a social evil that must be stamped out, like the annoying insect that it is. See Pleasantville, and you'll understand what I'm saying. In this film, two teens are magically sucked into a 50's sitcom through a remote control that a mysterious stranger gives them. And you thought Last Action Hero was corny! Inside the 50's world, everything is black and white. Life is simple ,and very happy. Everyone has a loving family, there's no crime, no depression, no drugs, no poverty. Just a happy town. One of the kids, a young girl, seduces one of the innocent townfolk. Shortly thereafter, he turns technicolor. Before long, teens EVERYWHERE are fornicating. The innocent TV mother of the film is corrupted by her new daughter from our world, and ends up touching herself in the bath tub. Then she goes to the local diner, and has her new lover paint a picture of her naked. Meanwhile, more teens fornicate. The young man from our world, who until now was relatively decent, is sitting in a park with his girlfriend, when she offers hima red apple. He takes a bite, and everything goes crazy. Then it rains a lot. Sound familiar? This movie pretends to be a meaningful film, with a deep messsage. There's lots of beautiful music, quirky characters, amazing special effects, and good acting. To tell the truth, this film could have been one of the best ever made. But instead, it was full of smut. I just don't understand how this movie got a PG-13 rating. the f-word was in it, plenty of nudity, lots of sex, and a corrosive message. Teenagers will get the wrong message, and think it's okay to fornicate. The ones that already are will feel like it's their right. This movie is definitely not for family viewing. At it's core, it's a filthy story about teenagers that fornicate, and corrupt a town full of innocent people.  "},{"Title":"Pleasantville Defies Logic of Premise","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville, in essence, was a philosophical statement.  It argues that to live life properly, in color, you must listen to your inner desires and wants.  While this is a legitimate (yet disputable) argument to make, it fails to take its premise to the logical conclusion.   Essentially the movie was a contest between hedonism and order/traditional morality. This is fine, but such a game must be played by the appropriate rules of logic.   The concept that Pleasantville could flat-out endorse hedonism (with teenagers engaging in promiscuous sex) and maintain order is ridiculous.  The two are a trade-off.  *You cannot have both.*  The film does not recognize this fact.  The creators stray from the logic of their premise and in the end Pleasantville became a world without consequences.  This is even more illusory and illogical than the television world at the beginning.It could not even get its fundamental premise correct, yet it tried to offer commentary on such a broad array of topics as racism, woman's rights and Nazism.  It failed even more miserably at offering some sort of edifying perspective.  What was with the To Kill a Mockingbird rip-off?  Talk about trite!  I was ready to walk out of the theater.  That was a horrendous comparison.  These issues should not have been introduced at all.  They were not even introduced in an original format; the creators just re-hashed old, long-established concepts.  What's worse, they implied that individuals who prefer an ordered society (a society where you don't have to be afraid to walk down the street at night) burn books and segregate people!If living in color means living in true happiness, perhaps the creators of this film should read some Plato, who argues quite convincingly that living a life simply for gratification of your desires does not make one happy.  It also does not create an orderly and peaceful society.  In fact, it does the opposite.  If you choose to endorse Nietschze's view that morality is relative and up to an individual choice, then take Nietschze to the end - that this creates a world without order.  Nietschze and Plato cannot be mixed-and-matched.Not only that, but the film insults individuals who prefer order and stability over rampant individual liberty and hedonism.  Those people are squares who don't really see things the enlightened way.  The fact of the matter is that freedom v. order is a legitimate value choice.  One side has no right to criticize the other as being idiotic or stupid.Overall, I felt the film insulted my intelligence.  It tried to show me something which I know is obviously false.  Simple logic dictates this.  And it seemed to assume that I would buy it.  Having my intelligence insulted is one thing, but paying $7.50?  I'll pass, thanks. "},{"Title":"Pleasantville","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Couldn't even finish this one.It was like an over-long and not very good episode of Eerie Indiana or The Twilight Zone.The idea was daft really, a random magical electrician guy turns up to repair a remote control and instead leaves a 'special' one behind, that looks like a toy that some kids would make rather than a remote control, and ends up transporting a fighting brother and sister into the fictional world of Pleasantville - a TV program.Had this story been part of one of the shows I mentioned above it might have been decent as it would have been shorter and more focused, but as a feature film it was really padded out, even in the 45 minutes or so that I watched. I just couldn't keep it on any longer.The amount of suspension of disbelief that is required for this film is beyond reasonable - not because 2 'real life' people get transported into a TV show, but because of what happens once they are there. In particular, Toby Maguire's character, who continuously insists they must act normal so as not to upset the fictional Pleasantville world is nonsensical. They is no explanation of why he feels they have to fit in rather than go crazy at the absurdness of the situation. And the idea that the fictional world carries on and people live their lives once the show is off air is more implausibility, especially since they do not lead normally lives but seemingly repeat whatever their character does while the show is on air, ad infinitum.Not a lot of sense to it and not very engaging. A weak idea that feels padded out. Could have been an interesting episode of a 30-minute TV show but no more. "},{"Title":"forget this tripe","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As others have said, look back at a 1950s that never existed. Whatever is it about the 1950s that people loath, it is entirely descriptive of themselves and their relationship to their parents. They seem to be trying to buttress their own self-image by tearing down their parents. Its envy, I suppose. Having grown up believing themselves to be gods, boomers (written and directed by someone born in 1956) require not just moral neutrality for whatever they do, but being right. To make themselves right, they must make their parents wrong. Your parents, see, were uptight squares that only your own inate superiority made you capable of recognizing and overcoming. Well, here it is, in terms so black and white (literally) that even morons like your parents can see it! Put another way - if I cannot get history to back the boomers-are-god theory, I'll just rewrite it, and prove it true by making it into a movie. (Hey, it works for Oliver Stone -) Pass this one by. "}{"Title":"Misses the essential color question--race","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Normally, it is not good critical practice to judge a movie about what it is not--usually it's better to analyze what a movie sets out to do, and evaluate how good it does it. Sometimes, the premise of a movie itself is not acceptable to a viewer, and the critic will take on that question.Here's where I feel PLEASANTVILLE should be criticized for what the filmmakers did not attempt to do it missed an enormous opportunity. Its plot deceit is creative if far-fetched even for a fantasy--two teenagers from the 1990s being stuck in a 1950s black and white sitcom, and manage to liberate the town from 1950s sitcom thinking by introducing color, and, apparently, sex and art.The opportunity missed--and I believe it to be one very close to the heart of the film's main idea--is that the entire question of race was absent.Perhaps one can bring up the Technicolor aspect as suggesting race, as it suggests racial prejudice. But ... the transformations our society was to go through post 1950s has largely or everything to do with race--the music, the liberation, the insistence to change and include. It was really the Civil Rights Movement, and the gradual change in r attitudes that really changed us, made us different from the 1950s. The women's movement, sexual liberation, a critical analysis of America's role in the world through the anti-war movement, all had vital roots in Montgomery and Selma and Watts.What if, for example, the film were to end by introducing to black-and-white land a true colored, an African-American? The all-racially white world of Pleansantville would have had a whole new set of dichotomies to deal with.PLEASANTVILLE is clever, technically adroit, has some good performances, and a number of other things going for it, but it misses an obvious chance to add a dimension that was definitely there in the 1950s but left out of a film depicting the era.I also agree with some of the critiques of the film it's preachy; it seems to embrace sexual infidelity as liberating non-conformity; it wrongfully shows the 1950s to be far more devoid of passion than they actually were. Even some of the sitcoms criticized, as one commenter pointed out, had more heart to them than was given credit to in Pleasantville. The filmmakers had every right to show things their way, and it's a legitimate position, I suppose, but one that rings a little hollow and facile.PLEASANTVILLE is a good movie, with some extreme strong elements and even some touches of magic, but it is hard to forgive it for ignoring the question of American apartheid, as if that had nothing to do with the limitations and blindnesses of that era. "},{"Title":"errr...it was cute !","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have this pretty long list of movies that I keep on delaying to see. Pleasantville was one of them and, actually, most other movies on that list fit in the same category as Pleasantville when it comes to style, plot and moral. I just fear that they'll bore me and overload me with a bunch of unnecessary sentiment and feel-good stuff. Pleasantville came on TV the other night and I finally decided to give it a shot. After all, I see all the recommendations and the praising on this site and I thought I may have been a bit too prejudiced and negative about it.... Well, I guess I wasn't. I got what I suspected, and though I'm NOT at all saying it's a bad movie ... it really isn't my style. I admit there are a lot of original, funny and even good aspects about this production but overall it's just too forced. You can actually hear the director and producers think  Oh, this is the scene where the audience will cry and hug each other. I don't like that...it really suffers from a lack of surprise and spontaneity. Also, the cast suffers from a real bad case of typecasting. It's full of great names but they are play the roles we've seen them playing multiple times before. I guess Tobey Maguire is doomed to play the dorky boy, and it's pretty obvious that Reese Witherspoon isn't going to get rid of the dumb bimbo status in the near future> neither. Once again, Jeff Daniels plays the modest loser and J.T Walsh is the angry icon of authority...again. As usual, they give away outstanding performances ( not a bad word about that ) but we've seen it by now. The thing that annoyed me the most is the explicit and overused moral behind this movie If you ignore or deny your deepest feelings, you suck away the color out of your life...yeah yeah, we get it now...move on!!Well, I better start naming some aspects of which I thought they were good. Otherwise I'm going to face a lot of angry comments and messages again... The basic plot idea of Pleasantville is really good. The story is well thought true and there's enough humor and inspiration to keep you watching. Even though you know what will happen at the end, you keep staring at the developing of the story. The atmosphere of the 50's was really good as well, though I hoped for a bit more of typical juke-box music. Some sequences are really funny bring a naughty grin on your face. Like for example the part where the daughter teaches her 'mother' all about the secrets of masturbation... I really laughed with that. Pleasantville certainly isn't a waste of your time, but there are much better titles out there to discover. On the other hand, it could be a great suggestion to watch when you're with your girlfriend / boyfriend ... cute hugs and kisses garantueed...but that's just the way how the makers intended it to be. "},{"Title":"Hated it!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville was not as good as I thought it would be.  It was such a worldly movie.  It had affairs and other sexual stuff that are considered immoral.  It was like if you could have sex you would become colored and cool.  Pleasantville was a really cool place, but as the movie progressed it became more worldly and worse.  I hated this movie so much and I can't believe this movie made any money at all. "},{"Title":"Starts well, good conceptual ideal, but poor focus, empty message","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie starts off well.  It quickly gets you into the idea that these two teenagers will experience contrasting experiences in two different realities.But once we understand the vehicle of the message, we quickly learn that the writer does not know what he wants to communicate to the audience.  Others on IMDB have come away with the message that they wanted to see.  However, if one is to closely examine the message that the writer is trying to dish out, you will easily see that he fails miserably.It is trying to say that we must be true to ourselves, follow our own path and not conform.However, the message (very clearly at the end of the film) is that we have no control over our lower inclinations and that to not let them out is to be miserable.  What folly!The lack of self-restraint is no path to happiness.  Neither is adultery, contrary to final third of the film.  The duplicity and hypocrisy of the writer's message will be clear to anyone who chooses to closely examine this film.There were, however, some fine performances from several of the actors. The acting is NOT the problem with this film.  It is the writing and direction. (Done by the same person). "},{"Title":"I was not appreciative","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very disappointed with this movie.  It was too explicit.  If it was going to be bad, they would have had more hints of that in the previews. I was very sad that it had to be so sexual.  My friends and I had to walk out of the theater because it was so bad! "},{"Title":"Really Disturbing","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Pleasantville is the only movie I have ever walked out on.It was advertised as a family movie as creative as The Truman Show, but ended up being a boring two-hour commercial for how sex outside of marriage has brought society out of the blah dark ages of the 50's.The disturbing message and boring plot completely overshadowed the mildly interesting special affects and the Twilight Zone type plot.  Save your money and rent The Truman Show.  "},{"Title":"yaaaawwwwnnn....","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This sure aint a modern fairy tale. It plays like an awful afternoon special, that is meant to teach us the value of family. This film goes for two hours, and every minute is torture. You will continually be looking at the clock, hoping it will finish soon. This tried to be a modern fairytale, but instead it is an unenjoyable sludgefest.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing - I walked out","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see Pleasantville for good, clean entertainment.  I figured that since the movie was about a 1950's sitcom, it would be alright.Boy, was I misled.I only saw the first 1.5 hours or so of the movie, because I walked out the second time that they showed naked people.  Much of the focus of the movie was on sex.I was misled, and I am hoping to prevent others from being so.  The film does make you think, and the cinematography was absolutely wonderful. However, for me, that wasn't worth all of the immoral things that were thrown in there.Don't see it. "},{"Title":"Another wet dream","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" My god. McCarthy had no influence and had the best intentions! oh year! Sure! He was just a little eccentric (and then there was his career) and in this film it is demonstrated how simply this 'belief ' was overcome. If it were not for the fact that nothing has changed 're Bush Iraq' it would be a great fairy tale. Perfect use however of Great Gatsby music at end. What a crock! How can a movie be done so well and then killed so badly. Unfortunately I am forced to say more about this movie due to the Your comment does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for comments is 10 lines of text. Please see the guidelines. Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked from future submissions. clause in the comment response on IMDb. I love and refer to IMDb and am rarely 'confused' by reviews, but here on my first 'review' which I intended to be a comment I am forced to pad. Sorry if you have read to here. Did I miss A place where short comments are meant to be placed? "},{"Title":"Worst message movie of the 90s","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Deserves a 1 rating for excellent b/w photography and color effects. Otherwise this is a 0 and a stellar example of the subliminal and pervasive 'Frankfurt School' leftist subversion that has tainted Hollywood product since Stalin was old enough to grow a mustache. The real shame is that generation after generation is now being sold a bill of goods on Cold War-era America that is driven by the same tired Old Soviet Bloc propagandistic nonsense that HUAC had been vilified by 'the press' for investigating back then. I wish someone would make a fact-based film about the Army-McCarthy hearings and finally show on which side the decency REALLY resided in that affair. "}{"Title":"Thinly Veiled (Im)morality Play Praising The Sexual Revolution","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The premise of two modern teens being sucked into a Leave it to Beaver -esque sitcom and the shocks of their different views of the world sounded very interesting.  Then I watched the film...It turns out this movie's message is Life before the sexual revolution was gray and insipid.  Living a life of convention values is a dull, dorky way to live.  Casual sex and violating the sanctity of marriage is the way to happiness.  This is the attitude that brought the world the AIDS epidemic, massive teen pregnancy, single parent homes, and multiple generations of black inner-city families living in poverty with no way out.The point-of-view in this movie is deluded.  The black-and-white people are vicious caricatures of late 50s/early 60s conservatives, and the colored people are self-aggrandizing portraits of the New Left of the 60s.  You wouldn't know that the motives of the New Left were, in fact, to destroy the American way of life and bring about a socialist state.I am not speaking of the original Martin Luther King-led civil rights movement when I speak of the New Left; instead, I am speaking of the post-King Left that not only did not uphold Americanism as King did, but in fact reviled King in favor of Malcolm X, until King became a folk hero in later generations.For more on this, I recommend you read the autobiography of one of the primary intellectual leaders of the New Left who saw the folly of his ways, Radical Son by David Horowitz.  Also, his slim volume The Politics of Bad Faith is worth reading as well (all of his books are worth reading, to be honest). "},{"Title":"Nothing to see here, move along","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is an awful movie, let me say that right off the bat. The premiss for the movie seemed to have potential but it turns out to be a disaster. I'm watching the movie and I'm thinking what is the point?, if I watch it a bit longer it will go somewhere, have something to say, something, anything. I (painfully) watched it to the end and nope, nothing. The movie is a desert, there's just nothing there.Let me explain, what DOES the movie say? From what I could gather the message seems to be that human beings have good and bad in them. Not only good and bad strictly speaking but also somethings that lie perhaps in some gray area and some others that have nothing to do with morality such as artistic drive. In short, human beings are what they are - a mass of contradictions with many different facets, so on a so fourth. Further the message seems to be that we are better off - that it is better (?) - as such than as one-dimensional characters with only, shall we say pleasant, characteristics.And that's it. I looked, I tried to find something more, but there is nothing else. Now, I ask my self how retarded is that? That insults the viewer's intelligence, even. Do we really need a - however long this movie is - to tell us the above? Without bad there can't exist good, right? As obvious as that is the movie doesn't even make that point. It's too much of a barren wasteland. It just seems to make the point that we are better off the way we are than as some sort of one-dimensional automatons. Which is in-itself debatable because if the so-called automatons are happy and it is a well known fact that humanity at large for the most part isn't, and I personally see no point nor meaning in life or existence anyway, perhaps it would be better to just be happy.But such considerations, or indeed any others, never get any air time. "}]